17355:US	52048190	RN24LDQ0ZT2Q9	1560257636	21139837	Jesus Is Not a Republican: The Religious Right's War on America	Books	5	134	143	N	Y	A helpful reminder of how the Gospels contradict the Religious Right	I grew up attending the Geyer Springs Baptist Church in Little Rock, Arkansas and became a diligent Bible reader.  I read it from cover to cover in a number of translations.  The Living Bible first, then Today's English Version (the Good News for Modern Man version), the King James's Version, the NIV, and the RSV.  Parts I read more than others, and parts I read by far the most were the Gospels, especially the sayings and sermons and parables of Jesus.  I was not raised in a political family, but my politics were profoundly formed and fashioned by reading the New Testament.<br /><br />I learned some amazing things in the Gospels.  Jesus said that if you had two coats, take one of them and give it to someone who had none.  If someone struck you, you were to turn and offer them the other cheek.  Jesus was constantly reaching out to the poor, was profoundly suspicious of the religious (especially those who loved to prayer in public and put their religiosity on display), and had an extraordinarily low disregard for the wealthy.  He displayed an affirmation of the worth of women that was simply unprecedented in the Middle East of the time.  And while he sternly avoided the rich and powerful and respected, he spent all his time among the poor, the dregs, the lepers, and the needy.<br /><br />All this stands in stark contrast with today's American churches, especially those in the Bible belt.  My bet is that these people in the churches with parking lots filled with Mercedes and Jaguars and BMW are filled with members with lots and lots of coats, not just two.  I vividly remember attending First Baptist Church in Dallas, Texas where the famous W. A. Criswell utters the astonishing affirmation that the only economic system ordained by God was the free enterprise system.  The gap between these teachings and these actions and the portrait of Jesus in the New Testament is gargantuan.  Anyone intimately familiar with the Gospels can't help but realize that something has gone seriously awry.<br /><br />I agree with the first reviewer that Jesus is neither a Republican nor a Democrat, but neither is he nonpolitical.  But that doesn't negate the fact that Jesus made a host of utterances that, if taken seriously by a reader such as I was as a teen, lead one to a nonpartisan ultra left wing political position.  But this all misses the point.  While my religion leads me to an extreme left wing political position, I do not think that this should be somehow encapsulated in currently political structures.  The founders, especially James Madison though also John Adams and Jefferson recognized that forcing a link between the political structures of society and religion is harmful to religion and to politics.  I believe this will become progressively obvious in the decades to come, as the current political involvement of the Religious Right in right wing politics will cause both a repudiation of both.  History has witnessed such coalitions before, and always when one goes down, the other is affected as well.<br /><br />This anthology tries to provide some balance in the current discussion of the connection between Christianity and politics.  All too often, the press presumes that the Religious Right somehow speaks for all Christians, and that all Christians are right wingers.  This is simply wrong, and one of the weaknesses of the collection is that this isn't sufficiently brought out.  In fact, most Christians are not fundamentalists, not right wingers, did not support the war in Iraq, are not supporters of George Bush, and not necessarily Republican.  Only about 20% of the US fits the demographic that would be considered the Religious Right, and not all of them share the entire agenda.<br /><br />The main value, therefore, of this collection is that it serves as a reminder and a corrective to general perceptions.  The Gospels clearly and powerfully authorize a set of social concerns that are diametrically opposed to the general impression of the Religious Right, with its obsession on war, on promulgating wealth, on public expressions of religiosity, and unfettered free market capitalism.  These are simply not Christian values, yet few in the press ever challenge these.<br /><br />The writers in this book are from various points of view.  My major complaint is the overall journalistic quality of the contributors.  There are much better individuals taking up these same issues.  I would have liked to see invited papers as well.  And some of the more prominent contributors are people I find a tad superficial or wrongheaded.  For instance, I have profound problems with the theoretical foundations of the work of John Dominac Crossan (he of the rather silly Jesus Seminar) and surely there was no need to quote so much of Stephen Mitchell's various paraphrases of the New Testament.  Few evangelicals were included despite the fact that there are a host of them with left wing politics.  Nonetheless, the book is valuable for presenting a wide body of opinion that is in sharp opposition to much of what is being said today about the link between God and politics.<br /><br />A couple of the pieces deserve special mention.  I especially enjoyed Rob Boston's discussion of James Madison's views on the separation of Church and State.  Madison, of course, is the key figure in the forming of the U.S. Constitution, having participated in the debates in Philadelphia (keeping for posterity detailed notes that later stood as the major document of what happened in the convention), having written a number of the FEDERALIST PAPERS, including the most important in the bunch, Number 10, having pushed the Virginia statute for the separation of Church and State into ratification in his home state (though it was written by Jefferson--the statute was later the model for the Bill of Rights), a key figure in arguing for the Constitution's ratification, and the primary author of the Bill of Rights.  In other words, Madison is the key figure where the Constitution is concerned, and he was also a passionate and persistent defender of the separation of church and state.  Despite this, many on the Right out of complete ignorance want to assert that the wall between Church and State is a myth or even a lie told by later generations.  But the words of all the major Founders contradict this, so do the words of those contemporaries who opposed the Founders.  The major complete by these opponents was that the constitution clearly had no place for God.  In fact, it was only in the very late 20th century that ANYONE ever started making the bizarre claim that the Constitution did not place a wall between church and state.<br /><br />I'm very concerned for the fate of Christianity in this generation.  The so-called friends of the faith have managed to align millions of Christians with a political agenda that most Americans find reprehensible.  They unquestionably see things at this moment as a great time, but my fear is that when the reaction sets in--and reactions always set in--the result will be not merely the right wing political ideology that is causing incalculable harm to the nation and world right now, but to the cause of Christianity itself.  Jesus warns of being stumbling blocks, but I believe the misguided political activity of the Religious Right today will have created the greatest stumbling block in the history of the faith.<br /><br />More than every, it is crucial for Christians with a clearer understanding of the faith that the misguided millions in the Religious Right to step forward and offer an alternative, more Biblically-based understanding of society.  We must be prepared to undo all the damage that our misguided brethren are currently causing.sion of the Religious Right, with its obsession on war, on promulgating wealth, on public expressions of religiosity, and unfettered free market capitalism.  These are simply not Christian values, yet few in the press ever challenge these. <br /> <br />The writers in this book are from various points of view.  My major complaint is the overall journalistic quality of the contributors.  There are much better individuals taking up these same issues.  I would have liked to see invited papers as well.  And some of the more prominent contributors are people I find a tad superficial or wrongheaded.  For instance, I have profound problems with the theoretical foundations of the work of John Dominac Crossan (he of the rather silly Jesus Seminar) and surely there was no need to quote so much of Stephen Mitchell's various paraphrases of the New Testament.  Few evangelicals were included despite the fact that there are a host of them with left wing politics.  Nonetheless, the book is valuable for presenting a wide body of opinion that is in sharp opposition to much of what is being said today about the link between God and politics.   <br /> <br />A couple of the pieces deserve special mention.  I especially enjoyed Rob Boston's discussion of James Madison's views on the separation of Church and State.  Madison, of course, is the key figure in the forming of the U.S. Constitution, having participated in the debates in Philadelphia (keeping for posterity detailed notes that later stood as the major document of what happened in the convention), having written a number of the FEDERALIST PAPERS, including the most important in the bunch, Number 10, having pushed the Virginia statute for the separation of Church and State into ratification in his home state (though it was written by Jefferson--the statute was later the model for the Bill of Rights), a key figure in arguing for the Constitution's ratification, and the primary author of the Bill of Rights.  In other words, Madison isthe key figure where the Constitution is concerned, and he was also a passionate and persistent defender of the separation of church and state.  Despite this, many on the Right out of complete ignorance want to assert that the wall between Church and State is a myth or even a lie told by later generations.  But the words of all the major Founders contradict this, so do the words of those contemporaries who opposed the Founders.  The major complete by these opponents was that the constitution clearly had no place for God.  In fact, it was only in the very late 20th century that ANYONE ever started making the bizarre claim that the Constitution did not place a wall between church and state.   <br /> <br />I'm very concerned for the fate of Christianity in this generation.  The so-called friends of the faith have managed to align millions of Christians with a political agenda that most Americans find reprehensible.  They unquestionably see things at this moment as a great time, but my fear is that when the reaction sets in--and reactions always set in--the result will be not merely the right wing political ideology that is causing incalculable harm to the nation and world right now, but to the cause of Christianity itself.  Jesus warns of being stumbling blocks, but I believe the misguided political activity of the Religious Right today will have created the greatest stumbling block in the history of the faith.   <br /> <br />More than every, it is crucial for Christians with a clearer understanding of the faith that the misguided millions in the Religious Right to step forward and offer an alternative, more Biblically-based understanding of society.  We must be prepared to undo all the damage that our misguided brethren are currently causing.	2005-10-04
21236:US	52048190	R1NUQO7NAMMNZX	0760765677	255432620	The Worst Album Covers Ever (2004 publication)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	An absolute hoot of a book	Every good library needs books that remind us of how many absurd things there are in the world.  This book manages to collect some of the worst LP covers in the history of the planet, almost all of them by performers you have never heard of or never want to hear.  I had heard of only about five or six in any way whatsoever (and that includes Nancy Walker, who I literally walked into on Washington Square once as we were both talking to people back over our shoulders--most remember her from RHODA and the commercials as \\"the quicker picker upper\\").  A disturbing number of the album covers were by Christian acts.  Many were just flat out strange.<br /><br />It would have been fun to see some albums that featured awful covers but contained good music.  A good example of this is the Louvain Brothers gospel collection SATAN IS REAL, with featured the brothers cowering comically before a huge cardboard Satan (the disc contains their wonderful \\"The Christian Life,\\" that Gram Parsons would perform, including his brief stint with the Byrds).<br /><br />All in all, this is a great book either for making yourself laugh, for leaving around to make others laugh, or for buying for others a a gift.  I defy anyone to look through it with a straight face.	2005-10-02
34818:US	52048190	RQ8BV0JG2UI2O	0375708766	343556390	Lincoln: A Novel (The American Chronicle Series)	Books	5	134	141	N	N	Historical fiction at its very best	In the nineteenth century the historical novel enjoyed the highest possible esteem.  William Thackery's historical fiction HENRY ESMOND and not VANITY FAIR was regarded by his contemporaries as his finest work, and it was routine for writers like Dickens in A TALE OF TWO CITIES and Tolstoy in WAR AND PEACE to write novels set in a different historical period.  In the twentieth century, however, as novelists began more often to fictionalize their own experiences and focus on the psychological make up of their characters and historian forged a more rigorously scientific form of historical research, historical fiction suffered a sharp decrease in critical respect.  To be sure, there were exceptions, whether Robert Graves writing about the Roman emperors in I, CLAUDIUS and CLAUDIUS THE GOD or in Patrick O'Brian's superb series of novels about the Royal Navy at the time of the Napoleonic Wars.  But these were exceptions and not the rule and even O'Brian garnered less respect than he would have in the 19th century.  All of this is to explain why Gore Vidal's superb series of novels that he calls Narratives of Empire have failed to achieve as much acclaim, as they deserve.<br /><br />LINCOLN is in essence exceptionally accurate history encapsulated in the form of a novel.  I have read a spate of books on Lincoln and the Civil War and I was almost never able to fault his scholarship.  In a note following the conclusion of the novel he indicates that the manuscript was seen--and corrected--by no less an authority on Lincoln than David Herbert Donald, who is arguably the supreme authority on Lincoln of this age.  But accuracy would be an empty thing if the narrative were not enlivened by Vidal's remarkable skills as a writer.  He has a fascinating style, moving without transition from a scene with one group of characters at one point of time in one paragraph to another group at another time in the next.  The narrative fairly races along.<br /><br />This is not a novelistic retelling of the entirety of Lincoln's life, but focuses instead exclusively on the period of his presidency.  The story begins with Lincoln's arrival in Washington and ends shortly after his assassination.  In fact, the subject matter is almost precisely the same as that covered by Doris Kearns Goodwin in her new book TEAM OF RIVALS:  THE POLITICAL GENIUS OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN.  The story Vidal wants to highlight is how Lincoln managed to hold together the Union despite widespread opposition to the War in the North and a cabinet that on the one hand imagined him to be a weak leader whom they could easily control and on the other filled with individuals who possessed presidential aspirations of their own.  Interestingly, the two finest demonstrations of Lincoln's leadership skills come not from the work of historians, but by novelists:  Vidal here and Shelby Foote in his depiction of Lincoln's extraordinary skills in his three-volume THE CIVIL WAR.<br /><br />Though he is astonishingly faithful to the historical record, Vidal's greatest achievement is bringing to life in credible fashion a number of remarkable personalities in ways that are consistent with the historical record.  In reading about the war, I had of course read about Seward and Chase, but neither truly emerged as vivid personalities before.  Perhaps their biographers would disagree with the portraits Vidal paints, but for me whenever I read about either individual in the future, I will almost certainly do so through eyes of Vidal.<br /><br />We live in an age that is obsessed with the notion of \\"political bias,\\" an idea whose importance is, I think, outrageously overstated.  One either is faithful to the facts or not and your bias might make you lean one way or another, but it won't allow you to distort the facts unless you are being deliberately dishonest (I think of Ann Coulter's almost macabre depiction of Joseph McCarthy in her writing).  But given Vidal's well-known adherence to New Deal ideals, a word or two might be in order.  I was surprised at how politically evenhanded this book was.  In fact, if anything Vidal mutes the widespread belief of more contemporary Civil War historians that the conflict was overwhelmingly about slavery and instead presents the idea that it was more about states's rights (an idea that has been more and more discredited not merely by folks like James McPherson but Southern historians such as Shelby Foote).  Actually, this is Vidal's New Deal point of view coming forth, as previous generations sought to not offend Southern politicians by intimating the war was about the admittedly (today, that is) disgusting institution of slavery, which no one would defend, so much as it was about states's rights, which is, while wrong, not so outrageously indefensible.  In the New Deal, the Democratic Party functioned as an uneasy coalition of various groups, including labor, Northern progressives, and Southern populists.  With the Nixon strategy, the South has split off from the Democratic party (initially over civil rights issues) and those on the left have been more comfortable in speaking of the Civil War and its causes in more historically accurate terms.  I am, by the way, a Southerner, even if I today live in the Land of Lincoln, so I see this issues from both sides.<br /><br />I recommend this novel in the strongest possible terms.  It is not just a very fine novel:  it is a great way to internalize history in a way that is rarely as possible in a straightforward historical account.  Moreover, it is a richly complex Lincoln that is presented here.  In contrast to the blandly hagiographic portrait by Carl Sandburg, this is a warts and all version.  Lincoln isn't idealized, but is shown with both his virtues and vices, from his astonishing ability to handle people who imagined that they were handling him, to his self-proclaimed ignorance of financial matters.  But he is more the admirable for his portrayal as a believable, flesh and blood human being, instead of mere statue.Deal ideals, a word or two might be in order.  I was surprised at how politically evenhanded this book was.  In fact, if anything Vidal mutes the widespread belief of more contemporary Civil War historians that the conflict was overwhelmingly about slavery and instead presents the idea that it was more about states's rights (an idea that has been more and more discredited not merely by folks like James McPherson but Southern historians such as Shelby Foote).  Actually, this is Vidal's New Deal point of view coming forth, as previous generations sought to not offend Southern politicians by intimating the war was about the admittedly (today, that is) disgusting institution of slavery, which no one would defend, so much as it was about states's rights, which is, while wrong, not so outrageously indefensible.  In the New Deal, the Democratic Party functioned as an uneasy coalition of various groups, including labor, Northern progressives, and Southern populists.  With the Nixon strategy, the South has split off from the Democratic party (initially over civil rights issues) and those on the left have been more comfortable in speaking of the Civil War and its causes in more historically accurate terms.  I am, by the way, a Southerner, even if I today live in the Land of Lincoln, so I see this issues from both sides. <br /> <br />I recommend this novel in the strongest possible terms.  It is not just a very fine novel:  it is a great way to internalize history in a way that is rarely as possible in a straightforward historical account.  Moreover, it is a richly complex Lincoln that is presented here.  In contrast to the blandly hagiographic portrait by Carl Sandburg, this is a warts and all version.  Lincoln isn't idealized, but is shown with both his virtues and vices, from his astonishing ability to handle people who imagined that they were handling him, to his self-proclaimed ignorance of financial matters.  But he is more the admirable for his portrayal as a believable, flesh and blood human being, instead of mere statue.	2005-09-25
34933:US	52048190	RX1IA44EAVH8K	039330907X	966406311	The Thirteen-Gun Salute: Aubrey/Maturin	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Jack and Stephen enjoy another remarkable adventure	I absolutely adore this series, but in some dissent from my fellow Aubrey-Maturin fans I find this to be one of the least interesting books in the series, though it has one of the most compelling endings in that leaves the crew of the Diane stranded on a deserted island in the South Pacific.  Until that shocking and unresolved event, I found that the novel had less of interest than nearly any other in the series.  Though the visit to Pulo Prabang was interesting, it contained (except for the visit to the ruins of a Hindu Temple) less of the compelling historical detail that characterized the other books.  In previous volumes, the places that Jack and Stephen visit come alive in an almost tangible manner.  Here one gets little sense of what Pulo Prabang (apart from the temple) looked or felt like.  The other thing that makes his books so marvelous are the magnificent character studies.  This one eventually makes good on this feature of the series, but only towards the very end, as the weirdness of Fox's personality comes out.  But there is far less of the complex interpersonal interplay that enlivens the other books.  Finally, until the shipwreck at the end, there is simply very little excitement in this one.  Compared to the previous books, I find that this one simply does not stand out.<br /><br />Not that it is not still an utter delight and completely satisfying for fans of the series.  The aforementioned visit by Stephen to the ruins of a Hindu temple, in the company of an orangutan, is one of the most remarkable moments in the entire series.  The shipwreck at the end is as marvelously told as it is shocking to read (one simply cannot credit that the Diane enjoyed such a short lifespan).  Also, there is a deep sense of satisfaction when Ledward and Wray, the villains through most of the sequence, finally get theirs, and the manner in which their bodies are disposed is quite shocking.  Nonetheless, these were for me moments that reminded me of how consistently I found most of the previous books, instead of how intermittently interesting I found this one.<br /><br />Interestingly, this is one of the few novels in the series in which the title of the subsequent novels is mentioned.  I remember when I first read these books and how little sense I could make of the titles.  In many of them the phrase that provides the title can occur well towards the end, such as THE REVERSE OF THE MEDAL.  But here in THE THIRTEEN-GUN SALUTE (which itself is one of the more ironical in the series, referring to Fox's rather pathetic sense of self importance) the phrase \\"the nutmeg of consolation\\" appears, which provides the title for the next novel.<br /><br />One virtue O'Brian possesses as a writer (among many virtues) is that of understatement.  In a genre in which the tendency is to lay things on a bit thick, O'Brian if any thing leaves things deliciously thin.  There is no better instance of this than in the fate of Ledward and Wray.  Nowhere does O'Brian explicitly explain what happened to them, but instead leaves us to surmise that they were shot by Fox.  It is an easy conclusion to make, given Fox's constant target practice in the novel and the statement by Maturin that they were killed by rifle shot (Stephen prefers the pistol).  This restraint is one of the things that make his writing so immensely satisfying.I found most of the previous books, instead of how intermittently interesting I found this one. <br /> <br />Interestingly, this is one of the few novels in the series in which the title of the subsequent novels is mentioned.  I remember when I first read these books and how little sense I could make of the titles.  In many of them the phrase that provides the title can occur well towards the end, such as THE REVERSE OF THE MEDAL.  But here in THE THIRTEEN-GUN SALUTE (which itself is one of the more ironical in the series, referring to Fox's rather pathetic sense of self importance) the phrase \\"the nutmeg of consolation\\" appears, which provides the title for the next novel. <br /> <br />One virtue O'Brian possesses as a writer (among many virtues) is that of understatement.  In a genre in which the tendency is to lay things on a bit thick, O'Brian if any thing leaves things deliciously thin.  There is no better instance of this than in the fate of Ledward and Wray.  Nowhere does O'Brian explicitly explain what happened to them, but instead leaves us to surmise that they were shot by Fox.  It is an easy conclusion to make, given Fox's constant target practice in the novel and the statement by Maturin that they were killed by rifle shot (Stephen prefers the pistol).  This restraint is one of the things that make his writing so immensely satisfying.	2005-09-25
58109:US	52048190	R2ZXXHTJH4PN0Y	0465083269	695969114	Radicals in Robes: Why Extreme Right-Wing Courts Are Wrong for America	Books	5	41	56	N	N	A timely book about the struggle to understand the constitution	No more timely book concerning the American judicial system could have appeared at this time.  As I write this review we are awaiting the confirmation of two new supreme court justices, a change that could transform the nation for decades to come, especially given the recent penchant for appointing young judges.  Like many Americans, I'm extremely concerned about trends in the supreme and appeals courts of recent decades.  Even many Republican legislators have grown increasingly concerned about a growing tendency of many Federalist Society justices on all levels to overturn federal legislation, in effect expanding the power of the courts and decreasing the power of our elected officials.  With increasing talk of a Constitution in Exile and a willingness of very conservative judges to overturn well-established legal precedent and bipartisan legislation, this truly is a critical point in American legal history.<br /><br />Cass Sunstein takes head on the predominant activist judicial philosophy in this clearly written study and tries to explain the reason why on legal grounds it is both highly suspect as an interpretative method and undesirable in its potential effects.  He begins by insisting that \\"liberal\\" versus \\"conservative\\" is an extremely unhelpful distinction.  He instead defines four methods of judicial interpretation:  1) Perfectionism, which attempts to make the constitution as good as it can be, 2) Majoritarianism, which attempts to reduce the role of the court and overwhelmingly favor legislation by elected officials, 3) Minimalism, which abjures making decisions about large principles and issues, and instead seeks to make small incremental changes in the constitution by making very narrow judicial decisions, and 4) Fundamentalism, which holds that the constitution must be interpreted according to the intent of the ratifiers (not the framers) of the constitution.  Sunstein points out that while Perfectionism has played a significant role in the past (indeed, the greatest American Justice ever, John Marshall, could be described as a Perfectionist, while many of the major decisions, such as Brown v. Board of Education, can be described as Perfectionistic in nature), no one currently on the supreme court can be so labeled.  Likewise, though one of the most famous of all Supreme Court justices, Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr., could be described as a Majoritarian, no one today either on the Supreme Court or the Appeals courts holds that position.  Most justices, according to Sunstein, take a Minimalist position, which is the approach he defends.  But he believes that the stability and integrity of the American legal system is being threatened by a growing number of Fundamentalist judges, and the book is largely a defense of Minimalism and a critique of Fundamentalism.<br /><br />For the most part Sunstein restricts himself to purely legal considerations, though he hints at a truth that most journalists would point out rather more strongly than he does:  that Fundamentalism is primarily a way of getting a political agenda instituted by circumventing the electoral process.  He points out that it is distressing to see how constantly Fundamentalists, who allegedly argue for a nonpartisan reading of the Constitution, actually hew rather closely to the most radical ideas of the far right of the Republican party.  Though he acknowledges this to be the case, for the most part he concentrates on more purely considerations.  For instance, the Fundamentalists insist that every decision must be based on the text of the Constitution as understood by the ratifiers, which means that decisions much be based on the best possible historical understanding of the words of the constitution.  The bulk of the book consists of Sunstein looking at a number of the most pressing constitutional issues-e.g., the right to privacy, the right to marry, race and affirmative action, national security, the separation of powers, the establishment clause, free speech, and second amendment issues-and analyzing what the effect of adjudicating them from a fundamentalist position would be.  He finds that Fundamentalism is often inconsistent with the best historical understanding-in fact, often formulating positions in direct opposition to the historical record, such as in free speech issues or affirmative action-and almost always undesirable or imprudent.<br /><br />One example of the historical side of his argument will suffice.  Fundamentalists insist that the Second Amendment establishes the right for individuals to own guns.  But an examination of the history reveals much that contradicts this.  For instance, it is the lone amendment that is directed at providing the individual states a right against the federal government, namely, the right to form state militias.  Moreover, the only major Supreme Court decision ever undertaken (United States v. Miller) affirmed the right of Congress to limit the kinds of weapons that could be sold and owned.  Perhaps most telling of all, the Supreme Court ruled in 1886 that the Second Amendment was the only one of the Bill of Rights that was not incorporated in the Fourteenth Amendment.  In other words, the Court has always treated the amendment as treating the relationship between the states and the federal, and did not involve individuals at all.  (Obviously, gun ownership can still easily be legal:  there is simply no clear constitutional proof that it is a right guaranteed by the Bill of Rights as the NRA so vigorously asserts.)  But in looking at this issue, Fundamentalists completely ignore the historical record which they state is of such crucial importance.<br /><br />Much of Sunstein's argument hinges on the potential chaos that could result if Fundamentalists had their understanding of the constitution become normative.  In essence, he is arguing that Fundamentalism could produce results that are undesirable, imprudent, and destructive.  Do we really want a nation in which the federal government could discriminate on the basis of race or gender?  Do we want any restrictions on campaign financing to be made illegal?  Do we want the right to privacy eliminated?  Do we want it possible for states to establish an official state religion (e.g., Mormonism in Utah, probably the only state where there is a single dominant church)?  Do we want advertisements to be completely unregulated?  Do we want the Clean Water Act to be stricken down?  All of these things could take place on Fundamentalist grounds.  Obviously, very, very few Americans would like to see much or any of this take place.  In other words, Fundamentalism could lead to a nation that few would desire.  And surely the point of a constitution is providing a stable, fair government that promotes the general welfare.  On this test, fundamentalism would obviously fail.<br /><br />My lone criticism of the book lies with a fact that Sunstein only lightly touches upon.  This concerns the likelihood that we could all come up with an agreed upon historical understanding of the phrases of the constitution.  If one reads a great deal of early history of the United States, one of the first things that one is struck by is how the first generation argued about what was and was not permitted by the constitution.  Remember, these were debates among the framers and ratifiers of the constitution.  Washington, Hamilton, Adams, and Madison (I leave out Jefferson because he was neither a framer nor a ratifier) had sharp disagreements about what the constitution did or did not allow.  If these men had no ready agreement about the Constitution, how could we possibly today come to any agreement?  I think Sunstein could and should have made much more of this.  Even if Fundamentalism were desirable, it would be impossible.  I heartily agree with Sunstein on many other points.  He asks why we should desire to set in granite the understanding of men from a couple of centuries ago who had very, very different beliefs about women, race, economics (indeed, most of the founders could be better understood as mercantilists than capitalists), religion, and voting (most felt only property owners should be able to vote) than we do.  Sunstein doesn't make this point, but clearly tying ourselves stringently to a late 18th century understanding of the constitution would be to tie ourselves to something that would grow increasingly irrelevant.  We have a great constitution, but it must provide the framework for our changing understanding of privacy, race, and gender, not dictate the primacy of their outmoded views.<br /><br />I recommend this in the strongest possible terms, especially now when we will see the Senate closely examine the judicial philosophy of two new members of the Supreme Court.<br /><br />Addendum:  As I write this on 9/13/05 I am listening to the confirmation hearings of John Roberts to become the new chief justice of the United States Supreme Court.  Interestingly, Sen. Orrin Hatch explicitly mentioned Sunstein's book and his distinction between the four types of judicial philosophy, asking Roberts which of the four would best apply towards him.  Roberts declined to subscribe to any label, though all of his answers so far and his insistence on being a \\"modest\\" judge would seem to lean heavily towards Sunstein's \\"minimalist\\" label.  One can hope that this is correct, though one is reminded that Clarence Thomas, the most activist justice in memory, came across as a \\"modest\\" judge in his hearings just over a decade ago.minate on the basis of race or gender?  Do we want any restrictions on campaign financing to be made illegal?  Do we want the right to privacy eliminated?  Do we want it possible for states to establish an official state religion (e.g., Mormonism in Utah, probably the only state where there is a single dominant church)?  Do we want advertisements to be completely unregulated?  Do we want the Clean Water Act to be stricken down?  All of these things could take place on Fundamentalist grounds.  Obviously, very, very few Americans would like to see much or any of this take place.  In other words, Fundamentalism could lead to a nation that few would desire.  And surely the point of a constitution is providing a stable, fair government that promotes the general welfare.  On this test, fundamentalism would obviously fail.    My lone criticism of the book lies with a fact that Sunstein only lightly touches upon.  This concerns the likelihood that we could all come up with an agreed upon historical understanding of the phrases of the constitution.  If one reads a great deal of early history of the United States, one of the first things that one is struck by is how the first generation argued about what was and was not permitted by the constitution.  Remember, these were debates among the framers and ratifiers of the constitution.  Washington, Hamilton, Adams, and Madison (I leave out Jefferson because he was neither a framer nor a ratifier) had sharp disagreements about what the constitution did or did not allow.  If these men had no ready agreement about the Constitution, how could we possibly today come to any agreement?  I think Sunstein could and should have made much more of this.  Even if Fundamentalism were desirable, it would be impossible.  I heartily agree with Sunstein on many other points.  He asks why we should desire to set in granite the understanding of men from a couple of centuries ago who had very, very different beliefs about women, race, economics (indeed, most of the founders could be better understood as mercantilists than capitalists), religion, and voting (most felt only property owners should be able to vote) than we do.  Sunstein doesn't make this point, but clearly tying ourselves stringently to a late 18th century understanding of the constitution would be to tie ourselves to something that would grow increasingly irrelevant.  We have a great constitution, but it must provide the framework for our changing understanding of privacy, race, and gender, not dictate the primacy of their outmoded views.    I recommend this in the strongest possible terms, especially now when we will see the Senate closely examine the judicial philosophy of two new members of the Supreme Court.    Addendum:  As I write this on 9/13/05 I am listening to the confirmation hearings of John Roberts to become the new chief justice of the United States Supreme Court.  Interestingly, Sen. Orrin Hatch explicitly mentioned Sunstein's book and his distinction between the four types of judicial philosophy, asking Roberts which of the four would best apply towards him.  Roberts declined to subscribe to any label, though all of his answers so far and his insistence on being a \\"modest\\" judge would seem to lean heavily towards Sunstein's \\"minimalist\\" label.  One can hope that this is correct, though one is reminded that Clarence Thomas, the most activist justice in memory, came across as a \\"modest\\" judge in his hearings just over a decade ago.	2005-09-12
69879:US	52048190	R6DRRJWRRQ8LG	0060083816	586173981	Don't Know Much About History: Everything You Need to Know About American History but Never Learned (Don't Know Much About Series)	Books	5	30	41	N	N	Overall very strong on historical facts, definitely a lot of fun	I don't know if this is one of the essential historical works, but it is definitely one of the most fun.  Kenneth Davis strives to provide a remarkably comprehensive and centrist survey of American history by addressing a series of questions that structure the work as a whole.  For the most part, he articulates the standard current few of the various figures he treats.<br /><br />All major periods in American history are treated well and in pretty good detail.  Because I've been a pretty intent student of American history for some time, I'm not sure that I learned all that much, but I did find it to be a great review session.  One of the things that I liked most about the book was the \\"Must Read\\" recommendations where Davis indicates books that simply must be read.  I had actually read about half of these, but I've added several titles to my rather cumbersome reading lists.<br /><br />The one place where Davis lapses a bit, I thought, was dealing with the Clinton years.  Truth be told, in a book like this it is probably a mistake to examine recent history.  We are too much influenced by the mood of the moment.  Most careful writing about the Clinton years has revealed how embattled he was, not how awful he was.  Davis's assessment of Clinton was, in fact, remarkably ill-informed, and he cites as \\"Must Reads\\" some very odd titles indeed, while ignoring most of the best books on that decade (i.e., that were written before the latest edition of the book).  The view of Clinton that prevailed circa 1998-2002 is quickly fading from view.  In GREATNESS IN THE WHITE HOUSE, Murray and Blessing convincingly argue that evaluations of presidents over time tend to deemphasize the force of their personality and linger over their actual achievements.  This is why for most scholars Reagan's reputation is steadily fading, despite the almost overwhelming force of his personality at the time.  During the nineties many--and David is guilty of this--obsessed over Clinton's actual or supposed crimes and failed to evaluate Clinton over the actual achievements of his administration.  I do not believe Clinton to be a great president, but neither do I view him as a bad one.  In future editions of his books, I would prefer seeing Davis stop twenty years from the time of the revision.<br /><br />One other issue:  bias.  In many of the reviews here one seems mention of bias.  Interestingly, most scholars quite rightly ignore issues of bias.  But to the poorly education, bias seems to be an issue of overwhelming gravity.  The truth is that honest scholarship truly is possible, and while everyone has a point of view, having a point of view doesn't mean that you actively engage in twisting facts.  A recent surprising example was Conrad Black's biography of F.D.R.  Though Black is himself quite conservative politically, his biography of Roosevelt is quite balanced and fair.  In other words, he doesn't skew the facts to fit his own political beliefs.  There are books where authors ignore the facts of history (Ann Coulter's TREASON is merely one example--and by \\"facts\\" I really do mean events that any minimally rational person will agree on), but the truth is that most books do not.  Daniel Boorstin is a conservative historian, but he doesn't write every book with a conservative axe to grind.  Someone with left-leaning politics isn't necessarily skewing everything to his position.  Not everyone writes with an agenda (say, like Coulter does) and many write merely to narrate history.  I think that is what Kenneth Davis does here.  Myself, I think the temptation to talk about \\"bias\\" at the drop of a hat is misguided and should in general be jettisoned.  I'd prefer to focus on whether a historical narrative is accurate or not.or supposed crimes and failed to evaluate Clinton over the actual achievements of his administration.  I do not believe Clinton to be a great president, but neither do I view him as a bad one.  In future editions of his books, I would prefer seeing Davis stop twenty years from the time of the revision. <br /> <br />One other issue:  bias.  In many of the reviews here one seems mention of bias.  Interestingly, most scholars quite rightly ignore issues of bias.  But to the poorly education, bias seems to be an issue of overwhelming gravity.  The truth is that honest scholarship truly is possible, and while everyone has a point of view, having a point of view doesn't mean that you actively engage in twisting facts.  A recent surprising example was Conrad Black's biography of F.D.R.  Though Black is himself quite conservative politically, his biography of Roosevelt is quite balanced and fair.  In other words, he doesn't skew the facts to fit his own political beliefs.  There are books where authors ignore the facts of history (Ann Coulter's TREASON is merely one example--and by \\"facts\\" I really do mean events that any minimally rational person will agree on), but the truth is that most books do not.  Daniel Boorstin is a conservative historian, but he doesn't write every book with a conservative axe to grind.  Someone with left-leaning politics isn't necessarily skewing everything to his position.  Not everyone writes with an agenda (say, like Coulter does) and many write merely to narrate history.  I think that is what Kenneth Davis does here.  Myself, I think the temptation to talk about \\"bias\\" at the drop of a hat is misguided and should in general be jettisoned.  I'd prefer to focus on whether a historical narrative is accurate or not.	2005-09-07
77548:US	52048190	R3LP48P82PZZK8	0767918738	447005855	The Rock Snob's Dictionary: An Essential Lexicon of Rockological Knowledge	Books	5	19	23	N	Y	Not essential but a lot of fun indeed	The subtitle reads \\"An Essential Lexicon,\\" but it isn't.  \\"Essential\\" connotes a comprehensiveness that this lacks, which indicates that this book was not meant for education so much as fun and humor, and in this it succeeds admirably.<br /><br />So, what is a rock snob?  Evidently, somewhat to my surprise, I am not.  I'm a music fanatic, and I would have imagined that sufficient to gain rock snob status, but apparently not, since the book defines \\"rock snob\\" as:  \\"reference term for the sort of pop connoisseur for whom the actual enjoyment of music is but a side dish to the accumulation of arcane knowledge.\\"  For me the actual enjoyment of the music has been paramount, so I am imagining that anyone who truly loves the music first is exempt, on technical grounds, from rock snobbishness.<br /><br />The joy of the book comes from the way they simultaneously elevate and then deflate various figures and artifacts from the world of rock.  Many of their characterizations are dead on.  I've never understood the esteem in which many hold Burt Bacharach.  Folks, it really is just elevator music, and I don't care how much Elvis Costello tries to pump his reputation.  The authors write about such figures with wit and derisive humor.  The lists that litter the book are marvelous, and usually dead on.<br /><br />Plus, the book is fun to argue with.  If you are a serious fan of music, you will spend a lot of time flipping through to see if your own candidates were included in the book, and a surprising number of the more arcane folks I searched for were to be found.  For instance, I was amazed to see that Jim Dickinson, Dan Penn, The Fugs, and the Louvin Brothers showed up.  I was somewhat disappointed that several of the folks I would have nominated were not, including:  Can, Greg Sage and the Wipers (a monumental oversight), the Shoes, Moby Grape (though Skip Spence gets a nod), Robert Quine, Jack Logan (a shocker), R. Stevie Moore, the Buzzcocks (with an especial mention of their EP SPIRAL SCRATCH), the Mekons, Les Paul, the album HAVE MOICY!, guitar pioneer John Fahey, the Flying Burrito Brothers (though Gram Parsons, of course, has an entry), Rory Gallagher, and Second Edition (Johnny Lydon's aka Rotten project after the Sex Pistols).  But like I said, this book isn't about completeness, but humor.  There also is a cut off point.  Few very recent bands receive a mention, even such crucial Rock Snob bands as Yo La Tengo (which inspired the wonderful ONION headline about a few dozen record store clerks dying at one of their concerts when the roof collapsed, crushing the crowd) fail to receive mention.<br /><br />In the end, the book really isn't for aspiring rock snobs, but actual rock snobs who get all the references, know all the books and movies mentioned in the lists, and \\"get\\" the self-mocking nature of the whole affair.  My only real disappointment with the book is that if you have a pretty good knowledge of rock, you aren't going to learn much new.  But at least you can laugh about your own pretentiousness about imagining that to be the case.on of their EP SPIRAL SCRATCH), the Mekons, Les Paul, the album HAVE MOICY!, guitar pioneer John Fahey, the Flying Burrito Brothers (though Gram Parsons, of course, has an entry), Rory Gallagher, and Second Edition (Johnny Lydon's aka Rotten project after the Sex Pistols).  But like I said, this book isn't about completeness, but humor.  There also is a cut off point.  Few very recent bands receive a mention, even such crucial Rock Snob bands as Yo La Tengo (which inspired the wonderful ONION headline about a few dozen record store clerks dying at one of their concerts when the roof collapsed, crushing the crowd) fail to receive mention. <br /> <br />In the end, the book really isn't for aspiring rock snobs, but actual rock snobs who get all the references, know all the books and movies mentioned in the lists, and \\"get\\" the self-mocking nature of the whole affair.  My only real disappointment with the book is that if you have a pretty good knowledge of rock, you aren't going to learn much new.  But at least you can laugh about your own pretentiousness about imagining that to be the case.	2005-09-02
91488:US	52048190	RQDKKER2K0077	0805069054	9917067	James Madison (The American Presidents Series)	Books	5	10	14	N	N	Excellent short biography by one of our more perplexing presidents	To his credit, Garry Wills is in this book determined to focus most of his attentions on President James Madison rather than Founder James Madison.  The temptation with Madison is always to focus on his profoundly important contributions to the U.S. Constitution instead of his two terms as president.  As a constitutionalist, Madison held the distinction of being both the primary framer of the Constitution and actual writer of much of it, and being by far the most important person in the composition of the Bill of Rights.  Interestingly, little of this was known about Madison during his own life time.  As Wills points out, after Washington and Franklin, Madison was probably the next most important person in the creation of the United States (though I would add Jefferson to the list to create a quartet), but this would not have been obvious to his contemporaries.  Even his role as one of the writers of the Federalist Papers was unknown.<br /><br />Madison as president, however, was a terrible disappointment.  While his abilities in framing and creating the constitution incontestably make him one of the half dozen most important figures in U.S. History, he was at best an average president.  In fact, his accomplishments as president can only be dealt with negatively.  His lone achievements are what he did not do, not what he actually did.  As Wills argues at the end, he did not engage in widespread violations of civil rights while waging the War of 1812, as many subsequent presidents would do, both major presidents such as Abraham Lincoln, Woodrow Wilson, and Franklin Roosevelt, and lesser presidents such as Richard Nixon, and much, much lesser presidents like George W. Bush.  Unlike Lincoln, Madison did not suspend habeas corpus and unlike Wilson did not make criticism of the government a jailable crime.  Furthermore, although he signally failed in all of the central aims of his administration both in going to war and in everything else, he proved that a republic grounded in a spirit of a popular democracy could nonetheless wage a war.<br /><br />The most interesting part of the book came near the end, when in a few brief pages Wills made some powerful and cogent arguments concerning the role that modernism had on the Madison terms of office.  There is a fundamental tension in American politics that is expressed in a number of paired yet opposing ideas:  freedom versus liberty, a strong federal government versus a weak central government, and \\"the people\\" versus states` rights.  These inevitably lead to apparent contradictions, such as Jefferson's stated dislike of a strong central government, but his dramatic increase in the power of the executive branch.  Likewise, Madison creates a constitution that centers national authority in a strong federal, but then as a member of Congress gradually moves more and more to a states' rights position, before as president dramatically increasing the importance and power of the federal and executive powers.  Over and over in American history we see varying attempts to struggle with these issues.  Lincoln saw himself as a Jeffersonian, yet believed strongly in a strong federal government and a weak local government.  Similar to the arguments of Herbert Croly in THE PROMISE OF AMERICAN LIFE, Woodrow Wilson felt that Jeffersonian democracy could only be sustained by a very strong federal that could resist and fight the exploitative tendencies of trusts and corporations, and argued that Jefferson himself would have advocated a strong central government had he foreseen the effects of mass industrialization and the rise of the modern corporation.  Madison found himself despite his ideals relying more and more on new elites, an idea that was anathema to Republicans (that is old school Republicans, that actually became the Democratic party under Andrew Jackson and Martin Van Buren).  But Wills notes that these were not the elites that the Federalists envisioned leading the United States.  Hamilton, for instance, yearned for an America led by its wealthiest and highest born.  Under Madison privilege eventually came to play no role and being well born or of good blood was vastly less important than being effective and efficient at what one did.  Therefore, the hapless generals, almost all political appointments, who led the nation early in the war, gave way to talented generals such as Andrew Jackson by the end.  Wills implies that Jefferson and Madison did not understand that the nation could rely upon elite leadership that rose to that position based on merit and talent rather than privilege and entitlement (a situation unfortunately reversed in the late 20th and early 21st centuries).<br /><br />This is a remarkably solid little biography, another superb entry into the finest series of short presidential biographies ever to be published.  I personally think that Wills wants to rate Madison a bit too high.  Based merely on his performance, I think he falls pretty much into the middle of the pack of presidents.  As a Founder, he is of massive importance, but I think Wills falls into the temptation of nearly ever author in this series of books to rate their subject just a bit higher than they deserve (except for the Buchanan volume--whose author admits that he might be our worst executive).  Still, absolutely no one can fail to benefit from this.n, for instance, yearned for an America led by its wealthiest and highest born.  Under Madison privilege eventually came to play no role and being well born or of good blood was vastly less important than being effective and efficient at what one did.  Therefore, the hapless generals, almost all political appointments, who led the nation early in the war, gave way to talented generals such as Andrew Jackson by the end.  Wills implies that Jefferson and Madison did not understand that the nation could rely upon elite leadership that rose to that position based on merit and talent rather than privilege and entitlement (a situation unfortunately reversed in the late 20th and early 21st centuries). <br /> <br />This is a remarkably solid little biography, another superb entry into the finest series of short presidential biographies ever to be published.  I personally think that Wills wants to rate Madison a bit too high.  Based merely on his performance, I think he falls pretty much into the middle of the pack of presidents.  As a Founder, he is of massive importance, but I think Wills falls into the temptation of nearly ever author in this series of books to rate their subject just a bit higher than they deserve (except for the Buchanan volume--whose author admits that he might be our worst executive).  Still, absolutely no one can fail to benefit from this.	2005-08-26
101141:US	52048190	R1XJGDX25G68IC	039331524X	923776388	The Godless Constitution: The Case Against Religious Correctness	Books	5	10	20	N	Y	A persuasive argument against contemporary fundamentalist revisionist history	The most important argument in this book might be the purely historical one that until very recently in American history, everyone on each side of the issue of whether the U.S. Constitution should contain a religious or Christian element understood that the constitution as we have it was \\"a Godless constitution.\\" Those who felt the constitution should honor God or who felt that the United States should be recognized in some fashion as the foundation of the nation were scandalized that the constitution contained no references to God or the Divine. For nearly two hundred years the effort on the part of evangelicals was to try to get God into the constitution. But under wildly revisionist reinterpretations by folks like Pat Robertson the assumption is that God was in the constitution from the beginning, and that they are merely trying to regain the focus on God that the Founders had when they wrote the constitution. As Kramnick and Moore demonstrate in this excellent brief study, any such view is fantastical nonsense.<br /><br />Early chapters in the book examine the beliefs concerning the relationship between government and a divine foundation found in the Puritans, and why Roger Williams and subsequently the Founders wanted to create a wall of separation between a secular government and organized religion. They show how Williams desired the separation not for the sake of government, but for the sake of religion, for the distortive and corrupting influence political leaders can exert when they attempt to employ religion to bolster political causes. Also, if religion and political parties are too closely identified, if the party falls into disrepute, so also can religion through association. This latter point is far too often forgotten today, and the close identification of the Religion Right with today's extreme right of the GOP does not portend well for evangelicalism. History shows that political sympathies tend to be like a swinging pendulum, and when the pendulum swings the other direction away from the right wing extremism that has colored American politics for the past thirty years (making even a moderate conservative like Bill Clinton appear to many to be a liberal), organized religion could suffer in the reaction. Williams understood this; today's evangelicals do not.<br /><br />But whatever Williams's motives in desiring a secular government, Jefferson, Adams, Washington, Madison, Franklin, and the rest of the Founders desired equally a wall of separation because such was best for both the sake of government and religion. Jefferson envisioned a government that was as little involved in the consciences of individuals as possible. While he believed that religion should play a life in America, it had no place whatsoever in government. In this all the major founders were in complete agreement.<br /><br />The final section of the book deals with the history of the Sunday mails controversy, and is important because it carefully documents the ongoing understanding of all Americans throughout the 19th and virtually all of the 20th centuries that the American constitution was a thoroughly secular document, with no Christian or religious element whatsoever. This is crucial because recently many members of the religious right have attempted to reinterpret history and counterfactually assert that they want to reassert the religious elements that have already been there. Unless people are familiar with the actual historical facts, such revisionism might actually influence the ill informed.<br /><br />This is a very solid history, one that is very much in the spirit of Roger Williams in wanting to promote a strong religious life, but understanding that this is only possible with a completely secular government that cannot be employed to exploit religious bodies for its use, as the political right is exploiting the religious right today. I would also like to recommend that anyone reading this book also consult the superb book by FrankLambert, THE FOUNDING FATHERS AND THE PLACE OF RELIGION IN AMERICA. Compatible with the Kramnick and Moore study, Lambert's book focuses on the shift from theistically based colonies favored by the original settlers to completely secular governments instituted by the Founders.ook by Frank Lambert, THE FOUNDING FATHERS AND THE PLACE OF RELIGION IN AMERICA. Compatible with the Kramnick and Moore study, Lambert's book focuses on the shift from theistically based colonies favored by the original settlers to completely secular governments instituted by the Founders.	2005-08-20
103675:US	52048190	RS62PDXN49WQW	0930289528	333940954	V for Vendetta	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A powerful vision of an alternative, but possible future	Just as George Orwell wanted to entitled his most famous novel, which was published in 1948, 1948 and not 1984, so this amazing graphic novel is more about the emerging political scene in the 1980s of Thatcher and Reagan than about the future, a scene in which individuals were more and more refusing to fight against and mold their government.  Dashing the hopes of the one libertarian reviewer below, the novel very definitely is not an endorsement of libertarianism (which is more an American phenomenon than an English one--e.g., very, very few people in Great Britain have heard of let alone read Ayn Rand).  No, it is about how government can go wrong when we are not the leaders, but the pawns of leaders.  Anyone doubting this needs to reread the preface that Alan Moore wrote for the complete edition:  this is not an endorsement of the free market libertarianism of Margaret Thatcher; it is, in fact, precisely the opposite.  The important British linguistic philosopher and logician Michael Dummett wrote oddly out-of-place prefaces for his philosophical works during the same period, as a devout Catholic with progressive politics lamenting the onset of fascist attitudes wrought by Thatcherism evidenced by new racial laws, expliciting lamenting that his nation had officially become a racist nation.  Moore began his story by imagining Labor winning in 1982, collapsing later due to the pressures brought about by nuclear war between the U.S. and the Soviet Union, a fascist state emerging from the ruins.<br /><br />V is one of the great figures in recent literature, whether regular literature or concentrating solely on graphic novels.  He is fundamentally a mystery.  We never learn his secrets, perhaps because, as Evey imagines, knowing his secret would somehow trivialize it.  He is a hero, but he is clearly not in the train of the overwhelming majority of comic heroes.  For one thing, he is an anarchist.  If Superman was always at heart a super patriot, V is the precise opposite.  He is an anarchist in the old fashioned sense of William Godwin, not a good Briton.  The images found within this novel of a fascist, totalitarian state truly are the finest since 1984, and one of the book's great appeals is the comprehensiveness of the vision.  V is presented as a political hero, a modern day Guy Fawkes, complete with period costume, but unlike Fawkes vastly more successful in his attempt to bring down Parliament.  Visually, he is a brilliant creation, and David Lloyd's drawing of him are one of the glories of the book.<br /><br />If one reads several of Moore's books, one is struck by the peculiar nature of his genius.  Though he has chosen to work with illustrators, his vision truly is that of the novelist.  The structure and architecture of his creations have the same balance of the finest novelist, and one is constantly amazed at how he has been able to produce a narrative that can be perfectly captured by illustrations.  But in the end, the illustrations do not carry the narrative; instead, Moore's narrative provides the structure for the illustrations.  I don't like to throw around the word \\"genius,\\" but there are times that I think it aptly applied to Moore.  Yes, David Lloyd does a spectacular job with his illustrations, but book after book written by Moore with different illustrations one detects something glorious, and it is hard to imagine that he isn't utlimately esponsible.<br /><br />As Moore points out in his preface, this was his first effort at a long narrative comic, and there is some roughness at points compared with some of his other efforts such as WATCHMEN or FROM HELL.  Nonetheless, one can't help but be impressed by the overall grasp of the story.  This may be his first sustained work, but it is hardly the work of a novice.<br /><br />Many will be aware that this is at the time that I write this review being made into a major feature film starring Hugo Weaving (Agent Smith of THE MATRIX films and the star of the greattransvestite film PRISCILLA OF THE DESERT) as V and Natalie Portman as Evey.  As a rule, very few graphic novels have survived the conversion to film.  GHOST WORLD and SIN CITY are two exceptions that prove the rule.  Previous Alan Moore conversions--in particular THE LEAGUE OF EXTRAODINARY GENTLEMAN, though not even FROM HELL can be accounted a success--have been ghastly.  Rookie director James McTeigue worked as first assistant on both the final STAR WARS film and the last two MATRIX efforts, the latter interesting because V FOR VENDETTA is cited as an influence on the original MATRIX.  I have two hesitations about this appearing in film form.  First, most films based on graphic novels are simply awful, and the thought of the producers destoying another great story is painful.  Second, masks work well on the printed page, but not so well in movies.  I have enjoyed the Spiderman movies, but the masks get in the way of any human expression, not just with Spiderman but with the Green Goblin in the first film.  I'm fearful that V will not be as successful onscreen because of facial immobility.  Hopefully the filmmakers will be aware of this problem and will compensate accordingly.<br /><br />This is one of the few graphic novels that I would strongly recommend to anyone wanting to explore the genre for the first time.  It is a wonderfully told story with several compelling characters and story lines.  And it contains one of the most charismatic heroes in all of the comics.of the great transvestite film PRISCILLA OF THE DESERT) as V and Natalie Portman as Evey.  As a rule, very few graphic novels have survived the conversion to film.  GHOST WORLD and SIN CITY are two exceptions that prove the rule.  Previous Alan Moore conversions--in particular THE LEAGUE OF EXTRAODINARY GENTLEMAN, though not even FROM HELL can be accounted a success--have been ghastly.  Rookie director James McTeigue worked as first assistant on both the final STAR WARS film and the last two MATRIX efforts, the latter interesting because V FOR VENDETTA is cited as an influence on the original MATRIX.  I have two hesitations about this appearing in film form.  First, most films based on graphic novels are simply awful, and the thought of the producers destoying another great story is painful.  Second, masks work well on the printed page, but not so well in movies.  I have enjoyed the Spiderman movies, but the masks get in the way of any human expression, not just with Spiderman but with the Green Goblin in the first film.  I'm fearful that V will not be as successful onscreen because of facial immobility.  Hopefully the filmmakers will be aware of this problem and will compensate accordingly.   <br /> <br />This is one of the few graphic novels that I would strongly recommend to anyone wanting to explore the genre for the first time.  It is a wonderfully told story with several compelling characters and story lines.  And it contains one of the most charismatic heroes in all of the comics.	2005-08-19
106062:US	52048190	R2D4AHLVYPDLXO	0810991853	245193225	Krazy Kat: The Comic Art of George Herriman	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Kraziest love triangle ever	This is a wonderful introduction to George Herriman's great comic strip Krazy Kat that ran for several decades in the early twentieth century.  This introduction provides biographical background to Herriman's art, a survey of some of his influences, and a very healthy dose of Krazy Kat panels, both color and black & white.  It also discusses the way that Krazy Kat became a cultural phenomenon, easily one of the most highly regarded comics of the century, and permeating many other arts as well.<br /><br />The Krazy Kat strip is utterly insane, surreal stuff. Here is the premise:  Krazy Kat (who is usually female but is sometimes apparently male) is in love with Ignatz Mouse. Ignatz loathes Krazy, and to prove it konstantly kreases that kat's krown with a brick. Incredibly, Krazy sees this as proof of Ignatz's affection, and falls even more deeply in love (many panels show hearts rising from Krazy's heart when she is hit by one of Ignatz's bricks). Officer Pup, the town constable, is in love with Krazy and frequently throws Ignatz into jail for hitting Krazy, which causes Krazy to pine for her would-be lover. This is merely the barest sketch of this weird and wild world. The town of Concocino is populated by a host of equally outrageous characters, though the focus continually comes back to the three principals.<br /><br />Though even the most recent of these strips are over sixty years old, Krazy Kat has stood up magnificently over the years.  Part of the reason surely lies with Herriman's enormous gifts as an illustrator.  The Sunday strips in particular are things of great beauty, with the frames arcing around the page in spectacular designs of considerable innovation and complexity.  The content of the comics reflects a genuine wit and substantial intelligence, while the bizarre love triangle possesses endless possibilities for both humor and pathos.  This truly is one of the most unique comics in the history of the medium, and even those who do not usually respond to the genre are apt to find this enormously entertaining.are apt to find this enormously entertaining.	2005-08-18
109645:US	52048190	R1FGQGIBXAKLUV	0684848716	512931397	What Kind of Nation: Thomas Jefferson, John Marshall, and the Epic Struggle to Create a United States	Books	4	3	4	N	N	An illuminating discussion of a crucial episode of the early republic	John Marshall isn't often mentioned in the same breath as figures such as Benjamin Franklin, George Washington, John Adams, James Madison, Alexander Hamilton, or Thomas Jefferson, but Simon makes a very good case for doing so.  Just as these other figures played crucial roles in determining the shape of the nation, Marshall is perhaps the key figure in establishing the practical role that the Supreme Court was to play in U.S. history, and the key figure in making the judiciary truly independent.  The latter cannot be emphasized too strongly, for as Simon demonstrates, Jefferson had a vision of the judiciary that would have made if subservient to the executive and legislative branches.  Jefferson wanted to be able to replace judges with relative ease--a move that would have created a permanent timidity on the part of the courts and would have made them the easy toy of party politics--and he wanted the notion of popular democracy to extend to the courts.  No matter how one feels about Jefferson on other issues, and no matter how one feels about such issues as judicial activism, I would imagine that most Americans are relieved and grateful that Marshall's vision and not Jefferson's prevailed.  The system of checks and balances works because each branch of government has the genuine capacity to precisely that, whereas if Jefferson had succeeded, the courts would have of little or no consequence.<br /><br />Simon tells the story of the struggle between John Marshall and Thomas Jefferson through discussing the ins and outs of several key judicial controversies.  The most important of these was, of course, Marbury v. Madison, in which the U.S. Supreme Court found for the defendant, Secretary of State James Madison, but in doing so established the precedent of assuming for the Court the ability to adjudicate the constitutionality of laws passed by Congress.  This precedent vastly outstrips all of the issues of the case itself, and could very well be seen as the charter for all else that the Court would do in subsequent centuries.<br /><br />There is an image in Wittgenstein's Preface to his PHILOSOPHICAL INVESTIGATIONS that I often think of when reading books on early American history (or, for that matter, on any subject area to which one returns).  Wittgenstein states that the issues he is going to explore need to be approached from a number of different viewpoints, so that in the end investigating his subject is very much like exploring a landscape, approaching once from this direction and then from another.  Reading about the founding of the United States is unquestionably like this.  Studying it by on one occasion reading a biography of Hamilton, another by reading about the Constitutional Convention, another by reading about the writing of the Declaration of Independence, another by reading about the FEDERALIST PAPERS, another by the age of the Federalist party, or reading a book about the Adams-Jefferson correspondence or the correspondence itself, or by reading a book about the struggle between Jefferson and Marshall on the limits of the judiciary are all ways of going over the same intellectual landscape, and the more ways that one finds to traverse the region, the stronger one's grasp.  Simon's book is especially valuable because it approaches an important issue and focuses on it in a way that sometimes is obscured by more popular issues.  Reading about Marbury v. Madison is simply not as exciting as reading about the mutual slandering that occurred in the 1800 election between Adams and Jefferson.<br /><br />As a side note, I read this book while commuting to and from work each day to my job in the Loop in Chicago.  Each evening as I ride the Brown Line home my train would pass by the John Marshall School of Law, established to honor the chief justice who was crucial in maintaining the long-term integrity of the rule of law in America.r all else that the Court would do in subsequent centuries. <br /> <br />There is an image in Wittgenstein's Preface to his PHILOSOPHICAL INVESTIGATIONS that I often think of when reading books on early American history (or, for that matter, on any subject area to which one returns).  Wittgenstein states that the issues he is going to explore need to be approached from a number of different viewpoints, so that in the end investigating his subject is very much like exploring a landscape, approaching once from this direction and then from another.  Reading about the founding of the United States is unquestionably like this.  Studying it by on one occasion reading a biography of Hamilton, another by reading about the Constitutional Convention, another by reading about the writing of the Declaration of Independence, another by reading about the FEDERALIST PAPERS, another by the age of the Federalist party, or reading a book about the Adams-Jefferson correspondence or the correspondence itself, or by reading a book about the struggle between Jefferson and Marshall on the limits of the judiciary are all ways of going over the same intellectual landscape, and the more ways that one finds to traverse the region, the stronger one's grasp.  Simon's book is especially valuable because it approaches an important issue and focuses on it in a way that sometimes is obscured by more popular issues.  Reading about Marbury v. Madison is simply not as exciting as reading about the mutual slandering that occurred in the 1800 election between Adams and Jefferson. <br /> <br />As a side note, I read this book while commuting to and from work each day to my job in the Loop in Chicago.  Each evening as I ride the Brown Line home my train would pass by the John Marshall School of Law, established to honor the chief justice who was crucial in maintaining the long-term integrity of the rule of law in America.	2005-08-16
131441:US	52048190	RSAJQCLLTX8TM	0064471047	915528414	The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe	Books	5	14	16	N	N	One of the finest children books ever written	In my humble opinion, THE LION, THE WITCH, AND THE WARDROBE is the finest children's story of the past century.  The story contains both enormously imaginative touches combined with childlike simplicity, and the solid yet uncomplex prose belies a story of great sophistication.  It also is a story intended for children, yet so respectful of their intelligence that adults can read it with equal appreciation.<br /><br />There should be absolutely no controversy about where this novel should come in the seven-novel sequence that comprises The Chronicle of Narnia:  it is the first, and it is required to be the first both by the quality of the novel and by the way it fits into the overall structure of the series.  Shifting it from the first spot in the series to the second is quite possibly the worst publishing decision of which I am aware.  The justification for the change is exceedingly weak.  A child wrote Lewis saying that in their opinion the series should be read beginning with THE MAGICIAN'S NEPHEW, which tells, among other things, of the creation of Narnia.  Therefore, they felt that THE MAGICIAN'S NEPHEW should be the first and THE LION, THE WITCH, AND THE WARDROBE second, with a subsequent reordering of the other books to reflect the chronology of Narnia instead of the kids that discover Narnia.  Lewis replied that he agreed, and this agreement is used as the excuse to reorder the books.  I have two huge problems with this.  First, my guess is that Lewis was, as a wise adult will often do, affirming the child rather than stating his conviction that the books should be reordered.  Second, even if Lewis did think the books should be reordered, it is not clear that he actually would have authorized it actually being done, nor that he would have resisted the efforts of any decent publisher to point out to him that reordering was a dreadful idea.  Why?  Because what is so magical about the original ordering of the series is that it focuses on the extremely subjective experience of the discovery of Narnia by children.  The original order maintains a chronology based on its exploration and discovery by children and in reading the books that is going to be the concern of any child or childlike adult in reading the story.  Who cares about the narrative from the standpoint of Narnia when the far greater concern is the narrative from the standpoint of children?  A lesser but still pertinent criticism of the reordering is that it places one of the weakest novels in the sequence in the first position.  When I first read the series, THE MAGICIAN'S NEWPHEW was, along with THE SILVER CHAIR and A HORSE AND HIS BOY, the weakest stories in the sequence.  Why put your worst foot forward?  The Narnia books are about to be made into a series of feature films by the Disney studios, and they have quite correctly decided to film the books in the original and correct order.<br /><br />As noted initially, THE LION, THE WITCH, AND THE WARDROBE is a nearly perfect story.  The manner in which the children first discover Narnia, by entering it through the back of an ordinary wardrobe, is the most exciting entrance into a magical land at least since THE WIZARD OF OZ and probably ALICE IN WONDERLAND and THROUGH THE LOOKING GLASS.  What they discover is a land under the worst of all possible curses:  it is always winter, but never gets to be Christmas.  The land is temporarily ruled by a beautiful but evil witch who entices children with Turkish Delight.  As literature it is all so delightfully perfect, and one marvels that an enormously literate Oxford don could have written it, though perhaps not so surprising when remembering that another Oxford professor, the mathematician and logician Rev. Charles L. Dodgson, wrote ALICE IN WONDERLAND under the pseudonym of Lewis Carroll.<br /><br />Of course, Narnia isn't really ruled by the witch, but by a magnificent, enormous lion by the name of Aslan, who, as we are often reminded, is not a tame lion.  Anyone reading Narnia will instant recognize a host of parallels between Aslan and Jesus, known as the Lion of Judah, but Lewis cautioned that no one should imagine Aslan a mere Christ figure: he is Lewis's conception of what Christ would have been like had he been incarnated into a magical land called Narnia as a great lion.  During the course of the book Lewis retells the story of the death and resurrection of Christ through the character of Aslan, yet he ever gets to the point of preaching or dogmatism.  A very close friend of mine, raised Jewish, was aware of the Christ overtones of the story, yet still declared that it was her favorite book as a child.<br /><br />This is also one of the books with the largest potential audience of which I know.  I first read and loved it in college, but elementary school children can delight in reading it, and even younger children can love having it read to them.  And it would take a pretty somber and sober adult to not be seduced by its beautiful simplicity.  Absolutely no one should deny themselves the joys of exploring Narnia, but make sure you start your tour with this book and not another.recognize a host of parallels between Aslan and Jesus, known as the Lion of Judah, but Lewis cautioned that no one should imagine Aslan a mere Christ figure: he is Lewis's conception of what Christ would have been like had he been incarnated into a magical land called Narnia as a great lion.  During the course of the book Lewis retells the story of the death and resurrection of Christ through the character of Aslan, yet he ever gets to the point of preaching or dogmatism.  A very close friend of mine, raised Jewish, was aware of the Christ overtones of the story, yet still declared that it was her favorite book as a child.    This is also one of the books with the largest potential audience of which I know.  I first read and loved it in college, but elementary school children can delight in reading it, and even younger children can love having it read to them.  And it would take a pretty somber and sober adult to not be seduced by its beautiful simplicity.  Absolutely no one should deny themselves the joys of exploring Narnia, but make sure you start your tour with this book and not another.	2005-08-04
136931:US	52048190	RI1N1JVTX6GL2	0760753075	851203306	Classic Ballparks: A Collector's Edition	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	OK book, but absolutely spectacular model ballparks	CLASSIC BALLPARKS is a decent enough book, but in the enormously crowded field of baseball books, it is not especially memorable. One can debate what the greatest sport is, but there is absolutely no debating that the literature that has grown up around baseball completely outclasses the literature surrounding any other sport, and perhaps all other sports books combined. Only boxing can be identified as a distant second. Due to the incredibly crowded field of baseball books, this one would be completely forgettable except for one thing: the miniature ballparks that accompanying the set.<br /><br />To be honest, I got the set for the ballparks. A friend at work brought them in and I flipped out when I saw them. There are six in all, all roughly two to three inches in dimension, and all surprisingly accurate for such inexpensive replicas. I live two blocks from Wrigley Field and so know it extremely well, since it makes up part of the furniture of the neighborhood. I would have gotten the book for the model of Wrigley alone, but thankfully there are five other classic parks as well. Obviously, if you are choosing only six parks, some very hard decisions will be made. Wrigley and Fenway, as the two most beautiful parks in baseball, are naturals, and Yankee Stadium is nearly as essential. But you next have to leave out some really crucial parks. You can't really quibble too much with the Polo Grounds or Ebbets Field, but Tiger Stadium is a bit iffier. I personally would have preferred Forbes Field or old Comiskey, but I'm not unhappy to have a really nice model of Tiger Stadium.<br /><br />The great thing about the set is that you can read about the fields while looking at first-rate replicas. I've seen photos of all the parks before, but the models bring them alive in a way that I would never have anticipated. For instance, I knew that Ebbets had a very long left field line, but when you look at the model you realize that it had to have been one of the most challenging left fields to play in the majors, while right field was positively tiny. All serious baseball fans know Willie Mays's catch quite well, but looking at the model and seeing the spot where he caught it, with some knowledge of the distance to the spot, makes it seem all but impossible.<br /><br />Any baseball fan should own this, and anyone who has a baseball fan to buy things for and aren't sure what to get him or her, this would be an absolutely perfect gift.ging left fields to play in the majors, while right field was positively tiny. All serious baseball fans know Willie Mays's catch quite well, but looking at the model and seeing the spot where he caught it, with some knowledge of the distance to the spot, makes it seem all but impossible. <br /> <br />Any baseball fan should own this, and anyone who has a baseball fan to buy things for and aren't sure what to get him or her, this would be an absolutely perfect gift.	2005-08-02
150162:US	52048190	R2L3UF6LAKJG6T	0142437344	247841222	A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	30	33	N	N	One of the milestones of 20th century literature	One of the great changes in literature in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries was the birth of autobiographical literature.  Even at the end of the 19th century, it was very unusual for any writer to make one's own life the basis for a purely literary work.  To be sure, Dickens had put much of the London he knew in his youth into his novels, but there is no Dickens novel that can be described as purely autobiographical.  Mark Twain had written memoirs that employed novelistic techniques and Samuel Butler put much of his own life into THE WAY OF ALL FLESH (a novel written in the early 1870s but not published until 1903), but it was only with such works as D. H. Lawrence's SONS AND LOVERS (1913) and James Joyce's PORTRAIT OF THE ARTIST AS A YOUNG MAN in the English-speaking world and Marcel Proust slightly earlier in Paris that authors began taking their own lives as material for works of fiction.  In Lawrence's SONS AND LOVERS, a host of real life characters and actual life experiences became characters and scenes in novels.  Likewise, most of the events of PORTRAIT OF THE ARTIST were based on actual events.  It isn't quite autobiography, but neither is it pure fiction.  Because the genre of fictionalized autobiography has become such a common literary form in the century that has followed Proust, Lawrence, and Joyce's work, the importance of this work can hardly be overestimated.<br /><br />PORTRAIT OF THE ARTIST is important also for the innovations Joyce made in narrative.  While the events in the story occur along a time line, Joyce is not particularly concerned with most of the details in the timeline.  The narrator is not concerned to tell a story with a beginning, a middle, and an end, but instead wants to present a series of prose snapshots from various periods in the life of Stephen Daedalus, who is transparently based on Joyce himself.  The narrator lays out the events, but he isn't concerned with explaining them or making them clear.  There is, in fact, little or no interaction with the reader.  Most narration presupposes the presence of the reader, but PORTRAIT ignores any reader.  This leads to a certain coolness in the prose that some find discomfiting.<br /><br />What cannot be denied is the brilliance and the genius of the prose.  It is a prose that alters and matures gradually with the central figure of the tale.  The first pages border on baby talk, while the final pages are as mature as Daedalus at the same age.  In terms of form and execution, this is easily one of the most brilliant works of fiction of the past century.  Moreover, it is a remarkably accessible work.  For those who first come to Joyce through the agony of reading some of the more stressful sections of ULYSSES or, worse, FINNEGAN'S WAKE, read PORTRAIT will come as something of a shock.  Compared to ULYSSES, this is remarkably easy going.<br /><br />The complaint that I hear some make of the book is that nothing happens.  That is true, if by \\"happens\\" one means an interesting and unusual plot.  The \\"story\\" if there is one is that of a young man growing up, gradually gaining consciousness of the world in which he lives, and eventually rejecting the Catholic vocation urged upon him to become a writer.  The book is stuffed with details from Joyce's own life, from the political preoccupations of his family (though Joyce himself was amazingly unconcerned with politics) to the family obsession with singing (both Joyce and his father possessed a near-operatic quality singing voice).<br /><br />I would urge those who do not care for the book because \\"nothing happens\\" to at least entertain the possibility that there is more than one way for a novel to be brilliant.  If one can see the ways that PORTRAIT expanded and developed the possibilities for prose, it will be easy to appreciate it for the work of genius that it is.ct, little or no interaction with the reader.  Most narration presupposes the presence of the reader, but PORTRAIT ignores any reader.  This leads to a certain coolness in the prose that some find discomfiting.      What cannot be denied is the brilliance and the genius of the prose.  It is a prose that alters and matures gradually with the central figure of the tale.  The first pages border on baby talk, while the final pages are as mature as Daedalus at the same age.  In terms of form and execution, this is easily one of the most brilliant works of fiction of the past century.  Moreover, it is a remarkably accessible work.  For those who first come to Joyce through the agony of reading some of the more stressful sections of ULYSSES or, worse, FINNEGAN'S WAKE, read PORTRAIT will come as something of a shock.  Compared to ULYSSES, this is remarkably easy going.      The complaint that I hear some make of the book is that nothing happens.  That is true, if by \\"happens\\" one means an interesting and unusual plot.  The \\"story\\" if there is one is that of a young man growing up, gradually gaining consciousness of the world in which he lives, and eventually rejecting the Catholic vocation urged upon him to become a writer.  The book is stuffed with details from Joyce's own life, from the political preoccupations of his family (though Joyce himself was amazingly unconcerned with politics) to the family obsession with singing (both Joyce and his father possessed a near-operatic quality singing voice).    I would urge those who do not care for the book because \\"nothing happens\\" to at least entertain the possibility that there is more than one way for a novel to be brilliant.  If one can see the ways that PORTRAIT expanded and developed the possibilities for prose, it will be easy to appreciate it for the work of genius that it is.	2005-07-25
150695:US	52048190	R2BRMKN4PC24V3	0446532681	502504625	America (The Book): A Citizen's Guide to Democracy Inaction	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Absolutely brilliant political parody	The brilliant thing about this book is that in poking fun at our comically inadequate response to the promise contained in the grand experiment founding our nation, it manages to encapsulate some of the most trenchant critique of what is wrong with our nation.  What is amazing about this is that none of our national news media has been willing to do this in quite some time.  I recently heard something truly sad:  in polls of the factual knowledge by American television viewers, those who said that THE DAILY SHOW was their primary TV source of the news scored higher than the viewers of any other source.  Jon Stewart himself would be the first to insist that this points up a great tragedy in contemporary American life.<br /><br />So, this book succeeds on a number of levels.  First and foremost, it is funny.  I mean really, truly funny.  A few of the jokes fall flat, but a shockingly large number strike home.  From the very beginning, with the Foreword by Thomas Jefferson to the \\"Praise for AMERICA (THE BOOK\\" on the back cover, the book made me laugh.<br /><br />But what makes the book brilliant is the dead-on criticisms it makes of the way the American experiment in democracy has gone wrong.  Instead of a Jeffersonian spirit of democracy empowering the individual, we see the corporate appropriation of the democratic process through massive contributions to politicians and corporate ownership of the media outlets.  And the free press, which ought to be safeguarding our interests through a vigorous discussion of government, more often than not gives our politicians a free pass even in cases where a president sends us off to war after lying about why we need to go to war.  Though Stewart and his cohorts are clearly left leaning, the left is hardly left unscathed.  If the Right is criticized for its catering to corporate American and the corporate owned media, the Left--well, what passes for the Left in America, which is actually more like the Right-Center in any other developed nation--is castigated for its gutlessness and unwillingness to rock the boat to help average Americans.<br /><br />In the end, the point of the book is to point up what has gone wrong in our country, and maybe helping us to laugh about it at the same time.  Perhaps we have gotten not the government we wanted, but merely the one we deserve.  In the meantime, we can all laugh both at government and at ourselves.  A brilliant book.ther developed nation--is castigated for its gutlessness and unwillingness to rock the boat to help average Americans.   <br /> <br />In the end, the point of the book is to point up what has gone wrong in our country, and maybe helping us to laugh about it at the same time.  Perhaps we have gotten not the government we wanted, but merely the one we deserve.  In the meantime, we can all laugh both at government and at ourselves.  A brilliant book.	2005-07-24
151013:US	52048190	R6EGM81CHNDBX	0684804484	22414532	No Ordinary Time: Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt: The Home Front in World War II	Books	5	130	137	N	N	A compelling portrait of remarkably unordinary people	Of the making of books on Franklin Delano and Eleanor Roosevelt there is not end.  By any standard they remain two of the most remarkable people to have inhabited the White House, he as one of greatest presidents ever and she as without any serious competition the greatest first lady.  Together, they forged a partnership without parallel in the nation's history.<br /><br />In a sense, the book is deceptively delimited.  Goodwin ostensibly deals with the Roosevelts and the Home Front during WW II, but in fact this is more like a joint biography of the two.  She freely shifts the narrative from the years of 1939-45 to any point in the lives of the two, whether to dwell on their first meeting, to the time in which Franklin was afflicted with polio and his attempted recovery, to Eleanor's upbringing and the sufferings she experienced with alcoholics, to Franklin's adulterous affair that effectively ended his and Eleanor's marriage if not their partnership.  So the book ends up as a wide-ranging exploration of the lives of the two main characters, as well the major figures in their lives, whether in the war years or not.<br /><br />Franklin emerges in the book as what he certainly was:  one of the truly great presidents in American history (even his detractors need recall that Ronald Reagan called him the greatest president).  Virtually every poll of scholars since his lifetime has placed him among our three greatest presidents, but even that can overlook the fact that no president in our history faced more challenges than did Roosevelt, and few dealt with them so successfully.  Goodwin is brilliant at showing both Franklin's great strengths as both president and a human being, as well as his weaknesses.  As she demonstrates, perhaps no president had a greater sense of what could actually be achieved politically at any moment, as opposed to what ought to be achieved.  He was the great master of compromise, at crafting seemingly impossible solutions to intractable problems.  Could any other president have conceived the land-lease program that may have been as essential in determining the outcome of WW II?  As she quotes Churchill as saying, no other individual of his age thought so globally and comprehensibly as he.  And has there ever been a president who generated such confidence in the people as a whole.  Whatever his moral shortcomings, his leadership qualities were beyond parallel, and surely no president spoke so brilliantly and directly to the hearts of Americans.  Sometimes we don't get the leaders we deserve, but the ones we need.<br /><br />But despite Roosevelt's brilliance as a political leader, Goodwin does not spare in presenting him warts and all.  She shows him as someone seemingly incapable of intimacy, despite the hordes of people he needed to surround him at all times.  He possessed a host of admirable qualities, but he could also be disappointing, such as his behavior towards Missy Lehand after her debilitating stroke.  He is also presented as someone who detested the dirty business of firing someone, someone who would go to the greatest lengths to avoid anything unpleasant, someone who, in fact, comes across as the pampered child he had been.  He emerges both as someone worthy of the greatest admiration despite some very real emotional shortcomings.<br /><br />Much the same is true of Eleanor, who while coming across as the nearest thing to a saint as we are ever likely to see in our country, was deeply lacking in a host of human qualities.  Goodwin shows her as alternatingly scolding, insensitive of Franklin's momentary needs, as unaffectionate and fearful of sex, as unspontaneous and lacking in humor, as lacking in confidence, and unforgiving of Franklin's unfaithfulness with Lucy Mercer.  At the same time, did any American ever have a better heart where the downtrodden and needy were concerned, or any American have some unselfish concern with social and political justice?  Throughout the book, Franklin and Eleanor emerge as so admirable in part because they are also so human.  These are not marble statues, but they are nonetheless all the more remarkable for all that.<br /><br />Any presidency contains a host of supporting characters, but this was especially so in the Roosevelt administration, largely because of Franklin's need to be surrounded by others.  Probably no presidency saw so many people living in the White House as the Roosevelt years.  Consequently, the book provides mini-biographies of a score of characters, whether the uber-secretary Missy Lehand, the remarkably gifted though gravely ill Harry Hopkins, the Roosevelt children, Eleanor's friend (and perhaps lover) Hick, or Eleanor's friend Joe Lash.  There are also wonderful portraits of such important individuals as Winston Churchill, whose friendship with Roosevelt was one of the reasons for the close cooperation between the U.S. and Britain during the war.<br /><br />Because the basic subject matter is one of our greatest presidents during a period of great crisis, there is an inescapable political element to the book, but the actual tone of the book focuses more on the personalities rather than the issues.  I do not find the book the least less successful for that.  In fact, I think this book is a wonderful corrective for other biographies that focus more on the New Deal and WW II years as a succession of debates on issues or military crises.  I would place this fine book on any short list of books to read about Roosevelt and presidential leadership during the war years.lin and Eleanor emerge as so admirable in part because they are also so human.  These are not marble statues, but they are nonetheless all the more remarkable for all that. <br /> <br />Any presidency contains a host of supporting characters, but this was especially so in the Roosevelt administration, largely because of Franklin's need to be surrounded by others.  Probably no presidency saw so many people living in the White House as the Roosevelt years.  Consequently, the book provides mini-biographies of a score of characters, whether the uber-secretary Missy Lehand, the remarkably gifted though gravely ill Harry Hopkins, the Roosevelt children, Eleanor's friend (and perhaps lover) Hick, or Eleanor's friend Joe Lash.  There are also wonderful portraits of such important individuals as Winston Churchill, whose friendship with Roosevelt was one of the reasons for the close cooperation between the U.S. and Britain during the war. <br /> <br />Because the basic subject matter is one of our greatest presidents during a period of great crisis, there is an inescapable political element to the book, but the actual tone of the book focuses more on the personalities rather than the issues.  I do not find the book the least less successful for that.  In fact, I think this book is a wonderful corrective for other biographies that focus more on the New Deal and WW II years as a succession of debates on issues or military crises.  I would place this fine book on any short list of books to read about Roosevelt and presidential leadership during the war years.	2005-07-24
151314:US	52048190	R1136QPN8YYH8U	0930289234	777411096	Watchmen	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Deserves all the hype that has been heaped on it over the years	By any standard, not merely by the standard of comics, WATCHMEN is a masterpiece.  Although for decades many individuals had been taking comics seriously, Alan Moore managed in a single blow to explode every assumption anyone had made about the potential of the genre.  In the world of the novel, it would have been as if the most ambitious novel ever written had been TREASURE ISLAND and the next thing to appear had been WAR AND PEACE.  Moore created a tale whose ambition outstripped anything that had ever before appeared in the world of the comic, and he executed it, with the brilliant assistance of illustrator Dave Gibbons and colorist John Higgins, with a brilliance and virtuosity hitherto unknown.  With WATCHMEN, the graphic novel had come of age, and many believe that even to this day it remains unsurpassed.<br /><br />They say the devil is in the details, and what makes WATCHMENT brilliant is as much the details as the main elements.  There are sections of the novel where Moore will be juggling several strands of the story at once, some crucial to the tale as a whole, others symbolic embellishment, and yet there is nary a moment when everything is less than perfect.  Even if one has read a host of other graphic novels, there are numerous points in this book where one has to just halt and say to oneself, \\"Comics just aren't supposed to be this good.\\"<br /><br />Essentially, WATCHMEN is about a plot to socially reengineer a better society.  That this is the story is only gradually revealed.  In fact, the book is nearly complete when the plot fully emerges.  Along the way we are introduced to a completely new and exceedingly compelling group of super heroes.  There is Rorschach, a singularly dedicated crime fighter whose mask hides an almost comically ugly visage.  There is Nite Owl, the second person to sport that identity, and the super intelligent Ozymandias.  Then there is The Comedian, who is less a funny guy as someone who realizes that the whole shebang is one big joke.  Above all, there is the blue-bodied Dr. Manhattan, the only one of the bunch with genuine super powers, but powers so excessive to make Superman seem a wimp, since he has the capacity by sheer willpower alter the physical reality around him (in a fight between the Man of Steel and Manhattan, the latter need only will everything to change to kryptonite), someone in fact more godlike than anything.<br /><br />The novel is also extraordinary for the entire world Moore imagines.  Because with Dr. Manhattan's help he was able to bring about victory in Vietnam, Richard Nixon repealed the amendment preventing anyone serving as present for more than two terms, and has continued to serve as president well into the 1980s.  With Dr. Manhattan tilting the balance of power sharply towards the United States, for whom he serves, the Soviets have had to acquiesce in all foreign policy matters.  But when he disappears, the Russians begin driving through Afghanistan and into Pakistan (an area of the world still very much in the news).  Nuclear war threatens.  No description I can make of the novel can do justice to its richness and complexity.  But this at least, I hope, gives some hint of the way that WATCHMEN strives for a narrative richness previously not seen in the comic genre.<br /><br />My one complaint with the book is in the ending.  I find it as unsatisfying as the ending of one of the greatest Sci-fi novels ever written, THE HUMANOIDS.  But while one might quibble with the desirability of the end, one can't argue that this isn't a brilliantly conceived and executed work of art.  It truly and legitimately stands as one of the great artistic achievements of recent decades.<br /><br />There have been over the years frequent attempts to bring WATCHMEN to the silver screen.  I personally think this would be a dreadful mistake.  There is simply too much content in the novel for a 120-minute or even 180-minute film to do justice to it.  Director and erstwhile cartoonist for Monty Python Terry Gilliam once indicated that he would love to do it as a twelve-part mini-series, and I think that would be absolutely perfect.  One of the things that makes WATCHMEN so brilliant is the rich detail contained within it--such as the brilliant pirate comic contained with the novel as a whole--and I think that cutting all that detail out, which a feature film would necessitate, would be a tragic mistake.  A twelve-part mini-series on, say, HBO, would result in around 660 minutes in contrast with the at-most 180 minutes of a film.<br /><br />The degree to which WATCHMEN has come to be perceived as one of the pinnacles of the graphic novel can be seen in an episode from the first season of THE O.C.  Seth, the comic/alt music geek on the show (whose taste in both areas are, by the way, tres cool, cognizant of Frank Miller, Alan Moore, The Shins, and Modest Mouse) tries to educate his later-to-be-girlfriend Summer on the modern comic, and suggests that she start with WATCHMEN, THE DARK KNIGHT RETURNS, and the Sandman series.  And when he creates a Starter-Set for contemporary culture, he includes WATCHMEN along with an album by the Shins and Michael Chabon's THE AMAZING ADVENTURES OF KAVALIER AND CLAY.  You know, I think he gets it right.nist for Monty Python Terry Gilliam once indicated that he would love to do it as a twelve-part mini-series, and I think that would be absolutely perfect.  One of the things that makes WATCHMEN so brilliant is the rich detail contained within it--such as the brilliant pirate comic contained with the novel as a whole--and I think that cutting all that detail out, which a feature film would necessitate, would be a tragic mistake.  A twelve-part mini-series on, say, HBO, would result in around 660 minutes in contrast with the at-most 180 minutes of a film.<br /><br />The degree to which WATCHMEN has come to be perceived as one of the pinnacles of the graphic novel can be seen in an episode from the first season of THE O.C.  Seth, the comic/alt music geek on the show (whose taste in both areas are, by the way, tres cool, cognizant of Frank Miller, Alan Moore, The Shins, and Modest Mouse) tries to educate his later-to-be-girlfriend Summer on the modern comic, and suggests that she start with WATCHMEN, THE DARK KNIGHT RETURNS, and the Sandman series.  And when he creates a Starter-Set for contemporary culture, he includes WATCHMEN along with an album by the Shins and Michael Chabon's THE AMAZING ADVENTURES OF KAVALIER AND CLAY.  You know, I think he gets it right.	2005-07-24
154896:US	52048190	RFV6XVGL0DJBO	0679756450	310711579	Portnoy's Complaint	Books	5	5	6	N	N	An overlooked milestone in American literature	There are many reasons to read PORTNOY'S COMPLAINT, some historical, some aesthetic.  It is an important book historically because it was one of the first novels to deal in depth with Jewish identity and with an explicitly Jewish family.  If one looks for American Jewish novels before the work of Roth and Bellow, one will be rather stunned at how few books there were.  Most writers of Jewish descent before Roth and Bellow wrote as assimilated authors, partly because of a deep suspicion in American society as a whole against Jews.  Today it is often forgotten that even in the 1940s many young Jewish intellectuals changed their last names in efforts to escape the \\"Jew quotas\\" maintained by many American universities.  Hollywood, though most studio heads were Jewish, invariably erased all Jewish identity in films.  Alexander Portnoy's rants about his astonishing Jewish family may seem familiar today, but at the time it was very nearly without precedent.<br /><br />Then there is the aesthetic dimension.  Roth's writing about growing up Jewish in a goyishe world would have meant little if he hadn't also done it so well.  This truly is one of the funniest novels that I have ever read.  I would rank it slightly behind CATCH-22, but equal to such other comic novels as John Barth's THE SOT-WEED FACTOR and Stanislaw Lem's THE FUTUROLOGICAL CONGRESS.  Absolutely no one has ever written about sex with so much wit and humor.  And no one has created such a phenomenally awful yet funny family as Roth has in inventing the Portnoy family.  The sister may be nondescript, but absolutely no one reading the book will ever be able to forget Portnoy's mother, with her endless and all pervasive obsessions, or his father, with his lifelong striving to achieve intestinal health through consistent bowel movements.<br /><br />The novel is also important for being one of the first American novels to deal frankly with the central character's sex life.  The two unavoidable facts of Portnoy's life are that he is 1) Jewish and 2) absolutely obsessed with sex.  These two facts overwhelm anything else that can be said about him, even his own moral convictions that lead him to a life of public service.  There is the implication that the particular nature of his Jewish upbringing--as a kosher Jew in a Christian culture--has played a crucial role in the molding of his sexuality, for while his sexual obsession hasn't been created by society, the particular ways that it is expressed has.  Portnoy has no interest in Jewish girls, but only in non-Jewish women who he imagines (or perhaps they imagine) he can save, but whom he in fact exploits and abuses.  The apex of the novel is his mistreatment and exploitation of a beautiful model whom he dubs The Monkey.  His inability to treat his sexual conquests with respect and humanity is connected with his inability to escape his outsider status as a Jew in a Christian culture.  But he is also a man without a country, as seen in the end of the novel where he attempts unsuccessfully to rape a young Israeli woman he meets in Israel.<br /><br />So, in the end, PORTNOY'S COMPLAINT functions as a seminal Jewish novel, a highly successful comic novel, a sexual confession, and a moral novel.  He doesn't offer any solutions to Portnoy's dilemma; he doesn't show how he can begin to relate to women with any degree of respect.  He doesn't solve any problems; he merely shows that these moral dilemmas exist.  The novel in the end might have a didactic purpose, but Roth possesses such a gigantic comic gift that the reader will hardly notice that they are receiving a moral lecture.s life are that he is 1) Jewish and 2) absolutely obsessed with sex.  These two facts overwhelm anything else that can be said about him, even his own moral convictions that lead him to a life of public service.  There is the implication that the particular nature of his Jewish upbringing--as a kosher Jew in a Christian culture--has played a crucial role in the molding of his sexuality, for while his sexual obsession hasn't been created by society, the particular ways that it is expressed has.  Portnoy has no interest in Jewish girls, but only in non-Jewish women who he imagines (or perhaps they imagine) he can save, but whom he in fact exploits and abuses.  The apex of the novel is his mistreatment and exploitation of a beautiful model whom he dubs The Monkey.  His inability to treat his sexual conquests with respect and humanity is connected with his inability to escape his outsider status as a Jew in a Christian culture.  But he is also a man without a country, as seen in the end of the novel where he attempts unsuccessfully to rape a young Israeli woman he meets in Israel.   <br /> <br />So, in the end, PORTNOY'S COMPLAINT functions as a seminal Jewish novel, a highly successful comic novel, a sexual confession, and a moral novel.  He doesn't offer any solutions to Portnoy's dilemma; he doesn't show how he can begin to relate to women with any degree of respect.  He doesn't solve any problems; he merely shows that these moral dilemmas exist.  The novel in the end might have a didactic purpose, but Roth possesses such a gigantic comic gift that the reader will hardly notice that they are receiving a moral lecture.	2005-07-21
208598:US	52048190	R34VUWJ4C2TYLB	0670882305	938794795	James Joyce (Penguin Lives Series)	Books	4	1	4	N	Y	Useful if unglittering portrait of a titan of literature	Reading any biography of James Joyce reminds me of something that Bernard DeVoto once said to Robert Frost after the other had behaved abominably towards Archibald MacLeish on several occasions in the space of a few days:  \\"Robert, you are a great poet, but a bad man.\\"  What can the biographer do with Joyce?  Was he a great writer?  His astonishing literary genius is  completely beyond debate.  But he was almost completely lacking in humane qualities, and it isn't clear that he was capable of any relationship with any human being surpassed the value a tool had for its user.  There are other equally unpleasant figures in the history of literature, but not many, and I've yet to read a biography of Joyce that creates the suspicion that meeting him might have been a positive experience.  In fact, for me reading about Joyce's life has in ways acted as an impediment to appreciating his books.  The difficulty is that he stuffs so much of his own experience into his books that the reader is forced to know at least the rudiments.  Indeed, both PORTRAIT OF THE ARTIST AS A YOUNG MAN and ULYSSES feature his alter ego Stephen Hero as the/or a major character.<br /><br />If any biography of Joyce is the biography of a morally repulsive individual, there is at least the consolation of his being repulsive on an epic scale.  If Joyce is not a human being we can admire as a person, as opposed to a literary genius, he is as least an interesting brute.  He fascinates with his utter lack of compunction in his use and misuse and abuse of others.  It leads to the question of what personal qualities made it possible for him to mistreat so many people.  Unfortunately, O'Brien does not help us discover this.  In fact, I find that in her treatment of his life, Joyce the human being doesn't emerge in any detectable way.  I ended the book without much of a sense of how he might have seemed if I had encountered him on the street.  Instead, O'Brien's Joyce feels very much like a character in a novel.  He seems unembedded in his world, partially exacerbated by O'Brien persistent failure to relate Joyce to any social or historical events.  She rarely dates events, and often goes twenty or thirty pages without noting a specific date.  For instance, very little dating is provided in conjunction with the obscenity trial in New York.  If the book contained a chronology at the front or back of the book this might not be so unfortunate.  This is important because other writers at approximately the same time were also facing censorship trials, such as D. H. Lawrence for THE RAINBOW, so Joyce's case was not an isolated incident.  She also left so much out!  She neglects, for instance, to mention that Joyce and Proust once shared a cab ride.  Perhaps not a crucial moment for either writer, but given that in the English speaking world Proust and Joyce are widely regarded as the two literary giants of the 20th century, while internationally Joyce is considered second only to Proust one would have expected some acknowledgement of their encounter.  So many details like this are excised from Joyce's story.  The book also suffers by a complete lack of critical tools.  As noted above, there is no chronology, but there is also no index and not much of a bibliography.  These are lacks that detract from the book's overall usefulness.<br /><br />Where O'Brien excels is when she writes about the books themselves.  Although I did not feel like I gained much insight into Joyce (that Joyce was a world-historical jerk is simple to document, but the intricacies of why he was and why people let him get away from it was largely untouched upon), O'Brien the novelist did a marvelous job of illuminating many aspects of the books themselves.  Although she does not write exhaustively about any of Joyce's works, every passage she writes shimmers with understanding and insight.<br /><br />In one sense there is no overwhelming need for any new biography of James Joyce.  Richard Ellmann's magisterial biography is not merely the finest book on Joyce, but arguably the finest English-language literary biography of the past half century.  Given the large bulk of Ellmann's work, however, a solid brief biography is, however, highly desirable.  I am not confident that O'Brien's book meets this need.  The tone is far too impressionistic, the attention to historical and chronological detail too slight.  I can recommend this to readers of Joyce who want to know a bit more about him, but I hope that someone writes a new biography sometime in the next few years.s magisterial biography is not merely the finest book on Joyce, but arguably the finest English-language literary biography of the past half century.  Given the large bulk of Ellmann's work, however, a solid brief biography is, however, highly desirable.  I am not confident that O'Brien's book meets this need.  The tone is far too impressionistic, the attention to historical and chronological detail too slight.  I can recommend this to readers of Joyce who want to know a bit more about him, but I hope that someone writes a new biography sometime in the next few years.	2005-06-10
222015:US	52048190	R36Z36F4XG0U6J	0060524308	400007646	Bound for Canaan: The Underground Railroad and the War for the Soul of America	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A superb history of a crucial chapter in American history	As Fergus Bordewich points out in the epilogue of his remarkable history of the Underground Railroad, this was an episode of our nation's history that has been made all but invisible by both the mythologization of key aspects and a remarkable century and a half of neglect.  On one level, all Americans know about the Underground Railroad, but once pushed most know no more than the name of Harriet Tubman (despite her having come on the scene only rather late in the Railroads existence) and that it was involved in aiding slaves escape from the South prior to the Civil War.  But as Bordewich so eloquently and fascinatingly shows, there was ever so much more to the story than this.  For one thing, Bordewich helps call attention to a host of genuine heroes who strove to bestow freedom on tens of thousands of African Americans in the decades leading up to the Civil War.<br /><br />Although the names of many leading abolitionists such as Frederick Douglas and William Lloyd Garrison are familiar, most of the leading members of the Railroad are not.  Bordewich recounts the contributions and exploits of such remarkable men and women as the Quaker Levi Coffin, who was dubbed the \\"president\\" of the Underground Railroad by slave hunters, and who dedicated his life to fighting what he considered to be a horrid abomination and sin against God.  Or the New York millionaire Gerrit Smith, who employed his wealth in a host of abolitionist activities, and took an active role in the maintenance of the Railroad.  Or Thomas Garrett, who when brought before a court for harboring escaped slaves, indicated that he would add an additional floor to his house if needed to house more fugitives, and invited people to send any escapees to him if they needed help.  Or the amazing Rev. John Rankin and his large family, who erected a light on their side of the Ohio River to aide escaping slaves in finding their way to freedom.  There are also many astonishing former slaves in addition to the justly famous Harriet Tubman.  Some of these, like Jermain Loguen, William Still, and Josiah Henson, were among the most important African Americans of the 19th century, and did much not only to lead slaves to freedom, but to create economic opportunities for the newly freed.  What is perhaps the most remarkable part of this story is the way that these men and women, both white and African American, cooperated heroically.<br /><br />The book tells an essential chapter of American history, and recounts American history at both its most noble and ignoble.  The book recounts a host of disinterestedly heroic acts by a large number of Americans, many of them individuals whose names have been lost to history.  Indeed, Bordewich explains that many of the braver African Americans of necessity worked in secrecy in the South, risking their lives for years in aiding others in their escape.  But the book is also a painful reminder of the outrageous fact of slavery.  It also, however, provides additional support to many recent historians of the early 19th century and the Civil War who have deflated the absurd contention that the Civil War was not fought over slavery, but instead some abstract concept of States' Rights (despite the fact that the only profoundly debated right was the right to own slaves).  Clearly the issue of the age was that of slavery, and whether America as it expanded to its Western borders would be opened to slavery or freedom.  Bordewich also puts the lie to the States' Rights theory by pointing out that the only right of any state that the South wanted to recognize was that of owning slaves, and fought desperately to force national compliance to the Fugitive Slave Laws, and to make it illegal for any state to refuse to acknowledge the legitimacy of slavery.  In other words, the South believed in States' Rights only insofar as it did not interfere with their right to own slaves and their efforts to invade the Northern states to recover runaways.<br /><br />Bordewichdoes a marvelous job of explaining the enormous complexity of race relations at the time.  Many abolitionists, for instance, were quite racist themselves, and were horrified at the notion of freeing all African Americans and having them intermingle with the white population.  Instead, many argued for resettlement.  It was here that the Underground Railroad helped change the social attitudes of many abolitionists, by showing that African Americans and whites were able to work and cooperate with one another without the dire consequences that many other Americans had predicted (for instance, Thomas Jefferson lived in terror of freed claves avenging themselves on their former masters for the crimes they had committed in continuing the institution of slavery).  The Railroad is also related ably to the major historical events of the time, such as the California Gold Rush, which accelerated the debate about the fate of slavery in Western expansion.<br /><br />All in all, this is a well-written, well-researched, and absolutely fascinating history of the Underground Railroad from its prehistory in the earliest decades of the 19th century, through its peak from 1830 to 1861 when the beginning of the Civil War made the ongoing existence of the Railroad irrelevant.  The movement is revealed to have been both a revolt by deeply religious men and women of all races against an institution that was both immoral in itself and protected by a bevy of unjust laws.  No American who is interested in any aspect of American history can afford to neglect this essential chapter in our national story.ordewich does a marvelous job of explaining the enormous complexity of race relations at the time.  Many abolitionists, for instance, were quite racist themselves, and were horrified at the notion of freeing all African Americans and having them intermingle with the white population.  Instead, many argued for resettlement.  It was here that the Underground Railroad helped change the social attitudes of many abolitionists, by showing that African Americans and whites were able to work and cooperate with one another without the dire consequences that many other Americans had predicted (for instance, Thomas Jefferson lived in terror of freed claves avenging themselves on their former masters for the crimes they had committed in continuing the institution of slavery).  The Railroad is also related ably to the major historical events of the time, such as the California Gold Rush, which accelerated the debate about the fate of slavery in Western expansion. <br /> <br />All in all, this is a well-written, well-researched, and absolutely fascinating history of the Underground Railroad from its prehistory in the earliest decades of the 19th century, through its peak from 1830 to 1861 when the beginning of the Civil War made the ongoing existence of the Railroad irrelevant.  The movement is revealed to have been both a revolt by deeply religious men and women of all races against an institution that was both immoral in itself and protected by a bevy of unjust laws.  No American who is interested in any aspect of American history can afford to neglect this essential chapter in our national story.	2005-05-31
237741:US	52048190	R1NIC0KUYTFJ81	0140189424	227048468	Henderson the Rain King (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A mavelous tale by a gifted storyteller	There are two things that I think virtually any reader of HENDERSON THE RAIN KING will agree upon:  that Saul Bellow is a master storyteller and he is a gifted prose stylist.  More than anything else, Bellow in this novel is attempting to tell a great story, and in this he succeeds magnificently.  The success lies as much in the way he tells it as in what he relates, for at the hands of another writer this could easily have been a dreadful book.  The plot borders on hackneyed, and could easily have become another civilized white man engages in self-realization through his encounters with the primitive kind of story.  But Bellow is far too skillful to ever let it come close to that.  The narrative throughout is energized by Bellow's marvelously comic prose.  Whether the protagonist is wondering if a mass of frog's realize that he is their doom or relating detailing his close encounter with a lioness, Bellow constantly delights the reader with unexpected descriptions or improbable yet highly successful combinations of words customarily not used in conjunction with one another.<br /><br />Structurally, the novel possesses what amounts to two prefaces, the first introducing us to the main character and the various foibles to which he is prone and the second the first of his two encounters with African tribes.  It is only when Henderson reaches the second of the two tribes and becomes the tribe's Rain King that the book really gets to the heart of the story.<br /><br />If one reads the biographical description of Bellow in the Penguin edition of the novel, one learns that Bellow earned a B. Sc. in Anthropology, and this background serves him well in the novel.  His depiction of the tribes is both respectful and convincing, but what is more striking to me is how admiringly he writes of Africans at a time (it was published in 1959) when America was struggling desperately with race issues.  Bellow later in life became well known for his intensely conservative political opinions (one of his closest friends was the gay arch-conservative disciple of Leo Strauss Allan Bloom, and the two of them were good friends with many well known Neocons), but none of that is apparent in his attitudes towards the Africans he encounters.  In fact, there is a sense in which HENDERSON THE RAIN KING is an anti-colonial novel.  The traditional colonial novel (such as Kipling's KIM) explores to some extent the superior white European or American encountering primitive cultures.  But in no way does Bellow present Henderson as the superior of the Africans, and Henderson himself is acutely conscious of how much he has to learn from them.  After he becomes the Rain King, he subjugates himself to the king as a disciple of sorts, definitely as a student.  He is conscious of the king as someone who might be able to help him find himself, and at a time when tempers where running high in America, Bellow unflinchingly portrays their relationship as one of deep friendship, with the older Henderson the junior partner and more dependent of the two.<br /><br />My lone complaint with the book is with the book's \\"message.\\"  Henderson is afflicted with a profound lack of self-knowledge.  He is often possessed by an inner voice that proclaims, \\"I want, I want, I want.\\"  Yet for Henderson \\"to want\\" is an intransitive, not a transitive verb.  He never knows what it is he wants, what he yearns for.  What is not compelling is either Bellow's understanding of the precise nature of Henderson's condition solution, or the nature of its ultimate solution.  No question he takes a stab at it with his low interludes about \\"being\\" and \\"becoming,\\" though I didn't find this terribly compelling.  Whatever the nature of Henderson's problems, by the end of the novel his encounter and friendship with the king has played a transformative role, and he is very much a new man, with new aspirations.  To put it bluntly, I didn't sense that Bellow's understanding of human nature is terribly deep.  Despite his enormous gifts as a storyteller, he simply isn't capacitated as a philosopher or moralist to go to any great depths in depicting or analyzing Henderson's needs.  But the story he tells is so entertaining, his prose so satisfying, and his characters so engaging that I can easily overlook his analytical shortcomings.fts as a storyteller, he simply isn't capacitated as a philosopher or moralist to go to any great depths in depicting or analyzing Henderson's needs.  But the story he tells is so entertaining, his prose so satisfying, and his characters so engaging that I can easily overlook his analytical shortcomings.	2005-05-17
247791:US	52048190	RM6W9OGT9ZT56	0802141242	429519064	Charlie Wilson's War: The Extraordinary Story of How the Wildest Man in Congress and a Rogue CIA Agent Changed the History of Our Times	Books	5	24	26	N	N	An absolutely outstanding exploration of a seminal event	It is a serious misreading of CHARLIE WILSON'S WAR to view it as a rabidly partisan book, as so many of the reviewers here do.  If one pays careful attention to what George Crile has written, he does not take obvious sides in the book.  He certainly does not state that the victory of the U.S.-funded mujahideen over the Soviet military was a good thing, nor does he imply that it was a mistake.  His tone throughout is of a fairly neutral observer of the entire affair.  Clearly he finds his central characters-Charlie Wilson and Gust Avrakotos-to be utterly fascinating and likable individuals, but it is a huge leap to imagine that he is anywhere making value judgments.  He states in the epilogue (apparently a part of the book that many reviewers didn't reach) that he realized that the role that Charlie Wilson played in funding the mujahideen and thereby helping both to bring about the end of the Soviet Union and arm the Islamic extremists with whom the United States struggles against today was a role that needed to be placed in the eye of history.  If one reads carefully, Crile finds a great deal of ambiguity in the entire affair:  the greatest secret war in history, was funded without knowledge of the American people and perhaps minimal knowledge of the president and by often engaging in end runs around the democratic process, leading to the defeat of a feared enemy but perhaps aiding thereby an enemy that represents perhaps even a greater threat.  I detect none of the triumphalism or bias that many reviewers do.  I suggest that less careful readers are perhaps projecting onto the narrative attitudes that simply are not there.<br /><br />Crile is telling this story not for partisan reasons, but primarily for what is implied in the subtitle:  it was the largest covert operation in history.  During the eighties the United States fought a number of wars against countries the Reagan administration imagined were puppets or agents of the Soviet Union, whether in Nicaragua or Grenada.  But while the Reagan administration remained focused on Nicaragua, the CIA, with no official sanction, waged the largest operation in the nation's history against the Soviets in Afghanistan by arming and training the mujahideen.  The CIA, as Crile shows, was involved already in Afghanistan before Charlie Wilson entered the story, but Wilson was responsible for the almost inconceivable increase in funding for the mujahideen, taking a program that was receiving a few million a year and instead turning it into a program into which billions was being poured.  He also altered the conflict from one in which the mujahideen managed fierce but ineffective resistance to one where they were inflicting massive losses on the Soviets.  Whether this is a good or bad thing will depend on a host of things, not least whether it is good to have seen the inflicting of considerable damage to the Soviet Union at the expense of arming and training the Muslim jihadists who struggle against the United States today.  Crile's concern is to get this story out, and to show that it was Wilson who should get the credit, good or ill, for the particular form this conflict took.<br /><br />The book that I think this one can be compared most fruitfully is T. E. Lawrence's THE SEVEN PILLARS OF WISDOM.  Crile is not, unfortunately, a literary genius like Lawrence was (in fact, Lawrence's account of his exploits remains one of the towering achievements in nonfiction prose of the past century).  But just as Lawrence wrote as one alleging to have effected massive changes in the life of the Middle East, so Crile writes as the mouthpiece for those men and women who achieved a similar change in Afghanistan.  He obviously researched his book carefully, but the heart of the book is unquestionably derived from a large number of interviews by the key figures, as well as a host of onlookers and minor participants.  With only slightly more involvement by Wilson and Avrakotos, the book could easily havebeen retitled HOW WE DID IT, by Charlie Wilson and Gust Avrakotos, with George Crile.  I think some of the critics are not aware of how deeply involved Wilson and Avrakotos were in the book, but in fact without their cooperation there would have been no book.<br /><br />I cannot exaggerate how exciting a read this book is.  It really should be made into a mini-series or movie.  Many of the characters are bigger than life, especially Wilson, and many of the roadblocks or unexpected events that threatened to derail the entire program created more real life drama than any scriptwriter could concoct.  The story also includes a vast cast of marvelous secondary characters, such as Mike Vickers, the low level CIA operative with a deep background in military Special Forces operations who was the one who realized that the program, while well funded, was poorly designed, and suggested the mix of weapons that was ultimately to prove decisive in the conflict.  Or more well known figures such as President Zhia of Pakistan, or any of the many, many women in Wilson's life.  But none of these match the fascinating Charlie Wilson, the representative from East Texas who was extremely liberal on domestic issues, but the most ardent of cold warriors and a faithful supporter of Israel on foreign matters.  Absolutely as interesting is the blunt spoken Gust Avrakotos, the son of Greek immigrants who looked at disdain with all of the Ivy Leaguers in the CIA and who constantly flaunted his outsider status.  Together, with Wilson providing the direction for the program as well as the cash, and Avrakotos undertaking the execution of the CIA program in Afghanistan, they managed to conduct the greatest indirect blow inflicted on the Soviet Union during the length of the Cold War.  That Afghanistan turned out to be the Soviet Union's Vietnam was largely the result of the gargantuan amount of money that Wilson poured into the purchasing of weapons and materiel for the Afghans.<br /><br />The book is also a fascinating introduction into how Washington works.  Again and again, to explain how Wilson was able to get the tens and hundreds of millions of dollars for the CIA in Afghanistan (at a time when the CIA was under intense scrutiny and was suffering criticism because of what would eventually become Iran-Contra) by working backroom deals or manipulating key committee members.  One realizes how essential it is for an effective congressional representative to master the art of compromise, of learning how to do a favor for someone at one time in order to count on his or her support on another.  Similarly, the book is a great introduction to the culture of the CIA and its inner workings.  It is one of those books that will teach the reader a great deal on at least a half dozen important topics.<br /><br />Which brings me to my speculation why some people don't like this book.  I doubt if most of the critics have bothered to read more than the editorial description or the dust jacket, but whether they have or not, I think most will take exception to the book merely because of the role that it ascribes to Charlie Wilson in the Afghan war.  Why?  Because it undermines the oft repeated (though less by historians than by Right Wing partisans) that the Cold War was brought to an end by the tremendous increase in military spending that Ronald Reagan brought about.  Historians of the Cold War generally know better, citing the main reasons 1) decades of bipartisan consistency in applying the principles of containment as first articulated by George Kennan in the 1940s, with all presidents from Truman to Reagan maintaining the same policy, 2) the unexpected and unanticipated rise to power of Gorbachev, who single-handedly did more than anyone to end the Cold War, and who provided most of the international leadership in effecting change in the late 1980s, and 3) the tremendous blow to morale and the economy of waging the Afghanistan war.  The major blow struck during the Reagan years was not dealt by Reagan (who focused primarily on Nicaragua), but by a liberal Democratic congressman from Texas.  This is just too bitter a pill for many Reagan supporters to swallow, so they instead pillory a book that they have not taken the effort to read.<br /><br />I wholeheartedly recommend this book, for several reasons:  1) it is enormously entertaining, 2) it provides a great introduction to the way things work in Washington, 3) it details one of the most fascinating unreported events in recent American history, and 4) it focuses on the recent history of an area of the planet that has continuing relevance to the world today.  It ought to be a must-read for any student of contemporary American history.The book is also a fascinating introduction into how Washington works.  Again and again, to explain how Wilson was able to get the tens and hundreds of millions of dollars for the CIA in Afghanistan (at a time when the CIA was under intense scrutiny and was suffering criticism because of what would eventually become Iran-Contra) by working backroom deals or manipulating key committee members.  One realizes how essential it is for an effective congressional representative to master the art of compromise, of learning how to do a favor for someone at one time in order to count on his or her support on another.  Similarly, the book is a great introduction to the culture of the CIA and its inner workings.  It is one of those books that will teach the reader a great deal on at least a half dozen important topics. <br /> <br />Which brings me to my speculation why some people don't like this book.  I doubt if most of the critics have bothered to read more than the editorial description or the dust jacket, but whether they have or not, I think most will take exception to the book merely because of the role that it ascribes to Charlie Wilson in the Afghan war.  Why?  Because it undermines the oft repeated (though less by historians than by Right Wing partisans) that the Cold War was brought to an end by the tremendous increase in military spending that Ronald Reagan brought about.  Historians of the Cold War generally know better, citing the main reasons 1) decades of bipartisan consistency in applying the principles of containment as first articulated by George Kennan in the 1940s, with all presidents from Truman to Reagan maintaining the same policy, 2) the unexpected and unanticipated rise to power of Gorbachev, who single-handedly did more than anyone to end the Cold War, and who provided most of the international leadership in effecting change in the late 1980s, and 3) the tremendous blow to morale and the economy of waging the Afghanistan war.  The major blow struck during the Reagan years was not dealt by Reagan (who focused primarily on Nicaragua), but by a liberal Democratic congressman from Texas.  This is just too bitter a pill for many Reagan supporters to swallow, so they instead pillory a book that they have not taken the effort to read. <br /> <br />I wholeheartedly recommend this book, for several reasons:  1) it is enormously entertaining, 2) it provides a great introduction to the way things work in Washington, 3) it details one of the most fascinating unreported events in recent American history, and 4) it focuses on the recent history of an area of the planet that has continuing relevance to the world today.  It ought to be a must-read for any student of contemporary American history.	2005-05-09
263397:US	52048190	R2JN437F4TXL7R	0785115315	393607766	Astonishing X-Men, Vol. 1: Gifted	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Another great chapter in my favorite team of superheroes	I enjoyed this initial story in the new X-Men series though I must hasten to add that it is very much a transition story.  It follows upon previous devastation of Manhattan and the X-Men, and this is very much a picking-up-the-pieces story.  Shockingly few of the familiar X-Men team members or their enemies appear in it.  Scott, Wolverine, the formerly villainous Emma Frost [who has somewhat taken the place of Jean Grey in Scott's affections, if not heart), McCoy, and Kitty Pryde.  Later a sometimes X-Man/sometimes nemesis (depending on the particular X-Men narrative one follows) of the team is discovered to be alive.  But the number of X-Men regulars missing is astonishing (no pun intended-well, O.K., pun intended):  Xavier, Storm, the for-now deceased Jean Grey (does anyone really imagine she won't be back?), Rogue, Nightcrawler, Iceman, or Gambit, not to mention the familiar bad guys.  By any measure, it is an interesting selection of characters.  It is definitely a bare bones crew.<br /><br />The heart of the story concerns the announcement by a prominent researcher of a \\"cure\\" for the mutant gene.  This is a theme that is grist for writer Joss Whedon's mill, since he often used in BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER Buffy's calling as a metaphor for her outsider status (one thinks of her mother's asking her, upon learning that she is the Slayer, if she had ever tried not to be the Slayer, immediately putting the viewer in mind of parents trying to come to terms with the gay orientation of their children:  \\"Have you ever tried not being gay?\\").  The specter of social engineering via genetics summons up images of Nazi experiments to produce a master race.  Would others sometime in the future try to eliminate the gay gene, the short gene, the fat gene, the bald gene, perhaps even the compassionate gene or the lazy gene?  The X-Men have long been treated as the ultimate outsiders, standing for all who are a bit different.  The notion of \\"curing\\" outsiders truly is a Pandora's box.<br /><br />One of the more interesting aspects of this tale is the temptation the \\"cure\\" represents for McCoy.  As \\"The Beast\\" he is perhaps the most outsider of all the X-Men, excepting only Rogue.  The prospect of his sometime being able to have a wife, a family, and a normal life are enormously appealing to him, and the story ends without resolving his feelings on the issue.  There are other interesting aspects the story as well.  The romance between Scott and Emma feels (and probably will be) dangerous.  Kitty persists in distrusting her on a deep level, and one fears that her distrust might prove to be justified.  The one character who is less interesting here than usual is Logan, who simply fights all his team members.  He does, however, have far and away the best action moments in the story, as well as the best graphic, as the strongest X-Man (who the main five discover in the course of the action) literally hurls Wolverine through the air like a football at a bad guy trying to get away.  The drawing by John Cassaday, Wolverine's grimacing face dominating a two-page spread, the others distantly on the ground below and behind him.  Just a great, great image.<br /><br />I give this five stars, but if I could make it contingent on how the next installment of the series is handled I would.  It sets up a great story, but in itself is not yet a great story.  But it is an extremely good beginning to a story that could be among the more interesting twists in the X-Men saga of recent years.  I'll close with praise for brilliance of the original conception of the X-Men.  Few comics have possessed the capacity to continually revitalize itself as this one.  Over the years we have seen a host of new characters, many of shifting allegiances, some of them reconceptualized again and again, their look altered every few years, and a series of narratives that are more or less consistent-sometimes very much less-with one another.  And here we see a fascinating new tale with many of the key team members missing.  I look forward to the next chapter in the story.am members missing.  I look forward to the next chapter in the story.	2005-04-26
264510:US	52048190	R6JPUA3AIA52W	0060013133	123160839	Going Postal: A Novel of Discworld	Books	5	2	2	N	N	If you're going to read only one Pratchett novel, don't	I mean what I say:  if you are going to read only one Terry Pratchett novel, don't.  It isn't merely that he is best consumed in multi-novel gulps, he is only properly appreciated under such conditions.  This is, after all, the 29th novel in the Discworld sequence detailing the world of Ankh-Morpork, 29 novels that criss and cross one another so that together they form a vast narrative chronicling every aspect of this mythical world.  Characters move in and out of the various novels like performers in a vast play, and often even if they don't appear, you know they are there.  If you were to read this book and hear that there was a werewolf on the Watch (the town constabulary, formerly the Nightwatch), you might be perplexed when she (for it is a she) is given surprisingly little ink, whereas you would imagine such a phenomena would receive considerable treatment.  And she does, in several other books in the series.  So, I believe that reading only one Terry Pratchett novel is close to a waste of time, since it will reveal few of his virtues as a writer, and provide you with few of the delights his books provide.<br /><br />So what are his virtues?  First and foremost, Pratchett seems to possess an endless capacity for comic invention.  After 29 books you would imagine that someone would start to lose their edge as a writer, but that is hardly the case with Pratchett.  This novel, like many of his others, will produce panoply of snickers, smiles, and outright belly laughs.  He also manages to create with ease one marvelously engaging and frequently absurd character after another.  With so many fine books and so many established characters, one might think that it would be hard for a veteran lover of Ankh-Morpork to accept a new major character, but Moist von Lipwig is as delightful as any of his previous characters.  He and the other new characters fit in seamlessly with Discworld recurring characters.  Death, of course, makes his brief cameo, as does Lord Vetinari, the quirky power of powers in Ankh-Morpork.  But the ultimate delight of reading Terry Pratchett is the wonderfully complex world he creates in this string of novels.  And for this enjoyment, you simply must read at least six or seven of his books.  The good news is that if you do read and enjoy this one, you will definitely want to read more.<br /><br />The novel is largely a satire on the real world decline of snail mail in the face of the Internet.  At least, it is easy to read the novel in that light.  The clackers--towers where a sort of Morse code or semaphore makes possible the rapid transmission of a message from one corner of the planet to another--have made overland mail obsolete, but the growing undependability of the service creates the possibility of reviving the post office as a means of communicating.  Lord Vetinari senses this, but finds that each new post master he appoints dies suddenly and violently.  But when Moist von Lipwig--confidence man, trickster, and forger--manages to escape death by the gallows, Vetinari offers him the position.  With the aged and elderly Junior Postman Groat (no one has ever been post master long enough to promote him to the title of Senior) and Apprentice Postman and hardcore pinhead (i.e., collector of pins) Stanley, Moist struggles, though always with an eye to perhaps enriching himself somehow, to bring the post office back to life.  There are many hysterical moments in the book, such as a bizarre secret initiation in which elderly retired postal workers make Moist the official post master, and almost any scene dealing with a golem.<br /><br />Terry Pratchett both reminds one of other writers--namely Douglas Adams and those Monty Python guys--but the way he has created a vast and complex alternative reality filled with humans, banshees, trolls, golems, werewolves, vampires, Death, and a host of other creatures is unprecedented.  But what makes his books worth reading is the excellence with which he pulls the whole thing off.  So do read this, but only if you plan to go ahead and read six or seven others.  I would recommend any newcomer to either read them from beginning to end, or perhaps focus on one sequence of novels.  If one wants to take the latter approach, I would recommend the Nightwatch books.  Just look at the backs of each volume, and if they deal with Commander Vimes and the Watch, read it.  In my opinion that might be the best intro to the Discworld books, but there is hardly a bad way to plunge into Terry Pratchett.is, but only if you plan to go ahead and read six or seven others.  I would recommend any newcomer to either read them from beginning to end, or perhaps focus on one sequence of novels.  If one wants to take the latter approach, I would recommend the Nightwatch books.  Just look at the backs of each volume, and if they deal with Commander Vimes and the Watch, read it.  In my opinion that might be the best intro to the Discworld books, but there is hardly a bad way to plunge into Terry Pratchett.	2005-04-25
270437:US	52048190	R1OOKQQZFCK23L	1593072937	657958712	The Hard Goodbye (Sin City)	Books	5	54	57	N	Y	A compelling and unforgettable tale of knight errantry	Anyone who has seen and enjoyed the recent Frank Miller/Robert Rodriguez film SIN CITY should definitely explore the graphic novels upon which the film is based.  THE HARD GOODBYE was the first of Miller's series of novels, and the one upon which the Marv sequence in the film is based.  As Miller tells it in interviews, he had been toying with the idea of creating some short 48-page comics dealing with a noirish urban area he called Sin City, and had been coming up with a lot of ideas, such as the geography, some of the back story, and a number of character.  But he was struggling to come up with a story.  One day, he says, he had a flash:  \\"Conan the Barbarian in a trench coat.\\"  And thus was Marv created.  The trench coat isn't a trivial matter with Marv.  Throughout the book he repeatedly expresses interest in coats, especially coats he can liberate from bad guys he is about to kill.  And once Marv's story took off, it wasn't a 48-page tale any longer.<br /><br />Some write or talk about the Sin City books as if Miller has reinvented the world of noir.  This simply isn't true, and no one who has actually followed the host of books and movies to follow in the wake of Dashiell Hammett and Raymond Chandler would find anything new in Miller's vision.  What little that is new is the extreme to which he takes some of the more garish elements of the hardboiled school, but those elements were all well established before Miller ever turned his attention to the tradition.  In particular, he is deeply indebted to Raymond Chandler's take on Dashiell Hammett's creation.  If you read Chandler's books, you quickly realize that he views his detective Philip Marlowe as a latter day knight errant, defending the helpless and rescuing damsels in distress, albeit with a thick veneer of world weariness and cynicism.  Marlowe has a tough guy exterior, but it hides a heart of mush and a profound moral code to which he remains true.  The only thing that Miller brings to the mix is a graphic vividness, and a stretching of the elements of the hardboiled tale to the point of caricature.  But Marv's determination to avenge Goldie's death is remarkably similar to Marlowe's dogged faithfulness to those to whom he feels loyal.<br /><br />THE HARD GOODBYE is part and parcel an exaggerated, almost garish recreation of Raymond Chandler's version of the hardboiled crime story.  Miller's heroes are a bit less law-abiding, but at heart they are guys with a profound dedication to idealized women.  Marv is insane, suffering from some unspecified mental illness to which he alludes but which he never describes.  The pills he takes keeps him barely on this side of over over-the-edge.  He is violent, hideously ugly, virtually indestructible, and profoundly dangerous.  Miller might describe him as Conan in a trench coat, but he also can remind some as a poor man's Incredible Hulk.  But where women are concerned, he is a softy.  One theme that runs through Miller's books is that the good guys are all protectors of women, and the bad guys their exploiters.  Most of Miller's bad guys rape, torture, assault, or otherwise exploit or kill women.  His heroes are determined to stand between the bad guys and the women.  One criticism of the books is that they are written from the male point of view.  They are male fantasies.  And the fantasies are not all that simple.  The men are for the most part ugly or even grotesque, while all the women are outrageously gorgeous in a sex shop sort of way.  The bad guys can be in many instances even more grotesque.  It is all highly stylized, but it is a stylization that remains constant throughout.  Miller's heroes are not good men, and in fact the only thing that divides many of them are their treatment of women:  the bad guys rape or murder women; the good guys stop the bad guys.<br /><br />I like Miller as an illustrator for the most part, but my one complaint is that many of the illustrations are not as strong as the best.  He is often inspired, and many of the images are unforgettable, but he sometimes can be merely average.  What I really like about Miller are his stories and his dialogue.  Sometimes people attempting to write in a hardboiled style can fall into unintentional parody.  Remarkably, Miller avoids that, despite the extravagant garishness of his characters and his imagery.  He often hits the right notes with his words.  Like many of the best comic book writers, Miller is better with stories and words than with images, and that's as it should be.  The imagery is a vehicle for the tale to be told, not the other way around.f the images are unforgettable, but he sometimes can be merely average.  What I really like about Miller are his stories and his dialogue.  Sometimes people attempting to write in a hardboiled style can fall into unintentional parody.  Remarkably, Miller avoids that, despite the extravagant garishness of his characters and his imagery.  He often hits the right notes with his words.  Like many of the best comic book writers, Miller is better with stories and words than with images, and that's as it should be.  The imagery is a vehicle for the tale to be told, not the other way around.	2005-04-20
271803:US	52048190	R3OPVHFBIC6RZ1	0141184221	359278790	Modern Classics Rainbow (Penguin Modern Classics)	Books	5	94	99	N	Y	One of the crucial novels of the twentieth century	The importance of THE RAINBOW in the development of the English novel should not be underestimated.  As a reader, I have to confess that this is not one of my favorite books; just as D. H. Lawrence is on the whole a writer I respect more than enjoy.  But any serious student of the English novel has to acknowledge the importance of his novels.  Even more than in his great classic novel SONS AND LOVERS, Lawrence in his pair of novels THE RAINBOW and WOMEN IN LOVE (originally conceived as a single novel, but split apart upon rewrites) helped rewrite the rules of what was possible in the novel.<br /><br />There are four significant ways in which this novel (and its successor) represents something entirely new.  First, Lawrence in THE RAINBOW largely dispenses with plot as the major structural device.  Only in a very vague sense does the novel tell a story at all.  It records the various attempts by members of three generations of the Brangwen family to achieve selfhood, but we don't get a plot so much as a succession of characters.  Virtually none of the storytelling devices that were crucial to most previous novelists were of much use to Lawrence, simply because most of those devices were aids in creative exposition, whereas the narrative in this novel is minimal.<br /><br />Second, abandoning plot, Lawrence attempts to frame a novel around characterization, but having determined to focus on character development, he furthermore refuses to focus on a single character.  There is no central protagonist to the novel (though Ursula, who will be the protagonist of WOMEN IN LOVE, comes close), but a collection of characters that as a group command our interest.  Again, this is a departure from traditional novelistic practice, where virtually every English or for that matter non-English novel had a central character involved in much or most of the action in the novel.  In cinematic or stage terms, Lawrence deploys an ensemble cast, spending perhaps more time on Ursula Brangwen than the others, but nonetheless diffusing the novel's concern to all of them.<br /><br />Third, Lawrence wanted to treat individual characters in a way that had not previously been seen in English fiction.  Though many novelists had created marvelously complex characters, even the most complex appeared simplistic compared to Lawrence's.  He wanted to develop psychologically complex characters that contained much of the complexity of real people, whose personalities can never been captured precisely in fiction.  Lawrence's characters are richly illogical, filled with contrary motives, fluidly change their minds or feelings, and are subject to a host of influences.  In other words, they are very much like normal human beings.  Lawrence illustrates the ways that people are marvelous blends of contradictory impulses.  His characters are not psychologically tidy because that simply isn't the way people are, so that while on one level Lawrence if noted for writing richly symbolic novels, they are also in this regard exercises in psychological realism.  One can find fault with the way he depicts his characters.  For instance, I think he underestimated the role that empathy and sympathy play in human relationships.  Also, his characters are so consistently depicted in unflattering ways that one wonders whether Lawrence liked people at all.  One reads Whitman, for instance, and is struck by his passionate love of humanity, seemingly motivated by his conviction that no man is an island to find something redeemable even in the dregs of humanity, loving both the escaped and the bounty hunter chasing down the slave in equal amounts.  Whitman is unstinting in his love of human beings.  Lawrence seemingly loves no one, and seems at times to believe that all men and women truly are islands.  But one can disagree with Lawrence's views of humanity while still admiring his attempt to produce psychologically compelling portraits of real people.<br /><br />Finally, Lawrence helped transform the English novel by bringing a degree of sensuality that had otherwise been missing in fiction.  I don't mean just sexuality, though there is that as well, but a complete opening of the imagination to sensual imagery.  Lawrence, for instance, writes about the beauties of nature as convincingly as any novelist working in the English language.  I find his nature imagery more convincing and honest than those, say, of Wordsworth.  Some of his imagery touching the moon or men working in fields or the effects of sunlight are deeply effecting.  The novel was banned for a number of words that were deemed too provocative and obscene, as well as for some profoundly sensual scenes.  The words strike us as quaint today, especially one word that offended many:  \\"belly.\\"  The scene that provoked the most outrage was the one where Anna Brangwen nee Lensky would when pregnant undress and slowly dance ritualistically in her room before the fire.<br /><br />Despite these remarkable achievements, I find it hard to like Lawrence in general and this book in particular.  I give the book five stars because it deserves them, but it is not a book that gives me much joy or delight.  Part of this comes from the fact that Lawrence comes across as a bit of a misanthrope.  He seems a person more fixated upon discovering what is wrong with someone than in praising what is good.  To refer to the familiar distinction, he is a \\"glass half empty\\" kind of person.  There are moments of bliss in his books, but I rarely experience joy or happiness.  In other words, I do not like Lawrence's novels largely because of what I sense to be characteristics of Lawrence's personality that I do not like.  His gifts as a writer are immense, and what he did to help transform the English novel should inspire the gratitude of everyone who loves literature.  But as a whole he is an author I respect rather than admire, appreciate than love.  This remains, however, a novel that any serious student of the English novel should read carefully.  It and his successor WOMEN IN LOVE truly represent one of the turning points in the development of the English novel.ence helped transform the English novel by bringing a degree of sensuality that had otherwise been missing in fiction.  I don't mean just sexuality, though there is that as well, but a complete opening of the imagination to sensual imagery.  Lawrence, for instance, writes about the beauties of nature as convincingly as any novelist working in the English language.  I find his nature imagery more convincing and honest than those, say, of Wordsworth.  Some of his imagery touching the moon or men working in fields or the effects of sunlight are deeply effecting.  The novel was banned for a number of words that were deemed too provocative and obscene, as well as for some profoundly sensual scenes.  The words strike us as quaint today, especially one word that offended many:  \\"belly.\\"  The scene that provoked the most outrage was the one where Anna Brangwen nee Lensky would when pregnant undress and slowly dance ritualistically in her room before the fire.   <br /> <br />Despite these remarkable achievements, I find it hard to like Lawrence in general and this book in particular.  I give the book five stars because it deserves them, but it is not a book that gives me much joy or delight.  Part of this comes from the fact that Lawrence comes across as a bit of a misanthrope.  He seems a person more fixated upon discovering what is wrong with someone than in praising what is good.  To refer to the familiar distinction, he is a \\"glass half empty\\" kind of person.  There are moments of bliss in his books, but I rarely experience joy or happiness.  In other words, I do not like Lawrence's novels largely because of what I sense to be characteristics of Lawrence's personality that I do not like.  His gifts as a writer are immense, and what he did to help transform the English novel should inspire the gratitude of everyone who loves literature.  But as a whole he is an author I respect rather than admire, appreciate than love.  This remains, however, a novel that any serious student of the English novel should read carefully.  It and his successor WOMEN IN LOVE truly represent one of the turning points in the development of the English novel.	2005-04-19
281913:US	52048190	R3RI7WN3JN4W38	0141439750	586419329	Silas Marner (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A marvelous fable about the meaning of faith and family	While reading SILAS MARNER, I kept thinking of a scene from Season Five of BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER, in which Tara's father and other relatives come to take her back home with them, very much against her inclination.  Once Buffy realizes that Tara wants to stay, she states that they can take Tara only by going through her first, which causes the father to ask, \\"We are Tara's blood-kin. Who are you to interfere in her affairs?\\"  To which Buffy replies, \\"We're family.\\"  The same emotions that I felt watching that episode of BUFFY came roaring back in the marvelous scene near the end of this novel when Mr. Cass decides to reveal after sixteen years of denial that Eppie is his daughter and will take her to live with him instead of Silas when he says, \\"Your coming now and saying 'I'm her father' doesn't alter the feeling inside us.  It's me she's been calling her father ever since she could say the word.\\"  And Eppie herself adds, \\"And he's took care of me and loved me from the first, and I'll cleave to him as long as he lives, and nobody shall ever come between him and me.\\"  It is one of the lovelier climaxes of any 19th century English novel.<br /><br />SILAS MARNER is very much a novel about faith and the search for those values that make life worth living.  Marner himself seeks early on to find hope in a superstitious religion that ultimately disappoints him, and later in the acquisition of gold through hard labor, gold that is stolen from him.  The money is later returned to him, but during the long interval he discovers the power and greater importance of love and simple human relationships, as he inadvertently inherits a young toddler who miraculously appears inside his cottage whom he adopts as his own child.  Despite his hurts and crusty personality, Marner in loving the child is brought into the larger community as well, and achieves a kind of happiness he scarcely imagined earlier in his life.<br /><br />These concerns were very real to Mary Anne Evans, better known by her penname of George Eliot.  Though of humble intellectual origins, she was precociously intelligent, and no figure of the 19th century overcame such obstacles to become one of the leading intellectuals of her day.  In the 20th or 21st century, Evans would have held a chair of religion or literature at Cambridge or Oxford.  Instead, she wrote literary reviews on a host of books on a wide range of subjects, made some of the most important translations into English of crucial German theological texts ever made (Feuerbach's THE ESSENCE OF CHRISTIANITY and David Strauss's THE LIFE OF JESUS), and wrote some of the most intellectual novels of the century.  Eliot's novels are remarkable for their intellectual diversity and depth.  Her novels constitute a fascinating exploration for how to have faith in a post-Christian world, and in this way she is the most typical post-Darwinian novelist of the 19th century.  Furthermore, during the first half of her career as a novelist, she brought the novel down to earth.  If Dickens was unique in writing in his books about many lower and working class characters in an urban setting, George Eliot did much the same for the rural poor.  In novels like ADAM BEDE and THE MILL ON THE FLOSS, the bulk of her characters, even the landed characters, are very much below virtually all of the characters in Jane Austen's novels, and set even more off the beaten path than hers.  Although she would turn to more universal, less specifically rural characters in themes beginning in ROMOLA and her later novels, SILAS MARNER represents her last exploration of the rural poor.  She manages to catch in her pages a rapidly changing world, setting SILAS MARNER in an area where the lone weavers such as Marner were disappearing in favor of industrialized cloth manufacture and the countryside was giving way to a rapidly expanding coal industry (Eliot's part of England is very near what would later be the setting for D. H. Lawrence's coal mining novels,with Lawrence also reflecting in his pages on the changes industrialization had wrought, although he writes from the end of the process while she writes at its beginning).<br /><br />We tend sometimes to think of those who reacted against the Christian faith following Darwin and David Strauss as having forsaken faith entirely, but that is very much not the case.  Most Victorians who forsook Christianity looked instead for alternate forms of faith.  Take the philosopher Henry Sidgwick, who ceased to believe in Christianity, but founded the Royal Society of Psychical Research.  Like many of his age, Sidgwick believed that a supernatural realm was essential to provide the ultimate validity of morality, and no longer believing in Christianity, sought to investigate like a 19th century Fox Mulder a wide range of supernatural phenomena to validate some vague form of faith.  Eliot in this novel is desperately trying to believe in something.  Like Mulder with the poster on his wall reading \\"I Want to Believe,\\" Eliot wanted faith.  Not merely that, but she was convinced that there had to be a viable form of faith to make life worth living.  She was hardly the atheistic materialist that many wrongly believe that Darwin produced.<br /><br />Just as Sidgwick believed that there was a supernatural order that make sense of morality (in particular instances of self-sacrifice), so George Eliot clearly sees a divine order in the workings of the world.  This is illustrated over and over in SILAS MARNER, where everything balances at the end.  Although she no longer believed in the Christian teachings, she remained very much a person of faith and ultimately an optimist.  By the end of the novel, no bad deed has gone unpunished and no scales are left unbalanced.  In the old expression, \\"Bad deeds will out.\\"  But it is also a novel of redemption, with Marner finding his anti-social sins being forgiven and through family and friends discovering, very much to his surprise, happiness.<br /><br />Though George Eliot always liked to write superficially simply stories that were in fact paragraph by paragraph commentaries on the intellectual debates of her age (she had, for instance, been reading widely in German and English theorists on the folktale when writing MARNER), her surface simplicity always feels real and unforced.  And the story she created is a lovely one, with vivid characters, a marvelous plot, and a thoroughly satisfying conclusion.  I will confess that I came to this novel much, much later than most others who read the book, and only after having read many of her other books.  This is one unquestionably one of her most enjoyable and marvelous works.so reflecting in his pages on the changes industrialization had wrought, although he writes from the end of the process while she writes at its beginning).    We tend sometimes to think of those who reacted against the Christian faith following Darwin and David Strauss as having forsaken faith entirely, but that is very much not the case.  Most Victorians who forsook Christianity looked instead for alternate forms of faith.  Take the philosopher Henry Sidgwick, who ceased to believe in Christianity, but founded the Royal Society of Psychical Research.  Like many of his age, Sidgwick believed that a supernatural realm was essential to provide the ultimate validity of morality, and no longer believing in Christianity, sought to investigate like a 19th century Fox Mulder a wide range of supernatural phenomena to validate some vague form of faith.  Eliot in this novel is desperately trying to believe in something.  Like Mulder with the poster on his wall reading \\"I Want to Believe,\\" Eliot wanted faith.  Not merely that, but she was convinced that there had to be a viable form of faith to make life worth living.  She was hardly the atheistic materialist that many wrongly believe that Darwin produced.      Just as Sidgwick believed that there was a supernatural order that make sense of morality (in particular instances of self-sacrifice), so George Eliot clearly sees a divine order in the workings of the world.  This is illustrated over and over in SILAS MARNER, where everything balances at the end.  Although she no longer believed in the Christian teachings, she remained very much a person of faith and ultimately an optimist.  By the end of the novel, no bad deed has gone unpunished and no scales are left unbalanced.  In the old expression, \\"Bad deeds will out.\\"  But it is also a novel of redemption, with Marner finding his anti-social sins being forgiven and through family and friends discovering, very much to his surprise, happiness.    Though George Eliot always likedto write superficially simply stories that were in fact paragraph by paragraph commentaries on the intellectual debates of her age (she had, for instance, been reading widely in German and English theorists on the folktale when writing MARNER), her surface simplicity always feels real and unforced.  And the story she created is a lovely one, with vivid characters, a marvelous plot, and a thoroughly satisfying conclusion.  I will confess that I came to this novel much, much later than most others who read the book, and only after having read many of her other books.  This is one unquestionably one of her most enjoyable and marvelous works.	2005-04-11
305201:US	52048190	R2XKDO2HSPV5UI	0743203178	975528807	Nothing Like It In the World: The Men Who Built the Transcontinental Railroad 1863-1869	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Interesting popular account, not always balanced	I enjoyed this popular, uncritical history of the building of the transcontinental railroad, though I was also somewhat baffled by some of the books emphases and the author's frequent either hesitancy or inability to draw some of the larger conclusions of the event.  Nonetheless, read with caution the book provides an admirable introduction to one of the crucial events in American history, and certainly the most readily available edition.<br /><br />Before saying what I liked and what I didn't like about the book, I have to add a word of agreement with those who were rather stunned at how poorly written the book is.  While it is indeed a bit longer than it needs to be, what amazed me even more was how poorly written it is.  Ambrose's prose is almost aggressively banal at times, such as when he writes, \\"Decisions, once made, cannot be unmade.  A thing is what it is.\\"  Unfortunately, such lapses are frequent in the book.  Such a lapse is not the fault merely of the author, but of the editor and copyeditor.  Someone should have called his attention to a host of \\"sentences that do not do, in philosopher Gilbert Ryle's happy characterization, \\"any work.\\"<br /><br />The virtues of the book is that he manages to bring into his narrative all of the major characters, all of the major events, and all of the essential elements, even if his story sometimes skips over key points.  In all of the books he wrote after ceasing to be a serious scholar, Ambrose loves to write books around heroic figures.  The problem with the railroad saga is that so many of the major characters were quite reprehensible.  Ambrose's solution is to mute or ignore or only touch lightly upon their personal nastiness.  The result is one of the least condemnatory accounts of the Big Four, the Ames brothers, Doc Durant, and the other key figures that exists.  Less controversially, Ambrose does a much better job with such figures as the tragic Theodore Judah, the visionary who died before the railroad was begun but whose unflagging effort on its behalf did more than anyone to get it started.  Likewise, Grenville Dodge emerges as a remarkably admirable individual, the Union Pacific's bookend to the Central Pacific's Judah.  And Ambrose lavishes extensive praise on the nameless thousands who slaved on the railroad, especially the Chinese, who went from being profoundly discriminated against to gaining near universal admiration within the railroad building community for their exceptional skills as workers.  Ambrose also acknowledges the key role that Abraham Lincoln played in getting the railroad off the ground.<br /><br />My complaints with the book, apart from the rather flat style, are twofold.  First, even when he hints briefly at the significance of some fact, he always draws back from expanding and developing it.  For instance, in mentioning Lincoln's role, he could have but didn't tie it in with Lincoln's wider views about national unity.  In his second annual address to Congress, what today would be called the State of the Union, Lincoln evoked an understanding of the nation that no one else of his time possessed.  In looking at the national river system, Lincoln found the nation indivisibly unified by geography.  Unlike many European nations, the United States possessed no natural geographical divisions, excepting perhaps Maine and the area west of the Great Divide.  The river system of necessity unified Illinois and Mississippi, Virginia and Pennsylvania.  The country was naturally a nation.  One function that Lincoln saw the railroad playing, mentioned briefly by Ambrose, was in unifying the nation even further, even in bringing those areas west of the Rockies into the Union.  This grand vision under girt much of Lincoln's work in preserving the Union, but Ambrose scarcely alludes to it.  But without it, the precise reason why Lincoln was so avid to build the railroad cannot be fully understood.<br /><br />Likewise, as Ambrose notes the railroads were the firstgreat corporations in American history.  Before this, the largest nationwide concerns were connected with the shipping industry or with fur trading.  Connected to this is the fact that before the many fortunes made by people working in some relation to the railroad industry represented the first class of spectacularly rich individuals in American history.  Before the 1860s and 1870s, the number of very rich Americans in the nation's history could be counted on the fingers of two hands.  There had been Steven Girard, the shipping magnate, and later Cornelius Vanderbilt in the same concern, while John Jacob Astor made his fortune in furs and real estate.  Today with literally thousands of millionaires and more than a dozen billionaires, we take for granted the existence of the super rich.  But such was unheard of in 1860s America.  The railroad and its supporting industries or the industries it enabled created the first widespread mega-wealth in the nation's history.  This is one of the major stories connected with the development of the railroad, but Ambrose barely touches upon it.<br /><br />My other main complaint with the book is the book's moral agnosticism with regard to the main figures.  Yes, he does state many of the misdeeds of many of the key figures in both the Central Pacific and the Union Pacific, and mentions in several passages the scandals connected with the Cr&eacute;dit Mobilier, but the space he allots to it is rather amazing given its stature in American history.  The Cr&eacute;dit Mobilier debacle ranks with the Teapot Dome scandal or Iran-Contra or Watergate in the great horrors in American history.<br /><br />Part of this might be because Ambrose might have an axe to grind.  In a rather amazing passage near the end of the book, Ambrose takes umbrage with a number of mainstream historians who see in the building of  the transcontinental railroad a series of the greatest outrages perpetuated by business interests in American history.  Ambrose does this unfairly by focusing on their criticisms of the land grants and the bonds, the latter which he correctly notes were not gifts but loans.  What Ambrose does is overlook the rest of the overwhelmingly massive case against the primary figures of the Cr&eacute;dit Mobilier.  One does not need to turn to socialist histories of the era such as Matthew Josephson's marvelous THE ROBBER BARONS for an accounting of the sins of the age.  A host of progressive historians such as Charles Beard or mainstream historians such as Samuel Eliot Morrison or even conservative historians such as Daniel Boorstin would balance Ambrose's mildly whitewashed account.  And all of these historians, I should note, are more highly regarded by scholars than Ambrose.  What Ambrose simply refuses to state flatly is that many of the key leaders in the building of the railroad, men like Stanford, Huntington, Hopkins, Crocker, Durant, and the Ames were monumentally greedy men, bent on self-aggrandizement and profit at any cost.  Ambrose lays out all the evidence for this, but then curiously refuses to connect the dots.  One wonders if political ideology prevents from drawing a conclusion that graphically demonstrates the dangers of unregulated big business, but whatever the motive, it is a massive blemish on the book.<br /><br />Despite these rather sizable flaws in the work, the book is nonetheless a fun and very interesting read.  No doubt this is in large part because it truly is one of the great stories in American history.  One could argue that with the completion of the railroad, the United States truly did become one nation.  Ambrose illustrates this also by pointing out that it was the first event following the Civil War that caused great rejoicing not only in the former Union, but in the former Confederacy.  Hopefully, a more gifted historian and better writer will take up this story in a popular history at some point in the future.  Until then, this book, despite its flaws, provides anentertaining account of one of the defining accomplishments in American history.d grants and the bonds, the latter which he correctly notes were not gifts but loans.  What Ambrose does is overlook the rest of the overwhelmingly massive case against the primary figures of the Crdit Mobilier.  One does not need to turn to socialist histories of the era such as Matthew Josephson's marvelous THE ROBBER BARONS for an accounting of the sins of the age.  A host of progressive historians such as Charles Beard or mainstream historians such as Samuel Eliot Morrison or even conservative historians such as Daniel Boorstin would balance Ambrose's mildly whitewashed account.  And all of these historians, I should note, are more highly regarded by scholars than Ambrose.  What Ambrose simply refuses to state flatly is that many of the key leaders in the building of the railroad, men like Stanford, Huntington, Hopkins, Crocker, Durant, and the Ames were monumentally greedy men, bent on self-aggrandizement and profit at any cost.  Ambrose lays out all the evidence for this, but then curiously refuses to connect the dots.  One wonders if political ideology prevents from drawing a conclusion that graphically demonstrates the dangers of unregulated big business, but whatever the motive, it is a massive blemish on the book.    Despite these rather sizable flaws in the work, the book is nonetheless a fun and very interesting read.  No doubt this is in large part because it truly is one of the great stories in American history.  One could argue that with the completion of the railroad, the United States truly did become one nation.  Ambrose illustrates this also by pointing out that it was the first event following the Civil War that caused great rejoicing not only in the former Union, but in the former Confederacy.  Hopefully, a more gifted historian and better writer will take up this story in a popular history at some point in the future.  Until then, this book, despite its flaws, provides an entertaining account of one of the defining accomplishments in Americanhistory.	2005-03-22
317122:US	52048190	R4LCP6UZKC65V	0393311333	972450072	Passionate Sage: The Character and Legacy of John Adams	Books	5	17	23	N	Y	An insightful character sketch of the most unique founder	Of all the Founders, John Adams is simultaneously one of the most enjoyable and the crankiest. He liked virtually nothing that was taking place in the political scene of his day, and he would certainly have disapproved of nearly everything taking place today. For instance, though he is considered a conservative, he would rail and rant against those on the Religious Right who want to claim that God especially favors the United States (he felt the notion of any Divine Favor on the US was an utter delusion). He would be outraged by the increased role that the economic elite play in today's political process, while at the same time rushing forth to point out that he had predicted its inevitability. He would further be outraged that the president, the part of the government he placed what little hope he had for a more democratic form of government, was not only refusing to fight the economic elite, but fighting for an expansion of its privileges. On the other hand, Adams might take some solace in the end of slavery. But on the whole, he would point out all the ways that the selfish passions of human beings had intruded into American political life.<br /><br />Joseph Ellis, who is the finest popular historian of the Founding Generation currently at work, wrote this exceptional character sketch of John Adams several years before his similar sketch of Jefferson, his group portrait FOUNDING BROTHERS, or his excellent biography of Washington, HIS EXCELLANCY. If one has read FOUNDING BROTHERS, one knows that Adams is possibly Ellis's favorite of the founders. All of the other major Founders remind us more of statues, he points out, than real live flesh and blood human beings. One never makes that mistake with Adams. He is all flesh and blood and more than a little vitriol. Though arguably the most intellectual of the Founders (though Franklin was a practical genius, he wasn't nearly as literate as Adams; in fact, Adams's closest competitor, as in so many things, is Jefferson), he was a man of intense and always expressed passion. He could summon his formidable powers of reason, but only in a cause that inflamed his emotions.<br /><br />Ellis does a great job for the most part of exploring Adams's fascinating character. He is guilty, in my opinion, of minimizing Adams quirks. For instance, Adams was incredibly grudging in any praise of Benjamin Franklin, veing one of the very few people of his age not impressed by the Sage of Philadelphia. Ellis hints at this, but doesn't dweel on it, but the almost pathological need that Adams possessed to denigrate Franklin and others is a major clue to his personality. Ellis dwells more on Adams need to elevate his contribution to the Revolution, or at least to make sure that his very real contributions were not forgotten or underestimated, as they most assuredly have been for most of the past two hundred years.<br /><br />Ellis also does a good job of showing Adams's importance as a political thinker (though I would recommend even more highly John Patrick Diggins's short biography of Adams in this regard--Ellis is more of an historian, while Diggins is a political theorist, and is stronger in this regard). Adams is one of the great political critics in American history, though it is not often appeciated that he was, as so many other political thinkers are (one thinks of Marx or Nietzsche in this regard) better on attack than in contructing. Adams offers a host of trenchant and accurate analyses of the underlying dangers to democracy or any form of government, but despite his wealth of insight offers virtually nothing tempting in the place of what he criticizes. He was brilliant at seeing how things shouldn't be, but a bit vague on how things ought to be. Ellis mentioned but doesn't make graphic just how awful Adams is as a writer. I own and have struggled to read the collection THE POLITICAL WRITINGS OF JOHN ADAMS, edited by George W. Carey. Though I have read Hegel and Spinoza and Heidegger, I foundmuch of this much, much harder going. Adams is frequently a terrifically uninteresting writer. He can lace monumentally dull and impenetrable material with passages laced with terrific insight. All this changes, however, when you turn to the Jefferson-Adams correspondence. Here he comes alive. Ellis does a good job of bringing this out.<br /><br />Ellis makes the mistake, as so many do, of characterizing Adams as a conservative. Given the fact that he would detest virtually every aspect of conservatism today I find this characterization to be incomprehensible. I think he was a conservative by accident. Had the predominant trend of the day been conservative rather than Jeffersonian, I think we would have seen an impassioned Adams rising against what he perceived as the many mistakes of the conservative cause. I honestly don't believe that any government, conservative or liberal, radical or revolutionary, would have contented Adams. I've seen Thoreau characterized as a coyote, too wild for civilized life, destined to howl on the edges of society. I think that fits Adams as well.<br /><br />I thoroughly recommend this biographical sketch (for it is not a true biography) by Ellis, though I would hasten to add that I perhaps like Diggins even briefer book a bit more. Though Adams was neglected for most of the period since his death, these days he has regained much of his deserved stature. Anyone not familiar with him needs to be. Next to Franklin he is probably the most likable of the Founders, and none of them anticipated the dangers facing our republic better than he.I found much of this much, much harder going. Adams is frequently a terrifically uninteresting writer. He can lace monumentally dull and impenetrable material with passages laced with terrific insight. All this changes, however, when you turn to the Jefferson-Adams correspondence. Here he comes alive. Ellis does a good job of bringing this out.  <br /> <br />Ellis makes the mistake, as so many do, of characterizing Adams as a conservative. Given the fact that he would detest virtually every aspect of conservatism today I find this characterization to be incomprehensible. I think he was a conservative by accident. Had the predominant trend of the day been conservative rather than Jeffersonian, I think we would have seen an impassioned Adams rising against what he perceived as the many mistakes of the conservative cause. I honestly don't believe that any government, conservative or liberal, radical or revolutionary, would have contented Adams. I've seen Thoreau characterized as a coyote, too wild for civilized life, destined to howl on the edges of society. I think that fits Adams as well.  <br /> <br />I thoroughly recommend this biographical sketch (for it is not a true biography) by Ellis, though I would hasten to add that I perhaps like Diggins even briefer book a bit more. Though Adams was neglected for most of the period since his death, these days he has regained much of his deserved stature. Anyone not familiar with him needs to be. Next to Franklin he is probably the most likable of the Founders, and none of them anticipated the dangers facing our republic better than he.	2005-03-13
326255:US	52048190	R37EWZXZDL3Z7E	0393309606	628790405	The Reverse of the Medal (Vol. Book 11)  (Aubrey/Maturin Novels)	Books	5	27	27	N	N	One of the very finest contributions to this great series	Above all else, Patrick O'Brian is a patient writer. It is absolutely astonishing how slowly and carefully he is willing to develop his stories, amazing now when we have all of his books before us, and even more amazing when they were written, when he took years to bring plot details to fruition. Those who have not read this books would be absolutely stunned to discover their true nature. Before I had read these books, I had assumed they were nautical slugfests, thick with the smoke of battle and the stench of gunpowder. Yet in this, one of the best books in the series, there is next to no fighting, at least of the naval kind.<br /><br />The book is broken roughly into two parts. The first contains the final leg of what is anticipated to be the final voyage of H.M.S. Surprise before she is to be either broken up or sold by the British navy. Though still one of the finest sailing ships in the navy, she is underpowered compared to other ships of the line, and her timbers will not allow the fitting of heavier guns. She spends the last part of her career as a British ship chasing an American privateer, only just failing to capture her. The second half of the novel takes place upon the return of Jack and Stephen to England. Jack hopes to buy the Surprise, and after receiving a stock tip by a mysterious individual who offers him a ride to London upon his arrival in England, he firmly believes that he is about to come into a very great deal of money, and being the generous soul that he is, he quickly shares the stock tip with all of his friends. But he soon discovers that the tip was actually a ploy by the political enemies of his Radical father, and he finds himself hauled before the law for stock market fraud.<br /><br />Meanwhile, Stephen is, with one exception, hardly faring better. He returns to London to discover that his wife Diana has left him and that his lodgings have burned down to the ground. Furthermore, the secret service that he loves and serves is being undermined by nefarious undertakings, and perhaps even by treason that extends as high as the cabinet. And despite his most ardent exertions, he is unable to prevent Jack from being found guilty before the law and sentenced to a stiff fine and being pilloried, though the latter provides the occasion for one of the most remarkable scenes in the entire series, as Jack's fellow seamen and officers congregate en masse at the scene of his shame, preventing others from pelting him or even getting a good look at him, while cheering him.<br /><br />The novel ends with Jack being removed from the active list of serving commanders, suffering the horrendous shame of being booted from the navy he so dearly loves. All would be despair except for one result of the lone big of good fortune that Stephen experienced: his exceedingly wealthy Spanish patron died and left the bulk of his enormous estate to Stephen. With his newfound riches, Stepehen buys the Surprise and outfits her with a Letter of Marque, installing his friend Jack as commander. With a secret mission assigned him by the foreign office, he will now attempt his particular friend Jack to rebuild his life and his fortune.<br /><br />Like the other Aubrey-Maturin novels, this one is made exceptional by O'Brian's significant virtues as a writer. His patience as the developer of narrative I have already alluded to. He also stands out as both a very solid historian and an absolutely first rate teacher. I have never been much in the way of a student of the Royal Navy, but I find as a result of having read these novels (as well as a few other books that they inspired me to read) I have a surprising understanding of the intricacies of naval warfare of the period. O'Brian is a master of the subtlties, and he is never content with his reader gaining a rough grasp of the nature of naval warfare. He is continually wanting to expand and deepen his readers' understanding. But even more than all this, he is a superb writer from a purelyliterary point of view. Indeed, what made me finally decided to read O'Brian was the glowing testimony of major literary figures such as Iris Murdoch, Jean Rhys, and Eudora Welty (notice that I've just named three women, which utterly debunks any notion that he is a \\"guy's\\" writer). In fact, I can't imagine many potential readers who can find a great deal in O'Brian to savor. He will capture those who love fine literature as easily as those who want a good adventure yarn, and those who love historical fiction as easily as those who love military history. O'Brian truly is one of the most unique writers produced in the past half century.<br /><br />As fine as this novel is, it simply must be read as part of the series as a whole. Though some might be tempted to dip in at some point other than the very beginning, the temptation must be resisted. Nor will anyone starting with the first novel either want to skip any of the individual novels, nor cease reading at any point. The reader's only regret at the end will be that O'Brian only lived to write twenty novels (with a portion of a twenty-first) in the series.om a purely literary point of view. Indeed, what made me finally decided to read O'Brian was the glowing testimony of major literary figures such as Iris Murdoch, Jean Rhys, and Eudora Welty (notice that I've just named three women, which utterly debunks any notion that he is a \\"guy's\\" writer). In fact, I can't imagine many potential readers who can find a great deal in O'Brian to savor. He will capture those who love fine literature as easily as those who want a good adventure yarn, and those who love historical fiction as easily as those who love military history. O'Brian truly is one of the most unique writers produced in the past half century.  <br /> <br />As fine as this novel is, it simply must be read as part of the series as a whole. Though some might be tempted to dip in at some point other than the very beginning, the temptation must be resisted. Nor will anyone starting with the first novel either want to skip any of the individual novels, nor cease reading at any point. The reader's only regret at the end will be that O'Brian only lived to write twenty novels (with a portion of a twenty-first) in the series.	2005-03-06
327806:US	52048190	R3VNC0CVLIKH3V	0156907399	762777669	To the Lighthouse	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	A subtle, beautiful masterpiece	Virginia Woolf's lovely, poignant novel based on her own family is one of the great novels of the twentieth century. Basing the novel's central character of Mrs. Ramsay on her mother and Mr. Ramsay on her father, the well known philosopher Leslie Stephen, Virgnia Woolf strove to recreate artistically the mysteries and vagaries of time. The novel is divided unevenly into two sections, both of them dealing with possible or actual trips to the lighthouse in the vicinity of the Isle of Skye where the Ramsay family has a house that they use on summer holidays. Rarely in English fiction has the inner dynamics of a family been laid so completely bare as in this.<br /><br />One of the most enjoyable things about this book is the way Virginia Woolf so probingly explores the personalities of the individuals, though three stand out above all others, the aforementioned mother and father, and the unmarried amateur painter Lily Briscoe. By the end of the novel, we feel that we know all of these characters on the deepest possible level, and while the two women are sketched more lovingly, it is the father, Mr. Ramsay, who is etched in his essence. Brilliant, but with striking emotional and intellectual limitations, he is both the head of the family and its bane. It isn't that the author dislikes him, but she is acutely aware of his vices and virtues (in her own life, Virginia's father despaired over his wife's early death, creating an atmosphere of gloom over Virginia's teen-aged years). The two women are plumbed less deeply, but we come away from the novel having a sense of their worth.<br /><br />TO THE LIGHTHOUSE was revolutionary when it appeared as one of the first attempts to profit from many of the lessons to be taught English language fiction by the extraordinary work of Marcel Proust. Woolf had a love/hate relationship with Proust, on the one hand recognizing very early on that he was the great literary genius of the century (Joyce, on the other hand, the other titan of the century, she thought less highly of), but finding his work so brilliant as to paralyze her. She famously remarked that after reading Proust she felt incapable of writing anything. But the fact is that TO THE LIGHTHOUSE is in many ways a Proustian work. Like Proust and unlike almost no one prior in English literature (with the notable exception of Butler's THE WAY OF ALL FLESH), Woolf fictionalized her own life (she herself appears in the novel as the girl Cam) and produced a profound analysis of the nature of passed time. Also like Proust, she attempts to break down traditional narrative and present her story impressionistically rather than historically. While she may have felt that Proust kept her from writing, the fact is that she produced the first literary masterpiece following in the footsteps of Proust.<br /><br />But in the end, what makes this most remarkable is the rich detailing, the marvelous nuances, the lush delineations. This is a book to be read slowly and savored, much as one would read a long poem. Indeed, this comes very close to being at times prose poetry, such as the wonderful section \\"Time Passes,\\" that is sandwiched between the first section of the novel \\"The Window\\" and the final section \\"The Lighthouse.\\"<br /><br />After having confessed my love of this novel, I will add that I adore this book despite being less than overwhelmed by some of her other fiction. I love Woolf's nonfiction, but ORLANDO I sometimes regard as my least favorite work of fiction by a major writer. This novel, however, easily rates as one of my favorite twentieth century novels. I would urge anyone who has similarly found some of Woolf's other work unpalatable to give this one a try. I would be astounded if many will find it in any way less than brilliant.of the century, she thought less highly of), but finding his work so brilliant as to paralyze her. She famously remarked that after reading Proust she felt incapable of writing anything. But the fact is that TO THE LIGHTHOUSE is in many ways a Proustian work. Like Proust and unlike almost no one prior in English literature (with the notable exception of Butler's THE WAY OF ALL FLESH), Woolf fictionalized her own life (she herself appears in the novel as the girl Cam) and produced a profound analysis of the nature of passed time. Also like Proust, she attempts to break down traditional narrative and present her story impressionistically rather than historically. While she may have felt that Proust kept her from writing, the fact is that she produced the first literary masterpiece following in the footsteps of Proust.  <br /> <br />But in the end, what makes this most remarkable is the rich detailing, the marvelous nuances, the lush delineations. This is a book to be read slowly and savored, much as one would read a long poem. Indeed, this comes very close to being at times prose poetry, such as the wonderful section \\"Time Passes,\\" that is sandwiched between the first section of the novel \\"The Window\\" and the final section \\"The Lighthouse.\\"  <br /> <br />After having confessed my love of this novel, I will add that I adore this book despite being less than overwhelmed by some of her other fiction. I love Woolf's nonfiction, but ORLANDO I sometimes regard as my least favorite work of fiction by a major writer. This novel, however, easily rates as one of my favorite twentieth century novels. I would urge anyone who has similarly found some of Woolf's other work unpalatable to give this one a try. I would be astounded if many will find it in any way less than brilliant.	2005-03-04
332223:US	52048190	R1SUFJSPTWLJX2	0060931671	183823737	The Crying of Lot 49 (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Stylish, nightmarish, wonderfully weird and paranoid	Decades before THE X-FILES made paranoia about conspiracies standard fare for popular culture, there was Thomas Pynchon's THE CRYING OF LOT 49 (it is not a coincident that man X-FILES websites also feature forums discussing Pynchon's books).  The notion that there might be a \\"World inside the world\\" (in Don Delillo's memorable phrase) had never before truly been explored in either high or popular culture, in pulp or serious fiction, in movies or TV.  Or almost.  THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE in both novel and film had presented a haunting image of a government conspiracy, and INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS was the great fifties classic of justified paranoia, but no work before had ever envisioned conspiracy on such a grand, international, and all pervasive scale.  What is even more distrubing about this book is that the conspiracy it presents is hidden in plain sight.  The protagonist of the novel, Oedipa Maas, is utterly unaware of the existence of the Tristero, yet as the book gains force she realizes that its marks can be found in every corner of society.<br /><br />This short novel is the perfect introduction to Thomas Pynchon.  Although I thoroughly enjoy his work, I will be the first to admit that he is not for everyone.  His writings contain too many obscure references (sometimes of an academic nature; frequently not), his style can at times be dense, his narrative style not always very transparent.  I personally find that he repays the effort, but because I had to struggle through the several pages in GRAVITY'S RAINBOW or V. that are less than obvious in their import I can understand what it is like for those who find most of his pages tough going.  THE CRYING OF LOT 49 is, however, not merely his most accessible work (largely because of its short length) but arguably his finest book.  I would absolutely recommend that anyone considering exploring Pynchon begin with this.<br /><br />What is remarkable is how much content is contained in the novel's less than two hundred pages of text.  It is one of those books in which almost nothing seems to happen, and yet seems stuffed to the brim.  If one sums up the action of the novel, it seems extraordinarily slim:  a woman goes to help as executor of the estate of a former lover of hers, inadvertently discovers an international conspiracy to provide an alternate mail delivery system that seems to function anarchistically to undermine the establish order, and attempts to learn all she can of the identity and existence of the mysterious Tristero.  Most of the book consists in the pondering of clues.  None of it labors over answers.  It is also not a book that delves deeply into character analysis.  Apart from Oedipa, there is not a single character that could, in E. M. Forster's famous parlance, be described as a \\"round\\" character.  The novel is populated by what he would describe as \\"flat\\" characters (not necessarily a criticism, since as Forster points out all of Dickens's characters are flat).  The book doesn't even seem to want to tell a story.  What it wants to do is evoke a mood of disassociation, of dislocation.  It wants to leave us with a sense of the unreality of our most ingrained assumptions.  And it does this brilliantly.<br /><br />THE CRYING OF LOT 49 is a pivotal modern work of literature for another reason:  it was one of the first serious works of literature that seems to be on easy terms with popular culture.  Indeed, though I have no evidence for this, I would imagine that one of its major influences may have been THE TWILIGHT ZONE.  It could be cited as a direct or indirect influence on a number of subsequent cultural products, including the aforementioned THE X-FILES.  But the main reason to read this remarkable short work is that it is one of the finest short novels written in the past half century in English.n two hundred pages of text.  It is one of those books in which almost nothing seems to happen, and yet seems stuffed to the brim.  If one sums up the action of the novel, it seems extraordinarily slim:  a woman goes to help as executor of the estate of a former lover of hers, inadvertently discovers an international conspiracy to provide an alternate mail delivery system that seems to function anarchistically to undermine the establish order, and attempts to learn all she can of the identity and existence of the mysterious Tristero.  Most of the book consists in the pondering of clues.  None of it labors over answers.  It is also not a book that delves deeply into character analysis.  Apart from Oedipa, there is not a single character that could, in E. M. Forster's famous parlance, be described as a \\"round\\" character.  The novel is populated by what he would describe as \\"flat\\" characters (not necessarily a criticism, since as Forster points out all of Dickens's characters are flat).  The book doesn't even seem to want to tell a story.  What it wants to do is evoke a mood of disassociation, of dislocation.  It wants to leave us with a sense of the unreality of our most ingrained assumptions.  And it does this brilliantly. <br /> <br />THE CRYING OF LOT 49 is a pivotal modern work of literature for another reason:  it was one of the first serious works of literature that seems to be on easy terms with popular culture.  Indeed, though I have no evidence for this, I would imagine that one of its major influences may have been THE TWILIGHT ZONE.  It could be cited as a direct or indirect influence on a number of subsequent cultural products, including the aforementioned THE X-FILES.  But the main reason to read this remarkable short work is that it is one of the finest short novels written in the past half century in English.	2005-03-01
337888:US	52048190	R3GZWUF1EI1IG0	0393309053	263509231	The Letter of Marque (Vol. Book 12)  (Aubrey/Maturin Novels)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	In which the fortunes of our heroes improve in every way	In THE LETTER OF MARQUE, Patrick O'Brian manages another exceptional entry into what is arguably the finest long series of novels in English of the twentieth century.  As many have noted, these novels are simply unsurpassed for their combination of literary quality, historical veracity, dramatic tension, and narrative excellence.  This particular volume also has more action than any in the series in a long while.  It is also quite possibly the most upbeat in the series up to this point.  My own theory is that O'Brian conceived both the previous novel, THE REVERSE OF THE MEDAL, and this one as companions.  The former takes the fortunes of our heroes Jack Aubrey and Stephen Maturin to exceedingly low points; in fact, things never got so bad for Jack Aubrey as they did in that one.  In this novel, however, a world of troubles comes to an end.  Whereas at the end of THE REVERSE OF THE MEDAL Jack was publicly shamed by having been taken off the naval lists and stripped of his rank, by the end of THE LETTER OF MARQUE he knows that he will be restored with seniority to the Royal Navy within a few months.  Whereas before Jack's financial affairs were in dismal shape, now he is wealthier than he has ever been, thanks to two extraordinary successes commanding the letter of marque (i.e., privateer) Surprise, lately of the King's Navy as the H.M.S. Surprise.  And while his sham trial and conviction wasn't able to tarnish his reputation as completely as his father's political enemies had hoped, he nonetheless had seen better days in the public eye.  Now, however, thanks to his great naval victories as a privateer, he had become something of a popular hero.  Although Stephen's affairs were not nearly so bad in the previous novel-he had, after all, inherited a very large amount of money, so that he was now a very wealthy man, wealthy enough to purchase and outfit with ease Surprise as a privateer-he still suffered quietly over the departure of his often wayward wife Lady Diana Villiers.  The end of the novel finds Stephen and Villiers reconciled, and each knowing that the other had actually been far more faithful to one another than either had a right to suspect.<br /><br />The novel is largely built around three incidents.  First, there is the first sailing of Surprise as a letter of marque (the arcane yet preferred designation of what most would call a privateer) in which she not only captures an American privateer, but several of its prizes, including a ship carrying an entire cargo of quicksilver (literally worth its weight in gold).  Although it does not suffice to negate the anguish of no longer being in the Royal Navy, this action alone would have seemed to permanently taken care of Jack's often beleaguered finances.  The second incident is Jack's action in cutting out of a French port the French frigate Diane (later to be Jack's ship in the Royal Navy upon his reinstatement), an act that shifts the general public opinion in favor of Jack's reinstatement, though the decisive step in that direction will prove to be the death of his father and Jack's taking the seat in parliament vacated by him.  The final section of the book is devoted to Stephen's trek to Stockholm in an effort to reconcile with his wife, who mistakenly thinks that Stephen not only had an affair with another woman in the Mediterranean but publicly flaunted it, and who then fled to Stockholm with another man whom Stephen mistakenly imagines was her lover.  A subplot running through the novel is the gradual dilution of Stephen's opium by his servant, who each night steals a bit of it and replaces what he had taken with brandy.  The effect was that Stephen gradually lessened the amount of opium he was taking, so that when he arrived in Stockholm and bought an undiluted bottle, then taking what he imagined was his usual dose, he went into an opium coma.<br /><br />Although most of O'Brian's novels have no especially clear beginning or end, this one does have a somewhat more self-contained story than most in the series.  There is some overlap, of course, and a host of old, well-known characters to whom we are reintroduced.  What I am amazed by in these novels, apart from their remarkable excellence, is their consistency.  Some of the novels are better than others, but single novels is not really the right way to view them.  This is a series, and the truth is that the only way to judge it is as a group of books.  By this standard this is one of the most unique literary achievements of the past century.  This is a series that pulls in both lovers of historical fiction as well as very serious readers more at home with George Eliot and Vladimir Nabokov, a claim that could never conceivably be made, say, about C.S. Forester's Horatio Hornblower series, which attracts virtually no serious readers at all.t more self-contained story than most in the series.  There is some overlap, of course, and a host of old, well-known characters to whom we are reintroduced.  What I am amazed by in these novels, apart from their remarkable excellence, is their consistency.  Some of the novels are better than others, but single novels is not really the right way to view them.  This is a series, and the truth is that the only way to judge it is as a group of books.  By this standard this is one of the most unique literary achievements of the past century.  This is a series that pulls in both lovers of historical fiction as well as very serious readers more at home with George Eliot and Vladimir Nabokov, a claim that could never conceivably be made, say, about C.S. Forester's Horatio Hornblower series, which attracts virtually no serious readers at all.	2005-02-24
340047:US	52048190	R2I2QF9ANR94K3	0679732764	691093854	Invisible Man	Books	5	16	18	N	N	A richly complex tragi-comic novel	Ralph Ellison's THE INVISIBLE MAN is justly celebrated as one of the outstanding American novels of the twentieth century.  Though not lacking in universal themes, it truly is a novel rooted in the American experience, a book that explores many of the complexities of race relations in the United States.  The book ends by refusing to offer an facile answers or to identify any simple villains.  The novel's many villains number as many African Americans as whites, and no true heroes of either race.  The sense at the end is that where race relations are concerned, we in America are getting it wrong from beginning to end regardless of our race.  Moreover, all political persuasions also seem to be guilty of getting it wrong.<br /><br />Structurally, THE INVISIBLE MAN owes a great deal to that genre of the English novel that deals with the coming of age of a youthful hero.  Indeed, this novel could be profitably be compared to TOM JONES, only without the philosophical sidetracking one finds in that novel and set in the United States with a black hero.  Like Tom Jones, the narrator of THE INVISIBLE MAN is thrown by fate from one bizarre experience to another, never being an actor in his own story, but merely a reactor.  The narrator does not seize his own fate, but allows himself to be passively shifted about.  His story is largely told through stringing together a number of bizarre incidents:  a surreal Battle Royal in which a group of young blacks are blindfolded and forced to fight one another for the amusement of a group of whites, who later listen to the battered narrator present a speech that he hopes will win him a scholarship to college.  At college he serves as driver for one of the school's white benefactors, but instead of it being an occasion for furthering his career, the day degenerates despite his best intentions into a pure nightmare, which results in his expulsion from school.  He travels to New York to seek work, but the only thing he gets from his one day of working in a paint factory is a concussion and short term disability payments.  Finally--and this embraces most of the last half of the novel--our hero inadvertently becomes a political speaker for the Communist party (an experience that reflects Ellison's own experience as a political writer for the Communists in the 1930s, though in the novel he refers to them only as The Brotherhood).  His work as a Communist organizer is contrasted with an African Black Nationalist agitator named Ras, who in the tradition of Marcus Garvey believes in the separation of the races.  What links all these adventures together is that throughout the Narrator is never affirmed or perceived for who he is in himself.  All without exception focus on him as a mere member of his race, never on him as an individual.  Indeed, while the Communists are largely lacking in the racism he finds elsewhere, their interest in him largely lies in the use to which he can be put.  They are, in fact, not interested in individuals at all, and even if they are hostile towards class rather than race, they are equally as hostile towards the individual.<br /><br />The novel is profoundly political.  Ellison is equally disenchanted with those who feel that the goal for blacks is to educate them so that they can gradually become more and more accepted in a white-dominated society, with the Communists who want to eliminate the individual for the sake of the group (indeed, who are willing to sacrifice individuals and even groups of individuals for the sake of furthering the purposes of history), and those who call for a radical withdrawal of blacks from all social intercourse with whites.  Instead, he argues at the end of the novel for the primacy of the individual against race, history, or the group.  In the end, he expresses the desire to be viewed as himself, apart from whatever categories can be used to define him.<br /><br />The tone of the book is comic without being truly funny.  There is a surreality about most of the sections of the book.  Given Ellison's political background in Communism, this is of profound significance.  For the Communists, all legitimate fiction had to be starkly realistic.  There is very little realism in THE INVISIBLE MAN.  Much of the novel is comically nightmarish.  In fact, while looking backward the novel reminded me of novels like TOM JONES, looking forward it reminded me of CATCH-22.  I do not know if Joseph Heller was influenced by this book, but I would be very surprised if he was not.  Much as that novel blends the comic and the tragic (though it is far funnier than Ellison's book, or indeed more than just about any other novel), so did Ellison's.  In fact, it is hard to find models for Ellison's book, unless one points to TOM JONES as I have, or perhaps in a vague way to the novels of James Joyce.  Indeed, it is hard to realize what a wildly original novel THE INVISIBLE MAN is, if only because he pioneered a narrative style that became commonplace later.  Another thing to note about his anti-realism style is his characters.  For the most part, Ellison's do not resemble people you would meet in real life.  Many are intentional caricatures, many grotesques in the tradition of Charles Dickens.  All are intended to emphasize the unreality and nightmarish quality of the narrator's life.<br /><br />I truly love this novel.  It is one of the few important \\"African American\\" novels that is more important for its literary qualities than for its role as a racial novel.  Ellison makes some amazing and brilliant innovations on the traditional English novel.  This is often said to be the finest novel ever written by an African American, but that really is damning it with faint praise.  It is almost a way of making it The Invisible Novel.  This novel's greatness does not lie in having been written by a black writer, but in being a magnificently marvelous novel on purely literary grounds.  My only regret is that Ellison largely turned his back on fiction after publishing THE INVISIBLE MAN.  He was also an absolutely brilliant essayist and jazz critic (his formal education was largely in music theory and he early on aspired to being a jazz musician), but I wish he had not so completely abandoned fiction.ality about most of the sections of the book.  Given Ellison's political background in Communism, this is of profound significance.  For the Communists, all legitimate fiction had to be starkly realistic.  There is very little realism in THE INVISIBLE MAN.  Much of the novel is comically nightmarish.  In fact, while looking backward the novel reminded me of novels like TOM JONES, looking forward it reminded me of CATCH-22.  I do not know if Joseph Heller was influenced by this book, but I would be very surprised if he was not.  Much as that novel blends the comic and the tragic (though it is far funnier than Ellison's book, or indeed more than just about any other novel), so did Ellison's.  In fact, it is hard to find models for Ellison's book, unless one points to TOM JONES as I have, or perhaps in a vague way to the novels of James Joyce.  Indeed, it is hard to realize what a wildly original novel THE INVISIBLE MAN is, if only because he pioneered a narrative style that became commonplace later.  Another thing to note about his anti-realism style is his characters.  For the most part, Ellison's do not resemble people you would meet in real life.  Many are intentional caricatures, many grotesques in the tradition of Charles Dickens.  All are intended to emphasize the unreality and nightmarish quality of the narrator's life. <br /> <br />I truly love this novel.  It is one of the few important \\"African American\\" novels that is more important for its literary qualities than for its role as a racial novel.  Ellison makes some amazing and brilliant innovations on the traditional English novel.  This is often said to be the finest novel ever written by an African American, but that really is damning it with faint praise.  It is almost a way of making it The Invisible Novel.  This novel's greatness does not lie in having been written by a black writer, but in being a magnificently marvelous novel on purely literary grounds.  My only regret is that Ellison largely turnedhis back on fiction after publishing THE INVISIBLE MAN.  He was also an absolutely brilliant essayist and jazz critic (his formal education was largely in music theory and he early on aspired to being a jazz musician), but I wish he had not so completely abandoned fiction.	2005-02-23
346986:US	52048190	R3U0YUCXPWFHRF	B0001OOUC4	419697606	Virginia Woolf (Overlook Illustrated Lives)	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	Another excellent addition to a wonderful series of books	I've become quite enchanted with the Overlook Illustrated Lives series.  None of these books are going to go down as great classics, nor will any be regarded as among the essential biographies of their subjects.  Nonetheless, every book in the series that I have read is critically solid, lavishly illustated and quite handsome, and provides a great introduction or review (depending on the use to which one is putting the volume) of the writer under consideration.<br /><br />Virginia Woolf is an ideal subject for an illustrated biography.  The background for her writing is a rich and varied one, and her acquaintances included a host of important writers and artists and intellectuals in their own right.  The fact is that this book is less a treatment of Woold considered solely in her own right, as Virginia Woolf in her overall context, especially in light of Bloomsbury.  As a result the focus of the book is less on her writing, and a bit more on her friendships with Roger Fry.  The book also focuses a bit more on her realtionship with her sister Vanessa (a relationship presented as more mutually fulfilling than most other biographers do).  The book therefore can function as a nice introduction both to Virginia Woolf as well as to Bloomsbury as a whole.  There are helpful photos of all the major and many of the minor figures attached to the group.<br /><br />The weakness of the book is that it really doesn't take one very deeply into Woolf's writings.  One gets more of a sense of Woolf's world than of her art.  This is a problem the book shares with Mary Ann Caws's book in the same series on Marcel Proust.  I like the way that Caws shows Woolf's great passion for life.  She also has, however, a tendency to varnish over the negatives.  Woolf famously suffered from serious mental illness, and Caws's account leaves her appearing less afflicted than does other accounts.  It is a question of balance, and I must admit that the problem here is solely one of emphasis.  She does a good job of detailing her relation with Leonard, who seems to have been as close to a perfect husband to Virginia as anyone could have been:  the fact is that it was almost impossible for anyone to be Virginia's husband, and that Leonard managed to help her so much is nothing short of a miracle.  He clearly provided her with an emotional stability she might not otherwise have enjoyed.<br /><br />These caveats aside, I do strongly recommend this book.  It is very short and heavily illustrated so that it is possible in only two or three hours to enjoy a very plesant time reading both Virginia Woolf and her world.  But for those seeking a very short biography, I can even more strongly recommend the volume in the Penguin Brief Lives series by Nicol Nicolson, the son of Woolf's close friend and sometime lover (and the model for the title character in ORLANDO) Vita Sackville-West and Harold Nicolson, and perhaps destined to be the last biographer of Woolf to have actually known her.  Though it isn't delightfully illustrated like this volume, it provides a much richer and insightful portrait of this fascinating writer.oes a good job of detailing her relation with Leonard, who seems to have been as close to a perfect husband to Virginia as anyone could have been:  the fact is that it was almost impossible for anyone to be Virginia's husband, and that Leonard managed to help her so much is nothing short of a miracle.  He clearly provided her with an emotional stability she might not otherwise have enjoyed.   <br /> <br />These caveats aside, I do strongly recommend this book.  It is very short and heavily illustrated so that it is possible in only two or three hours to enjoy a very plesant time reading both Virginia Woolf and her world.  But for those seeking a very short biography, I can even more strongly recommend the volume in the Penguin Brief Lives series by Nicol Nicolson, the son of Woolf's close friend and sometime lover (and the model for the title character in ORLANDO) Vita Sackville-West and Harold Nicolson, and perhaps destined to be the last biographer of Woolf to have actually known her.  Though it isn't delightfully illustrated like this volume, it provides a much richer and insightful portrait of this fascinating writer.	2005-02-17
358049:US	52048190	R20HHG7G9RNH97	1400040310	845366857	His Excellency: George Washington	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A superb one-volume biography of George Washington	The two foremost biographies of George Washington have long been Douglas Southall Freeman and James Thomas Flexner's multi-volume ones.  Both of these have been abridged into one-volume editions.  While their full-length biographies are difficult and pricey to obtain, the one-volume editions are inexpensive and easily obtained.  Ellis's stated purpose on this biography is to provide a one-volume modern edition that can serve as an alternative to both Freeman and Flexner.  He does not attempt to approach the epic scope of the original version of either of their biographies, but he does an admirable job of providing a contemporary account of the life of this most remarkable of Americans.<br /><br />Unlike his biographies of John Adams and Thomas Jefferson, Ellis's biography of Washington provides a chronological narrative instead of a series of character sketches.  In those other two books, Ellis was more concerned with analyzing the personalities of the individuals concerned than with an accounting of all or even most of the principle events in their lives.  This is a much more straightforward narrative, though even here Ellis is more concerned with the light events through upon the character and make up of Washington the individual than illucidating the role of Washington as an actor in history.  This is actually Ellis's strength as a writer:  making his subjects emerge as believable individuals instead of hovering as inhumane statues.  As a result, Ellis attempts to reveal Washington warts and all, and I have to say that while he does engage in some debunking of the myth of Washington, he makes him all that much more impressive for his actual achievements.<br /><br />Ellis's Washington is a man who is deeply sensitive about how he is viewed and perceived by the rest of the world, as well as someone who is determined not to be taken advantage of economically.  This sensitivity, Ellis shows, motivates much of what he did whether as plantation owner, patriot, general, and president.  And also as slaveowner.  If this Washington is less idealistic than the Washington of myth, he also seems more plausible.  Ellis also does a marvelous job of teasing out Washington's political beliefs, which all in all are much less far reaching than one might suppose.  Above all, Washington believed in a strong central government, though for reasons that put him somewhat out of step with his contemporaries.  Adams and other Federalists believed in the need for a strong central government partly out of the need for a strong federal to protect against irrational forces in society, whether these are generated by ill-informed masses or by economic elites.  Washington seemed to sense the need for a strong federal simply because if the inevitability of the nation becoming one.  He seemed instinctively to be suspecious of local and state interests.  What is remarkable about Washington's convictions was his willingness to be out of step with his fellow Virginians and his belief in a strong federal decades before improved travel would make the physical unification of the nation more feasible.  But Ellis also brings out how very little Washington thought about political theory as a whole.  Nonetheless, his instincts were remarkable.<br /><br />Above all, one admires Washington for the power he refused to assume more than for what he did with the power that he possessed.  In all that I have ever read on Washington--and Ellis's fine book brings this out better than most--he emerges as an extraordinarily remarkable man for his remarkable discipline in keeping the presidency from becoming a version of kingship.  This is often remarked on, but it never ceases to impress when given the complete context of his life and the actual as well as potential power that he possessed.  No president in American history had as much potential power as Washington.  Absolutely no other president in American history grasped so little of what lay at hand.  Most presidents want notless, but more power.  Washington had as much as he wanted, and yet took so very little.  To this day I wonder if we truly appreciate the enormity of his achievement, especially at a time when we have a president who has jokingingly (or is he truly joking?) that it would nice to be a dictator and not have to worry about the popular will or congress.<br /><br />Ellis's biography does not supplant either of the full length biographies of Freeman or Flexner, but it does lay claim to be the finest single volume biography of the past few decades.  I strongly recommend it to anyone seeking a biography of Washington, as well as to those who have enjoyed Ellis's other excellent books.t not less, but more power.  Washington had as much as he wanted, and yet took so very little.  To this day I wonder if we truly appreciate the enormity of his achievement, especially at a time when we have a president who has jokingingly (or is he truly joking?) that it would nice to be a dictator and not have to worry about the popular will or congress. <br /> <br />Ellis's biography does not supplant either of the full length biographies of Freeman or Flexner, but it does lay claim to be the finest single volume biography of the past few decades.  I strongly recommend it to anyone seeking a biography of Washington, as well as to those who have enjoyed Ellis's other excellent books.	2005-02-07
371577:US	52048190	R8LFWQDX0JTPQ	0805069240	476402838	Thomas Jefferson: The American Presidents Series: The 3rd President, 1801-1809	Books	5	35	40	N	N	A superb defence of Jefferson's importance in American life	Few American presidents have experienced such a fluctuating reputation as president as has Thomas Jefferson.  To a large extent this is also because of his pivotal role in the creation of the American republic.  His contributions are by any standard vast:  principal author of The Declaration of Independence, governor of Virginia during the Revolutionary War, ambassador to France following the War, first Secretary of State, second Vice President, third President, creator of the American party system (as well as of the old Republican party, that ironically evolved into the Democratic party under the leadership of Andrew Jackson and Martin Van Buren), and author of a host of documents that have become part of the heart of American political literature.  He is also viewed as the principal founder of liberalism in the United States, and is usually contrasted with John Adams, who is perceived as the founder of conservativism (though I personally find that Adams has virtually nothing in common with contemporary conservativism, which has less and less to do with Burkean ideals and concerns).  This biography of Jefferson is by Joyce Appleby, one of the most renowned and respected of contemporary historians of the American Revolution and the early republic.  In recent years many historians have taken aim at Jefferson to provide unflattering portraits, based either on the mercurial or inconsistent nature of his personality, the hypocrisy of his years as Adams's vice president, or his complex relations to slavery in general and Sally Hemmings in particular.  Appleby does not want to ignore the very troubling aspects of Jefferson's career, especially on slavery--and who would want to, since to do so would be to tacitly endorse the \\"particular institution\\"--but she definitely wants to remind her readers both of why Jefferson is one of our greatest presidents and of his central role in fashioning some of the finest aspects of American society and political life.<br /><br />It cannot be emphasized strongly enough that Appleby has written a biography that is intended to serve as a corrective to the work of historians like Joseph J. Ellis, who in books like AMERICAN SPHINX, FOUNDING BROTHERS, and PASSIONATE SAGE has been intensely critical of Jefferson on a host of grounds (indeed, Ellis portrays him as a bit of a hypocritical nutcase).  Also, with a number of books that have rehabilitated John Adams, it has been inevitable that he be played off Jefferson in a way that is a bit more flattering to Adams than perhaps ought to be the case.  The negative reviews of this book are, as a result, utterly incomprehensible.  What to make of them?  I'm not sure if the one-star reviewers haven't read this biography, or if they haven't read anything else about Jefferson.  Several criticize this book for being \\"PC,\\" whatever that means.  Appleby points out that Jefferson remained a slaveholder despite thinking it was evil, that he consistently denigrated women in his writings, and that he very possibly had a complex relationship with Sally Hemmings.  Could any good biographer ignore these issues?  Would any civilized individual claim that Jefferson's positions can be defended?  Of course not.  More to the point, has any competent biographer ignored these issues?  Did Ellis?  Did Dumas Malone?  These same reviewers assert that Appleby \\"bashes\\" Jefferson.  Clearly, they are utterly ignorant of the greater literature on Jefferson and the Revolution.  This is unquestionably a very positive portrait of Jefferson.  She praises him despite his questionable views on slavery.  In fact, my major complaint with the book is that she doesn't deal sufficiently with a host of actions in his life that are extremely dubious morally.  For instance, he was not only the most disloyal vice president in American history, he persistently aided those journalists who savagely attacked Adams, and even assisted in one book that made scurrilous attacks on Adams's morals, all while denying to Adams's face that he was doing any of these things.  As readers of other biographies of Jefferson are aware, he had a remarkable capacity for self-justifying some very dubious actions.  He was a master of \\"the ends justifies the means\\" thinking.  Appleby largely skirts over this, perhaps because of her limited amount of space, perhaps because she wants to emphasize his positive accomplishments instead.<br /><br />Primarily, Appleby wants to explain how the American political system is essentially Jeffersonian through its very core.  His insistence on a government by the people and for the people (Lincoln was in many ways the foremost Jeffersonian to follow in his footsteps)--as opposed to a patriarchal and powerful central government with an aristocracy making decisions for the many--won the war for the political heart of America.  In other words, he was the author for the populism that has always since remained the great ideal of American politics, even if it has sometimes been subverted.  His notions of equality of opportunity, of trusting the masses rather than the few, of stressing the general will over the particular will have become lock, stock, and barrel of American political life.  She wants to show that America is essentially Jefferson in its very soul.  Because most of her work has been done on the intellectual history of the Revolution, she portrays this as a struggle of ideas.  All in all, I think she does a masterful job of showing why Jefferson is one of our most crucial presidents.<br /><br />The book is not without flaws, though its flaws are never noted in the one and two star reviews found below, which all bizarrely and surreally criticize the book because it supposedly makes Jefferson look bad.  In fact, in her attempt to make Jefferson good, she sometimes makes the Federalists look worse than they ought.  For instance, she never sharply distinguishes between Adams and the Federalists, let alone Adams and Hamilton, Adam hating and detesting Hamilton far more than Jefferson ever did.  She often writes as if Adams and Hamilton were of one mind.  Furthermore, she repeats some caricatures of the past, such as the one that Adams engaged in a host of \\"midnight\\" judicial appointments, though biographers such as Paige Smith, McCullough, and Ellis have shown that in fact these appointments had been made over the course of weeks and months, and not on a single eve.  She is too good of an historian to have made such a simple mistake.  At the very least she should have indicated why the caricature is correct and Adams's biographers wrong.  I find the positions of many of the Federalists to be complex to sum up as neatly as she has done here.<br /><br />I would heartily recommend that anyone reading this book read it in conjunction with John Patrick Diggins biography of Adams from the same series.  They say that history is written by the winners, but this is a case where the outcome is still in question.  Adams and Jefferson represent two great, ongoing traditions in American life.  Diggins sees more virtue in Adams and more vice in Jefferson than is plausible, and much the same can be said of Appleby's opposite portrait.  But anyone wanting to read this book can rest assured that this is a first rate brief biography, one that wants to praise Jefferson, not merely bash him.Adams's face that he was doing any of these things.  As readers of other biographies of Jefferson are aware, he had a remarkable capacity for self-justifying some very dubious actions.  He was a master of \\"the ends justifies the means\\" thinking.  Appleby largely skirts over this, perhaps because of her limited amount of space, perhaps because she wants to emphasize his positive accomplishments instead.    Primarily, Appleby wants to explain how the American political system is essentially Jeffersonian through its very core.  His insistence on a government by the people and for the people (Lincoln was in many ways the foremost Jeffersonian to follow in his footsteps)--as opposed to a patriarchal and powerful central government with an aristocracy making decisions for the many--won the war for the political heart of America.  In other words, he was the author for the populism that has always since remained the great ideal of American politics, even if it has sometimes been subverted.  His notions of equality of opportunity, of trusting the masses rather than the few, of stressing the general will over the particular will have become lock, stock, and barrel of American political life.  She wants to show that America is essentially Jefferson in its very soul.  Because most of her work has been done on the intellectual history of the Revolution, she portrays this as a struggle of ideas.  All in all, I think she does a masterful job of showing why Jefferson is one of our most crucial presidents.    The book is not without flaws, though its flaws are never noted in the one and two star reviews found below, which all bizarrely and surreally criticize the book because it supposedly makes Jefferson look bad.  In fact, in her attempt to make Jefferson good, she sometimes makes the Federalists look worse than they ought.  For instance, she never sharply distinguishes between Adams and the Federalists, let alone Adams and Hamilton, Adam hating and detesting Hamilton far more than Jefferson ever did.  She often writes as if Adams and Hamilton were of one mind.  Furthermore, she repeats some caricatures of the past, such as the one that Adams engaged in a host of \\"midnight\\" judicial appointments, though biographers such as Paige Smith, McCullough, and Ellis have shown that in fact these appointments had been made over the course of weeks and months, and not on a single eve.  She is too good of an historian to have made such a simple mistake.  At the very least she should have indicated why the caricature is correct and Adams's biographers wrong.  I find the positions of many of the Federalists to be complex to sum up as neatly as she has done here.      I would heartily recommend that anyone reading this book read it in conjunction with John Patrick Diggins biography of Adams from the same series.  They say that history is written by the winners, but this is a case where the outcome is still in question.  Adams and Jefferson represent two great, ongoing traditions in American life.  Diggins sees more virtue in Adams and more vice in Jefferson than is plausible, and much the same can be said of Appleby's opposite portrait.  But anyone wanting to read this book can rest assured that this is a first rate brief biography, one that wants to praise Jefferson, not merely bash him.	2005-01-27
375942:US	52048190	R4M4EGXNTI2CK	0297646206	161317772	Virginia Woolf (Lives)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A superb short biography laced with personal reminiscences	Nigel Nicolson is uniquely qualified to write a brief biography of Virginia Woolf.  First, he is one of the most important caretakers of her written work, having edited her letters for publication.  Second, as a small boy, he actually knew Virginia Woolf.  Third, his mother was Vita Sackville-West, one of the major figures in Virginia's life, the object of her affections, one of her closest friends, and the basis for the main character in ORLANDO.  This could well be, in fact, one of the last books written about Virginia Woolf by someone who actually knew her.<br /><br />Perhaps as a result of his unusual connection with her, this biography has an aura of the real Virginia Woolf that many do not.  As Nicolson puts it early on, while for many she was \\"Woolf,\\" for him he was always \\"Virginia.\\"  He knew her before she was the icon she was later to become.  Auden said of Yeats that upon his death \\"he became his admirers,\\" and Woolf has certainly undergone a similar transformation, and frequently books deal one her deal not with who she was, but who they need her to be.  Nicolson's portrait is a remarkably rich and concrete one, a splendid portrait of an amazingly gifted and complex individual.  He captures her gift for friendship and kindness along with her need to sometimes hurt others with her words.  He deals with her openness to love between men or women along with her near dread of actual sexual involvement with either (indeed, most biographies point up the fact that while she had several romantic attachments, her sex life was nonetheless almost nonexistent).  He contrasts her feminism with her restricted view of how far women's rights should extend (she was never able to break out of her class bound views on the lower classes) with her apathy to politics in general.  He makes vivid her huge capacity for enjoying life while invoking the struggles she underwent to stay sane enough to do so.  He also provides a sympathetic portrait of her marriage to Leonard Woolf, who was simultaneously her biggest supporter, her caretaker and nurse, and greatest devotee.  If Leonard sometimes emerges as a bit codependent, one can forgive him because he seemed capable of giving a great deal while still producing a prodigious amount of work himself.  They seemed, improbably, to have a remarkably good marriage, given her mental problems.<br /><br />Nicolson also provides good insight into Virginia's struggles with mental health, even making her suicide seem less an act of despair than an insistence on ending life when it still was more or less sane (she killed herself largely because she thought she was about to go insane again, was about to succumb to the hallucinations that had plagued her on more than one occasion in the past, with one difference:  she was convinced that if she became insane again, she would not reemerge from it again as she had in the past).  Her's was a suicide not of despair but of a fear of losing her humanity.<br /><br />I have to state that I find the comments by one the previous reviewers (Rebekah) absolutely incomprehensible.  The complaint is made that Nicolson criticized Woolf's feminism and was guilty of a \\"macho attitude.\\"  These are absolutely stunning complaints, since one of the very mild criticisms that Nicolson makes through the work is that instead of being a liberal, Virginia was actually fairly tied to her class, that she did hold to views of women's suffrage, but only for women of the upper middle class.  One will search in vain in his pages for views of the kind that she allots to him.  It is true that he wants to correct views that do not take an accurate view of her feminism, views that do not see how deeply she was rooted in a particular class.  The only rational reading of the book and Nicolson's position is that he seems disappointed that she did not take her feminist beliefs far enough and that she was not as a whole especially interested in politics.  Besides, it is exceedingly odd to accuse the offspring of a lesbian mother and a gay father as being \\"old-fashioned.\\"  Again, Nicolson absolutely nowhere either by word or by intimation criticizes Woolf's feminism.  Indeed, if one actually reads the book, it is clear that Nicolson has a far more contemporary view of women and politics than did Virginia Woolf.  One does gain a sense that Nicolson had lived a long and rich life (he died this past fall at the age of 87), but I think most readers will look in vain for the old-fashioned ideas (and certainly the machismo) wrongly ascribed to him.<br /><br />This is not the best biography on Virginia Woolf.  For one thing it is far, far too brief to do even a cursory job.  For instance, her friendship with Roger Fry is almost gestured at, her relationship with her sister Vanessa is given little space, and in all descriptions are kept to a minimum to keep to the publisher's guidelines for the series.  Nonetheless, I'm quite impressed with what he achieves in such a short amount of space.  Although not one of the more complete biographies, it is nonetheless one of the best at giving an almost tangible picture of Virginia.the offspring of a lesbian mother and a gay father as being \\"old-fashioned.\\"  Again, Nicolson absolutely nowhere either by word or by intimation criticizes Woolf's feminism.  Indeed, if one actually reads the book, it is clear that Nicolson has a far more contemporary view of women and politics than did Virginia Woolf.  One does gain a sense that Nicolson had lived a long and rich life (he died this past fall at the age of 87), but I think most readers will look in vain for the old-fashioned ideas (and certainly the machismo) wrongly ascribed to him. <br /> <br />This is not the best biography on Virginia Woolf.  For one thing it is far, far too brief to do even a cursory job.  For instance, her friendship with Roger Fry is almost gestured at, her relationship with her sister Vanessa is given little space, and in all descriptions are kept to a minimum to keep to the publisher's guidelines for the series.  Nonetheless, I'm quite impressed with what he achieves in such a short amount of space.  Although not one of the more complete biographies, it is nonetheless one of the best at giving an almost tangible picture of Virginia.	2005-01-24
385473:US	52048190	R3T3BQQOK6D0AT	0805069089	489874557	Rutherford B. Hayes	Books	4	10	14	N	Y	Solid if brief biography of a lesser known president	This brief biography of Rutherford B. Hayes, the 19th president of the United States both benefits and suffers from being part of a series. The series is, of course, The American Presidents, under the editorship of Arthur M Schlesinger Jr. The aim of the series is to provide a brief biography of the presidents of the United States. Personally, I am finding this series to be very helpful on the lesser presidents like Hayes, but less helpful for presidents like Teddy Roosevelt, who has been written about quite extensively.<br /><br />Rutherford B. Hayes is a perfect subject for one of these brief biographies. Unless for some reason one wants to delve especially deep into Hayes's life, he is not one of the foremost presidents, and therefore not someone a great number of people want to spend a great deal of time studying. As Trefousse shows, he had some substantive achievements in his administration, including ending Reconstruction and the beginning of civil service reform. Moreover, he emerges as a likeable and admirable individual, as a person who did the office of president a great service. The book also is somewhat guilty of minimizing Hayes weaknesses as a president. However, Trefousse was not able to convince me that he is one of the pivotal figures in American history, and while I can't rule out going on to read another biography of Hayes at some point, I feel that 150 pages on Hayes was just about right.<br /><br />One thing that bothered me a bit in the book was Trefousse's attempt to stress parallels between Hayes's election and that of 2000. In both instances, the election was extremely close, with the loser winning more of the popular vote but losing on the electoral votes, with Florida playing a key role each time. The instances, however, are nonparallel in a number of other ways. In 1876 Hayes, the winner, was deprived of a vast number of black votes by Southerners harassing blacks as they attempted to vote, so that he probably would have won the popular vote as well as the electoral. In 2000, tens of thousands of black voters were illegally (in the strict since, for the Ashcroft Justice Department later ruled that the Civil Rights of black voters had been interfered with in the voter purge, not that it will reverse the outcome of the election) from the list of registered voters, depriving Gore of tens of thousands of votes. Also, although both Hayes and Bush became president of a deeply divided nation, Hayes worked very hard to unify the nation, while Bush has increased the division since being named president by the Supreme Court.<br /><br />Still, I do recommend this biography. It is likely to be all that one would need on Hayes. I do not think it is as strong as some of the other books I have read in the same series, for instance Garry Wills's superb little book on Madison or Remini's surprisingly good biography of John Quincy Adams (surprising because Remini is the foremost biographer of Jackson, and he and Adams were bitter political rivals).e as well as the electoral. In 2000, tens of thousands of black voters were illegally (in the strict since, for the Ashcroft Justice Department later ruled that the Civil Rights of black voters had been interfered with in the voter purge, not that it will reverse the outcome of the election) from the list of registered voters, depriving Gore of tens of thousands of votes. Also, although both Hayes and Bush became president of a deeply divided nation, Hayes worked very hard to unify the nation, while Bush has increased the division since being named president by the Supreme Court. <br /> <br />Still, I do recommend this biography. It is likely to be all that one would need on Hayes. I do not think it is as strong as some of the other books I have read in the same series, for instance Garry Wills's superb little book on Madison or Remini's surprisingly good biography of John Quincy Adams (surprising because Remini is the foremost biographer of Jackson, and he and Adams were bitter political rivals).	2005-01-16
403836:US	52048190	RNBRWTX3QHHAI	1594200203	809431414	The Right Nation: Conservative Power in America	Books	4	4	6	N	N	A fairly nonpartisan analysis of American conservativism	I can't imagine this being a book that pleases anyone in its entirety, but I also can't imagine anyone except the most fervid extremists not finding a great deal food for thought. It is also a book that will broaden and stretch one's point of view. Book on the political situation in the United States today tend to be rabidly partisan. John Micklethwait and Adrian Wooldridge are British conservatives writing about American conservatism. Their interests as conservatives are starkly at odds with the interests in many American conservatives (British conservatives tend to be perplexed by American obsessions over the culture wars and their enthusiasm for gun ownership and the death penalty, which they like virtually all people in the civilized world consider a barbarous practice), and they definitely are not partisan in the sense of owing allegiance to any American political party. They seem to sympathize with the American drift to the Right while at the same time lamenting many of the accoutrements of the Right. All in all, this is probably one of the more helpful surveys of the contemporary American political scene, even if one would, as I do, take issue with a host of their specific points.<br /><br />A great deal of the book is devoted to surveying the historical development and current landscape of American conservativism. They helpfully get to the peculiarity of American conservativism near the beginning of the book by contrasting the American Right with the classic conservativism that we associate with Edmund Burke (conservatism as an identifiable political movement having been born in Burke's reaction to the French Revolution in his REFLECTIONS ON THE REVOLUTION IN FRANCE). Burkean conservatism, they point out, is devoted to six principles: \\"a deep suspicion of the power of the state; a preference for liberty over equality; patriotism; a belief in established institutions and hierarchies; skepticism about the idea of progress; and elitism.\\" They point out that American conservatives dramatically exaggerate the first three of these principles, and utterly eschew the final three, putting them curiously out of step with European conservatives. Indeed, as they point out later in the book, one can actually view many contemporary American conservatives as classic liberals, and indeed (something they do not point out), many political writers today, especially in France, write of Reagan and Bush 43 as being proponents of Neoliberals. Indeed, they both esteem that classic liberal Adam Smith (oddly enough an icon for the Right today, who bizarrely assume he was a conservative). Throughout the book they as conservatives look at the American Right with some perplexity, baffled at the emphasis on individualism that is a feature of American conservativism along, or the dedication to fundamentalist religion, or the strange backing of Israel.<br /><br />Where I had problems with the book was with the author's tendency to both write the more liberal segment of American political life off. For instance, they could easily have pointed out that George W. Bush is pretty much without debate the most hated president in American history (in modern history Truman had lower approval ratings, but except for Nixon at the height of Watergate, it is hard to remember an American president who was the target of so much wrath). Under no scenario is it possible to describe Bush as a popular president. Nor has a strong majority shown a preference for Right Wing ideas or principles. Indeed, a poll conducted shortly after Bush's 2004 election showed that a strong majority of Americans opposed most of the agenda Bush was touting for his second term, including tax reform, the nomination of extremely conservative judges, drilling for oil in the Alaskan wilderness preserve, and pushing individual retirement accounts over social security (though a majority does support making it an option in addition to social security). Moreover, if one looks at American society asa whole since 1968, it is impossible to escape the conclusion that on a social level America has become more and more socially liberal. In 1968, for a woman to kiss another woman, as Willow did with her girlfriend Tara on BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER in 2001, would have been scandalous, but thirty years later we barely noticed it. Yes, there has been a revival of fundamentalist religion, but the advance on sexual and racial tolerance has been extraordinary. There is absolutely no reason to imagine that the clock is going to turn back.<br /><br />On the other hand, the section near the end of the book on the Democratic party was a vivid reminder of precisely how conservative Americans really are politically. As they write, \\"These days, American politics is a sport played between the center Right against the Right. From an international perspective, Democrats are LINOs-Liberals in Name Only.\\" By way of illustrating this, they point out that European mainstream conservatives (though there is also a radical conservatism in Europe and England that plays a larger role in politics than the radical fringe in the US, where it plays none, and has been successfully marginalized-we may have militia and white power groups in America, but they have close to no political influence of any kind, unlike La Pen's supporters in France) are far more liberal than British conservatives, who are in turn probably a bit more liberal than the American Democratic party, which in turn is the \\"liberal\\" alternative to the Republican party. Today's Democratic party is in fact not a liberal alternative, but the not-quite-so-conservative alternative.<br /><br />The book is thought provoking and stimulating from beginning to end, but I found myself not trusting it in the details. Though sceptical of American conservativism, the authors nevertheless buy into a good deal of the propaganda that the American Right has so skillfully articulated. For instance, at one point they write of the \\"liberal\\" TODAY show, an odd adjective for one of the blandest, generic shows on TV. Whatever politics it has could only with effort be described as \\"liberal.\\" Indeed, despite all evidence to the contrary, they persist in the myth of the liberal media, a myth easily dispelled by many of the other observations they make in the book. They also falter in a large number of details. For instance, they remark with disdain about Clinton's pardon of Marc Rich, but fail to note that the drive for his pardon was driven not by Democrats but by a former Israeli prime minister and Rich's GOP lawyer Scooter Libby, currently Cheney's chief of staff and the primary suspect in the probe into the leak to Robert Novak that Joseph Wilson's wife Virginia Plaume was a CIA field operative. Instead of a Bill Clinton-drive scheme, it was a GOP-driven operation, but the authors do not note this. Nonetheless, they in general are not deceived by many of the cruder efforts of the Right to mislead the public. They recognize the Clear Skies Initiative as a turning back of environmental protections, do not buy into the stark good and evil justifications by the White House and others for various foreign policy moves, and acknowledge the legitimacy of claims that much of hoopla surrounding Clinton wrongdoing was the result of Right Wing propaganda efforts. So, while they are sometimes weak in some of the details, they rarely succumb to simplicity.<br /><br />There was one rather blatant feature of the American Right that they miss and miss rather completely: the anti-intellectual nature of American Right-Wing movements. Others have pointed this out, especially Richard Hofstadter in his book ANTI-INTELLECTUALISM IN AMERICAN LIFE. This was unfortunate not merely because it leaves out an important consideration concerning many contemporary American conservatives (in addition to leaving out Conservativism's place within the Counter-Enlightenment as a whole) that would have helped the authors to understand more fully thehistorical connections between right wing movements and those religious movements that flourished in the South, denominations that did not require their ministers to possess a formal education (largely because of the absence of colleges in the region in the 18th century). This led to an ongoing promulgation of anti-intellectual values, an exceptionally crucial element in the history of the American Right. Though the authors quote Hofstadter at a couple of points, they neglect this aspect both of his work and American history.<br /><br />Despite these caveats, this book truly does do a great job of helping Americans understand how extraordinarily unique their political life is. We live in a nation where the \\"liberal\\" party is more conservative than the conservative party of the most conservative nation in the European Union. We Americans are scarcely aware of this. In the end, the book had a depressive effect on me, as I realized how profoundly out of step the United States is with the rest of the world. My fear is that we may get even further out of step before we move more back to the global mainstream. I heartily recommend that anyone concerned with American political life-whether one is a non-American, a member either of the Republican Right or the Democratic Right, or a true leftist-read this for a deeper understanding of contemporary America.al\\" TODAY show, an odd adjective for one of the blandest, generic shows on TV. Whatever politics it has could only with effort be described as \\"liberal.\\" Indeed, despite all evidence to the contrary, they persist in the myth of the liberal media, a myth easily dispelled by many of the other observations they make in the book. They also falter in a large number of details. For instance, they remark with disdain about Clinton's pardon of Marc Rich, but fail to note that the drive for his pardon was driven not by Democrats but by a former Israeli prime minister and Rich's GOP lawyer Scooter Libby, currently Cheney's chief of staff and the primary suspect in the probe into the leak to Robert Novak that Joseph Wilson's wife Virginia Plaume was a CIA field operative. Instead of a Bill Clinton-drive scheme, it was a GOP-driven operation, but the authors do not note this. Nonetheless, they in general are not deceived by many of the cruder efforts of the Right to mislead the public. They recognize the Clear Skies Initiative as a turning back of environmental protections, do not buy into the stark good and evil justifications by the White House and others for various foreign policy moves, and acknowledge the legitimacy of claims that much of hoopla surrounding Clinton wrongdoing was the result of Right Wing propaganda efforts. So, while they are sometimes weak in some of the details, they rarely succumb to simplicity.  <br /> <br />There was one rather blatant feature of the American Right that they miss and miss rather completely: the anti-intellectual nature of American Right-Wing movements. Others have pointed this out, especially Richard Hofstadter in his book ANTI-INTELLECTUALISM IN AMERICAN LIFE. This was unfortunate not merely because it leaves out an important consideration concerning many contemporary American conservatives (in addition to leaving out Conservativism's place within the Counter-Enlightenment as a whole) that would have helped the authors to understandmore fully the historical connections between right wing movements and those religious movements that flourished in the South, denominations that did not require their ministers to possess a formal education (largely because of the absence of colleges in the region in the 18th century). This led to an ongoing promulgation of anti-intellectual values, an exceptionally crucial element in the history of the American Right. Though the authors quote Hofstadter at a couple of points, they neglect this aspect both of his work and American history.  <br /> <br />Despite these caveats, this book truly does do a great job of helping Americans understand how extraordinarily unique their political life is. We live in a nation where the \\"liberal\\" party is more conservative than the conservative party of the most conservative nation in the European Union. We Americans are scarcely aware of this. In the end, the book had a depressive effect on me, as I realized how profoundly out of step the United States is with the rest of the world. My fear is that we may get even further out of step before we move more back to the global mainstream. I heartily recommend that anyone concerned with American political life-whether one is a non-American, a member either of the Republican Right or the Democratic Right, or a true leftist-read this for a deeper understanding of contemporary America.	2005-01-02
447990:US	52048190	R29YFRMK5PTYBK	1931498717	762318883	Don't Think of an Elephant!: Know Your Values and Frame the Debate--The Essential Guide for Progressives	Books	5	19	22	N	N	An essential handbook for progressives	George Lakoff's DON'T THINK OF AN ELEPHANT is a collection of popular presentations that he has given of ideas that he has prevented more fully in his larger and more scholarly book MORAL POLITICS:  HOW LIBERALS AND CONSERVATIVES THINK.  The former is also a highly partisan presentation of the ideas contained in the latter.  In fact, the latter is restrained because of its scholarly nature.  Lakoff is a distinguished cognitive scientist who is perhaps best known before now for a string of highly acclaimed nonpolitical books that culminated on the popular level with METAPHORS WE LIVE BY, which he coauthored with Mark Johnson.  In MORAL POLITICS, Lakoff is concerned to more objectively and less partisanly distinguish the moral points of view that define today's progressives and right wingers.  The nonpartisan point about each group is that both engage in \\"framing\\" debates, and that the framing trumps in nearly every instance the facts of the matter.  This explains the failure of progressives over the past couple of years, when time and time and time again they have insisted on facts that would either prove to a completely objective individual that the Bush administration has either actively lied or at best misled America about its goals.  Progressives have been constantly frustrated to see their marshalling of irrefutable facts either ignored or dismissed in favor of an apparently blind adherence to baffling policies.  Lakoff explains that the reason that the facts have little or no effect is that, as he puts it, \\"the truth alone will not set you free.\\"  People are able to ignore all facts that do not fit in with the particular \\"frame\\" that dominates their political worldview.  That Bush lied about WMDs is simply beside the point, as is his calling for \\"tort reform\\" when what he is actually calling for is abolition of public protection law.  As Lakoff explains, the frames control the political debate, and even control what facts are perceived as relevant.<br /><br />The important point is that at the heart of Lakoff's presentation is a nonpartisan observation that political debate is controlled by framing, and that this framing stems from the structures of the human mind itself.  In other words, human beings MUST think using frames.  If you don't have frames, you are failing to think at all about something.  But if MORAL POLITICS was relatively nonpartisan, this one is so partisan as to be no more nor less than a handbook for progressive political action.  In fact, I'm not sure that a more practical book exists today for progressives.  The explicit purpose of the book is to assist progressives in taking back over the political debate in America.  There is considerable hope that this can be achieved.  Observers of American life have long known that the core values of most Americans are far more in line with progressives than the radical right and on every issue where the facts can be rationally assessed they fall in line with the progressive point of view.  But as Lakoff points out, the right is vastly more accomplished at framing.  For instance, the Bush administration talks of \\"tax relief,\\" which is a frame for what is in reality an abdication of civic responsibility and an attempt to destroy those functions of the federal government that are in place to help people.<br /><br />Much of the book contrasts the two larger frames through which most Americans operate.  These are based on differing models of the family.  One he calls the strict father frame and the other is the nuturant parent frame.  As he develops his points about these two frameworks, the former emerges as the dominant point of view of the right, while the nuturant parent model is that of progressives.  These turn out to be unusually rich models for explaining almost all American political behavior (they are culture specific:  other cultures might have very different models).  They explain why the right exploits fear so persistently in political debate and why debates on abortion have more to do with the preservation of the strict father framework with its attendant control of female sexuality than it does with the lives of the unborn (shown in part by the right wing obsession with partial birth abortion, a procedure that is as rare as it is controversial, so that the debate about it isn't even a debate about something that actually takes place except very rarely).  Lakoff discusses other issues in this brief book as well, including the need for progressives to be willing to lay aside some of their differences in the same way that the right has, and different kinds of strategies in putting forth a progressive agenda.<br /><br />In the past few years I have read a number of excellent books that have helped clarify the political landscape of America for me, with the counterintuitive rise of a right wing zealotry that has not only squeezed genuine conservativism off the map (e.g., arch Republican conservative Barry Goldwater was quite alarmed by many things he saw during the Reagan administration; one imagines that today's ultra right takeover of the GOP would horrify him).  These books include Michael Lind's UP FROM CONSERVATIVISM, with its careful delineation of the many streams that make up today's right wing; David Brock's THE REPUBLICAN BIG NOISE MACHINE, which details the right wing media network that produced today's right wing domination of the media; Thomas Frank's superb WHAT'S THE MATTER WITH KANSAS, which explains how the GOP has been able to exploit the culture wars to overcome voters' own economic self-interest in voting for Republican candidates who proceed to pass legislation that provides enormous financial boons for the wealthier segments of society; Kevin Phillips's two excellent books AMERICAN DYNASTY and WEALTH AND DEMOCRACY, which explain the connections between market capitalism and the political power wielded by America's economic and power elite that overwhelmingly supports the GOP; and a book I am currently reading by two British conservatives, John Micklethwait and Adrian Wooldridge, THE RIGHT NATION, in which two genuine conservatives detail the 20th century rise of conservative forces that grew into today's ultra right wing in American politics.  I now add Lakoff's superb book to this list, and in many ways it is the most helpful of the bunch, for it explains the \\"why?\\" that so many progressive Americans ask as they watch half of our nation embrace politicians whose agenda is so radically at odds with their own self-interests.debates on abortion have more to do with the preservation of the strict father framework with its attendant control of female sexuality than it does with the lives of the unborn (shown in part by the right wing obsession with partial birth abortion, a procedure that is as rare as it is controversial, so that the debate about it isn't even a debate about something that actually takes place except very rarely).  Lakoff discusses other issues in this brief book as well, including the need for progressives to be willing to lay aside some of their differences in the same way that the right has, and different kinds of strategies in putting forth a progressive agenda. <br /> <br />In the past few years I have read a number of excellent books that have helped clarify the political landscape of America for me, with the counterintuitive rise of a right wing zealotry that has not only squeezed genuine conservativism off the map (e.g., arch Republican conservative Barry Goldwater was quite alarmed by many things he saw during the Reagan administration; one imagines that today's ultra right takeover of the GOP would horrify him).  These books include Michael Lind's UP FROM CONSERVATIVISM, with its careful delineation of the many streams that make up today's right wing; David Brock's THE REPUBLICAN BIG NOISE MACHINE, which details the right wing media network that produced today's right wing domination of the media; Thomas Frank's superb WHAT'S THE MATTER WITH KANSAS, which explains how the GOP has been able to exploit the culture wars to overcome voters' own economic self-interest in voting for Republican candidates who proceed to pass legislation that provides enormous financial boons for the wealthier segments of society; Kevin Phillips's two excellent books AMERICAN DYNASTY and WEALTH AND DEMOCRACY, which explain the connections between market capitalism and the political power wielded by America's economic and power elite that overwhelmingly supports the GOP; and a book I am currently reading by two British conservatives, John Micklethwait and Adrian Wooldridge, THE RIGHT NATION, in which two genuine conservatives detail the 20th century rise of conservative forces that grew into today's ultra right wing in American politics.  I now add Lakoff's superb book to this list, and in many ways it is the most helpful of the bunch, for it explains the \\"why?\\" that so many progressive Americans ask as they watch half of our nation embrace politicians whose agenda is so radically at odds with their own self-interests.	2004-11-22
452813:US	52048190	RMAGKWOUAGQZT	0553212044	273628725	Paradiso (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	25	27	N	N	A heavenly conclusion to Dante's towering masterpiece	As a whole, Dante's COMEDY (a title later amended by the Church to DIVINE COMEDY) is arguably the greatest work in the history of World Literature.  As an artist, his only competitor might well be Shakespeare.  Despite all that, I will confess that the PARADISE is not a terribly easy book to read.  INFERNO in particular but also PURGATORY is filled with a host of extraordinary scenes with unquestionable universal appeal.  The highpoints of INFERNO have become part of the intellectual furniture of Western literature, not least because one reads it with rapt attention and a sense that one is dealing almost with a contemporary rather than a person writing seven hundred years ago.  PURGATORY lacks some of this universal appeal, but nonetheless features a host of marvelous moments and extremely human details.<br /><br />Unlike INFERNO and PURGATORY, however, PARADISE is rather narrower and specialized in its appeal.  It is not merely that it assumes that the reader is a devout Catholic; one must be a devout Catholic of the early 14th century, sharing completely the view of the universe accepted at that time.  I think I have an unusually complete understanding of the cosmological views of the late medieval period, but while this meant I was able to read this work with some familiarity of the details, it also guaranteed that much of my interest was merely academic.<br /><br />There is an expression that \\"You do not judge Dante; Dante judges you.\\"  This is undoubtedly true, but it it definitely true that this final book is going to strain the interest of most readers, even if you know enough about the intellectual worldview behind his work.  In fairness to Dante, the work was nearly impossible to pull off.  That he managed to do so nonetheless is nothing short of a minor miracle.  For one thing, most of what made the many remarkable characters of INFERNO so fascinating was the struggle that existed in their lives.  But in PARADISE there is no conflict, no struggle, no \\"agon.\\"  Instead, it is a realm of perfect bliss, with few qualities apart from love, happiness, and praising God through singing and dancing.  These are some pretty stiff limitations that any writer would struggle with.  That Dante managed something remarkable despite this is fairly amazing.<br /><br />Also, there is a major theological limitation placed upon the work.  At this particular point in the history of Christian thought, the assumption was that after death humans would be without a body (though they would be reunited with their body at the final judgment).  So all of the denizens of heaven were disembodied spirits (though Beatrice does seem to possess a body, but that is a detail that we'll pass over).  Dante represents all of the souls he meets in heaven as brilliant shapes of light.  In fact, everything in heaven is represented as brilliant shapes of light.<br /><br />C. S. Lewis remarked that PARADISE was the first Sci-Fi novel, and while he intended this hyperbolically, there is nonetheless a great deal of truth in it.  Dante's imaginative depiction of the physics of the superlunary realm is a truly enormous achievement.  I won't go into all of the details of medieval physics, but given the assumptions of Aristotelian science, the way his body reacts in the heavens is not merely consistent with the science but pretty much necessitated by it.  For instance, moving on the assumption that things above the orbit of the moon have an ineluctable attraction to God, whenever Beatrice wants to take Dante from one sphere to another she merely gazes upon the divine beauty and they are transported as quickly as, as Dante puts it, a bolt from a crossbow.  It is a wonderful touch, only one among many found in the book.<br /><br />What I love most about this work, however, is the way that it expands and completes the work as a whole.  On one level, the COMEDY is essentially a tour of the entire known cosmos excluding the surface of the earth.  He begins by descending into hell, travels all the way down through the circles of hell to the gravitational center of the earth where Satan is encased in ice, and then ascends literally up Satan's legs (which are on the opposite magnetic pole from his torso) to the Southern hemisphere (contrary to popular myth, all educated medievals were perfectly aware that the earth was round), to the base of the seven-storied Mount Purgatory, up it to its top and the Garden of Eden, and from thence to the various spheres of the heavens until he gazes directly upon God.  No, PARADISE is not as fascinating to read as INFERNO, but the paradox is that the COMEDY as a whole is far more fascinating than INFERNO on its own.  Therefore, anyone who fails to go on from INFERNO to read both PURGATORY and PARADISE is not only going to shortchange themselves:  they are going to neglect completing one of the genuine masterpieces in the history of literature.<br /><br />As with the first two volumes, Mandelbaum's translation is both remarkably faithful to the original and magnificently poetic.  There are many excellent translations of this masterpiece, but I would probably recommend Mandelbaum's over any other complete translation to someone desiring to experience this masterpiece in translation.scending into hell, travels all the way down through the circles of hell to the gravitational center of the earth where Satan is encased in ice, and then ascends literally up Satan's legs (which are on the opposite magnetic pole from his torso) to the Southern hemisphere (contrary to popular myth, all educated medievals were perfectly aware that the earth was round), to the base of the seven-storied Mount Purgatory, up it to its top and the Garden of Eden, and from thence to the various spheres of the heavens until he gazes directly upon God.  No, PARADISE is not as fascinating to read as INFERNO, but the paradox is that the COMEDY as a whole is far more fascinating than INFERNO on its own.  Therefore, anyone who fails to go on from INFERNO to read both PURGATORY and PARADISE is not only going to shortchange themselves:  they are going to neglect completing one of the genuine masterpieces in the history of literature. <br /> <br />As with the first two volumes, Mandelbaum's translation is both remarkably faithful to the original and magnificently poetic.  There are many excellent translations of this masterpiece, but I would probably recommend Mandelbaum's over any other complete translation to someone desiring to experience this masterpiece in translation.	2004-11-17
460289:US	52048190	R2FWGXZYXN3QKZ	080577985X	303415414	Masterwork Studies Series: The Divine Comedy	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Often insightful, but has structural and stylistic problems	This fairly slender volume is intended as a student's guide to Dante's COMEDY.  When I reread INFERNO and read for the first time both PURGATORY and PARADISE, I read Chiarenza's and Joseph Gallagher's guides.  I learned a good deal from both books, but I have serious doubts about the appropriateness for students or beginners.  While Gallagher is immensely insightful, well-written, and superb at making Dante clear and accessible at every point, Chiarenza writes in a style and organizes the commentary in way that makes Dante somewhat opaque.  I ended up reading Gallagher interchangeably with Dante, reading his commentary on each canto and then Dante himself.  After I would finish the entire section of the COMEDY (e.g., PURGATORY), I would then read Chiarenza.  While this method worked well for me, it is hard to imagine that many students would get much help from Chiarenza alone, or at least would not benefit much without knowing something about Dante ahead of time.  This is not to say that this book is without merit; it is merely to say that it fails somewhat as an introductory work.<br /><br />Some of the problem of the book is style.  Although the difficulties of reading Dante are sometimes exaggerated (indeed, of the \\"classic\\" writers, he is remarkably immediate to the reader, especially in INFERNO), there are impediments to reading Dante-historical distance, changes in the shared cultural heritage, alterations in religious orientation-that a good introduction will need to address.  Chiarenza does this, but in a style that frequently creates barriers of its own.  She is not a especially accessible writer.  One has to work at working through her sentences, her paragraphs, and sections.  There are frequent insights into Dante, but she doesn't lead the reader into the heart of Dante as Gallagher does in his remarkable work.  I want, however, to emphasis that the problem in this book is not created merely by comparison to Gallagher's:  it is there at the heart of the work regardless of what other writers have done with Dante.  So the first problem is that the book is not stylistically clear and the second is that it doesn't take one immediately into Dante's text.  The third problem is that the content seems less introductory in nature but more general reflections on some key concepts in Dante.  In the end, I think most of the book's problems are structural and stylistic.<br /><br />Nonetheless, this book does contain a great deal that someone who has more than a cursory knowledge of Dante can benefit from.  I think it would be a fine book to read when rereading Dante, and I'm certainly learned much from reading it.  She clearly knows Dante's work quite well, and if she does not always write well about her encounter with Dante, the quality of the insights shows that she has struggled to understand his work.<br /><br />So, I can recommend this book to readers of Dante, but I do not recommend it as a first work on the COMEDY.  For that Joseph Gallagher's A MODERN READER'S GUIDE TO DANTE'S DIVINE COMEDY will remain the work of first choice.  Bu for those familiar with Gallagher, they might want to consider looking at this work as well.work regardless of what other writers have done with Dante.  So the first problem is that the book is not stylistically clear and the second is that it doesn't take one immediately into Dante's text.  The third problem is that the content seems less introductory in nature but more general reflections on some key concepts in Dante.  In the end, I think most of the book's problems are structural and stylistic. <br /> <br />Nonetheless, this book does contain a great deal that someone who has more than a cursory knowledge of Dante can benefit from.  I think it would be a fine book to read when rereading Dante, and I'm certainly learned much from reading it.  She clearly knows Dante's work quite well, and if she does not always write well about her encounter with Dante, the quality of the insights shows that she has struggled to understand his work.   <br /> <br />So, I can recommend this book to readers of Dante, but I do not recommend it as a first work on the COMEDY.  For that Joseph Gallagher's A MODERN READER'S GUIDE TO DANTE'S DIVINE COMEDY will remain the work of first choice.  Bu for those familiar with Gallagher, they might want to consider looking at this work as well.	2004-11-11
461147:US	52048190	R2UNU7BEHLYMZX	0385495048	65095566	One Market Under God: Extreme Capitalism, Market Populism, and the End of Economic Democracy	Books	5	88	97	N	N	A must-read critique of our obession with hyper capitalism	Before I say anything else about this book, I want to address the very strange claim made by a couple of reviewers that Thomas Frank doesn't understand economics.  What is bizarre about that statement is that nowhere in the book does Frank talk about economics.  If you look at most of the books by people like George Stigler or Gary Becker or Kenneth J. Arrow or any of a host of economists, you will find few of the issues discussed in this book.  What is closer to the truth is that Frank discusses some of the assumptions that people make about business and the market.  But this is largely unrelated to economic theory.  When Milton Friedman argues for a radically free market economy, he has ceased speaking as an economist and has become a political philosopher, just as when Amartya Sen ceases writing about economics and begins talking about issues of justice and fairness in a political system, he has become a political philosopher.  One speaks as an economist when stating what the effect of strong central regulation has on foreign investment, but one speaks as a political scientist when saying that deregulation is a bad or a good thing.<br /><br />Nonetheless, Frank is very definitely concerned with the assumptions that underlie much free market-oriented policy of the past decade or so.  In a sense, Frank is trying to revive questions that progressives such as Teddy Roosevelt, William Jennings Bryan, Woodrow Wilson, and Franklin Roosevelt asked about the fairness of a society in which the needs of the many could be ignored in favor of the needs of the few.  These individuals, like Frank, were deeply concerned with issues of economic equality.  In the past two decades, a revival of Social Darwinism has occurred, with the result that we are in the midst of the most dramatic concentration of wealth in the hands of a tiny elite at the expense of the middle class and the impoverished.  A whole litany of statistics can be marshaled here.  Frank notes that according to Federal Reserve numbers in 1979 20% of the wealth was in the hands of the top 1%, a number that strikes me as far too large.  Yet by 1999 37% of the wealth was in the hands of the top 1%.  After several rounds of tax cuts for the wealthy and investor classes, what would that percentage be today?  43%?  45%?  48?  Clearly it is a pattern that has that been reversed.  All economic indicators reveal that in the past twenty-three years there has been a dramatic shift in the wealth of the nation from the middle class to a small economic elite.  Real wages for the middle class have fallen, while we are experiencing a dramatic increase in the number of millionaires and billionaires.  Frank clearly thinks this is completely messed up, and I doubt if many Americans would disagree.<br /><br />ONE MARKET UNDER GOD deals with the panoply of problems that result from the allied beliefs in market populism (which is one of the ultimate oxymorons) and extreme capitalism.  The passion for making all roads straight for rampant capitalism, the mania for deregulation, the utter disregard for all criteria for the economic health of any nation other than how the markets are doing, are all unquestioned manias that dominate current social and political discourse.  Yet FDR insisted that it was a shameful situation where we as a nation considered that the nation as a whole was doing well if the majority of the citizens were not doing well.  But in the market craze of the past two decades, most Americans have not done well.  Frank implies that we might want to rethink a society that thinks that America benefits from a company laying off 20,000 workers because their stock goes up as a result.  As Frank points out, consideration for workers and the masses has largely dropped out of the picture.<br /><br />Frank chronicles the obsession with extreme capitalism that characterizes our society (and continues to do so even after the bubble collapse suffered in 2001), and the vast array of prophets that harkens not its desirability (in fact, no one even thinks to argue that the hyper capitalism that has gripped our society is a good thing; they merely assume this as a given) but to its inevitability.  Frank finds all this more than a little nutty and the obvious point of the book is to make us all stand back a bit and reconsider whether this turbo capitalism will truly result in a kind of world that we truly want.<br /><br />Frank brings a number of strengths to the table in this book.  First, he is a fine historian, with a much deeper grasp of trends and developments in American history than is needed for this study.  Second, he is a fabulous writer.  He isn't quite as funny as a comic such as Al Franken, but he is the equal of a Molly Ivins.  So, in addition to being incredibly informative and to being crucial in making us rethink our national goals, it is also a pleasure to read.<br /><br />I'll close with a personal anecdote.  As I was reading this book (which I interrupted to read his more recent and equally superb book, WHAT'S THE MATTER WITH KANSAS?), I mentioned to some friends over Thai food that I was reading a great book by Thomas Frank.  One of my friends remarked, \\"Oh, I had a friend at the U of C who had a brother named Tom Frank.  They roomed together and threw some really great parties.  He edits THE BAFFLER now.\\"  Well, the author of this book is the founder, of course, of THE BAFFLER, and I find it somehow comforting that such a pertinent and morally powerful book was written by someone who knows how to party.ility (in fact, no one even thinks to argue that the hyper capitalism that has gripped our society is a good thing; they merely assume this as a given) but to its inevitability.  Frank finds all this more than a little nutty and the obvious point of the book is to make us all stand back a bit and reconsider whether this turbo capitalism will truly result in a kind of world that we truly want.    Frank brings a number of strengths to the table in this book.  First, he is a fine historian, with a much deeper grasp of trends and developments in American history than is needed for this study.  Second, he is a fabulous writer.  He isn't quite as funny as a comic such as Al Franken, but he is the equal of a Molly Ivins.  So, in addition to being incredibly informative and to being crucial in making us rethink our national goals, it is also a pleasure to read.    I'll close with a personal anecdote.  As I was reading this book (which I interrupted to read his more recent and equally superb book, WHAT'S THE MATTER WITH KANSAS?), I mentioned to some friends over Thai food that I was reading a great book by Thomas Frank.  One of my friends remarked, \\"Oh, I had a friend at the U of C who had a brother named Tom Frank.  They roomed together and threw some really great parties.  He edits THE BAFFLER now.\\"  Well, the author of this book is the founder, of course, of THE BAFFLER, and I find it somehow comforting that such a pertinent and morally powerful book was written by someone who knows how to party.	2004-11-10
461352:US	52048190	R2XE2T3EUTZH94	0140265619	256862045	The Penguin History of Europe	Books	4	94	97	N	N	An excellent survey of European history	At approximately the same time, we were blessed with not one but two single-volume histories of Europe:  one by Norman Davies and this one by J. M. Roberts.  I have read around in the Davies and have completed this one, and I can point out a couple of differences between the two.  One, Davies's history is probably more well rounded and a bit more comprehensive.  This partly stems from its greater length.  On the other hand, Davies is more willing to grind axes (though I have nothing against axe-grinding myself), while Roberts is almost aggressively neutral on most issues.  Roberts simply gives the history as best he can; Davies is apt to brood over the very idea of giving history.  If forced to make a recommendation, I would recommend the Davies over this volume by Roberts.  There is more personality in Davies's book, and while I admire Roberts's evenhandedness, it doesn't help that much in assisting one through a long book.<br /><br />And speaking of long books, why would one want to read such a volume as this?  It is far too short to be adequate as a history of Europe.  Too many things must be mentioned quickly, if at all.  For instance, as a former student of the history of philosophy, I was struck by the fact that everything that Roberts says about Descartes, Montaigne, Locke, Leibniz, Berkeley, Hume, Bacon, Spinoza, Kant, Rousseau, Mill, Kierkegaard, Nietzsche, Wittgenstein, Heidegger, and Sartre could have easily fit onto two pages, with room for an extra paragraph or two.  There is simply no room for depth or detail.  In other words, at best we will get a bird's eye view of the landscape of European history.  All subtlety, all nuances will be indiscernible.  The question reasserts itself:  is there a point to this?<br /><br />I think there is.  I have over the years read pretty extensively in European and American history, but not systematically.  The great thing about a single-volume history is that it allows you to engage in a self-test.  I was, of course, already quite aware that there were many things in European history about which I was ignorant, but this book helped me to learn more precisely what it was that I didn't know.  For instance, I'm dreadfully ill informed on Baltic, Slavic, Polish, and Russian history.  My knowledge of the Habsburgs is spotty.  And my knowledge of European pre-history is practically nonexistent.<br /><br />This is not all.  Not only do you learn what you do not know (thus setting the stage for additional self-education in the future), but also it is great to go over what you do know in a larger context.  I knew a surprising amount about the French religious wars of the 16th century, but reading about them in a larger context brings home an increased sense of how they fit in the scheme of things.  In addition, the book served as a good review for a host of topics, such as the history of Ancient Greece or the Hundred Years War or the years between WW I and WW II.<br /><br />Is this an ideal way of learning European history?  No.  In fact, I would not recommend this book for beginners in the subject at all.  Instead of immediately striving for an overview, I would recommend instead focusing on a particular period that one finds interesting.  Read several books on that first, and then allow oneself to expand.  More than that, you must eventually force yourself to expand.  What happens eventually is that you will have criss-crossed European history to such a degree that your studies will start to connect up with fascinating ways.  The book you have read on WW I will connect with the book by (or about) T. E. Lawrence, which will connect up with a book on the break up of the Ottoman Empire, which will connect up with the book on Byzantine Art.  This way you can gain both breadth and depth on the subject.  Reading Roberts will only gain breadth, and if one is unfamiliar with at least most of the highpoints, it is unlikely to make much of an impact.<br /><br />So, I think this book can be helpful to those with prior familiarity of the subject who want to review what they already know, gain some sense of what they don't know, or get a sense of how the whole thing fits together, but I am not sure that this would be at all a good place for a beginner to go to learn about European history.ook can be helpful to those with prior familiarity of the subject who want to review what they already know, gain some sense of what they don't know, or get a sense of how the whole thing fits together, but I am not sure that this would be at all a good place for a beginner to go to learn about European history.	2004-11-10
462373:US	52048190	RLBW6MRJPZ6WD	1594200335	844238166	The United States of Europe: The New Superpower and the End of American Supremacy	Books	5	79	88	N	N	An eye opening portrait of the new united Europe	Over the past decade I have, like many Americans, been aware of many of the changes that have been taking place in Europe, but unfortunately also like most Americans I have been completely unaware of the magnitude, extent and nature of the changes taken there. Reid's thesis is that the European Union, which could be the fulfillment of Winston Churchill's vision of a United States of Europe, could be poised to become a world superpower to equal or surpass the United States of America. Although Reid does not put it quite this way, if the 20th Century was the American Century, the 21st Century could well be the European Century.<br /><br />Under any consideration, the situation that Reid describes in the European Union that is extremely impressive. In the decades following the destruction of the Second World War, the Europeans have crafted a loosely unified state that has created the world's largest trading bloc, the world's strongest currency, one of the world's largest populations, one of the world's greatest manufacturing bases, and a model network of social structures. As an American, I have long been used to the idea that the United States takes the lead on many of the world's advances, whether economic, political, or moral, but upon reading this book I wonder if we might be lagging rather far behind what is being done in Europe. But it is Europe and not the United States that is planning a trip to visit Mars. It is Europe that is setting the world's standards for safety. It is Europe that has taken the international lead on human rights issues, and has taken the United States to task for a variety of shortcomings in the area, in particular on capital punishment. Europe has far outstripped the United States in the way it has advanced and furthered the well being of its citizens, building a cradle to grave social network system. One wonders, in reading this book, if one is glimpsing the future and realizing that it lies on the other side of the ocean.<br /><br />In reading the book, I kept thinking of Bush's remarks about Europe before the initiation of the invasion of Iraq, trying to strong arm them into joining the U.S. coalition by remarks about the old order of Europe, implying that the United States was on the cutting edge of things. The reverse seems to be the case, with the United States persisting in policies that are rapidly going out of date, with the United States pursuing a wide range of domestic policies that are running against the grain of what is happening in Europe. But with the magnificent health care system in Europe (universal, absolutely first rate, and extremely cheap, all while costing less than half of what the less-than-universal healthcare system of the United States costs), with the widespread protection for workers (e.g., it is illegal to downsize a company and layoffs are prohibited, and if unemployed one does not lose one's health benefits), with the vastly preferable work conditions (European workers have several weeks worth of days off compared to American workers, who tend to work exceedingly long hours for slightly better pay but vastly fewer benefits), it is not a question of whether Americans will want the kind of system put in place there but when. I was nearly incredulous when an online Swedish friend of mine explained that he gets eight weeks of vacation a year (he is in his mid-twenties). I asked how many sick days he got, and he said if you are sick you stay home; he didn't know what I meant by \\"sick days.\\"<br /><br />On top of all this, the European Union is growing rapidly as an economic superpower. Reid is not the first one to argue that it is a matter of time before the standard international currency is no longer the American dollar but the Euro. Again, this isn't a question of if, but when. On a host of issues, it is Europe that sets the rules for international trade. Reid illustrates the slowness with which the U.S. has awoken to this fact by the clumsy and thwarted attempt by Jack Welch and GE to merge with Honeywell.<br /><br />All of this comes at a price, however. Reid details the rather gigantic amount in taxes all Europeans pay for the immense array of benefits they receive, for the extraordinary transportation system they enjoy, for the assurances that workers and the elderly receive, and for the vastly improved infrastructure that provides the foundations for contemporary Europe. They pay value added taxes on most goods at rates up to 17-25%, on top of regular taxes of all sorts. But they very much get in return what they pay for in taxes.<br /><br />This is an eye-opening book, but one can in the end question whether the ascendance of Europe is quite as accomplished as Reid insists. After all, the United States is still the world's most powerful economy, and its massive military has provided the international security (to the West at least) that has made the European miracle possible. But I would respond to such a critic in this fashion: if the world Reid describes doesn't quite exist today, it easily could in the near future. Again, it is more of a \\"when\\" question, not an \\"if\\" question. Reid warns that there is a deep need for the United States to wake up to the changed landscape, to formulate methods of cooperation, to afford Europe the respect it demands, and to realize that they are not the only big boys on the block now. My own concern is that four more years of Bush, an individual who has done a great deal to solidify European self-identity (largely in unified opposition to him as a world leader the intensely loathe), will continue to left a great gap in world leadership, creating a void that Europeans will increasingly fill. In 2000, the United States was the world's leading nation, but in 2008 it is far more likely to be the European Union.<br /><br />There are so many other fascinating things in this book, from the nature of Generation E to the vast mobility of residents (all in a collection of nations that are now passport free and have no checkpoints or guarded borders) to the role of English to the original conception of a united Europe. This truly is a book that all Americans need to read. To quote Jack Welch from the book, those in the U.S. might not like everything in this volume, but \\"This really is just the way the world works now.\\"erge with Honeywell.     All of this comes at a price, however. Reid details the rather gigantic amount in taxes all Europeans pay for the immense array of benefits they receive, for the extraordinary transportation system they enjoy, for the assurances that workers and the elderly receive, and for the vastly improved infrastructure that provides the foundations for contemporary Europe. They pay value added taxes on most goods at rates up to 17-25%, on top of regular taxes of all sorts. But they very much get in return what they pay for in taxes.     This is an eye-opening book, but one can in the end question whether the ascendance of Europe is quite as accomplished as Reid insists. After all, the United States is still the world's most powerful economy, and its massive military has provided the international security (to the West at least) that has made the European miracle possible. But I would respond to such a critic in this fashion: if the world Reid describes doesn't quite exist today, it easily could in the near future. Again, it is more of a \\"when\\" question, not an \\"if\\" question. Reid warns that there is a deep need for the United States to wake up to the changed landscape, to formulate methods of cooperation, to afford Europe the respect it demands, and to realize that they are not the only big boys on the block now. My own concern is that four more years of Bush, an individual who has done a great deal to solidify European self-identity (largely in unified opposition to him as a world leader the intensely loathe), will continue to left a great gap in world leadership, creating a void that Europeans will increasingly fill. In 2000, the United States was the world's leading nation, but in 2008 it is far more likely to be the European Union.     There are so many other fascinating things in this book, from the nature of Generation E to the vast mobility of residents (all in a collection of nations that are now passport free and have no checkpoints or guardedborders) to the role of English to the original conception of a united Europe. This truly is a book that all Americans need to read. To quote Jack Welch from the book, those in the U.S. might not like everything in this volume, but \\"This really is just the way the world works now.\\"	2004-11-09
467556:US	52048190	R3AJY9XDUOHHZQ	0316735612	33880633	Secrets of the Tomb: Skull and Bones, the Ivy League, and the Hidden Paths of Power	Books	3	6	9	N	Y	Performs an important public service	Paradoxically, SECRETS OF THE TOMB performs an important service by being only marginally interesting.  How is this possible?  Over the years many conspiracy theorists have seen in any of a number of organizations a devious nefariousness that threatens the commonweal and the basis for society.  Many have spoken of the Yale secret society Skull and Bones in the same way they have of the Illuminati or the Trilateral Commission, as a group that has conspired to enrich themselves by coordinating the efforts of the group's members.  In this, which is by far the best-researched, most sober book that has appeared on the subject, Skull and Bones emerges as a moderately interesting organization that taps many of Yale's more promising students for what is essentially a networking outfit.  Perhaps it is better funded than other clubs, and it certainly has a more impressive roster of members than perhaps any other organization, but in the end it is simply a club:  it is not a cabal.<br /><br />Unfortunately, deflating the myth about Skull and Bones makes for surprisingly flat and uninteresting reading.  I attended grad school at Yale, so I perhaps found many part centered on aspects of life at Yale more interesting to some, but I think most will find this book to be a bit on the dull side.  Writing of a conspiracy among the rich and powerful would have been more interesting, but it would have promoted a bad myth.  The sections dealing with the rituals that take place in the crypt are, I suppose, important in detailing what happens there and refuting many of the myths, but personally I find it not of much moment to read of a new recruit bending on his knee and kissing a foot that is resting on a skull, or learning that a bell is rung twice rather than once or thrice.<br /><br />The sections dealing with the rituals of Skull and Bones are the least interesting parts of the book, those dealing with the network of members the most interesting.  I also benefited from reading the early sections of the book, which cover the history of secret societies at Yale.  And who isn't interested in discovering who is a member.<br /><br />So, in the end do I recommend this?  I suppose it depends.  It is not really of great general interest.  Someone who is interested in the history of secret organizations will find it required reading.  Those interested in conspiracy theories, especially in debunking conspiracy theories, will find it necessary.  Also, those concerned with the history of the most influential Americans of the twentieth century will find it of more than peripheral interest.  It can serve as a useful adjunct to books such as Walter Isaacson and Evan Thomas's THE WISE MEN:  SIX FRIENDS AND THE WORLD THEY MADE.<br /><br />On a purely personal note, I did find myself constantly remembering the tomb in which Skull and Bones meets from the day I had a traffic accident on the corner where it is situated when another car ran a red light in the rather confusing traffic signal arrangement they had in the 1980s (and perhaps even now).  But I'm afraid that is the extent of my own association with Skull and Bones.the book, which cover the history of secret societies at Yale.  And who isn't interested in discovering who is a member.    So, in the end do I recommend this?  I suppose it depends.  It is not really of great general interest.  Someone who is interested in the history of secret organizations will find it required reading.  Those interested in conspiracy theories, especially in debunking conspiracy theories, will find it necessary.  Also, those concerned with the history of the most influential Americans of the twentieth century will find it of more than peripheral interest.  It can serve as a useful adjunct to books such as Walter Isaacson and Evan Thomas's THE WISE MEN:  SIX FRIENDS AND THE WORLD THEY MADE.    On a purely personal note, I did find myself constantly remembering the tomb in which Skull and Bones meets from the day I had a traffic accident on the corner where it is situated when another car ran a red light in the rather confusing traffic signal arrangement they had in the 1980s (and perhaps even now).  But I'm afraid that is the extent of my own association with Skull and Bones.	2004-11-04
467975:US	52048190	R2INOONDWJ3EXO	0805073396	564190816	What's the Matter with Kansas? How Conservatives Won the Heart of America	Books	5	162	186	N	Y	An insightful analysis of contemporary American politics	This is one of the most insightful analyses of the contemporary political scene in the United States that I have read.  I am writing this on the morning following a presidential election whose outcome is probably going to baffle a host of well informed, issue-oriented Americans for sometime.  Thomas Frank, however, provides marvelous keys for understanding what has transpired, and also should provide some warnings to Democrats concerning how the political landscape has been transformed in recent decades.<br /><br />Frank wants to explain a dilemma.  On the one hand, the Republican Party has embraced a set of policies and enacted a wide range of legislation that hurts most Americans economically and provides a benefit to only a very small segment of the American population.  Statistics provided by the Fed and the IRS have documented over the past twenty-five years a sharp and dramatic concentration of wealth in the upper one percent of the population.  For instance, in 1979 20% of the national wealth as defined by the Federal Reserve was concentrated in the top 1%, while in 1997 39% was, and with the three rounds of Bush tax cuts focused on primarily benefiting the wealth and our largest corporations, it is not hard to imagine that that figure might have climbed to 45% or higher.  And yet Americans continue to vote for members of a party that seems to be dedicated to intensifying that trend (a large number in the GOP are now talking about a national sales tax and eliminating the income tax-as opposed to Europe, which has a value added tax but also a tax on the wealthy, which is not what is being suggested here-which would dramatically increase this shift of wealth away from the middle class).  How is this possible?<br /><br />By examining the political scene in his home state of Kansas, Frank is able to show how Republicans have managed to attract a vast segment of the American population by fomenting culture wars, by fixating millions on issues that resonate deeply such as abortion, gun rights, gay rights, defense of marriage amendments, nonexistent religious persecution (as seen in the absurd GOP letters mailed in Arkansas, West Virginia, and elsewhere that if Kerry were elected the Bible would be banned), and similar issues.  Despite the fact that the GOP actually passes no legislation related to any of these cultural concerns, and despite the fact that what the party actually does is pass a great deal of legislation that continues the concentration of the national wealth in the hands of a conservative economic elite, these cultural wedge issues have been deployed repeatedly to get people across America to vote against their own best interests.<br /><br />For me the most striking pages in the book come near the end when Frank talks about the problems that the Democrats have caused themselves by ascribing more and more to the policies set forth by the Democratic Leadership Council (the DLC).  These Democrats have attempted to move the Democratic Party further and further from its base in ordinary workers, and more and more to a pro-business stance.  The result has been that on economic matters, the Democrats look more and more like Republicans.  As Michael Lind in his insightful book UP FROM CONSERVATIVISM has pointed out, Americans tend to be conservative on social and cultural issues, and liberal on economic matters.  But Frank points out that by moving to a conservative position on economic issues, they have lost their one great point of contact with the American masses.  Millions of Americans, faced with a Democratic party that no longer has anything unique to offer them on economic issues, have shifted sharply over to a Republican party that at least speaks to their cultural and social concerns.  In short, the DLC is a recipe for disaster.  As leading Democrats who espouse DLC principals like Joe Lieberman and Hillary Clinton continue to push an economic agenda built around the concerns of business rather than working class Americans, we can expect Republicans to continue to prosper in the future.  Frank argues, and I think he is correct, that it will only be when the Democrats recover their populist economic roots that they will reverse the trend of the past two elections.  I hope that Frank's next book is devoted entirely to this issue.  The Democrats need a wake up call, and while this book partially achieves that by explaining the success of the Republican Party, I think we also need one that explains more explicitly the failures of the Democrats.<br /><br />This is a must-read book for everyone interested in politics in America, whether from the left or right.  Though Frank is a leftist, those on the right will gain additional insight into why their side has achieved much of their success, while those on the other side can start understanding why so much of America votes to further policies that are so detrimental to their own well being.rking class Americans, we can expect Republicans to continue to prosper in the future.  Frank argues, and I think he is correct, that it will only be when the Democrats recover their populist economic roots that they will reverse the trend of the past two elections.  I hope that Frank's next book is devoted entirely to this issue.  The Democrats need a wake up call, and while this book partially achieves that by explaining the success of the Republican Party, I think we also need one that explains more explicitly the failures of the Democrats.   <br /> <br />This is a must-read book for everyone interested in politics in America, whether from the left or right.  Though Frank is a leftist, those on the right will gain additional insight into why their side has achieved much of their success, while those on the other side can start understanding why so much of America votes to further policies that are so detrimental to their own well being.	2004-11-03
469984:US	52048190	R3HW5W0HZHL86I	0192875221	386936351	Montaigne (Past Masters)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A splendid brief introduction to Montaigne	This is a wonderful brief introduction to Montaigne's thought and writings, and it is a shame that it is currently out of print.  Oxford University Press has been taking a number of the volumes in the defunct Past Masters Series and bringing them out in their replacement series:  Brief Introductions.  I prefer the new series because the books are printed on a much higher grade of paper, have superb bindings, feature updated bibliographies (for the former Past Masters books), and attractive illustrations.  MONTAIGNE is one of the books that needs to be reprised on the new series.<br /><br />In only 80 pages, Peter Burke manages to provide a lucid yet surprisingly comprehensive introduction to the main streams in Montaigne's thought.  Of the major writers, Montaigne is simultaneously one of the most accessible and the most opaque.  Methodologically, an essay by Montaigne frequently reminds me of an episode of THE SIMPSONS.  We might start off with Homer and the family going to a shopping mall but it could end up actually being about anything else in the world.  In the same way, Montaigne might start talking about coaches, but will end up talking about inhabitants in the newly explored continent of South America.  An essay on Virgil is actually a discussion of sex.  An essay on the island of Cea quickly transforms into a discussion of suicide.<br /><br />Burke tries to get at the key themes in Montaigne's ESSAYS by exploring certain themes in his work, namely his humanism, his scepticism and his views on religion, politics, psychology, history, and aesthetics, as well as his role as an ethnographer.  Best of all, he simultaneously paves the way for reading Montaigne by clarifying what he goals as a writer were, while generating in his reader the desire to pick up Montaigne and read for himself.  To be fair, this is hardly a difficult task, since Montaigne is one of the most accessible of the sixteenth century writers.  He writes always with an air of unaffectedness, and a refreshing openness to all kinds of ideas.  For a devout Catholic, Montaigne was astonishingly undogmatic and within the bounds of Church teaching capable of expressing amazingly adventurous ideas.  But most of all it is for the loveliness of Montaigne's personality as revealed in his essays that we love reading him.  Montaigne claimed that his essays contained himself, and most of his students agree that we get more of Montaigne than we get in most authors of self-exploration.  I've read elsewhere that Montaigne is surely one of the most likable writers in the history of literature.  We get to know him as we read him, and we like the person we have gotten to know.<br /><br />Montaigne is a writer far too neglected.  We find in him a degree of tolerance that stands out starkly in an age of intolerance, which is an object lesson for us today as we live ourselves in an age of growing religious and political intolerance.  Reading Montaigne remains one of the greatest cures for cultural myopia and ethnocentricity ever concocted.  On a practical level, however, just picking up the ESSAYS and plowing into them can be a daunting undertaking.  I hope that Oxford will rectify the near complete absence of in-print introductions to Montaigne by making this excellent little volume available once more.ness, and a refreshing openness to all kinds of ideas.  For a devout Catholic, Montaigne was astonishingly undogmatic and within the bounds of Church teaching capable of expressing amazingly adventurous ideas.  But most of all it is for the loveliness of Montaigne's personality as revealed in his essays that we love reading him.  Montaigne claimed that his essays contained himself, and most of his students agree that we get more of Montaigne than we get in most authors of self-exploration.  I've read elsewhere that Montaigne is surely one of the most likable writers in the history of literature.  We get to know him as we read him, and we like the person we have gotten to know. <br /> <br />Montaigne is a writer far too neglected.  We find in him a degree of tolerance that stands out starkly in an age of intolerance, which is an object lesson for us today as we live ourselves in an age of growing religious and political intolerance.  Reading Montaigne remains one of the greatest cures for cultural myopia and ethnocentricity ever concocted.  On a practical level, however, just picking up the ESSAYS and plowing into them can be a daunting undertaking.  I hope that Oxford will rectify the near complete absence of in-print introductions to Montaigne by making this excellent little volume available once more.	2004-11-01
479648:US	52048190	R3LN12LQGX9G5C	0226470830	23416312	The Birth of Purgatory	Books	5	36	36	N	Y	Masterful survey of the theological development of Purgatory	I don't want to quibble with the previous reviewer about what Le Goff's actual aims in writing this book were, or whether he should be penalized for not completely fulfilling his goals.  But I will insist that this is a extraordinarily fascinating and highly successful survey of the gradual development of the idea of purgatory from the earliest wonderings about the relation between the Christian dead and the problems of purification of sin and the effects of the prayers of the living on the fate of the dead.  Indeed, in all of this he succeeds remarkably.  I'm not sure why the previous reviewer would imagine more than this would even be possible.  There is a remarkable lack of primary and archival resources to make such a project possible.  Even in tracing the theology, there are several centuries for which there is little evidence to assess.  My own belief is that Le Goff has succeeded as well as we could ever hope for someone to do so in such a difficult concept.<br /><br />The account falls into two rather uneven parts.  Le Goff spends much time on the prehistory of the idea of purgatory, focusing on such \\"fathers\\" of purgatory as Clement of Alexandria, Origin, and especially Augustine.  The story is a complex one, and I will not attempt to rehearse it here.  The significant thing to point out is that from the period of Augustine there was remarkably little development of the idea of purgatory until the 12th century, when the Scholastics and other theologians resurrected the issues that had troubled Augustine and others and came to a general consensus on them.<br /><br />Most remarkably, even after the Scholastics had developed the concepts and the Church had decided on the actuality of purgatory, purgatory did not achieve the kind of concreteness that it possessed in the centuries that followed and continued well into the 19th century (the idea of purgatory not being a particularly vibrant one today) until Dante wrote the second part of his COMEDY, in which Dante is led through purgatory by Virgil.  Incredibly, it was this creative work of fiction and not the theologians or the Church that solidified in the imaginations of medieval Christians the notion of purgatory.  Le Goff shows that until the time when Dante wrote the PURGATORY in the early 14th century, there was surprisingly little consensus about the nature of purgatory. After Dante, however, there would be a widespread consensus on the details concerning purgatory. Surely this is one of the few instances in church history where a creative artist bears the primary credit for theological dogma (I should add Catholic dogma, since protestants have never believed in the existence of purgatory). For instance, before Dante there was debate about where purgatory was located. In this world? In a section of hell? As an antechamber of paradise? Dante states that it is a place on earth, in the southern hemisphere, at the precise opposite of Jerusalem. What was the physical constitution of purgatory? Dante depicts it as an extraordinarily high peak (in fact, the highest mountain on earth) on an island, consisting of an ante-purgatory at the base, seven levels or terraces with an earthly paradise at the summit. Theologians had debated how long souls would reside in purgatory, many holding that they would remain until the final judgment. Dante depicts a process of limited duration, possibly extending to the final judgment, but far more likely ending before then. Before Dante, most conceived purgation taking place by fire, but Dante describes a variety of punishments depending on the type of sin, with fire reserved exclusively for the sin of lust. Many had debated whether purgation would take place with the assistance of demons or angels, but Dante clearly depicts benevolent angels aiding souls in their purification. Similarly, many wondered if purgatory could be better conceived as more closely akin to hell or paradise, but Dante unquestionably links it more closely with the latter, in that once one is in purgatory, one is on the path to paradise. Most importantly, prior theologians had conceived purgatory as a place where minor, unimportant sins were purged, and definitely not the major sins. But Dante conceives of purgatory as a place where only the mortal sins are purged, the seven levels dealing with pride, envy, wrath, sloth, avarice, gluttony, and lust in succession. Minor sins don't even show up on his moral radar.<br /><br />I think this remarkable book will be of great interest to those working in a number of areas.  The appeal to historians of Christian (and especially Catholic, since protestants do not believe in purgatory) thought is obvious, but it will be of great interest to intellectual historians working in the medieval period.  I can, however, scarcely over emphasize the importance of this book for readers of Dante, which is what brought me to the book.  I read it for the background that it could provide for the intellectual underpinnings of Dante's PURGATORY, and I can't imagine a more perfect book for this purpose.  Anyone working through Dante will benefit enormously from reading this excellent volume.  I will only add that for such a scholarly study, I found it to be a remarkably fast read.  It certainly isn't a page-turner, but I can't imagine a well read individual getting bogged down.e latter, in that once one is in purgatory, one is on the path to paradise. Most importantly, prior theologians had conceived purgatory as a place where minor, unimportant sins were purged, and definitely not the major sins. But Dante conceives of purgatory as a place where only the mortal sins are purged, the seven levels dealing with pride, envy, wrath, sloth, avarice, gluttony, and lust in succession. Minor sins don't even show up on his moral radar.  <br /> <br />I think this remarkable book will be of great interest to those working in a number of areas.  The appeal to historians of Christian (and especially Catholic, since protestants do not believe in purgatory) thought is obvious, but it will be of great interest to intellectual historians working in the medieval period.  I can, however, scarcely over emphasize the importance of this book for readers of Dante, which is what brought me to the book.  I read it for the background that it could provide for the intellectual underpinnings of Dante's PURGATORY, and I can't imagine a more perfect book for this purpose.  Anyone working through Dante will benefit enormously from reading this excellent volume.  I will only add that for such a scholarly study, I found it to be a remarkably fast read.  It certainly isn't a page-turner, but I can't imagine a well read individual getting bogged down.	2004-10-24
486520:US	52048190	R2Y874OC34F627	055321344X	435749611	Purgatorio (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A masterful blend of poetry and theological innovation	Dante's PURGATORY often fails to receive the appreciation accorded INFERNO or even PARADISE.  The reasons are easy to see.  Unlike the fascinating tour of hell, the denizens of Mount Purgatory lack the tragic dimensions of those found in the nether regions.  Yes, they are suffering, but overall their situation is one for them to be happy about, since they clearly are marked for eventually reaching paradise.  Their scenario contains infinitely more good news than bad news.  Also, there are few passages in this work that can compare with such highpoints in INFERNO as the tales of Francesca or Ulysses.<br /><br />Nonetheless, this is probably the most original of the three parts of Dante's COMEDY, and the one that has exerted the most actual theological influence.  For that reason alone is essential reading.  Nor is the work without considerable literary merit.  The fact is that it is only dull in comparison with the extraordinary masterpiece that preceded it.  Though sedate compared to its predecessor, the book contains a host of fascinating and brilliant details.<br /><br />The historical importance of this work can scarcely be overestimated.  Ideas about purgatory had been developing slowly over the millennium preceding the 12th century, and when Dante was writing PURGATORY in the early 14th century, there was surprisingly little consensus about the nature of purgatory.  After Dante, however, there would be a widespread consensus on the details concerning purgatory.  In this way, Dante exerted as much influence on the conception of purgatory as any of the theologians.  Surely this is one of the few instances in church history where a creative artist bears the primary credit for theological dogma (I should add Catholic dogma, since protestants have never believed in the existence of purgatory).  For instance, before Dante there was debate about where purgatory was located.  In this world?  In a section of hell?  As an antechamber of paradise?  Dante states that it is a place on earth, in the southern hemisphere, at the precise opposite of Jerusalem.  What was the physical constitution of purgatory?  Dante depicts it as an extraordinarily high peak (in fact, the highest mountain on earth) on an island, consisting of an ante-purgatory at the base, seven levels or terraces (hence the title of Thomas Merton's remarkable autobiography, THE SEVEN STORY MOUNTAIN), with an earthly paradise at the summit.  Theologians had debated how long souls would reside in purgatory, many holding that they would remain until the final judgment.  Dante depicts a process of limited duration, possibly extending to the final judgment, but far more likely ending before then.  Before Dante, most conceived purgation taking place by fire, but Dante describes a variety of punishments depending on the type of sin, with fire reserved exclusively for the sin of lust.  Many had debated whether purgation would take place with the assistance of demons or angels, but Dante clearly depicts benevolent angels aiding souls in their purification.  Similarly, many wondered if purgatory could be better conceived as more closely akin to hell or paradise, but Dante unquestionably links it more closely with the latter, in that once one is in purgatory, one is on the path to paradise.  Most importantly, prior theologians had conceived purgatory as a place where minor, unimportant sins were purged, and definitely not the major sins.  But Dante conceives of purgatory as a place where only the mortal sins are purged, the seven levels dealing with pride, envy, wrath, sloth, avarice, gluttony, and lust in succession.  Minor sins don't even show up on his moral radar.  Before Dante, purgatory is a vaguely conceived place, but after this work it is vividly imagined.<br /><br />As in his translation of INFERNO, Mandelbaum provides a beautiful and highly readable translation of Dante.  We are lucky to have many superb translations of Dante in English, but this is clearly among the very best, and in fact might be for many readers the translation of choice.  Certainly it has few if any rivals for both accuracy and beauty.  One can obtain it either in this trade paperback edition or in a beautiful one-volume edition published by Everyman, containing all three parts of the COMEDY, though without the Italian text.the very best, and in fact might be for many readers the translation of choice.  Certainly it has few if any rivals for both accuracy and beauty.  One can obtain it either in this trade paperback edition or in a beautiful one-volume edition published by Everyman, containing all three parts of the COMEDY, though without the Italian text.	2004-10-18
487581:US	52048190	RSPG3D7PUST0B	1932100334	528109603	Five Seasons Of Angel: Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers Discuss Their Favorite Vampire (Smart Pop series)	Books	5	61	62	N	Y	The first anthology on ANGEL is a superb one	Although BUFFY THE VAMPIRE has already received the anthology treatment four different times (with at least one more on the way), ANGEL has been singularly ignored by publishers.  Sure, there are official viewing guides, some of them (especially the one by Kenneth Topping) excellent, but this isn't the same as getting a host of unofficial takes on the show.  And to judge by the collections of essays, the folks who do the best job of writing about the show are writers, not academics or scholars (even though my own background is aggressively scholarly and oppressively academic).  It isn't surprising that the best anthology on BUFFY is SEVEN SEASONS OF BUFFY, edited by the same Glenn Yeffeth who edited this new ANGEL collection, nor surprising that this volume happily comes up to the same high standards of that volume.<br /><br />The great problem with anthologies is that they are of necessity uneven.  Some essays are simply going to be better than others.  Luckily, there are virtually no truly weak essays in FIVE SEASONS OF ANGEL, and a number of very strong ones.  The twenty-one essays overlap to some degree, conflict with one another from time to time, sometimes cover subjects that I would have preferred left uncovered, and take up most, if not all, of the potential themes of the show.  No one who loves ANGEL can fail to find this collection utterly fascinating, and no fan will fail to gain new insights into the show's characters and storylines.  I was grateful that Conner, my least favorite show got scant mention, and saddened that more was not done with both Fred and her transition into Illyria (a plot line that contained scads of potential for the Season Six that was not to be, a season in which producer Jeff Bell revealed that Willow as to guest star and cast a spell that would allow what remained of Fred to escape from within Illyria, allowing Amy Acker to play a permanent double role).<br /><br />I hesitate to start mentioning specific essays, for most are quite good.  Dan Kerns, who was the Gaffer on ANGEL for the final three years and the Best Boy for the first two, brings a host of fascinating behind-the-scenes details in a highly humorous fashion.  Nancy Holder has a great essay on how Spike on the final season of ANGEL differed from his previous incarnations on BUFFY.  I'll mention only two more.  I belong to those who believe that as much as Angel, Cordelia was the thematic heart of the show, in that she showed how even shallow, petty, and self-absorbed people can fulfill their potential and become not only good but genuinely heroic.  I also believe that the dismantling of her character at the end of Season Three, its bizarre transformation in Season Four, and nonuse in Season Five (except for a wonderful one episode reappearance).  I understand that some real world issues entered into her being written out of the show, but that doesn't lessen her essentiality in the show.  Laura Anne Gilman gets at the heart of her story in her essay on Cordy entitled \\"True Shanshu.\\"  And Jennifer Crusie expresses sentiments precisely like my own (hunt down my old reviews of the ANGEL DVDs if you doubt me) in \\"The Assassination of Cordelia Chase.\\"<br /><br />The only two things that I really miss in the collection are an essay that deals with the character of Gunn, who was to me always one of the most underutilized characters on the show, and a lot more on Fred/Illyria.  Some might complain of the absence of material on Connor, but for me that is one of the strengths and not one of the weaknesses of the collection.<br /><br />Any BUFFY or ANGEL fan is going to love this collection.  While there is now only one anthology dealing with ANGEL (a situation that will hopefully change), at least it is a good oen.re quite good.  Dan Kerns, who was the Gaffer on ANGEL for the final three years and the Best Boy for the first two, brings a host of fascinating behind-the-scenes details in a highly humorous fashion.  Nancy Holder has a great essay on how Spike on the final season of ANGEL differed from his previous incarnations on BUFFY.  I'll mention only two more.  I belong to those who believe that as much as Angel, Cordelia was the thematic heart of the show, in that she showed how even shallow, petty, and self-absorbed people can fulfill their potential and become not only good but genuinely heroic.  I also believe that the dismantling of her character at the end of Season Three, its bizarre transformation in Season Four, and nonuse in Season Five (except for a wonderful one episode reappearance).  I understand that some real world issues entered into her being written out of the show, but that doesn't lessen her essentiality in the show.  Laura Anne Gilman gets at the heart of her story in her essay on Cordy entitled \\"True Shanshu.\\"  And Jennifer Crusie expresses sentiments precisely like my own (hunt down my old reviews of the ANGEL DVDs if you doubt me) in \\"The Assassination of Cordelia Chase.\\" <br /> <br />The only two things that I really miss in the collection are an essay that deals with the character of Gunn, who was to me always one of the most underutilized characters on the show, and a lot more on Fred/Illyria.  Some might complain of the absence of material on Connor, but for me that is one of the strengths and not one of the weaknesses of the collection. <br /> <br />Any BUFFY or ANGEL fan is going to love this collection.  While there is now only one anthology dealing with ANGEL (a situation that will hopefully change), at least it is a good oen.	2004-10-17
493041:US	52048190	R2X7AO9T6NLULM	0375701451	662686980	The Zebra-Striped Hearse (Vintage Crime/Black Lizard)	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Another stellar novel in a spectacular series	The bad news about this wonderful novel is that it is not Ross MacDonald at his very best.  The good news is that it is still far better than most mystery novels that have been written.  Of the three great masters of the American hardboiled detective novel, MacDonald never achieved the brilliant prose style of Hammett and Chandler, but neither of those two came close to the meditations on the vagaries of the human soul that MacDonald made his subject over and again.  All of MacDonald's novels deal with the consequences of original sin, of an evil that seems to be greater than any individual human being, an evil that constantly threatens to overwhelm human beings when they least anticipate it.  Frequently, we discover in MacDonald that, as in the Old Testament, the sins of the fathers have been visited on the second and third generations.  Often in his novels, the roots of the crimes of the present lay twenty or thirty or forty years in the past.  In this novel, Lew Archer at one points explains to his client, \\"The past is the key to the present,\\" thus stating explicitly one of the fundamental principles underlying all of MacDonald's fiction.  Ironically this novel extends less into the pass than almost any of his other novels.  One of his truly great novels such as the incomparable THE CHILL or THE INSTANT ENEMY will extend decades into the past, which MacDonald brilliantly links to the present.  Often one gets the sense that MacDonald's is revealing the secret history of his character's lives.  This one does as well, but instead of going forty years into the past, he goes merely a few years.<br /><br />I loved the locales of the novel.  Although I wish he physically described the areas Archer visits, MacDonald was always more of an ethicist than a sociologist.  He was always less interested in communities and the way society worked than in the way that humans worked and how the decisions they make ripple down through the lives of other human beings.  Thus he visits Lake Tahoe, but there is a kind of timelessness to the area he described.  In reading Chandler, on the other hand, there is often a deep consciousness of the character and nature of the places where the stories occur.  These technique benefits both authors, by providing a concreteness to Chandler's stories that is often missing in MacDonald's, while lending a sense of timelessness to MacDonald that is impossible in Chandler.  Most hardboiled writers have tended to follow more in Hammett and Chandler's footsteps than MacDonald's, though James Ellroy is one notable exception.<br /><br />Though this is not one of MacDonald's best novels, it is still exceptionally enjoyable.  It is also one of his least typical.  Some people survive you anticipate meeting violent ends (the body count for his central characters is usually quite high).  As always, he unrolls his plot skillfully.  The characters are all vividly drawn.  And unlike many of his other novels, there is more than one unexpected twist at the end.  This is as fine a place as any for any newcomer to MacDonald to start, and any MacDonald veteran who has not read it certainly should.  It may not contain the glories of his great masterpiece THE CHILL (which more than one critic of the genre considers to be the supreme novel of the entire detective genre), but it is nonetheless a very fine book.ts Lake Tahoe, but there is a kind of timelessness to the area he described.  In reading Chandler, on the other hand, there is often a deep consciousness of the character and nature of the places where the stories occur.  These technique benefits both authors, by providing a concreteness to Chandler's stories that is often missing in MacDonald's, while lending a sense of timelessness to MacDonald that is impossible in Chandler.  Most hardboiled writers have tended to follow more in Hammett and Chandler's footsteps than MacDonald's, though James Ellroy is one notable exception.   <br /> <br />Though this is not one of MacDonald's best novels, it is still exceptionally enjoyable.  It is also one of his least typical.  Some people survive you anticipate meeting violent ends (the body count for his central characters is usually quite high).  As always, he unrolls his plot skillfully.  The characters are all vividly drawn.  And unlike many of his other novels, there is more than one unexpected twist at the end.  This is as fine a place as any for any newcomer to MacDonald to start, and any MacDonald veteran who has not read it certainly should.  It may not contain the glories of his great masterpiece THE CHILL (which more than one critic of the genre considers to be the supreme novel of the entire detective genre), but it is nonetheless a very fine book.	2004-10-12
495245:US	52048190	R38VZPJ8L4KZGP	0679433139	740001827	The Divine Comedy: Inferno; Purgatorio; Paradiso (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	323	331	N	Y	Possibly the best one-volume edition of Dante in English	This Everyman edition of Allen Mandelbaum's superb translation of Dante's DIVINE COMEDY is my favorite one-volume edition currently in print in English.  There are many very, very good things to say about this translation and edition.  First and perhaps foremost, it contains Mandelbaum's remarkable translation of Dante, a translation often noted for being the best compromise between poetic rhythm, beauty, and accuracy.  Of recent translations, the only one that I like as much as Mandelbaum's is Pinsky's great translation of the INFERNO, but unfortunately he has not, as has Mandelbaum, gone on to translate the entirety of Dante's masterpiece.  Though Pinsky's translation is renowned for following the terza rima rhyme pattern, it actually reads more like a prose translation, primarily because he observes no meter for each line (Dante's original has eleven syllables per line, precisely like Shakespeare's famous line, \\"To be or not to be, that is the question\\").  Mandelbaum observes neither meter nor rhyme, but I personally find more of a poetic concentration of language than one finds in Pinsky.  Most of all, Mandelbaum's translation is, like Pinsky's, highly readable and extremely dynamic.  Until and if Pinsky completes his translation, Mandelbaum is likely to remain my favorite translation of Dante in English (though happily there are a host of very good translations, including those by Huse, Sinclair, and Singleton).<br /><br />The volume is remarkably attractive, with a lovely dust jacket (not shown in the Amazon book photo), covers wrapped in cloth, non-acidic, nonreflective paper, and a ribbon bookmark.  Also, the volume features a large number of Botticelli's illustrations of Dante, which obviously adds immensely to its value and its attractiveness.  Also enhancing the volume's value is the marvelous introductory essay by Eugenio Montale and the comprehensive notes by Peter Armour.  The only conceivable criticism of this volume is the absence of the Italian original, but that is not to be too regretted since its presence would have required so many additional pages that it would have been an unwieldy and unusable volume.  One can get the Mandelbaum translation in either mass market paperback or hardback editions featuring each part with facing Italian.<br /><br />The final thing to note is that one gets all these features in what is a very reasonably priced volume.  I think for most readers of Dante, this is going to be the single volume of choice.  Indeed, unless one especially wants the Italian text facing the English, this might be the edition of choice under any circumstances.  The one edition that is clearly the supreme edition of Dante in English, that of Charles Singleton published by Princeton, is simply too expensive for all but the most serious readers of Dante.  I will merely add that this is probably one of my favorite editions of any classic in my personal library.  Obviously, I strongly recommend this version to anyone contemplating either reading or rereading Dante.iginal, but that is not to be too regretted since its presence would have required so many additional pages that it would have been an unwieldy and unusable volume.  One can get the Mandelbaum translation in either mass market paperback or hardback editions featuring each part with facing Italian.   <br /> <br />The final thing to note is that one gets all these features in what is a very reasonably priced volume.  I think for most readers of Dante, this is going to be the single volume of choice.  Indeed, unless one especially wants the Italian text facing the English, this might be the edition of choice under any circumstances.  The one edition that is clearly the supreme edition of Dante in English, that of Charles Singleton published by Princeton, is simply too expensive for all but the most serious readers of Dante.  I will merely add that this is probably one of my favorite editions of any classic in my personal library.  Obviously, I strongly recommend this version to anyone contemplating either reading or rereading Dante.	2004-10-09
495247:US	52048190	R1VFYGH3EK7AXL	0764804944	40174481	A Modern Reader's Guide to Dante's The Divine Comedy	Books	5	203	203	N	Y	Arguably the finest intro to Dante in English	For the reader tackling Dante for the very first time, this might be the best book currently available.  Though targeted at first time readers, this can also be helpful for those who need to review all the seemingly endless names the permeated the COMEDY on a second reading.  There are three primary reasons that I so strongly recommend Gallagher's guide.  First, it is geared to make Dante as accessible as possible without in any way trivializing or tritely popularizing the text.  Second, for Gallagher reading Dante is not merely a question of spiritual devotion or literary adoration, but flat out fun.  Reading Dante is and ought to be recognized as above all else flat out fun.  Gallagher's enthusiasm and enjoyment of Dante pours out at every point.  Third, although not geared to scholars, the book nonetheless was obviously written with an exceptional knowledge of the scholarly studies of the work, which is to say:  the book is academically quite solid.<br /><br />The book is arranged both simply and logically.  First, after a foreword recommending the work by the most recent dean of Dante studies in the United States, John Freccero, and a preface by the author himself, Gallagher starts off with a series of questions that he anticipates any novice reader might have in approaching the text for the first time.  By eliminating the connecting narrative and structure that this information would need if presented in essay form, Gallagher is able to compress a significant amount of helpful information in a very small amount of space.  He then proceeds to provide a canto-by-canto commentary for each part of the COMEDY.  He first discusses the action of each canto, and then makes a series of random comments on various aspects of the canto.  The book concludes with a brief but helpful discussion of Dante's other surviving works and a bibliography.<br /><br />For anyone wanting to read Dante for the first time, I recommend Gallagher's reader's guide above all other beginner's tools.  Dante is not, as is often supposed, an especially difficult writer (with the caveat that there is much in Dante that remains impenetrable or mysterious for even lifelong scholars), but there are many mistakes that one starting off in Dante can easily make that can complicate reading him.  There is also a confusing array of political characters, and while this in the long run is less of a problem than a beginner might imagine, Gallagher will serve as a reliable guide who will help the neophyte avoid many hazards and will point out many of the glories of Dante's great work.'s tools.  Dante is not, as is often supposed, an especially difficult writer (with the caveat that there is much in Dante that remains impenetrable or mysterious for even lifelong scholars), but there are many mistakes that one starting off in Dante can easily make that can complicate reading him.  There is also a confusing array of political characters, and while this in the long run is less of a problem than a beginner might imagine, Gallagher will serve as a reliable guide who will help the neophyte avoid many hazards and will point out many of the glories of Dante's great work.	2004-10-09
501790:US	52048190	R1YZWTOBWP9L5B	0192838830	61570983	The Consolation of Philosophy (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	100	101	N	Y	Remains vital after fifteen hundred years	The particular edition I am reviewing is the Oxford World's Classics translation by P. G. Walsh.<br /><br />This is one of those classics that can catch an unsuspecting reader completely by surprise, especially if one has read many other works by near contemporaries.  The circumstances under which it was composed are legendary, and lend the work a legitimacy granted to few other works.  Boethius was among the foremost government officials in what was essentially the successor government to the end of the Roman Empire.  Rome and much of the rest of what would later become Italy was under the control of the Ostrogoth king Theodoric.  A product of one of the leading Roman familes, Boethius ascended to a power of great honor and authority under Theodoric, only to be accused of treason late in the latter's life, at which point Boethius was imprisoned and condemned to death.  While awaiting his fate (including whether Theodoric actually intended on carrying out the sentence), Boethius wrote this remarkable dialog between a prisoner whose situation closely resembles Boethius' and Philosophy personified as a woman.  Although many topics are discussed, the heart of the dialog is the nature of true happiness.<br /><br />Although few of its readers are likely to face circumstances as dire as Boethius', the work remains remarkably pertinent in an age where ideals of happiness are dictated almost entirely by our modern consumer society.  Philosophy carefully explains to the prisoner that that happiness can never be found in such things as fame or power or riches and other things that are confused with the true source of happiness.  For Boethius' Philosophy, happiness is ultimately rooted in the Christian God, but even for non-Christians, the lightly theological tone of the work provides much reflection on the nature of happiness in almost any kind of situation.<br /><br />The Walsh edition of this work is, in my opinion, the finest readily available edition in English.  The notes are marvelous, both providing overviews to each upcoming section as well as providing detailed comments on specific lines in the text.  The introduction gives any new reader of the work all the context and background that he or she would need to digest the work.  Best of all, the translation is exceptionally readable, and the translations of the many poems far above the average for most academic translations of verse.<br /><br />I recommend this work strongly to either of two kinds of readers.  First, for anyone who is a student of intellectual history the work remains for an understanding of a host of writers in the middle ages, as well as for many 19th century poets.  Second, anyone interested in devotional or reflectional works, whether religious or philosophical, this remains one of the most essential works in the history of thought.  By almost any standard, this is a work that demands careful reading and study.s are marvelous, both providing overviews to each upcoming section as well as providing detailed comments on specific lines in the text.  The introduction gives any new reader of the work all the context and background that he or she would need to digest the work.  Best of all, the translation is exceptionally readable, and the translations of the many poems far above the average for most academic translations of verse.<br /><br />I recommend this work strongly to either of two kinds of readers.  First, for anyone who is a student of intellectual history the work remains for an understanding of a host of writers in the middle ages, as well as for many 19th century poets.  Second, anyone interested in devotional or reflectional works, whether religious or philosophical, this remains one of the most essential works in the history of thought.  By almost any standard, this is a work that demands careful reading and study.	2004-10-03
502034:US	52048190	R16ZJG93M1ZJVV	0810942356	967950348	Astrology: A History	Books	5	18	18	N	Y	An extraordinarily attractive historical intro to Astrology	This solid, amazingly attractive history of Astrology is quite possibly the best overall book on the subject currently available in English.  Although it does not replace the superior A HISTORY OF WESTERN ASTROLOGY by Jim Tester, the latter does not deal with every epoch in the history of the subject since Tester did not live to complete his work.  Whereas Tester begins with the Greeks and largely ends in the Renaissance, Whitfield continues into the early modern period with the demise of Western Astrology due to the parallel collapse of the Aristotelian scientific worldview upon which astrology depended.  Whitfield also focuses on the semi-revival of astrology in the 19th and 20th centuries, which has only a very superficial connection with classical Western Astrology, superficial because the scientific worldview that made astrological influences scientifically tenable to educated individuals is no longer in place.<br /><br />Whitfield is not an original researcher, in the sense that he has blazed new trails in the study of astrological history, but he seems to be familiar with all of the basic materials and historians in the field of study.  He does an admirable job of explaining both the scientific assumptions of the originators of the astrological synthesis that took place in Hellenistic Egypt in the two or three centuries from 200 B.C. onwards that established most of the key elements of Western Astrology.  He provides clear and coherent discussions of all the major figures from Ptolemy to William Lilly.  He correctly understands that astrology was not directly refuted by its various critics over the centuries, but fell only after the scientific worldview upon which it depended collapsed.  Astrology fell out of favor after the 17th century because the work of such scientists as Gallileo and Robert Boyle made Aristotelianism untenable.<br /><br />The book is outstanding not only for its precise and coherent narrative, but for the host of attractive illustrations.  Though the text makes it one of the finest surveys of the history of astrology in English, the illustrations make the volume as attractive as many coffee table books.  These illustrations are not mere window dressing.  They show how intimately astrological concerns were bound up with the way both intellectuals and everyday folk conceptualized the universe from 200 B.C. to the 17th century.<br /><br />I will add that Whitfield is clearly an agnostic regarding the claims of astrology.  If one is an ardent believer in astrology, one might find this aspect of the book offputting. Nonetheless, even for true believers in astrology, this fine volume will remain essential as a superb summary of scholarly and academic study of the birth, development, continuation, and eventual collapse of Western Astrology.ations.  Though the text makes it one of the finest surveys of the history of astrology in English, the illustrations make the volume as attractive as many coffee table books.  These illustrations are not mere window dressing.  They show how intimately astrological concerns were bound up with the way both intellectuals and everyday folk conceptualized the universe from 200 B.C. to the 17th century.   <br /> <br />I will add that Whitfield is clearly an agnostic regarding the claims of astrology.  If one is an ardent believer in astrology, one might find this aspect of the book offputting. Nonetheless, even for true believers in astrology, this fine volume will remain essential as a superb summary of scholarly and academic study of the birth, development, continuation, and eventual collapse of Western Astrology.	2004-10-03
521536:US	52048190	R12QQ7ZVJ2WMPI	048623231X	462717238	The Dore Illustrations for Dante's Divine Comedy (136 Plates by Gustave Dore)	Books	4	18	19	N	Y	Another astonishing set by the greatest of illustrators	As I write this, I am a member of a book group that is working through the three parts of Dante's COMEDY.  I am also a fan of Gustave Dore's illustrations, so it was a given that I would get a copy of this to accompany my trip through hell, purgatory, and the heavens with Dante.  After having worked through these illustrations, looking at each one as I read the relevant passage in Dante, I simultaneously feel that any enthusiastic reader of Dante should own this book, while at the same time harboring some mild disappointment.<br /><br />Most of the illustrations are marvelously done.  Dore magnificently captures the inner spaciousness and abandonedness of hell.  The landscapes, the pits, the caverns, the abysses are all marvelously drawn and conceived.  I'm not sure there has ever been a better illustrator than Dore, and in this volume we have Dore at his best.  Or, rather, near his best.  In fact, I found these illustrations disappointing in two regards.  First, virtually all of his human figures look like parodies of classical nude studies.  One of the joys of illustrations by Dore to accompany DON QUIXOTE is the wonderful naturalness of his characters.  Quixote looks very much like we imagine Quixote, and so does Sancho Panza.  But in the COMEDY, Dore's figures look like slightly overweight body builders striking uncomfortable poses.  There is an air of artificiality that I at times find somewhat overwhelming.  The denizens of hell look spectacularly fit and well-fed.  Where are the skinny sinners?  The scrawny reprobates?<br /><br />The second way in which I found the illustrations disappointing is in the depiction of Dante, Virgil, and Beatrice.  Dante is actually drawn to correspond as closely as possible with what we know about his appearance.  We have a host of drawings of him from the century after his death, though it is not clear whether we have any contemporary drawings.  Dante was described as being somewhat lean with a pronounced stoop.  The stoop is in full evidence in all of Dore's representations of him.  Unfortunately, there is no comparable evidence of his being a human being.  He looks more like a chess piece, with little or no movement throughout the entire poem.  No matter what he is gazing upon, there is very little difference in any of his poses.  While Dante in the poem is vibrantly alive, in the illustrations here he seems stiff and inhuman.  Virgil is equally stiff, but he is also astonishingly feminine looking.  In fact, I frequently wondered, before I grew accustomed to Dore's manner of drawing Virgil, who the tall woman beside Dante was.  Beatrice is clearly a woman, but she is drawn from scene to scene as stiffly as the other two principal characters, and seems as a result an unappealing figure.<br /><br />Although Dore produced more impressive work (see either his extraordinary illustrations for DON QUIXOTE or THE RIME OF THE ANCIENT MARINER), this nevertheless remains remarkable stuff.  And while I am not entirely happy with the artificiality of many of the tableaux, they have exerted considerable influence.  Indeed, anyone who has seen Fritz Lang's NIEBELUNGENLIED will see the influence of Dore.  In the end, Dore at less than his best surpasses most illustrators working beyond their abilities.p is in full evidence in all of Dore's representations of him.  Unfortunately, there is no comparable evidence of his being a human being.  He looks more like a chess piece, with little or no movement throughout the entire poem.  No matter what he is gazing upon, there is very little difference in any of his poses.  While Dante in the poem is vibrantly alive, in the illustrations here he seems stiff and inhuman.  Virgil is equally stiff, but he is also astonishingly feminine looking.  In fact, I frequently wondered, before I grew accustomed to Dore's manner of drawing Virgil, who the tall woman beside Dante was.  Beatrice is clearly a woman, but she is drawn from scene to scene as stiffly as the other two principal characters, and seems as a result an unappealing figure. <br /> <br />Although Dore produced more impressive work (see either his extraordinary illustrations for DON QUIXOTE or THE RIME OF THE ANCIENT MARINER), this nevertheless remains remarkable stuff.  And while I am not entirely happy with the artificiality of many of the tableaux, they have exerted considerable influence.  Indeed, anyone who has seen Fritz Lang's NIEBELUNGENLIED will see the influence of Dore.  In the end, Dore at less than his best surpasses most illustrators working beyond their abilities.	2004-09-14
530777:US	52048190	R3MMJBRB878XLL	1400048753	386400734	The Republican Noise Machine: Right-Wing Media and How It Corrupts Democracy	Books	5	21	24	N	N	Surprisingly solid survey of Ring Wing influence on the news	I have only one small quibble with this book, so let me start with that.  The lone distinction that Brock should have made, but didn't is that today's Republican party is fragmented, and not all of it is guilty for the practices described in this book.  There is currently a marginalized yet definite moderate wing of the GOP that has been hidden by the Right Wing of the party.  It is that Right Wing, and not the moderate wing, of the GOP that is responsible for the vast majority of the practices in this book.  There is a great deal of difference between Rush Limbaugh, Bill O'Reilly, Richard Mellon Scaife, and Roger Ailes on the one hand and Chuck Hagel, Olympia Snow, Paul O'Neill, John McCain, and Richard Lugar on the other.<br /><br />Much of what appears in this book is available in other publications and documentaries, like the film OUTFOXED, or Eric Alterman's WHAT LIBERAL MEDIA?, or some of the publications by Peter Hart.  What makes this book especially valuable is the history of the development of the Right Wing propaganda machine, told as only someone who is a former insider could tell it.  To be honest, Brock obviously spent a lot of time earlier in his life reading a number of authors most of us simply wouldn't want to, and listening and talking to a number of Right Wing personalities.  Luckily, because Brock has experienced these people first hand, we don't have to.  For me, the greater part of the value of the book was not his detailing the backgrounds and beliefs and methods of such Right Wing stalwarts as O'Reilly, Hannity, and the Kristols, as in talking of many of the theoreticians and figures who were more foundational.<br /><br />I'm sure that no one sympathetic to the Right Wing is going to read this book, but that is unfortunate for more than one reason.  Many on the Right do stand in profound need to understand how methodologically unsound their news sources are, how virtually every major Right Wing source from FOX to the Washington Times to Rush Limbaugh violate journalistic ethics persistently and manage to produce flawed factual information (sceptics should follow the footnoting to the studies that have shown that people who rely on folks like Limbaugh or Newsmax not only are less informed than those who read the New York Times or listen to NPR, they are actively misinformed, actually taking on factually incorrect opinions).  But apart from the critical portions of the book, the sections that are more straightforward histories of the Right Wing media are of enormous benefit.  If anyone on either the Left, Right, or in the Middle wants to know how we got to where we are today, Brock is the one to clear up the mystery.<br /><br />The more depressing part of the book for me was reading about the various Right Wing think tanks that publish scads of non-peer reviewed studies that frequently are easily and effectively refuted by experts in the field (something that might not happen nearly as often if they were peer reviewed--but since the point is more to persuade and provide the semblance of support for ideological positions rather than an unbiased attempt to learn the truth about things, peer review is not for them very relevant).  The members of such institutes themselves have found homes in Right Wing positions without having to face the kind of academic rigor that seeking work in the academic mainstream would demand.  The think tanks and opinion research centers emerge as another chapter in history of the anti-intellectualism that has graced most of the Right Wing movements in American history (as documented by Richard Hofstadter in his renowned ANTI-INTELLECTUALISM IN AMERICAN LIFE, which takes the story into the 1960s; we now very much need someone to update Hofstadter's history up to the present day).<br /><br />This is not a terribly easy read, though it is very clearly written and well argued.  Brock has come a long way since the days when he was an attack dog for the Right.  In his BLINDED BY THE RIGHT, he states that one of the reasons he started doubting the tenets of the Right was seeing the much more competent and careful job other journalists did writing about Anita Hill, journalists whose work led them to positions very different from Brock's.  That experience seems to have led him to strive for a much higher degree of rigor in his work, and to align himself with those who hold to a much higher standard of journalistic practice.  Gone is the relatively sloppiness that infected THE REAL ANITA HILL, and in its place is a greater reliance on documentation and basing statements on verifiable claims.  I am impressed with the humility that led Brock to make such changes, and I am pleased with the excellent book that resulted.Y THE RIGHT, he states that one of the reasons he started doubting the tenets of the Right was seeing the much more competent and careful job other journalists did writing about Anita Hill, journalists whose work led them to positions very different from Brock's.  That experience seems to have led him to strive for a much higher degree of rigor in his work, and to align himself with those who hold to a much higher standard of journalistic practice.  Gone is the relatively sloppiness that infected THE REAL ANITA HILL, and in its place is a greater reliance on documentation and basing statements on verifiable claims.  I am impressed with the humility that led Brock to make such changes, and I am pleased with the excellent book that resulted.	2004-09-06
532385:US	52048190	R3T7WQOFP30DJH	0374524521	930001307	The Inferno of Dante: A New Verse Translation, Bilingual Edition (Italian Edition)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A marvelous translation of a book that defines "the canon"	It has been said that Dante and Shakespeare do not belong to the Western canon:  they ARE the canon.  Certainly, after nearly seven hundred years, Dante's COMEDY retains its power to move, inspire, and delight.  But what stands out most about this masterpiece is how accessible and readable it remains.  If one reads other masterpieces that are contemporary with it, the contrast is stark.  It is almost as if the centuries do not stand between him and us.<br /><br />Robert Pinsky's translation is a truly remarkable rendering of the first part of Dante's masterpiece.  The worst criticism that can be made of it is that it is the only part of the work that he has translated so far.  I do not know that he plans on translating PURGATORY and PARADISE, but anyone reading INFERNO will pray that he will.  Like any translator of Dante, Pinsky had to make some decisions about how he was going to proceed.  Although many point out that he decided to employ Dante's terza rima, this isn't quite true.  Yes, he does maintain the rhyme scheme, whereby the final syllable in the middle line of each tercet rhymes with the final syllable of the first and third lines of the next tercet (i.e., a-b-a, b-c-b, c-d-c), he doesn't employ Dante's meter.  There is, in fact, no meter at all, and therefore the lines do not scan at all and therefore contains no rhythm.  I found, in fact, that I couldn't read this aloud as poetry at all.  It is, however, a marvelously dynamic prose.  If it possesses none of the rhythm of poetry, the translation does have a marvelous, driving prose rhythm, and one feels the text moving forward with a deliciously irresistible pace.  If one compares Pinsky's dynamic translation with that of Dorothy Sayers, say, which was also an attempt at an English terza rima translation, one will understand the point.<br /><br />In addition to the superb translation, one gets in this volume many of the other goodies one anticipates in any decent version of Dante.  The intro is written by one of the dean's of Dante scholarship, John Freccero, who also assists with some of the notes to the text.  The notes, though not exhaustive, are exceedingly pertinent to the text.  They lean away from minute commentary on every aspect towards focusing on those things that a reader truly needs to get through the text.<br /><br />The story itself needs little elucidation.  Dante, driven into a dark valley by three beasts, finds himself at the mouth of hell, where the poet Virgil, alerted indirectly by the Virgin Mary herself to save Dante, leads him on a trip through hell and purgatory, at the end of which Dante's beloved Beatrice meets him and takes him through heaven.  It was an often-employed genre, not least by Virgil himself, but Dante surpassed all of his predecessors.  Interestingly, although the INFERNO is the most popular of the three books, it is also the least personal.  In this volume Dante is primarily an onlooker, an observer.  In PURGATORY, on the other hand, each step through purgatory is an opportunity for Dante to examine his own life.  Luckily, Dante is the greatest of observers, and the world his tells us of has a vividness and concreteness that is nothing short of genius.  Over and over one is astonished at Dante's genius in the world he imagines.  There is also a wonderful contradiction, in that what he imagines is horrific--the punishment of the damned for their sins, with some of the punishments extraordinary in their inventiveness--but his character's interaction with the damned is for the most part oddly respectful and frequently compassionate.  He does on a couple of occasions treat the damned with hostility, but that it is the exception.  What is especially amazing is his relative tolerance towards Jews and Moslems.  There are Jews in hell, but their presence there seems to have less to do with being Jewish than in having committed specific acts.  And although one ring of hell contains burning mosques containing the souls of Moslems, and there is a particularly vivid encounter with Muhammad and Ali, Dante isn't seized with any particular bloodlust towards the religion as a whole.  In fact, in limbo, where he encounters the righteous pagans, we find three notable Muslims:  Saladin, Avicenna, and Averroes.<br /><br />There are a host of great translations of Dante, but this is definitely one of the translations that can be most highly recommended to those approaching the text for the first time.lems, and there is a particularly vivid encounter with Muhammad and Ali, Dante isn't seized with any particular bloodlust towards the religion as a whole.  In fact, in limbo, where he encounters the righteous pagans, we find three notable Muslims:  Saladin, Avicenna, and Averroes. <br /> <br />There are a host of great translations of Dante, but this is definitely one of the translations that can be most highly recommended to those approaching the text for the first time.	2004-09-04
546077:US	52048190	R3GFU6GR7WRWJO	0060652950	94824058	The Great Divorce	Books	4	16	20	N	N	One of Lewis's most provocative, controversial works	THE GREAT DIVORCE is remarkable for being a book by C. S. Lewis that is as likely to be criticized by Christians as by non-Christians.  While MERE CHRISTIANITY is an apology for traditional Christianity, THE PROBLEM OF PAIN an attempt to deal with problems in theodicy, and THE SCREWTAPE LETTERS a help for analyzing psychological dimensions of temptation, THE GREAT DIVORCE can best be described as speculative theology.  This is not the only place where Lewis allows himself to speculate on matters theological.  For instance, he elsewhere suggests that pets and other animals who have interacted with humans will go to heaven, while wild animals will not, because these animals have gained a personality through human contact.  In this work, Lewis speculates about the nature of the afterlife.<br /><br />Inevitably, Lewis's work will unfairly be compared to Dante, who like Lewis is granted a visit to the afterlife.  It is unfair because Dante's DIVINE COMEDY is without debate one or the two or three greatest masterpieces in the history of world literature.  THE GREAT DIVORCE is not even one of Lewis's best works.  Still, as long as one does not force Lewis's work to compare favorably to Dante's work, the comparison is not uninstructive.  Like Dante, Lewis finds a guide.  While Dante is shown through Hell and Purgatory by Virgil and through heaven by Beatrice, Lewis's guide is the Scottish theologian and fantasy writer George MacDonald.  This is not inappropriate for a couple of reasons.  What Lewis is suggesting about heaven and hell in THE GREAT DIVORCE is not precisely orthodox, and MacDonald himself, while devoutly religious, was somewhat heterodox in his advocacy of universalism, i.e., the belief that all humans will be redeemed, and not only Christian believers.<br /><br />In THE GREAT DIVORCE Lewis tries to take a midpoint between universalism and a traditional belief in eternal damnation in hell of unbelievers.  Lewis is hardly the first to attempt this.  Origen, the brilliant if eccentric father of the early church, among other things toyed with the idea that being sent to hell might not be a permanent state.  Lewis attempts to preserve the notion of the punishment of sins, but shifts the agent of that punishment from God to the individual involved.  Basically, people place themselves in hell and prevent themselves from ascending to heaven.  All one need do is surrender one's will to God, and cease insisting on one's own conception of things.  In a sense, the primary thing an individual can do to receive grace, even in the next world, is to humble oneself.<br /><br />The great negative to Lewis's view is that it doesn't correspond terribly well with either the views of the New Testament or to traditional Church teaching.  The great advantage is that it absolves God of any complicity in sending people to hell.  A host of factors will determine whether one will find one or either of these views desirable.  Like George MacDonald, I tend to be quite orthodox on most Christian doctrines, but somewhat heterodox on the issue of the damnation of the unsaved.  I personally am quite drawn to Lewis's views on the afterlife, and while I concede that they don't mesh well with the Bible's teachings on hell, I believe they mesh well with the Bible's teachings on the loving nature of God.  It solves some key issues at the heart of theodicy, or to paraphrase Milton, it justifies the ways of God to men.<br /><br />Regardless of whether one agrees or disagrees with Lewis, this marvelous book raises some important theological questions.  It also complicates the normal picture of Lewis as a staunch defender of traditionalism.  We find in it that Lewis was also a bit of a theological rebel.eccentric father of the early church, among other things toyed with the idea that being sent to hell might not be a permanent state.  Lewis attempts to preserve the notion of the punishment of sins, but shifts the agent of that punishment from God to the individual involved.  Basically, people place themselves in hell and prevent themselves from ascending to heaven.  All one need do is surrender one's will to God, and cease insisting on one's own conception of things.  In a sense, the primary thing an individual can do to receive grace, even in the next world, is to humble oneself.    The great negative to Lewis's view is that it doesn't correspond terribly well with either the views of the New Testament or to traditional Church teaching.  The great advantage is that it absolves God of any complicity in sending people to hell.  A host of factors will determine whether one will find one or either of these views desirable.  Like George MacDonald, I tend to be quite orthodox on most Christian doctrines, but somewhat heterodox on the issue of the damnation of the unsaved.  I personally am quite drawn to Lewis's views on the afterlife, and while I concede that they don't mesh well with the Bible's teachings on hell, I believe they mesh well with the Bible's teachings on the loving nature of God.  It solves some key issues at the heart of theodicy, or to paraphrase Milton, it justifies the ways of God to men.      Regardless of whether one agrees or disagrees with Lewis, this marvelous book raises some important theological questions.  It also complicates the normal picture of Lewis as a staunch defender of traditionalism.  We find in it that Lewis was also a bit of a theological rebel.	2004-08-23
549143:US	52048190	R1KB2R2CFUZPHH	0395937582	646140056	Rites of Spring: The Great War and the Birth of the Modern Age	Books	5	125	132	N	Y	A remarkable tour de force about The Great War	I have read several books dealing with the First World War before, but none except for Paul Fussell's THE GREAT WAR AND MODERN MEMORY can match this brilliant book for its scope and brilliance.  Other books deal with the nuts and bolts of history, but Eksteins is concerned with zeitgeist, both that which animated the birth of war and the way it was altered by that war.  More than anything, Eksteins is concerned with the metaphysics of the war, or the metaphysics of the world that it transformed.<br /><br />The book is structured, like any good play, into three broad acts.  The first deals with the world on the eve of the war, examining attitudes, especially aesthetic attitudes, in France, Germany, and England, before the onset of the war.  The sections on the controversial debut of Diaghilev's production of Stravinsky's THE RITES OF SPRING (which obviously provides the book with its title), which deals in dance with a ritual blood sacrifice, are especially hypnotic.  Act Two focuses on the war itself, and even if one has read previous and equally nightmarish accounts of that insane and pointless conflict, Eksteins will bring the war alive for the reader.  One is especially impressed by the senselessness of the entire affair, so senseless that nonsense seemed to be at home there.  World War Two at least seemed to make sense for the participants.  Hitler and Tojo made the stakes all too clear, but the Great War was above all an affair of moral ambiguity, and Eksteins is brilliant at bringing this out, something that a purer historian like Martin Gilbert or John Keegan is ultimately unable to do, because he or she is limited by the task of the historian to deal with ethical and aesthetic categories.  The final act deals with the world remade by the events of 1914-18.  Eksteins focuses on three main aspects:  Lindbergh's flight across the Atlantic, the publication of and response to Erich Maria Remarque's ALL QUIET ON THE WESTERN FRONT, and the rise of Nazism in post-war Germany.<br /><br />It is an interesting question what genre RITES OF SPRING belongs to.  Eksteins offers too many insights that would normally exceed the job of the historian to label it simple history, though one could resort to calling it \\"intellectual history.\\"  It is that, but he also becomes in his book a bit of a moral chronicler.  The book is more a work of art than a work of history.  Although it contains no obvious narrative, it feels as if it has a plot.<br /><br />This is one of the more remarkable, haunting books I have read in recent years.  Absolutely no one interested in the meaning of the twentieth century, and especially no one interested in the Great War should skip it.  The only ones it will disappoint will be those primarily concerned with military strategy and body counts.war Germany. <br /> <br />It is an interesting question what genre RITES OF SPRING belongs to.  Eksteins offers too many insights that would normally exceed the job of the historian to label it simple history, though one could resort to calling it \\"intellectual history.\\"  It is that, but he also becomes in his book a bit of a moral chronicler.  The book is more a work of art than a work of history.  Although it contains no obvious narrative, it feels as if it has a plot. <br /> <br />This is one of the more remarkable, haunting books I have read in recent years.  Absolutely no one interested in the meaning of the twentieth century, and especially no one interested in the Great War should skip it.  The only ones it will disappoint will be those primarily concerned with military strategy and body counts.	2004-08-20
551144:US	52048190	R3D988YPH6QF36	019280359X	684918844	Globalization: A Very Short Introduction (Very Short Introductions)	Books	5	58	60	N	Y	A superb brief introduction to a complex issue	This truly is a dazzling brief introduction to a subject that could not be covered even by a very long book.  As Steger points out, the fact of globalization is the predominant issue of our time.  Far too man, as he points out, tend to treat the subject in monolithic or simplistic fashion, focusing on merely one aspect of globalization, and assuming that that aspect defines all of globalization.  Anyone familiar with Thomas Friedman's THE LEXUS AND THE OLIVE TREE (who is frequently described as a \\"hyper globalizer\\") will recognize one such very narrow approach.  Despite his brief space, Steger wants to do justice to the complexity of the subject.  For the past decade, most writers on globalization have focused on economic globalization, but Steger emphasizes that the process has political, economic, religious, cultural, environmental, and ideological conditions.<br /><br />Many people who tackle the question of globalization seem to want to know, \\"Is this a good or bad thing?\\"  Steger is anxious to emphasize that this does not admit of an easy answer.  Clearly, the massive increase of economic inequality--which occurs both on international and national levels, e.g., wealth has more and more been concentrated in the industrial countries of the northern hemisphere, and within those countries, more and more in the hands of a small economic corporate and investing elite--is not a good thing, but that is not the only aspect of globalization.  Steger seems to suggest that there are both significant advantages and some lamentable dangers in globalization.<br /><br />The one aspect of globalization concerning which Steger is clearly and rightfully concerned is the promotion of globalization in the ideological terms of the Neoliberal project of promoting free markets over all other concerns.  The term \\"Neoliberal\\" might throw some people, since the leading Neoliberal of recent decades would include Ronald Reagan, Margaret Thatcher, and most members of the George W. Bush administration (though also many in the Clinton administration, including Clinton himself).  Too many are unaware that Reagan and Bush are not conservatives by traditional understandings of the label:  they both pushed for massive governmental intrusion into the markets, in taking an active role in eliminating regulation, and actively employing the government to control the economy, none of which are conservative projects.  One reason that the Progressive movement gained so much steam during the McKinley, Roosevelt, and Wilson years was observing the extraordinary corruption and narrow concentration of wealth (and subsequent economic inequality) that resulted from an unregulated market economy.  Steger, along with a host of others, points out that with the unfettered promotion of free market capitalism with little or no governmental regulatory control (Neoliberalism's big project) is once again resulting in extreme economic inequality.  Numerous studies, to some of which he refers, have undermined one of the central claims of the Neoliberal project:  that expanding world markets spreads wealth throughout the world; in fact, it actually shifts wealth into the hands of a very few, a trend that has been taking place not only on a global scale, but on the national level as well (e.g., according to Federal Reserve statistics, in 1979 1% of the population possessed 20% of the wealth in the U.S., while in 1997 the top 1% held 37%, a percentage that has surely exploded following the two massive Bush tax cuts).  What I believe Steger could have emphasized even more is that economic inequality is likely going to be THE world issue in the decades to come, as it is likely to become the major issue in American politics as well (given a thirty year history of a massive shift of wealth from the middle class to a very small number of citizens).<br /><br />My one complaint with the book is that many of the figures and graphs were close to unintelligible.  Also, given the small format, sometimes the text and text boxes were laid out rather awkwardly.  I found the annotated bibliography to be of great help in mapping out future reading (I sometimes wish that publishers would require all authors of academic books to provide either an annotated bibliography or a bibliographic essay; over the years I've probably learned of more good books to read in this fashion than in any other).<br /><br />I have read several of the volumes in the Oxford University Press Very Short Introductions series, and this easily ranks as one of my favorites.  I highly recommend it to anyone wanting to gain a handle on one of the crucial issues of our time.mat, sometimes the text and text boxes were laid out rather awkwardly.  I found the annotated bibliography to be of great help in mapping out future reading (I sometimes wish that publishers would require all authors of academic books to provide either an annotated bibliography or a bibliographic essay; over the years I've probably learned of more good books to read in this fashion than in any other). <br /> <br />I have read several of the volumes in the Oxford University Press Very Short Introductions series, and this easily ranks as one of my favorites.  I highly recommend it to anyone wanting to gain a handle on one of the crucial issues of our time.	2004-08-19
559050:US	52048190	R6QDPMUT7W2WN	0670899097	235723201	Dante (Penguin Lives)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	An excellent biographical introduction to Dante	Prior to this biography on Dante, R. W. B. Lewis had established himself as one of the leading authorities on Edith Wharton and had also written a book about Florence.  Although he is not widely acknowledged as a Dante scholar, this brief volume is testimony to his obvious love for Florence's greatest poet.  Unlike many brief biographies of great literary figures, this is a remarkably balanced account of Dante's life and career.  Given the strictures on what can be covered in a small number of pages, other biographers of other writers often focus on an individual's life to the near exclusion of all else, or on the greater cultural context of their work, or on a discussion of the writings, ignoring the writer's world and life.  Lewis strikes a marvelous balance between explaining the historical-especially the political-context for Dante's life, in detailing the significant biographical moments that informed his career (including most of what we know about his limited encounters with Beatrice), and the development of his art.  Lewis's skill in refusing to neglect any significant aspect of Dante's life and work is laudable.<br /><br />Lewis's narrative progresses chronologically on a number of parallel levels.  He reverts on several occasions to Dante's genealogy, on the political situation in Florence in the conflict between the Ghibellines (who favored the claims of the Holy Roman Emperor in Europe) and the Guelphs (who favored the Pope and later split into the Black and White Guelphs, Dante being associated with the latter), Dante's platonic adoration of Beatrice, the development of Dante's poetry, Dante's role in the government of Florence, his eventual banishment from Florence, and the composition and content of his COMEDY.  I was especially encouraged by the number of theological figures who were crucial to Dante and essential for understanding the theological structure of the COMEDY.<br /><br />I do have a couple of minor criticisms.  One is that Lewis isn't always as sharp in his exposition as he clearly is capable of being.  There are also some curiosities, such as his comments near the end identifying Robert Penn Warren as \\"the most complete man of letters of our time,\\" a good if not great writer whom I believe will be largely forgotten in as little as twenty-five years (one wonders if Warren and Lewis were close friends).  There is an annotated biography, but most of the secondary works Lewis discusses are either out of print or not readily available, while many key contemporary texts dealing with Dante are omitted, such as Freccero's THE POETICS OF CONVERSION.  And how could any discussion of translations omit Singleton's, which is easily one of the highpoints of Dante scholarship in the past half century?  Two other small complaints:  no index and no chronology of Dante's life.  My own feeling is that there is never justification for not including an index in an academic book; the omission sharply reduces the book's usability.  Even in a short biography a chronology is useful, allowing one to make rapid comparisons between the various events in a writer's life and their work.<br /><br />Nonetheless, for most readers of Dante in English, this brief biography will serve as a superb introduction to both Dante's life and his work.always as sharp in his exposition as he clearly is capable of being.  There are also some curiosities, such as his comments near the end identifying Robert Penn Warren as \\"the most complete man of letters of our time,\\" a good if not great writer whom I believe will be largely forgotten in as little as twenty-five years (one wonders if Warren and Lewis were close friends).  There is an annotated biography, but most of the secondary works Lewis discusses are either out of print or not readily available, while many key contemporary texts dealing with Dante are omitted, such as Freccero's THE POETICS OF CONVERSION.  And how could any discussion of translations omit Singleton's, which is easily one of the highpoints of Dante scholarship in the past half century?  Two other small complaints:  no index and no chronology of Dante's life.  My own feeling is that there is never justification for not including an index in an academic book; the omission sharply reduces the book's usability.  Even in a short biography a chronology is useful, allowing one to make rapid comparisons between the various events in a writer's life and their work. <br /> <br />Nonetheless, for most readers of Dante in English, this brief biography will serve as a superb introduction to both Dante's life and his work.	2004-08-11
559960:US	52048190	R3L9RSEKKNAFOR	067972477X	111847135	I, Claudius From the Autobiography of Tiberius Claudius Born 10 B.C. Murdered and Deified A.D. 54 (Vintage International)	Books	5	261	279	N	N	Arguably the great historical novel of the 20th century	This novel by Robert Graves represents the supreme instance in the twentieth century to write a literarily serious historical novel.  There has, of course, been no shortage of historical novels during the past century, but for the most part \\"historical\\" fiction has become a species of genre fiction, like Sci-Fi, detective fiction, spy fiction, and Westerns.  I, CLAUDIUS, on the other hand, is a historical novel composed by someone otherwise regarded as a serious writer.  This relationship between serious writers and the genre of historical fiction has not always been the case.  Until the mid-19th century, a host of novels attempted to recreate a historical era, not least Dickens in A TALE OF TWO CITIES, William Thackeray in HENRY ESMOND, Flaubert in SALAMBO, Tolstoy in WAR AND PEACE, and Pynchon's GRAVITY'S RAINBOW.  But for the most part, writers in the latter half of the nineteenth century and all of the twentieth century have forsaken historical fiction to write in the present tense, or at the latest of their childhood, as with Marcel Proust or Anthony Powell or Harper Lee.<br /><br />Because of his success in the writing of I, CLAUDIUS and its sequel CLAUDIUS THE GOD, many today think of Robert Graves as primarily a novelist, but in fact most of his writing falls into the nonfiction realm, much of that with a historical bent.  Graves was a passionate student of antiquity, both the Greeks and the Romans, and his goal in writing I, CLAUDIUS was to chronicle the period in Roman history immediately after the collapse of the republic and near the beginning of the rule of the Caesars.  On the one hand, he wanted to adhere as closely to the documentary evidence for the events in the period as is compatible with a work of fiction, and on the other produced a first rate historical novel.  He succeeds splendidly on both counts.  His history is not pristine, but it is very close, with imaginative additions only for the sake of making sense of the narrative.  The historical details are sufficiently solid and comprehensive for this novel to serve an excellent introduction to the early days of Imperial Rome.<br /><br />In order to tell his story of Imperial Rome, Graves chooses as his narrator and eyewitnesses none other than the future emperor Claudius, once considered to be one of the weakest and most inept of the early Roman emperors, if also the least corrupt and ruthless.  In the early 20th century several historians of Ancient Rome began revising their assessment of Claudius, not least the great Italian classicist (who relocated to England and America) Arnaldo Momigliano.  Following the lead of these scholars, Graves presents Claudius as a cautious, sagacious, humble, unambitious, and scholarly soul, one who is simultaneously a gifted survivor and a closeted adherent to republican values.  Though a stutterer and physically deficient, Grave's Claudius is a highly eloquent and intelligent observer of his world, a sage analyst of the personalities populating his Rome, and a gifted student of human nature.  He also emerges as a highly likable and even admirable soul.  One of the great achievements of Graves's novel has been to re-enforce on the popular level that reassessment of Claudius undertaken by the scholars mentioned above.<br /><br />The precise period covered by Grave's novel begins roughly midway through Augustus's (formerly Octavian) career, the reign of Tiberius, and the shorter but extraordinarily horrid (though immensely entertaining) rule by Caligula.  A host of other characters populate the story, but two above all others.  One is, not surprisingly, Claudius himself, but the other is in many ways the dominant personality in the entire book, Claudius's grandmother, Tiberius's mother, and Augustus's wife Livia.  She emerges as one of the great villains in modern literature, larger than life and exceptionally vile.  One of the most brilliant moments in the novel is when Livia confesses to Claudius what motivates and drives her wretched behavior.<br /><br />I, CLAUDIUS did not inspire a host of imitations among the other top fictional writers in the past century, but Graves did prove that it is a genre that still has potential to inspire, entertain, and educate.  It also graphically illustrates the fact that the more things change, the more they stay the same.  The world of Claudius may be long past, but the motives driving the actions of novel's characters are as alive now as then, and though the events of the novel took place two thousand years ago, Claudius feels very much our contemporary.ior.    I, CLAUDIUS did not inspire a host of imitations among the other top fictional writers in the past century, but Graves did prove that it is a genre that still has potential to inspire, entertain, and educate.  It also graphically illustrates the fact that the more things change, the more they stay the same.  The world of Claudius may be long past, but the motives driving the actions of novel's characters are as alive now as then, and though the events of the novel took place two thousand years ago, Claudius feels very much our contemporary.	2004-08-10
560468:US	52048190	R38OFH6WOETDOG	1585672653	88508385	F. Scott Fitzgerald (Overlook Illustrated Lives)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Solid if not in depth survey of Fitzgerald's life	If you are looking for a very brief and enjoyable biography of F. Scott Fitzgerald, this volume will certainly fill the need.  Like other books in the series, it features a fairly short account of the subject's life and writings illustrated with a host of photographs.  The other books in the series that I have read tended to focus a bit more on the social and regional context for the author's work, which is one of the weaknesses of this particular book.  Though Fitzgerald is identified as a leading figure of the Jazz Age, not a great deal of text is expended on explaining precisely what this was and how it made his context different from other writers.<br /><br />Neither is much attention lavished on Fitzgerald's achievements as a writer.  The publication dates of his various works are noted, and mention is made of their relative critical and financial success, but if someone who had read nothing of Fitzgerald's work were asked to say something of the nature of his fiction after reading this book, I believe they would be unable to say anything with any certainty.  What were Fitzgerald's unique contributions to American literature?  What was his approach to the novel and the short story, and how did this differ from his predecessors?  These questions are simply not addressed.<br /><br />In the end, I found myself highly entertained by the recounting of major events in the lives of Scott and Zelda Fitzgerald.  How could it be otherwise?  Few writers in American history have had such an interesting life, if also so short.  Yet at the end there is the sense that far more was left unaddressed than addressed.  All in all, the book feels like a lost opportunity to produce a solid short biography or a major American writer.<br /><br />I do recommend the book, though I also hope for a competing volume.  The illustrations are marvelous, and the book does do a good job of marshalling all the key figures in Fitzgerald's life.  But in the end anyone really wanting to learn much about Fitzgerald will be left with the need to pursue the subject further.  Contrast this with the Kafka volume in the same series and my point will be clearer.l be left with the need to pursue the subject further.  Contrast this with the Kafka volume in the same series and my point will be clearer.	2004-08-10
560916:US	52048190	RTUDJU6FR2AVR	1859848982	201213691	The Communist Manifesto: A Modern Edition	Books	5	414	468	N	Y	An excellent edition of a political classic	My five star rating is based on the quality of this handsome edition of one of the classics of political philosophy.  Classics of this magnitude, whether Adam Smith's THE WEALTH OF NATIONS, Tocqueville's DEMOCRACY IN AMERICA, or THE FEDERALIST PAPERS have achieved a status that makes the assigning of a rating rather silly.  Regardless of one's feelings about Marxism or Communism, a work of such gigantic influence is of such a status that rating it is almost silly.  It is one of the constitutive artifacts of our culture.<br /><br />The particular edition I am reviewing is the recent reissue on Verso with an introduction by Eric Hobsbawm.  There are a host of editions of THE COMMUNIST MANIFESTO, and virtually any of them will do the trick, but I very much enjoyed this edition, partly for the handsome jacket and binding, and partly for the superb intro by Hobsbawm.  It is not a new translation, and indeed it isn't clear that there will ever be much of a demand for a new translation.  The MANIFESTO was first published in 1848 and this translation in 1888.  Moore's translation is the standard one for a simple reason:  Engels examined it closely and helped Moore in editing the final draft of the translation.<br /><br />Although I had read a fair amount in the writings of Marx over the years, this was my first time to read the work from cover to cover.  I found it surprising on several levels.  First, it was a much easier to read work than I had anticipated.  This is upon reflection hardly surprising.  The work was intended as a pamphlet for the masses, and it was essential that it be as understandable as possible.  Also, the concepts and ideas articulated in these pages have become a part of the intellectual landscape of Western civilization.  A host of ideas are commonplace, even among those who do not consider themselves sympathetic towards Marxism.  It has become a commonplace of the past decade that Communism and Democracy clashed, and Communism lost.  But the fact is that Marxist thought has exerted a massive influence on the way we view the world, and many things introduced by Marx are now central constituents of our world.  Just look at the way we write history now.  Before Marx a detailed consideration of the economic factors in an era was unheard of; now it is considered essential.<br /><br />As a credo, I find myself conflicted over its contents, just as I always find myself conflicted in reading Marx.  Marx's analyses of the dynamics governing capitalist society have always struck me as dead on.  No one writes more presciently or timelessly about the structures of exploitation that are inherent in capitalism.  Nonetheless, I find his positive proposals as to how to transcend capitalism to be untenable, and the post-capitalist world he describes to be undesirable.  The best way to express this is that I find Marx the critic to be convincing and impressive, but Marx the visionary to be irrelevant.  I want us to pay attention to Marx's critiques, but not to his proposals for change.<br /><br />I was delighted in reading the book to find the word \\"highfalutin\\" in the text.  The world seems somehow to be a more charming place for the unexpected presence of such a light-hearted word in the midst of a serious text.<br /><br />Though listed as the work of Marx and Engels, Marx was the primary creator of the work.  He also did the bulk of the writing.  It isn't sufficiently commented on what a beautiful writer Marx could be when he tried.  Too often he adopts the try academic style begun with Christian Wolff and continued by Kant, Fichte, and Hegel.  But a host of exquisite phrases such as \\"All that is solid melts into air\\" shows that Marx could turn a phrase when conviction didn't prevent him.<br /><br />Everyone interested in political thought or modern history needs to read this book.  Its influence--its ongoing influence--is incalculable.  Its critique of the exploitative nature of capitalism remains astonishingly relevant.  And its predictions about the future course of history, even if no longer inspiring or convincing, are crucial to grasp if one is to understand many of the political impulses of the past one hundred and fifty years.y relevant.  And its predictions about the future course of history, even if no longer inspiring or convincing, are crucial to grasp if one is to understand many of the political impulses of the past one hundred and fifty years.	2004-08-09
571120:US	52048190	R3DD7PPGBEFTRG	0805069372	122768453	John Adams (The American Presidents Series, No. 2)	Books	5	21	24	N	Y	A fascinating discusion of Adam's thought and life	It hasn't been hard to notice that John Adams's reputation has been undergoing a serious rehabilitation in recent years.  Joseph Ellis in particular has been dedicated to revising our understandings of both Adams and his nemesis/friend Thomas Jefferson.  In his PASSIONATE SAGE:  THE CHARACTER AND LEGACY OF JOHN ADAMS, FOUNDING BROTHERS: THE REVOLUTIONARY GENERATION, and AMERICAN SPHINX: THE CHARACTER OF THOMAS JEFFERSON, Ellis has been challenging a long established scenario in which the arch conservative John Adams was pitted against the populist liberal Thomas Jefferson for the political destiny of America, and the hero Jefferson triumphed over the mildly villainous Adams.  Ellis has been questioning whether any part of this scenario makes any sense, whether Adams is at all a villain, and whether Jefferson is nearly as heroic.  He has done this not by asserting the virtues of conservativism, but whether Adams has been correctly understood at all, both by his contemporaries and by subsequent generations.  This reevaluation of Adams was continued by the spectacular and unanticipated mega-bestseller by David McCullough of 2001.  This process of reassessment is clearly carried forward by John Patrick Diggins.  For the record, I find the rehabilitation of Adams by these and other writers to be both welcome and highly convincing.<br /><br />For two hundred years, our view of Adams came very much through the lenses of his critics and opponents.  The truism that history is written from the standpoint of the victors is perhaps truer of Adams than any other major political figure in United States history.  Adams was said to be a closet monarchist, a favorer of aristocracy.  In the face of this criticism, Adams explicitly challenged Jefferson to point to a single passage in any of his writings that endorses monarchy or aristocracy.  In fact, if one reads extensively in Adams works, as argued by Ellis, Diggins, and McCullough, one finds instead a powerful and subtle critique of the dangers of the development and influence of an economic elite, placing him at the opposite extreme of Alexander Hamilton, whose ideal of government came very close to the espousal of plutocracy.  Adams did hope for the emergence of natural elites, but this was based on ability and character, not on wealth.  Contained in the reassessment of Adams is implied a questioning of whether Adams is the arch conservative he is often portrayed as being.  The case for Adams's conservativism is based largely on his belief in monarchism, his favoring aristocracy, his support for a bicameral Congress, his looking to the past for guidance, and his opposition to the French Revolution.  As these authors have shown, Adams transparently did not favor monarchy or the growth of an aristocratic class and a bicameral legislature in the United States has not resulted in the Senate being a sort of House of Lords.  Today many leftist historians have found grounds for critiquing the French Revolution, and a host of leftist political figures have found inspiration for their beliefs in the past (not least Karl Marx, who was a student of the Greeks and Romans).  Furthermore, Adams was hardly a passionate capitalist, and was suspicious of a life devoted to the acquisition of wealth.  In fact, if you compare Adams and Jefferson to that modern conservative icon Ronald Reagan, it is hard to find many issues that Adams would not differ sharply on from Reagan, while one can see a number of points of contact between Adams and Reagan.  Diggins, in fact, finds numerous points of contact between Adams's political writings and many French radical writers of the late 20th century.  I will say that as a leftist myself, I find much to love in Adams's thought.  I share his fear of the negative effects that economic elites have on the democratic process, his belief in the need for a strong central government to protect citizens from  the pernicious influence of greed (Adams would understand my fear of deregulation), and his instincts that government rather than less or no government is a better safeguard of individual liberty.  Diggins rightly states that the American president who would most closely incarnate Adams's principles would be Teddy Roosevelt, who envisioned government as the means of breaking trusts and promoting economic justice.<br /><br />Of all the books in the Schlesinger series on the American presidents, this is probably the one that I found most provocative intellectually.  It is a dense, rich book, in large part because Diggins focuses more on the thought of Adams than his life.  Diggins is more intent on explaining Adams ideas than the various events in his life.  In one sense this is a weakness as a biography, but because his discussion of Adams's ideas is so clear and interesting, it more than makes up for the lack of biographical detail.  I do regret some of the sketchiness of the biographical narrative.  For instance, he doesn't' deal in any detail on how Adams became either vice president or president.  This contrasts sharply with the rather deep discussion of Adams's ideas.  This is in line with Diggins's role as apologist for Adams.  On the purely historical side, most of Diggins's effort is put into dispelling the myth that the election of 1800 represented the defeat of Federalism by Republicanism (that's Jeffersonian Republicanism, not what we associate today with the GOP).  I personally found this section less interesting that the sections dealing with Adams's thought.<br /><br />I would strongly encourage anyone reading this volume to consider picking up the new volume THE PORTABLE JOHN ADAMS, edited by Diggins.  I completely agree with Diggins that Adams's writings are more interesting than his presidency, and that he may be the most unjustly neglected political writer in American history.  This new volume contains a wide ranging collection of his writings, not merely from his theoretical writings, but his diaries and letters as well.eregulation), and his instincts that government rather than less or no government is a better safeguard of individual liberty.  Diggins rightly states that the American president who would most closely incarnate Adams's principles would be Teddy Roosevelt, who envisioned government as the means of breaking trusts and promoting economic justice. <br /> <br />Of all the books in the Schlesinger series on the American presidents, this is probably the one that I found most provocative intellectually.  It is a dense, rich book, in large part because Diggins focuses more on the thought of Adams than his life.   Diggins is more intent on explaining Adams ideas than the various events in his life.  In one sense this is a weakness as a biography, but because his discussion of Adams's ideas is so clear and interesting, it more than makes up for the lack of biographical detail.  I do regret some of the sketchiness of the biographical narrative.  For instance, he doesn't' deal in any detail on how Adams became either vice president or president.  This contrasts sharply with the rather deep discussion of Adams's ideas.  This is in line with Diggins's role as apologist for Adams.  On the purely historical side, most of Diggins's effort is put into dispelling the myth that the election of 1800 represented the defeat of Federalism by Republicanism (that's Jeffersonian Republicanism, not what we associate today with the GOP).  I personally found this section less interesting that the sections dealing with Adams's thought. <br /> <br />I would strongly encourage anyone reading this volume to consider picking up the new volume THE PORTABLE JOHN ADAMS, edited by Diggins.  I completely agree with Diggins that Adams's writings are more interesting than his presidency, and that he may be the most unjustly neglected political writer in American history.  This new volume contains a wide ranging collection of his writings, not merely from his theoretical writings, but his diaries and lettersas well.	2004-07-30
572560:US	52048190	R3ES18JW31A6JO	159420019X	240296592	The Americanization of Benjamin Franklin	Books	5	6	6	N	N	An insightful and provocative fresh study of Franklin	Gordon Wood is known to students of the American Revolution as one of the foremost authorities on the subject.  Therefore, a new study of Benjamin Franklin by a scholar of his stature is certain to provoke considerable interest.  As Prof. Wood rightfully points out, 2006 will see the tercentenary of Franklin's birth, so this will undoubtedly be one in a stream of books on him.  It is hard to imagine that we will find many graced with more insight.  I heartily recommend this as one of the finest of the recent spate of books on Franklin, though it is important to emphasize that it is not a complete biography; it is, rather, a targeted biography covering only one aspect of Franklin's life.  For a complete biography, I still recommend Carl Van Doren's older biography, or either of two superb recent biographies by H. W. Brands and Edmund Morgan.  I am less enthusiastic about Walter Isaacson's biography, which tends to view Franklin far too often in contemporaries terms.<br /><br />Wood focuses on a specific question, which nonetheless takes one into the heart of both Franklin's life and his historical legacy:  given that for most of his life Franklin was an ardent British subject and give that he was not as highly regarded by his contemporary Americans as he was bu subsequent generations, how did Franklin make the transition to avid patriot and revolutionary and how did American come to embrace him with Washington as the most important of the Founding Fathers?  That Franklin was a devoted Englishman Wood confirms as being as beyond doubt, as he in exquisite detail recreates the social world in which Franklin lived and moved, and the social roles to which he aspired.  Better than any other book on Franklin that I have read, Wood does a masterful job at situating Franklin in his social context.  This is important, because all too often American's today tend to impose upon Franklin values and priorities that he did not himself hold.  For instance, many treat Franklin as a super entrepreneur, which he himself looked askance at the passionate accumulation of great wealth and certainly did not look upon the gathering of wealth to be life's major goal.  As Wood correctly tells it, Franklin is not the avid capitalist that many today would view him as.  Wood is also superb at limning the many ways in which Franklin held onto a view of America nestled in the British Empire, even when many in America had come to believe that a split between the two had become inevitable.<br /><br />Franklin did not so much become a patriot by his own volition as he was pushed into the position by humiliations heaped upon him by the British government.  But once Franklin converted to the patriot cause, he was surpassed by none in his dedication.  Nonetheless, many Americans persisted in distrusting him and numerous enemies held that he favored the interests of foreign governments, especially France.  Wood does a masterful job of portraying the lack of appreciation that his contemporaries had for his work as ambassador to France and as architect of the peace with England.<br /><br />The story of the second aspect of Franklin's Americanization--i.e., the gradual realization of Franklin's central importance in the creation of the nation--is told less linearly and perhaps not quite as clearly, but it nonetheless is the second important theme of Wood's book.  Most Americans today would be stunned to learn that it took a few decades for Franklin's achievements to be compared favorably with those of Washington, Jefferson, Hamilton, Madison, and John Adams.  Here Wood makes us aware of lacuna in the national memory that few scholars take the time to point out.<br /><br />Although not written as a full length biography, one need not have read a previous biography of Franklin to grasp all the central points of this one.  But I think the volume will prove even more valuable to those who are otherwise familiar with the life of Franklin, for Wood brings out a number of central themes in Franklin's life that other biographers either do not stress or do not call attention to.  This easily stands as one of the finest studies on Franklin that I have read, and adds another superb title to Prof. Wood's impressive bibliography.ber of central themes in Franklin's life that other biographers either do not stress or do not call attention to.  This easily stands as one of the finest studies on Franklin that I have read, and adds another superb title to Prof. Wood's impressive bibliography.	2004-07-29
582037:US	52048190	RPSIRWHW70SSQ	0805069461	176251654	James Buchanan: The American Presidents Series: The 15th President, 1857-1861	Books	5	45	53	N	N	Superb biography of an indisputably failed presidency	Almost universally James Buchanan's administration is considered to be one of the worst presidencies in American history. Most of those who are considered our greatest presidents are so regarded because they performed admirably at times of great crisis or at key moments--Washington in helping to shape the concept of the office at its outset, Lincoln in holding together the Union and leading the nation at the moment of its greatest crisis, and FDR both during the Depression and during World War Two. Buchanan, however, is noteworthy for how miserably he performed in a moment of crisis. While tensions were greatly increasing between North and South, Buchanan not only misread the mood of the nation as a whole, he so completely favored Southern sympathies and inflamed Northern and Southern outrage that a deeper crisis was unavoidable, and when South Carolina seceded from the Union, did nothing to try and defuse the crisis. Buchanan's administration was distinguished not merely for what he did wrong, but for what he failed to do at time of greatest crisis.<br /><br />  Upon buying this book but before reading it, I checked on Amazon and read the reviews that already existed. Needless to say, the multiple one-star reviews were not very encouraging, and I was expecting a lesser effort in this series. Instead, I was surprised and delighted both at Jean Baker's high degree of scholarship and understanding of her subject, and at her superb facility in expressing herself, hardly the inarticulate, poorly informed historian some of the earlier reviewers detected. How to account for this? I have a theory. Although virtually any sane, rational reader of this or any balanced biography of Buchanan will inevitably be led to regard him as one of if not the worst president in American history, his memory is semi-sacred for people with either of two axes to grind. First, some who persist in holding a strong belief in states' rights revere him as an almost fanatical defender of that doctrine. Nevermind that he himself violated the principle by attempting to force slavery on the Kansas Territory when the people in the region strongly did not wish to be a slave state. Nonetheless, some who want to defend that doctrine are willing to overlook Buchanan's other inadequacies because of that tendency in his thought. Second, many of those who defend states' rights and even side with the South in the Civil War do not care for Lincoln, and one way to try and steal some of Lincoln's thunder is to attempt to make out that Buchanan wasn't the catastrophe that virtually all informed scholars view him as being. Therefore, it is entirely possible that some of the reviewers of this quite excellent biography will do so for reasons completely extraneous to the book itself.<br /><br />  For most readers, however, not enthrall to a quaint reading of the constitution, this will prove to be a superb short biography of America's worst president. Moreover, I found it somewhat refreshing to discover an author in this series who did indeed agree that her subject was a poor as history has recorded him to be. For instance, in John Dean's biography of Harding in the same series, he is determined to prove that Harding isn't the competitor with Buchanan for the title of worst president that he is often taken to deserve (that Dean largely carries his point is beside the point). Baker not only concedes that Buchanan was a failure as president and catalogs the host of ways in which he failed, she constructs some highly plausible explanations for why.<br /><br />  I will caution that this is a somewhat depressing book. One knows the result of his term in office. After Lincoln's election but before his inauguration, Buchanan oversaw the break up of the United States, with no significant actions to attempt its dissolution. Could timely action have prevented the Civil War? We will never know for sure, but we do know that Buchanan did nothing instead of something, and we know that he espoused a host of doctrines and made a number of decisions that did nothing to lessen the growing regional tensions in the nation in the late 1850s. Many Americans currently view our sitting president as among the worst in American history. If so, Buchanan represents his stiffest competition.ow that he espoused a host of doctrines and made a number of decisions that did nothing to lessen the growing regional tensions in the nation in the late 1850s. Many Americans currently view our sitting president as among the worst in American history. If so, Buchanan represents his stiffest competition.	2004-07-20
582052:US	52048190	R2M5KXST0OFBIO	0292708785	810716660	Borges and His Fiction: A Guide to His Mind and Art (Texas Pan American Series)	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	An exceptionally fine introduction to Borges's fiction	This is a superb introduction to the fiction of the great Argentine writer Jorge Luis Borges that should serve as a model for works of its type.  All too often, studies of major authors degenerate into studies not of the writer in question but meta-studies on all manner of theoretical matters.  The best criticism takes the reader not into the heart of a theory, but into the work of the writer being discussed, and Bell-Villada takes the reader deep into the heart of Borges?s strange and marvelous world.<br /><br />The book is divided into three sections.  The first part is largely biographical, hitting the highpoints of Borges?s life, as well as exploring some aspects of his personality.  The author also discusses many of the relevant aspects of Argentine society and politics.  This is done with considerable sympathy with Borges, despite the obvious sharp political differences between the author and Borges.  In fact, one of the great appeals of the book as a whole is the fact that the author feels some distance from Borges at a number of points.  All too often, critics turn into fans of writers, tending to see in them other versions of themselves, often becoming admirers because of a host of shared values.  The author clearly finds Borges?s political positions late in life troubling, but hardly admires him as a creative writer any the less for that.<br /><br />The bulk of the book consists of finely nuanced, detailed discussions of Borges?s major fictional works.  For those unaware, Borges, while famed as one of the great writers of the past century, actually produced a rather minute body of work.  His entire fictional output in English translation amounts to scarcely more than 500 pages.  Of this output, much of that?mainly his first collection of stories and much of his later work?falls short of his best work.  Most of his great work is contained in FICCIONES and EL ALEPH, an astonishingly small body of work for a writer of such stature.  Bell-Villada discusses all of these stories with great insight, including such details surrounding their publication or context that are relevant.  The final section of the book details with Borges?s final works, and includes an interesting discussion of some of the political questions connected with his work.<br /><br />One thing that makes this book especially useful is that it can be equally useful both to specialists in the field of Latin American literature and readers encountering Borges?s work for the first time.  And betraying my own bias, it never, ever gets bogged down in mere theorizing.  The focus is always on Borges?s work itself, and not on considerations extraneous matters.es all of these stories with great insight, including such details surrounding their publication or context that are relevant.  The final section of the book details with Borges?s final works, and includes an interesting discussion of some of the political questions connected with his work. <br /> <br />One thing that makes this book especially useful is that it can be equally useful both to specialists in the field of Latin American literature and readers encountering Borges?s work for the first time.  And betraying my own bias, it never, ever gets bogged down in mere theorizing.  The focus is always on Borges?s work itself, and not on considerations extraneous matters.	2004-07-20
614140:US	52048190	R1INM8BLURIJUZ	0787969222	359951388	What Would Buffy Do?: The Vampire Slayer as Spiritual Guide	Books	5	22	23	N	Y	A surprisingly superb analysis of BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER	The title of WHAT WOULD BUFF DO?: THE VAMPIRE SLAYER AS SPIRITUAL GUIDE makes it obvious that the author is trying to do two things:  first, she is going to discuss BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER and its spin off ANGEL to a considerable extent and second, she is going to do this in such as way as to provide spiritual guidance.  I give the book a five star rating, but I have to point out that it is based entirely on the way it succeeds in the first of these two tasks.  I consider this to be the finest single-author analysis of BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER that has yet been published, but I did not find it to be especially useful in the second of its goals, of providing spiritual guidance.<br />Initially I read this book simply because I am a huge BUFFY and ANGEL fan, and am a bit of a completist:  I'll read just about any halfway decent discussion of BUFFY.  Because of the author's desire to make Buffy into a spiritual role model, I approached the book with considerable suspicion.  (For the sake of honesty, I should point out that I do have two theological degrees and did extensive graduate work on the religious thought of Kierkegaard, and still consider myself to be that rarest of creatures, a politically and socially leftist Southern Baptist, so I'm not in the least antithetical to religious ideas.)  However, as I started working through Jana Riess's discussions of the various characters in Buffy and some of the themes, I was astonished at how often I found myself in agreement with her, or how she would mention some aspect of the show and I would immediately call to mind another instance that was compatible with what she said, only to have her bring that specific instance up in her book.<br />I think this book will delight any fan of BUFFY or ANGEL.  Riess has a profound understanding of the show and really grasps the dynamics of all the major characters.  I learned a great deal about many aspects of the show, and gained insights that I had previously missed.  For instance, I had not recognized that Warren, one of the villainous nerds from Season Six, truly had become the super villains he admired in comic books.  Or when I read \\"BUFFY is less about the cycle of one's own sin and salvation than it is about saving others; it is always outwardly, and not inwardly, focused,\\" I realized that that was precisely true about the show.<br />I was far less convinced by the book's attempt to set Buffy up as a spiritual guide.  Perhaps this was just me.  My spiritual guides have been people like Kierkegaard, Henry David Thoreau, Montaigne, Wittgenstein, Dostoevsky, and Samuel Johnson.  I have never profited much from popular spiritual writers, whether pseudo-intellectuals like Joseph Campbell or spiritual writers like Philip Yancey.  They fail to speak to the kind of spiritual struggle that I have been engaged in.  It may well be that others will find this part of the book more compelling, but I have to be honest and say that I do not believe that any part of the spiritual guide part of the book left any impact on me.<br />Nonetheless, I highly recommend this book for any fan of BUFFY.  The discussion of the show is as good as we have seen before, and the character and season guides at the back are absolutely superb.  On top of all this, the book contains a marvelous interview the author conducted with Eliza Dushku, who played, of course, the rogue slayer Faith in both BUFFY and ANGEL.I had not recognized that Warren, one of the villainous nerds from Season Six, truly had become the super villains he admired in comic books.  Or when I read \\"BUFFY is less about the cycle of one's own sin and salvation than it is about saving others; it is always outwardly, and not inwardly, focused,\\" I realized that that was precisely true about the show.<br />I was far less convinced by the book's attempt to set Buffy up as a spiritual guide.  Perhaps this was just me.  My spiritual guides have been people like Kierkegaard, Henry David Thoreau, Montaigne, Wittgenstein, Dostoevsky, and Samuel Johnson.  I have never profited much from popular spiritual writers, whether pseudo-intellectuals like Joseph Campbell or spiritual writers like Philip Yancey.  They fail to speak to the kind of spiritual struggle that I have been engaged in.  It may well be that others will find this part of the book more compelling, but I have to be honest and say that I do not believe that any part of the spiritual guide part of the book left any impact on me.<br />Nonetheless, I highly recommend this book for any fan of BUFFY.  The discussion of the show is as good as we have seen before, and the character and season guides at the back are absolutely superb.  On top of all this, the book contains a marvelous interview the author conducted with Eliza Dushku, who played, of course, the rogue slayer Faith in both BUFFY and ANGEL.	2004-06-26
618567:US	52048190	R1JK3J0UUIIS6O	0060188707	655554658	Don Quixote	Books	5	20	22	N	Y	One of the most delightful and enjoyable of all the classics	Let's face it:  some of the great classics are a chore to read.  PILGRIM'S PROGRESS and ROBINSON CRUSOE are not exactly page turners.  Even Dante and Shakespeare, as rewarding as they can be, are not always easy to read.  But DON QUIXOTE is that rare classic that is both utterly delightful and extraordinarily easy to read.  Like all classics, the more effort you put into understanding this great book the more your efforts are rewarding, but what amazes me about Cervantes's masterpiece is how amazingly effortless reading it is.  It is not at all misleading to describe the volume as a page turner.<br />DON QUIXOTE is such a marvelously complex and rich book that everyone's reading of the novel will be unique.  My delight in the book stems from two main sources.  First is Cervantes's miraculous gift as a storyteller.  Although the novel is without any possible question one of the four or five most influential works of literature in history, every chapter seems eternally fresh and enchanting.  Everyone knows at least something about the book, usually about Don Quixote and Sancho Panza and the incident of the windmills, and many imagine that from this they have some notion of what the novel is like.  But these impressions rarely hint at Cervantes's genius as a spinner of tales, of his playfulness, of his acute sense of humor, his originality, and his inventiveness.  Though we like to imagine that we \\"know\\" Don Quixote, Cervantes manages to surprise the reader on nearly every page.  He is especially delightful in the second half of the novel, published several years after the first part, which allows Cervantes to depict Quixote and Sancho as famous celebrities because of the success of the first half.  Whereas in the first half they labored in obscurity, in the second half they reign as celebrities.  Cervantes also jousts with the real life author of an unauthorized second half to DON QUIXOTE.<br />Second, I find the novel delightful for the richness and brilliance of the two central characters.  Don Quixote is a character about whom it is possible to say many true things, without thereby exhausting what it is possible to say.  He is insane-and despite 20th and 21st century attempts to celebrate this as an attempt to condemn the insanity of society of a whole and assert an alternative form of rationality, we are not intended to admire his insanity.  This is not CATCH-22.  Rather, Cervantes sees Quixote's insanity as an affliction.  In terms of early 17th century psychology, Quixote goes insane from a drying up of the brain induced by staying up too many nights reading books on chivalry (it was thought at the time that the brain gradually dried up while staying awake and remoisturized at night while asleep).  Many of Quixote's moments of greatest folly occur after nights spent without sleep, and his sanity at the end of the book is restored after finally managing to sleep for several hours.  Despite this (though not because of it), Quixote is a lovable and admirable character.  We hurt for him, but we admire his genuine physical courage, his high moral principles, his devotion to his cause, and his powerful sense of justice.  Equally delightful is Sancho Panza, who seems incapable of uttering anything without it being imbued with unintentional humor.  Indeed, many of my favorite parts of the book are those where Sancho simply starts talking.  The two, of course, enjoy a host of \\"adventures,\\" but these are mainly just excuses to provide settings for Quixote and Sancho to shine.  As readers we care less about their next adventures than for the opportunity and privilege of spending time in their company.<br />One commentator in the documentary on Terry Gilliam's failed attempt to film DON QUIXOTE correctly points out that the more we see Don Quixote suffer under his insanity, the more we come to care for and love him.  This is a profound truth.  No matter how delusional he becomes, we want things to end well for him, but worry that perhaps his madness has gone too far, and indeed if there is a tragic moment in the book it is when he returns home to his village defeated.<br />This is truly one of the great books every written, and of all the classics, one of the most readable and loveable.aps his madness has gone too far, and indeed if there is a tragic moment in the book it is when he returns home to his village defeated.<br />This is truly one of the great books every written, and of all the classics, one of the most readable and loveable.	2004-06-23
623296:US	52048190	R2BGV54OJ9ZXMW	0486243001	24228305	Dor's Illustrations for Don Quixote (Dover Fine Art, History of Art)	Books	5	43	44	N	Y	An extraordinary visual companion to DON QUIXOTE	Gustave Dor&eacute; was a frustrated painter.  Forced by circumstance to produce illustration illustrations for a number of literary works, he primarily longed for fame and success as a painter.  But while shooting for fame as a painter, he inadvertently achieved immortality as arguably the greatest illustrator in history.<br />Most illustrators of the classics fall far short of the efforts of the works they are asked to illustrate, but Dor&eacute; almost always managed to eerily echo visually the genius of the original authors.  After reading the first half of DON QUIXOTE, I discovered this Dover collection of Dor&eacute;'s illustrations of the work, and I found them to be completely stunning.  Dor&eacute; had a genius for precisely visualizing events in the novel and transferring them precisely into his illustrations.  No scene is too much of a challenge to him.  The famous moment when Don Quixote attacks the windmills, mistaking them as giants, is depicted brilliantly by Dor&eacute;.  Every famous scene and many less famous scenes are all depicted, and I can honestly say that not once does Dor&eacute; disappoint me in his imaging of how the scene occurred.  One can, if one wants, make minor quibbles with Dor&eacute;, such as his drawing Quixote wearing the wash basin helmet even in section later in the novel where he is said to have worn a sallet helmet.  But this truly would be mere quibbling, for throughout Dor&eacute; perfectly captures the spirit of DON QUIXOTE.<br />I'm convinced that this collection of illustrations is not nearly as well known as it deserves to be.  Graphic novels are an extremely popular genre today, and it is impossible to imagine anyone interested in the visual aspects of those stories not being fascinated by Dor&eacute;'s far more complex and classically organized illustrations.  Likewise, no one interested in graphic art or the history of art could not find these less than riveting.  Most of all, anyone who loves DON QUIXOTE will adore these drawings, and to work through the various illustrations is to relive all the glorious events of the novel once again.  Indeed, one could almost argue that while other translators have managed with more or less success to translate Cervantes's masterpiece into English or German or French, Dor&eacute; managed to translate the novel into a purely visual language.these drawings, and to work through the various illustrations is to relive all the glorious events of the novel once again.  Indeed, one could almost argue that while other translators have managed with more or less success to translate Cervantes's masterpiece into English or German or French, Dor&eacute; managed to translate the novel into a purely visual language.	2004-06-19
630355:US	52048190	R356CGB06H2I2N	0938513060	401019148	The Carlos Chadwick Mystery: A Novel of College Life and Political Terror	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A first-rate political novel that speaks to today	First and foremost, this is a political novel.  Of course, there is a sense in which any novel is a political novel, in that it reflects to some degree the social and political situation in which it was produced.  But THE CARLOS CHADWICK MYSTERY is political in the sense that it seeks to examine predominant American political attitudes in a fictional context.  Subtract the political elements from this novel, and you are left with no novel at all.  Although a common genre in Europe and Latin America, it is comparatively rare in the United States and Britain, much to the impoverishment of our literature.<br />The novel tells the story of how Charlie Chadwick, born, raised, and educated in Venezuela by an American father and Venezuelan mother, attends his father's alma mater, the exclusive, elitist Richards College, and is transformed from a lightly political individual to a passionate leftist and possible terrorist who insists on being called Carlos.  The text consists of three main sections:  an account of his life by a very slightly to the left mainstream print journalist, a self-absorbed memoir by Carlos's bright but not-very-profound ex-girlfriend, and a highly political play written by Carlos.  The narrative is situated roughly in the very late 1960s early 1970s, but in a somewhat alternative universe than the one that we remember.  For instance, the primary American military intervention is in Peru, and the student protest in the book revolves around this rather than Vietnam.  This has the effect of forcing us to reconsider the issues in a slightly different context, an alternative history more effectively exposing the inner logic of actual history.  Anyone objecting that the U.S. would never invade or bomb Peru needs to look a bit more deeply at the depth of prior American involvement in Latin America and should recall that in the 1980s we actually did invade Latin American countries on more than one occasion.<br />The novel contains a wealth of provocative and interesting ideas, and anyone willing to take the book on its own terms will undoubtedly find it a fascinating read.  One seeking a mere narrative might look elsewhere.  The ideas in the first two sections of the novel are more subdued than in the final section, and consist primarily in the political naivet&eacute; of the journalist and the former girlfriend.  In fact, although the novel is subtitled \\"A Novel of College Life and Political Terror,\\" I could not keep from thinking that the real issue was not terror but naivet&eacute;.  For instance, both fail to perceive the deeply entrenched ideology permeating liberal capitalist society (\\"liberal\\" I mean in the broad nonpartisan sense of the broad consensus that informs all of American life; by this standard Ronald Reagan is a paradigmatic liberal).  The girlfriend writes, \\"I believe strongly in America's system of pragmatic, nonideological problem solving,\\" a sentence that that embraces more than one naivet&eacute;.  It is in the final section of the book, \\"Perspective Industries, LTD.,\\" that the political issues are raised most sharply.  In reading this section, I kept being reminded of Guy Debord and his SOCIETY OF THE SPECTACLE.  I do not know that there is a direct connection, but many of the ideas there had parallels in Debord and other French thinkers and writers from the late 1960s.  The content is too rich and the space here too limited to do more than say that in this section the sophism inherent in capitalism is brought to the fore.  We speak lightly sometimes of the \\"marketplace of ideas,\\" but here the \\"market\\" aspect is taken more strictly than usual.  The argument is that there is a relativism deeply inherent in capitalism that most do not chose to see.<br />There is a very real sense in which the mystery that is Carlos Chadwick is never resolved.  He becomes a leftist during a year spent studying in Paris, but also after a painful break up with his girlfriend and a period of time in which he is ostracized by schoolmates for speaking out against the sexual harassment of several women by a group of men.  Carlos's conversion to the left is rapid and dramatic and extreme, but one suspects that there is both an intellectual and emotional component to this.  His ideas are well thought out and insightful, but one wonders what role his interpersonal experiences played in all this.  That they played some role seems obvious from things he says to his ex-girlfriend upon his return to college after his year in France.  But the other mystery is the mystery that Carlos is to the journalist and the former girlfriend due to the sharply delimited nature of their worldview.  In the end, I found Carlos's ideas quite congenial, but it didn't keep me from wondering what alchemy of emotional need and intellectual deliberation resulted in his political conversion.<br />I highly recommend this so anyone who enjoys reading novels of ideas or political discussion.  It is especially relevant today in the first decade of the new century, when a corporate-owned media whose independence is sharply delimited by the values and economic needs of its investors is absurdly taken as \\"liberal,\\" and on top of that not recognizing that being liberal and being leftist are hardly equivalent.  In this regard, the novel speaks to today's issues perhaps even more sharply than when he was first published.ates for speaking out against the sexual harassment of several women by a group of men.  Carlos's conversion to the left is rapid and dramatic and extreme, but one suspects that there is both an intellectual and emotional component to this.  His ideas are well thought out and insightful, but one wonders what role his interpersonal experiences played in all this.  That they played some role seems obvious from things he says to his ex-girlfriend upon his return to college after his year in France.  But the other mystery is the mystery that Carlos is to the journalist and the former girlfriend due to the sharply delimited nature of their worldview.  In the end, I found Carlos's ideas quite congenial, but it didn't keep me from wondering what alchemy of emotional need and intellectual deliberation resulted in his political conversion.<br />I highly recommend this so anyone who enjoys reading novels of ideas or political discussion.  It is especially relevant today in the first decade of the new century, when a corporate-owned media whose independence is sharply delimited by the values and economic needs of its investors is absurdly taken as \\"liberal,\\" and on top of that not recognizing that being liberal and being leftist are hardly equivalent.  In this regard, the novel speaks to today's issues perhaps even more sharply than when he was first published.	2004-06-14
650851:US	52048190	R1J6D3AII3T9B8	156458321X	968678533	Stephen Biesty's Cross-Sections: Man-Of-War	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	An exceptionally fine book that can delight young and old	Dorling Kindersley has in the past twenty years quickly established itself as an outstanding publisher of niche books--children's reference books, travel guides, atlases, and the such.  What I find so remarkable about a number of their children's books is how enormously satisfying they are for adults as well, even adults who are fairly familiar with the subject matter.  One of the better series of books in their impressive list are the Cross-Sections books by Stephen Biesty.  As someone who is interested both in the history of ships and the Aubrey-Maturin novels by Patrick O'Brian, I find this one even more interesting than most.<br />Two things stand out about this book:  its remarkably detailed drawings and the enormous amount of information that gets stuffed into the book's relatively short length.  This book provides a pictorial rendering of one of the great ships of the line of the Napoleonic navy, similar to H.M.S. Victory.  Virtually nothing gets left out, and the book can actually serve as a surprisingly comprehensive introduction to the Royal British Navy during the time of Nelson and Napoleon.  It is somewhat misleading in that the ship depicted was the exception and not the norm, the British navy possessing only a handful of ships this size.  Apart from that the book has no serious flaws, except for the unaffordable one in a visual guide that it is sometimes hard to locate information in its closely packed pages.<br />I would also recommend another Dorling Kindersley book, also unfortunately out of print, THE VISUAL DICTIONARY OF SHIPS AND SAILING.  It does a bit better job than this one of defining many nautical terms.  Each represents a marvelous addition to personal library of books on the age of the sailing ship.	2004-05-28
657456:US	52048190	R3429APK2BD02K	0393308626	639608055	The Far Side of the World (Vol. Book 10)  (Aubrey/Maturin Novels)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Another strong addition to a phenomenal series	Given the existence of the movie MASTER AND COMMANDER: THE FAR SIDE OF THE WORLD, something has to be said initially about that.  I would very strongly recommend anyone who has seen the movie and wants to read the novel to resist the temptation to do so.  Mainly this is because it is the tenth novel in a series, and the author assumes that you have read the previous nine.  If you pick this up and attempt to read it without having read the others, you will be utterly at sea (pun intended).  I also do not recommend this novel to viewers of the movie (who don't intend to read the other novels first) because the novel and the movie bear very little resemblence to one another.  There is, in fact, almost nothing in common between the two except for the two main characters, the fact that the H.M.S. Surprise is chasing another ship (an American ship rather than French as in the movie, presumably so as not to alienate American movie goers), they encounter the Gallapagos Islands, and they end up in the Pacific.  In other words, there is only the most superficial resemblence between the novel and the movie.<br /><br />For readers of the series, this is one of the stronger additions to the sequence.  Instead of taking the Surprise back to England where she is to be sold or perhaps broken up, Jack is summoned to go out in search of the U.S.S. Norfolk, an American ship sent out to harrass British whaling ships in the Pacific.  Although things go well at first, it turns out to be an almost doomed voyage, with one catastrophe after another taking place.  None of the misfortunes dooms the mission, but neither do they allow anything to go smoothly.  The only thing that saves the mission is that the Norfolk ends up having even less luck than the Surprise.<br /><br />The key to Patrick O'Brians series is not to focus too very much on any one novel.  There is truly a sense in which all the novels together form a single saga.  Unlike other series, no single book stands very well alone.  In fact, each novel functioned more like a chapter in a very long book than an independent novel.  For the reader who plows through all of the novels, this can be immensely satisfying, like reading the longest novel ever written.  I'm a little surprised that the publishers didn't contest O'Brian's strategy (or perhaps they did but he successfully resisted).  Most publishers prefer series that can be entered at any point in the sequence, but with the Aubrey-Maturin books you need to start at the beginning or not at all.<br /><br />While I do not recommend neophytes beginning with this series, I do heartily commend the whole group of books.  This is not merely the finest set of historical novels ever written, as has often been noted by literary critics and reviewers:  it is arguably the finest long series of novels of any genre of the past hundred years.  It has the potential to appeal to a remarkable range of people, whether fans of great literature, those engaged in sailing, those who enjoy first rate historical fiction, or those who like sea faring adventure. It is a sequence that can truly be many things to many people, and yet manage to satisfy all.vel functioned more like a chapter in a very long book than an independent novel.  For the reader who plows through all of the novels, this can be immensely satisfying, like reading the longest novel ever written.  I'm a little surprised that the publishers didn't contest O'Brian's strategy (or perhaps they did but he successfully resisted).  Most publishers prefer series that can be entered at any point in the sequence, but with the Aubrey-Maturin books you need to start at the beginning or not at all.    While I do not recommend neophytes beginning with this series, I do heartily commend the whole group of books.  This is not merely the finest set of historical novels ever written, as has often been noted by literary critics and reviewers:  it is arguably the finest long series of novels of any genre of the past hundred years.  It has the potential to appeal to a remarkable range of people, whether fans of great literature, those engaged in sailing, those who enjoy first rate historical fiction, or those who like sea faring adventure. It is a sequence that can truly be many things to many people, and yet manage to satisfy all.	2004-05-23
657468:US	52048190	R3UZC3BNAFKQBQ	0192833383	424220149	The Moonstone (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	110	116	N	N	An immersive, unforgettable mystery classic	THE MOONSTONE was the first mystery story, and it in many ways remains one of the most remarkable.  Working in the shadow of the Gothic and Romantic literary traditions, Wilkie Collins managed to create something new and unique.  Instead of the endless evocation of atmosphere and focusing on sinister villains, Collins focuses instead on a simple mystery and its solution:  who stole the diamond known as the Moonstone, and where did it go?  But any reader of the novel knows that the mystery is secondary to the exposition and the marvelous parade of characters.  It isn't the getting to the resolution of the mystery that is the main thing, but the process of getting there.<br />One of the great attractions of the novel is the extraordinary style of the writing.  Although the first English mystery story, it had not yet devolved into a genre, and Collins was not aware that a mystery story could not also be great literature.  As a result, he imbued his characters with enormous charm and give them each a vivid manner in expressing themselves.  The multiple narratives by this remarkable characters was a strategy to deal with the problem of authorial point of view.  On the one hand, Collins wanted to avoid the omniscient narrator who would know the truth both about each character and about the myster of the fate of the diamond.  Collins therefore cast the novel in the form of a succession of narratives by the various participants in the novel.  He thereby limits the knowledge of each narrator, but he also is able thereby to provide considerable variation in the style of each narrative.  The two most remarkable segments are those by Gabriel Betteridge, House-Steward in the service of Lady Verinder and her cousin Miss Clack, a prim and fervid evangelical Christian whose missionary zeal and prudish moralizing provide many of the funniest moments of the novel.  The style of these two could not be more distinct, both from the rest of the narratives and from each other.  Miss Clack has constantly to fight a tendency to sermonize.  She is apt to turn out passages such as:  &quot;A thundering knock at the street door startled us all.  I looked through the window, and saw the World the Flesh, and the Devil waiting before the house--as typified in a carriage and horses, a powdered footman, and three of the most audaciously dressed women I ever beheld in my life.&quot;  Betteridge, on the other hand, is solid, practical, a tad parochial, but ferociously loyal to his employer.  For him the good life consists of a good pipe and a copy of ROBINSON CRUSOE at hand.  If one laughs a bit at Miss Clack, the reader comes to thoroughly like Betteredge.  Between the two of them, their narrative occupy more than half the novel.  The others are also quite enjoyable, but not to the degree that these two are.<br />THE MOONSTONE is a page turner, which is to say that it is a delight to read.  One wants to read quickly both because each page is such a joy and because one wants to discover what happens next.  The characters are mainly enjoyable, but like so many authors his eccentric characters are far more memorable and enjoyable than his central characters.  Betteredge, Miss Clack, and Sgt. Cuff far outstrip the &quot;hero&quot; of the book, who while a good citizen, is from a literary point of view a tad boring.<br />I can agree with those readers who consider THE WOMAN IN WHITE a better book, but this is another of those comparisons that are odious.  The book is so enjoyable, fun, and memorable that I can't imagine any reader lamenting during the course of its pages that they weren't reading the other book instead.has constantly to fight a tendency to sermonize.  She is apt to turn out passages such as:  &quot;A thundering knock at the street door startled us all.  I looked through the window, and saw the World the Flesh, and the Devil waiting before the house--as typified in a carriage and horses, a powdered footman, and three of the most audaciously dressed women I ever beheld in my life.&quot;  Betteridge, on the other hand, is solid, practical, a tad parochial, but ferociously loyal to his employer.  For him the good life consists of a good pipe and a copy of ROBINSON CRUSOE at hand.  If one laughs a bit at Miss Clack, the reader comes to thoroughly like Betteredge.  Between the two of them, their narrative occupy more than half the novel.  The others are also quite enjoyable, but not to the degree that these two are.<br />THE MOONSTONE is a page turner, which is to say that it is a delight to read.  One wants to read quickly both because each page is such a joy and because one wants to discover what happens next.  The characters are mainly enjoyable, but like so many authors his eccentric characters are far more memorable and enjoyable than his central characters.  Betteredge, Miss Clack, and Sgt. Cuff far outstrip the &quot;hero&quot; of the book, who while a good citizen, is from a literary point of view a tad boring.<br />I can agree with those readers who consider THE WOMAN IN WHITE a better book, but this is another of those comparisons that are odious.  The book is so enjoyable, fun, and memorable that I can't imagine any reader lamenting during the course of its pages that they weren't reading the other book instead.	2004-05-23
663377:US	52048190	R2LQ9Z9189F0ZO	000222383X	350671306	The Mauritius Command	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Fascinating addition to a fabulous series	The opening of THE MAURITIUS COMMAND finds &quot;Lucky&quot; Jack Aubrey married, poor, and bored.  He is without a command, on half pay, and doing no more than tinkering with his telescopes.  Happily, his particular friend Stephen Maturin comes bearing glad tidings:  an assignment leading an expedition to capture the French-held islands of Mauritius and La Reunion just east of Madagascar.<br />Unlike the previous novels, where Jack commands a vessel usually unattached from joint maneuvers, he here commands several ships.  Unfortunately, the Commodore (as Jack is temporarily called) has a problem:  the captains of the three primary ships are troublesome.  Lord Clonfert nurses a long held jealously of Jack's fame and success, and has a tendency for self-promotion and showmanship.  Pym is solid, but in the end lacks judgment in battle.  Corbett is the polar opposite of Jack in regard to discipline.  While Jack believes in discipline, he staunchly believes that brutality and frequent punishment is both cruel and counterproductive, leading to an unhappy ship.  Corbett, on the other hand, is a savage disciplinarian, and keeps his crew on the edge of mutiny.<br />All of the novels in the series have their unique appeal, and this one delights in its chronicling the course of a single campaign, a campaign that O'Brian notes is based quite closely on real events.  The novel is also superb in its setting in a locale of which most readers will be utterly unfamiliar.  It is also fun because more than in the previous novels, Stephen Maturin plays a more prominent role as an intelligence officer, and his work on the islands in fermenting rebellion against the French is as crucial as Jack's role in leading the military expedition.<br />I would caution anyone tempted to read O'Brian to start with the very first novel and work from the first to the last.  I deeply love these books, but they do not stand alone.	2004-05-18
666150:US	52048190	R3IGYWUK8IOYU7	0141007036	987571902	Imperial Spain: 1469-1716	Books	5	110	114	N	Y	A justly celebrated historical classic	Over the years I have managed to read a fairly large number of historical works dedicated to surveying particular periods of history, but I have rarely found one that managed to combine learning with readability as well as this one.  Although a historian, Elliott must of necessity tell a story, and that is how Spain went from being a relatively unimportant afterthought on the tip of Europe to being for a period of time perhaps the dominant power on the globe, only to fall into a state of decline and veritable collapse.  It is an amazing, improbable story, yet Elliott manages it without ever losing the reader in historical minutiae.<br />Elliott tells his story by focusing on the reigns of the great monarchs of the 15th and 16th centuries of Spain, and the considerably less great monarchs and their &quot;favorites&quot; (noblemen who actually ran Spain--as Elliott puts it at one point, the kings reigned, but the favorites ruled) of the 17th century.  The highpoint of the story comes rather early, with the remarkable reign of Isabella of Castile and Ferdinand of Aragon, surely the greatest monarchial partnership Europe has known.  Two gifted, talented, and powerful monarchs, they worked together brilliantly to create one of the great empires of Europe, managing such feats as driving the Moors out of Spain and creating a dynasty in the New World (as well as funding Columbus' discovery of it).  Unfortunately, they, the Most Catholic Kings, also were responsible for the Inquisition.  Elliott takes a balanced approach to the Inquisition (not my own inclination, since it seems to me to be an unmitigable horror), not minimizing its effects, but trying to understand it in context.<br />From Isabella and Ferdinand, Elliott takes the reader through the reasons that Ferdinand was reluctantly forced to arrange for the monarchies of Castile and Aragon to the Habsburgs (it is fairly complex, but essentially there was no acceptable heir), and the eventual accedence of the Holy Roman Emperor Charles V to the thrones of Spain.  Although not quite as glorious a time as under Isabella and Ferdinand, Charles V's reign was also a highpoint in Spanish history.  Although to a large degree an absentee monarch, his reign is characterized by his attempts to expand his empire--which embraced a substantial portion of Europe--and his wars against against heresy, i.e., protestantism, whether in its Lutheran, Calvinist, or English forms.  Indeed, if religious zeal--even if profoundly misguided--were a criterion of religiousity, then Charles V might go down as the most religious monarch in European history.  That protestantism survived is surely not to be blamed on Charles V (I'm a Baptist, by the way, so I'm hardly lamenting his failure).  In the end, however, Charles V's wars put such a great strain on his various subjects as to lead to general financial chaos, and his expenditures led to multiple bankruptcies, not only in his own but in his son's reign.<br />Phillip II is in many ways the polar opposite of his father.  Although the monarch of the Dutch territories and Spain, he was not like his father the Holy Roman Emperor.  He was also not a warrior king, although many wars were fought under his reign.  While Charles V waged war closer to the field, Phillip II waged war at his desk and papers with a pen.  The last of the great Spanish kings of the imperial period, Phillip II struggled desperately to carry on his father's goals amidst dwindling funds and financial resources.<br />The final sections of the book chronicle the long, slow, depressing period of decline, the period depicted so vividly in DON QUIXOTE.  Ironically, although the 17th century was a period of waning Spanish successes, it was nonetheless a far richer period artistically, not just through the work of such great writers as Cervantes and Lope de Vega, but a host of great painters like Velazquez and Zurburan.<br />Elliott is a truly fine historian, but he is also an engaging one.  I remained interested in the fate of Spain from the beginning to the agonizing end.  I would strongly recommend this volume to anyone who wants a stronger background into the formation of modern Europe.  It also makes an absolutely perfect introduction to the historical setting of Cervantes's DON QUIXOTE (my immediate purpose in reading it).mained interested in the fate of Spain from the beginning to the agonizing end.  I would strongly recommend this volume to anyone who wants a stronger background into the formation of modern Europe.  It also makes an absolutely perfect introduction to the historical setting of Cervantes's DON QUIXOTE (my immediate purpose in reading it).	2004-05-16
669131:US	52048190	R301YL18BDK6TT	0393308634	214446983	Treason's Harbour (Vol. Book 9)  (Aubrey/Maturin Novels)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Another superb volume in an absolutely stellar series	I am very conflicted about rating this novel.  The Aubrey-Maturin books are a series of novels, but in fact area almost a single novel rather than a series of stand alone books.  Disliking one novel is almost tantamount to saying that you dislike a chapter of a book, which is almost silly.  I must, therefore, confess to feeling a bit silly saying that this is one of my least favorite novels in the series.  The series as a whole is masterful, and group of books that I love dearly, and it is to be expected that some parts are to be less successful than others.<br />TREASON'S HARBOUR is from first to last a spy story.  This is not always apparent, but even the two long segments that interrupt the more straightforward espionage sections of the narrative result as they do because of a major British official selling state secrets.  O'Brian's genius lies in his willingness to leave so many strands of his story unresolved at the end, and while this willingness to forestall resolving his tale weakens TREASON'S HARBOUR taken exclusively on its own, it strengthens the series of books overall.<br />The novel finds our heroes in Malta, following the events of THE IONIAN MISSION.  Almost immediately we find that French agents have identified Stephen Maturin as a British intelligence agent, and they point their reluctant agent Laura Fielding--an Italian beauty who is the wife of a British naval officer who has been imprisoned by the French and who can therefore be used to force her to comply with their needs-at the good doctor, hoping to make her his lover in order to accumulate secrets.  When finished with Maturin, they clearly mean to kill him.  Meanwhile, we learn that a major British official is in league with the French, and is passing on secrets to them.  Twice Jack is given assignments to carry out that are compromised by secrets shared by the official.  One act of treason even leads to the death of Jack's long-time nemesis Rear Admiral Hart, in rather shocking fashion.<br />One of the amazing things about the Aubrey-Maturin series is the extraordinary number of locales that it takes the reader.  One of the stereotypes of sea going novels is of a protagonist who boards ships because he wants to see the world.  This is unquestionably the case with these stories.  This entire novel is set in the Mediterranean, the fleet being based at Malta, and Jack being given assignments in Egypt and Algeria.  One benefit for me of reading the novels has been my constant running to an Atlas to locate with greater specificity the various ports of call encountered in the various novels.<br />In short, while this is one of the least eventful novels in the series, and while it barely manages to stand on its own, it nonetheless plays a crucial role in the series as a whole.  Moreover, it contains many of the virtues of the other novels.  I can't imagine anyone who has loved other novels in the sequence not loving this one also./>One of the amazing things about the Aubrey-Maturin series is the extraordinary number of locales that it takes the reader.  One of the stereotypes of sea going novels is of a protagonist who boards ships because he wants to see the world.  This is unquestionably the case with these stories.  This entire novel is set in the Mediterranean, the fleet being based at Malta, and Jack being given assignments in Egypt and Algeria.  One benefit for me of reading the novels has been my constant running to an Atlas to locate with greater specificity the various ports of call encountered in the various novels.  <br />In short, while this is one of the least eventful novels in the series, and while it barely manages to stand on its own, it nonetheless plays a crucial role in the series as a whole.  Moreover, it contains many of the virtues of the other novels.  I can't imagine anyone who has loved other novels in the sequence not loving this one also.	2004-05-14
721387:US	52048190	R5RU9PJO594KU	0972630015	284856859	Morbid Drive: A Comprehensive Study of Pure Evil, Dieting, and the Undead	Books	4	5	6	N	N	My friends would think I rated this too low	I had a very interesting experience with this book.  I took it to work with me, and some friends who are huge fans of comics and graphic novels essentially stole it from me and wouldn't give it back.  They claimed they accidentally took it home with them and kept forgetting to bring it back, but not even once did I believe them.  In other words, the book made a huge hit with my friends, and while I enjoyed the book, they are somewhat ticked that I don't quite share their passion.<br />I mention this because clearly I am not the book's target audience, but I wanted to point out that it apparently goes over rather well with those that are.  Mind you, I did enjoy the book a great deal, but not as intensely as did my friends.<br />What did I like about the book?  Well, it is often quite funny, and the strip is well drawn and entertaining.  What is the source of my hesitancy to embrace it as fully as my cohorts?  I think there are two.  First, while it is often quite funny, there are moments when the humor seems a bit forced; not always or even often, but enough times to bother me a bit.  Second, I was bothered by the overall structure of the book.  It is presented initially as an introduction to new vampires to the afterlife, but as it is executed, it is obviously instead an introduction to the cast of characters populating the cartoon strip.  I don't like bait and switch in cartoons anymore than I do in the 43rd president of the United States.  Although the text that connects the various sections of the book together reverts to the intro to the newly undead with which it starts, the various sections seem organically disconnected.  This did not bother my friends, though they granted that I was not mistaken in my feelings.<br />Nonetheless, this is a fun book.  It is frequently funny, often engrossing, and several of the characters well drawn and enticing.  I especially liked the way the infant vampire who is the presumed author of the text is drawn, with his gown ending in ornate curls.  I think any fan of comics will find this to be a valued addition to their collection.  Just don't let your friends and colleagues steal it.in ornate curls.  I think any fan of comics will find this to be a valued addition to their collection.  Just don't let your friends and colleagues steal it.	2004-04-03
756681:US	52048190	RCHITW9ODET5V	0393307611	952337324	H. M. S. Surprise (Aubrey / Maturin)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Extremely satisfying installment of the Aubrey-Maturin saga	The third of the Aubrey-Maturin books primarily focuses on a long voyage Aubrey and Maturin undertake to deliver a British envoy to India, but along the way they undergo trials and tribulations far darker than anything that happened in the first two books.  Maturin alone undergoes extensive physical torture, has his heart broken yet again, fights a duel that he wins but in which he is seriously wounded, and meets a young girl in India who he wants to help but discovers her murdered by those who want to steal the bracelets he bought for her.  Jack, on the other hand, is merely imprisoned for debt and then has his engagement with Sophie tested.  Comparatively speaking, he gets off rather lightly.<br />There is not a great deal of plot in the book, very much like the first two books.  O'Brian isn't so much not very good with plot as unconcerned.  In this regard his books are far more true-to-life that tell a well-contained story.  O'Brian is more concerned with successive events that may have some connection with one another, though if one pushed hard enough one might contend the novel is concerned with the question of whether Jack and Stephen will get married.  But if that were the &quot;story&quot; the novel was trying to tell, too many extraneous are involved.  But for O'Brian the main point of the books are those extraneous details.  He is far more interested in the texture and the historical veracity of the period than he is in &quot;plot.&quot;<br />What I really enjoy about these books is the way he is constantly making Jack and Stephen more interesting characters.  They are far from perfect.  By contemporary standards, Jack is a throwback, having a host of biases and opinions about human beings that we would consider most unenlightened.  Stephen, on the other hand, is a product of the 18th century Enlightenment, not merely interested in the scientific issues of the day, but clearly holding many of the leftist political positions of the time.  Yet, Stephen is a mass of beautiful contradictions, being liberal and enlightened in most ways, yet working for the British government as a spy.  It is this complexity in Stephen's character that makes him by far the more interesting character of the two.  Jack, on the other hand, only really comes to life when there is a battle.<br />As far as battles go, O'Brian clearly has embraced the theory that less is more.  There is a rousing rescue near the beginning of the novel, but apart from that the only battle scene in the novel comes near the end, where Jack is challenged to product a merchant fleet from a packet of powerful French ships that vastly overpower them.  It is probably my favorite battle scene of any of the books so far.<br />Like the first two books, I heartily recommend this novel to anyone who wants to enjoy some terrific historical novels.  O'Brian tries hard to be an objective observer, trying hard not to impose 20th century values on all the attitudes, though Maturin has many of the same sympathies and attitudes that we do (though not adverse to a duel).  One will learn a great deal of history, be highly entertained, and come to know a couple of flawed but enormously interesting characters.a mass of beautiful contradictions, being liberal and enlightened in most ways, yet working for the British government as a spy.  It is this complexity in Stephen's character that makes him by far the more interesting character of the two.  Jack, on the other hand, only really comes to life when there is a battle.<br />As far as battles go, O'Brian clearly has embraced the theory that less is more.  There is a rousing rescue near the beginning of the novel, but apart from that the only battle scene in the novel comes near the end, where Jack is challenged to product a merchant fleet from a packet of powerful French ships that vastly overpower them.  It is probably my favorite battle scene of any of the books so far.<br />Like the first two books, I heartily recommend this novel to anyone who wants to enjoy some terrific historical novels.  O'Brian tries hard to be an objective observer, trying hard not to impose 20th century values on all the attitudes, though Maturin has many of the same sympathies and attitudes that we do (though not adverse to a duel).  One will learn a great deal of history, be highly entertained, and come to know a couple of flawed but enormously interesting characters.	2004-03-06
757569:US	52048190	R2VYDZVXCK2UTZ	1569717516	605035014	Fray	Books	5	18	18	N	Y	A brilliant alternate take on the Slayer mythology	I was really impressed by this superb graphic novel written by Buffy creator Joss Whedon.  While I was expecting a fun and interesting addition to the Slayerverse mythology, I wasn't expecting such a surprisingly nifty take on the mythology that Whedon had established in Buffy and Angel.<br />The story takes place at some indeterminate place in the future a couple of hundreds years in the future.  No Slayer had been called in ages because magic had moved out of earth's dimension.  But the vampires have returned, and for the first time in generations a new slayer has been called.  The trouble is, apart from being a thief, she doesn't have many of the marks of a slayer--no dreams, no instincts, only the raw physical fighting ability.  She is a slayer, but a flawed one.<br />FRAY is filled with great graphic designs, a fine central storyline, a remarkably complex set of character relations, and some quite stunning plot reversals.  I love the conceit of a not-quite-complete-slayer.  The fighting skills are clearly the most important part of being a slayer, but Fray has no sense of her heritage, of her destiny, of her vocation.  If Buffy at least struggled against her fate, Fray hasn't a hint of what her fate is.  When tells the demon who would train her that she really hasn't had the dreams or visions of previous slayers, she is telling the truth.  This makes her even more isolated than other slayers, more a loner.<br />I think anyone who enjoys either graphic novels or any of the work of Joss Whedon is going to love this.  Hopefully there will be a follow up.  The story ends with things definitely open to future development.  I'll keep my fingers crossed.	2004-03-06
761219:US	52048190	R1VCMJAXPACNGF	0805211063	969973930	The Castle	Books	5	153	164	N	N	One of the great literary nightmares of the past century	Franz Kafka was obsessed with dreams, and THE CASTLE is his attempt to depict the modern world of corporate and governmental bureaucracy as a crazed nightmare.  The novel possesses the logic of dreams, and there is a dreamlike quality to everything that happens in the book.  As in a dream, people and situations transform effortlessly into something entirely different, as when one of the young, silly assistants of the protagonist K. suddenly appears to be a much older, decrepit man.  Though his transformation is absurd, it is part and parcel of the logic of the village dominated by The Castle.<br />I first read this novel years ago when the only option in translation was the Muir translation.  This new complete translation, which includes a large section that Kafka's friend and literary executor Max Brod decided to excise, transforms the novel into an entirely different book.  For one thing, the section that Brod left out indicates even more vividly the degree to which the novel is concerned with depicting the more horrific aspects of modern bureaucratic life.  For another, the manner in which the text simply breaks off in mid-sentence reinforces the nightmarish quality of the book, for just as we wake up from a dream, never able to complete the tale, so we break away from the narrative, never knowing what K.'s fate is.<br />The novel contains more a situation than a plot.  K., a surveyor, arrives in a village having been hired by the local Castle, presumably to survey.  Instead, K. quickly learns that he may not have been hired at all, and manages to break rapidly a number of laws of which he was utterly unaware and whose logic is far from obvious.  In this way we see Kafka exploring one of the great themes of his literature:  that all individuals are guilty until proven innocent, and that we have no idea what it means to be innocent.  K.'s plight becomes more and more absurd and confused all the way until the point at which Kafka ceased working on the novel.<br />That Kafka gave up working on the novel isn't completely surprising.  His method of writing was to growth the text like one would a plant, not necessarily knowing where the story was going, but instead allowing it to develop as it wished.  Unlike virtually every other great writer of the past two hundred years, Kafka was almost completely unconcerned with either character development or with plot.  It wasn't that he was bad at character:  it simply didn't concern him.  He was far more interested in pure situations, as if they were thought experiments.  For instance, what would happen if a man awoke one morning to find that he had been transformed into a giant beetle?  Or, what would happen if someone were accused of a crime, but knew neither accuser, the crime of which he is being accused, or where his trial was to be held?  Or, what would happen if a man showed up in a village to work as a surveyor, but discovered that he had neither a position nor means to contact those who had hired him?<br />One reading this novel should keep in mind that Kafka spent his entire professional life working as a risk manager in an insurance company.  He was acutely aware of the nature of corporate bureaucracy, and the myriad of silly rules and the amount of red tape inundating modern corporate and political life.  Some tend towards a metaphysical reading of the novel, and while the book is not immune to such a reading, I think it can be better read on a more concrete social level.  Kafka worked in an office his entire adult life, until his tuberculosis forced him to retire on what today would be workers' disability.  He knew first hand the degrading, callous, and inhuman nature of the bureaucratic culture that was threatening to engulf modern urban living.  Unfortunately, he did not, like K. in the novel, know how to escape the nightmare himself, or give us advice on how we could escape it ourselves.hat Kafka gave up working on the novel isn't completely surprising.  His method of writing was to growth the text like one would a plant, not necessarily knowing where the story was going, but instead allowing it to develop as it wished.  Unlike virtually every other great writer of the past two hundred years, Kafka was almost completely unconcerned with either character development or with plot.  It wasn't that he was bad at character:  it simply didn't concern him.  He was far more interested in pure situations, as if they were thought experiments.  For instance, what would happen if a man awoke one morning to find that he had been transformed into a giant beetle?  Or, what would happen if someone were accused of a crime, but knew neither accuser, the crime of which he is being accused, or where his trial was to be held?  Or, what would happen if a man showed up in a village to work as a surveyor, but discovered that he had neither a position nor means to contact those who had hired him?<br />One reading this novel should keep in mind that Kafka spent his entire professional life working as a risk manager in an insurance company.  He was acutely aware of the nature of corporate bureaucracy, and the myriad of silly rules and the amount of red tape inundating modern corporate and political life.  Some tend towards a metaphysical reading of the novel, and while the book is not immune to such a reading, I think it can be better read on a more concrete social level.  Kafka worked in an office his entire adult life, until his tuberculosis forced him to retire on what today would be workers' disability.  He knew first hand the degrading, callous, and inhuman nature of the bureaucratic culture that was threatening to engulf modern urban living.  Unfortunately, he did not, like K. in the novel, know how to escape the nightmare himself, or give us advice on how we could escape it ourselves.	2004-03-03
776456:US	52048190	R3PFK1JZFVXI9H	0762416521	320786596	The World Of Jack Aubrey	Books	4	45	46	N	N	Very good, but could have offered a bit more	I am a newcomer to the world of Aubrey and Maturin, and like a novice I have found myself somewhat overwhelmed by the overwhelming amount of nautical and naval detail contained in the book.  I sought this book out because I thought it might help make that world a bit clearer.  To a very large extent, this handsome though slender volume did the trick.  The book provides a to-the-point introduction to the world of naval combat during the Napoleonic age, and I definitely have a clearer idea of the kinds of ships that were around at that time.  I read through the book once, and I anticipate going to it again as I work my way through the rest of the Aubrey/Maturin volumes (I'm currently nearing the end of H.M.S. SURPRISE, the third book).<br />Despite having learned from the book, I was somewhat disappointed that it didn't cover more.  I can think of two chapters that I would very much have profited from.  The first would have been a chapter dealing with the &quot;stuff&quot; of a ship.  This volume does this slightly in talking of the sailing rig of a typical boat, but I would have liked more detail.  What weight was the rope used on these boats and was it hemp?  Where did they store extra rope.  How did they deal with the water needs of the ship's inhabitants, how much was allotted to a sailor each day, and how often did they need to resupply water and food?  The second chapter that I would have liked to see would have been one on the mechanics of sailing.  I am not a sailor, and have never been on a sailboat (despite living in Chicago alongside Lake Michigan).  I would have benefited enormously from a chapter explaining how a ship of the British navy moved about on the water.  Navigating ships is a major feature of the novels, and I would very much have loved more explanation of how this is done.  I'm sure many books deal with this, but this volume's lacking this means that it is not a one-book-deals-with-all resource.  I was also somewhat saddened that there wasn't some larger discussion of surgical practice on a ship, perhaps a selection of surgical instruments, though I must admit that the title refers only to Aubrey, not Maturin.<br />Despite the rather circumscribed subject matter of the book, this is a very helpful introduction to anyone like myself who knows little about the early 19th century British navy and would like to learn more.  The book itself is very attractively done, and the illustrations are great.  There is a host of great photographs of ships.  I especially like the few occasions when ships were depicted that had appeared in the novels I have read so far.  In short, this is a very fine little book, but I'm not sure that an Aubrey/Maturin fan couldn't do better.some larger discussion of surgical practice on a ship, perhaps a selection of surgical instruments, though I must admit that the title refers only to Aubrey, not Maturin.<br />Despite the rather circumscribed subject matter of the book, this is a very helpful introduction to anyone like myself who knows little about the early 19th century British navy and would like to learn more.  The book itself is very attractively done, and the illustrations are great.  There is a host of great photographs of ships.  I especially like the few occasions when ships were depicted that had appeared in the novels I have read so far.    In short, this is a very fine little book, but I'm not sure that an Aubrey/Maturin fan couldn't do better.	2004-02-21
777297:US	52048190	R38Z8GIZIBSYHN	0974946648	113240706	A Brief History of Disease, Science and Medicine	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Enormously educational yet thoroughly entertaining and fun	This is both an extremely ambitious and enormously entertaining history of the development of the medical treatment of human beings throughout the ages. It is ambitious in that the author attempts to survey the field from prehistory until the present day, and to do so in less than five hundred pages. The scope means that at times things of necessity have to be left out. For instance, the great story in science as a whole (and in medicine in particular) between classical antiquity and the early 17th century is the growth and eventual downfall of Aristotelianism, which provided the scientific background for nearly every branch of scientific endeavor during that time. Many of the key events of that story are briefly recounted, but many are not (e.g., allied discoveries by Galileo in astronomy that refuted Aristotelian assumptions). Still, given the limitations of space, this is an admirable treatment of the subject. To deal with every issue comprehensibly would have expanded dramatically the size of the book, which would have given the lie to the title. My one serious objection to the book is that the book does not have an overarching narrative structure. I'm not always sure what particular story is being told. Nonetheless, it is impossible to come away from the book without a far deeper appreciation for the remarkable journey medicine has undertaken over the centuries. It also makes me enormously grateful that I am alive today, and not in some previous century.<br />Above all, this is a fun, engaging, thoroughly entertaining book. Although the book sometimes veers towards the encyclopedic, the style at all times is anecdotal. The author loves his subject, and especially delights in the quirkier side of things. There are mountains of fascinating trivia, and as a lover of great trivia I was constantly saying to myself, &quot;Wow, I didn't know that!&quot; Some of the more fascinating bits of the book are when Kennedy discusses famous individuals and the way in which disease may have affected them, such as Ivan the Terrible or Henry VIII. Even in modern medical discoveries, he has an eye for the unusual.<br />This is also, however, a very educational book. The amount of information contained in its pages is fairly staggering. One great use for the book is to read through the sections on a particular epoch if one is engaged in historical reading. But the book is more than a collection of interesting facts. The reader gains an appreciation for the way that medical practice has developed over the centuries. For instance, Kennedy discusses how before the invention of anesthesia speed was a highly esteemed virtue in a surgeon. Surgery was performed quickly, and as a result there was less of an emphasis on working carefully and carefully suturing. But with the development of anesthesia, surgery slowed down, and surgeons took more care to operate with great care and to minimize injury to tissue. This is merely one random example out of thousands.<br />One of the most appealing aspects of the book is the deeply personal style of the author. Closely aligned with his love of the anecdotes and trivia is his eye for the humorous side of things. He also writes with a personal touch. In discussing some medical condition, he will mention that he had had such a case himself at such and such a point, or that someone had devised a form of pediatric surgery, and he later had as a patient the second recipient ever of that treatment. Or he will mention that his mother's uncle had a certain medical condition, or aunt was a nurse for a famous doctor.<br />This truly is a book suited for a variety of audiences. I have a strong interest in history, and as a result I enjoyed most the first half, in part because I had the background to understand everything there pretty easily. I struggled a bit more in the second half as medicine became more specialized, but I imagine that this half would be of greater interest to medical students or physicians. The main thing that I want to emphasize is that both the medical student and the educated nonspecialist will equally find much to enjoy in the book. Similarly, one could also employ the book merely as a reference work, or read it several chapters at a time. It is rare, however, that a book can be so educational over such a wide-ranging subject, and entertain so thoroughly at the same time.ing that I want to emphasize is that both the medical student and the educated nonspecialist will equally find much to enjoy in the book. Similarly, one could also employ the book merely as a reference work, or read it several chapters at a time. It is rare, however, that a book can be so educational over such a wide-ranging subject, and entertain so thoroughly at the same time.	2004-02-20
778334:US	52048190	R1OC9J7FX0WBSY	1932133593	345250920	A Brief History of Disease, Science and Medicine: From the Ice Age to the Genome Project	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Enormously educational yet thoroughly entertaining and fun	This is both an extremely ambitious and enormously entertaining history of the development of the medical treatment of human beings throughout the ages.  It is ambitious in that the author attempts to survey the field from prehistory until the present day, and to do so in less than five hundred pages.  The scope means that at times things of necessity have to be left out.  For instance, the great story in science as a whole (and in medicine in particular) between classical antiquity and the early 17th century is the growth and eventual downfall of Aristotelianism, which provided the scientific background for nearly every branch of scientific endeavor during that time.  Many of the key events of that story are briefly recounted, but many are not (e.g., allied discoveries by Galileo in astronomy that refuted Aristotelian assumptions).  Still, given the limitations of space, this is an admirable treatment of the subject.  To deal with every issue comprehensibly would have expanded dramatically the size of the book, which would have given the lie to the title.  My one serious objection to the book is that the book does not have an overarching narrative structure.  I'm not always sure what particular story is being told.  Nonetheless, it is impossible to come away from the book without a far deeper appreciation for the remarkable journey medicine has undertaken over the centuries.  It also makes me enormously grateful that I am alive today, and not in some previous century.<br />Above all, this is a fun, engaging, thoroughly entertaining book.  Although the book sometimes veers towards the encyclopedic, the style at all times is anecdotal.  The author loves his subject, and especially delights in the quirkier side of things.  There are mountains of fascinating trivia, and as a lover of great trivia I was constantly saying to myself, \\"Wow, I didn't know that!\\"  Some of the more fascinating bits of the book are when Kennedy discusses famous individuals and the way in which disease may have affected them, such as Ivan the Terrible or Henry VIII.  Even in modern medical discoveries, he has an eye for the unusual.<br />This is also, however, a very educational book.  The amount of information contained in its pages is fairly staggering.  One great use for the book is to read through the sections on a particular epoch if one is engaged in historical reading.  But the book is more than a collection of interesting facts.  The reader gains an appreciation for the way that medical practice has developed over the centuries.  For instance, Kennedy discusses how before the invention of anesthesia speed was a highly esteemed virtue in a surgeon.  Surgery was performed quickly, and as a result there was less of an emphasis on working carefully and carefully suturing.  But with the development of anesthesia, surgery slowed down, and surgeons took more care to operate with great care and to minimize injury to tissue.  This is merely one random example out of thousands.<br />One of the most appealing aspects of the book is the deeply personal style of the author.  Closely aligned with his love of the anecdotes and trivia is his eye for the humorous side of things.  He also writes with a personal touch.  In discussing some medical condition, he will mention that he had had such a case himself at such and such a point, or that someone had devised a form of pediatric surgery, and he later had as a patient the second recipient ever of that treatment.  Or he will mention that his mother's uncle had a certain medical condition, or aunt was a nurse for a famous doctor.<br />This truly is a book suited for a variety of audiences.  I have a strong interest in history, and as a result I enjoyed most the first half, in part because I had the background to understand everything there pretty easily.  I struggled a bit more in the second half as medicine became more specialized, but I imagine that this half would be of greater interest to medical students or physicians.  The main thing that I want to emphasize is that both the medical student and the educated nonspecialist will equally find much to enjoy in the book.  Similarly, one could also employ the book merely as a reference work, or read it several chapters at a time.  It is rare, however, that a book can be so educational over such a wide-ranging subject, and entertain so thoroughly at the same time.icians.  The main thing that I want to emphasize is that both the medical student and the educated nonspecialist will equally find much to enjoy in the book.  Similarly, one could also employ the book merely as a reference work, or read it several chapters at a time.  It is rare, however, that a book can be so educational over such a wide-ranging subject, and entertain so thoroughly at the same time.	2004-02-19
781931:US	52048190	R321LDKWVXEADU	0679720200	882163178	The Stranger	Books	5	83	93	N	N	A powerfully disturbing and bleak novel	Although Albert Camus had achieved some fame as a journalist in his native Algiers in the thirties and as a writer for the French resistance during WW II, he first achieved an international critical reputation with the publication of this classic novel in 1946.  The portrait of the detached, unfeeling, uncommitted, amoral, perpetually abstracted Meursault is one of the most haunting in 20th century literature.  For many, it is the supreme 20th century literary depiction of nihilism.  Unquestionably it is one of the premier literary efforts of the century, though Camus managed several other books just as powerful and superb in their own way, in particular THE PLAGUE, THE MYTH OF SISYPHUS, and THE FALL.<br />Meursault reminds me so much of figures from the paintings of Manet.  In painting after painting, Manet depicted individuals alone in crowds, failing or refusing to interact or even acknowledge the others in the frame.  In one famous painting, a lower middle class girl sits alone in her own little orb, sitting beside an upper class gentleman, neither acknowledging the existence of the other, both self-contained, seemingly detached from the busy world surrounding them.  Behind them, a barmaid drinks a beer, equally oblivious to everyone and everything around her.  They might all be on separate desert islands.  Manet repeats this in painting after painting.  Meursault seems almost as if he had stepped out of one of those paintings.  He can at least communicate with others, socialize with them, but he cannot express strong moral sentiments or develop affectionate (as opposed to sexual) attachments.<br />This is not a happy book.  The story deals with Meursault's almost accidental killing of an Arab whose sister had been harmed by one of his acquaintances, but the novel trivializes everything--the killing, his subsequent arrest, his imprisonment, his trial and conviction, and his sentencing.  The closest the novel comes to a happy sentiment is near the end when Meursault imagines how much nicer it would be to witness an execution rather than be executed, to have to puke in revulsion than to literally lose one's head to the guillotine.<br />Camus would never write such a despairing book again.  THE PLAGUE the next year would come close, but not close, while THE FALL would seem almost optimistic and upbeat in comparison.  But for those who want to find perhaps the quintessential expression of what we like to think of as existentialism, this could stand as the premier literary instance.sault imagines how much nicer it would be to witness an execution rather than be executed, to have to puke in revulsion than to literally lose one's head to the guillotine.  <br />Camus would never write such a despairing book again.  THE PLAGUE the next year would come close, but not close, while THE FALL would seem almost optimistic and upbeat in comparison.  But for those who want to find perhaps the quintessential expression of what we like to think of as existentialism, this could stand as the premier literary instance.	2004-02-17
782006:US	52048190	R3MBEULO8JBRR8	0393307069	659543252	Post Captain (Aubrey/Maturin)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Richer and more complex than the first book	I can easily imagine some readers not enjoying this novel.  If one's idea of a great book is one battle scene after another, then this will not be their cup of tea.  O'Brian spends much of the novel dealing with affairs of the heart, and his characters discuss a vast number of subjects that have nothing whatsoever to do with warfare.  But like in the first novel, the attentive reader will learn a great deal of social history by reading the book.  It is hard to imagine a historical recreation much more attentive to historical detail and accuracy than this one.  The nautical detail can sometimes be overwhelming, and some of the sailing maneuvers can leave land lubbers like myself a bit confused about what is happening, but all in all his amazing descriptions provide a \\"you are there\\" specificity lacking in many similar books.<br />Although this is only my second book in the series, I have quickly come to appreciate the character of Stephen Maturin.  The first novel hinted at hidden depths, and this one revealed some of his situation.  We learn that he is a man of some property if not comparable wealth.  We find that he is far more involved in espionage than we might have suspected in the first novel.  And we find him to be a man not content to be a mere sidekick to Aubrey, but a companion only if it suits his own needs and other duties do not call.<br />This novel definitely has a great deal more in the way of plot than the first book.  But by and large, it remains true of POST CAPTAIN as it did of MASTER AND COMMANDER that one does not read it for plot so much as one does to get to know and enjoy the very fine central characters, and to learn some history.	2004-02-17
785429:US	52048190	R32CRUD991QQBR	158567267X	377126685	Franz Kafka (Overlook Illustrated Lives)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Another welcome addition to the Overlook Illustrated Lives	I have now read several of the books collected in the Overlook Illustrated Lives series.  None of the additions to these books will hardly be mistaken for a definitive treatment of the particular subject, but through their lavish use of illustrations and photographs they provide a much more tactile introduction to an author than is normal.  It is one thing to read of an author that he or she lived at such and such a place, was inspired in their writing by this location, or worked for a specified period of time in a certain building, and quite another to see a superbly reproduced period photograph of the site.  I had read about Kafka before, but I realize now that I had always imagined his world as scruffier and dirtier and less elegant than it in fact was.  This is significant, because Kafka writes very much about the world he inhabited, taking concrete experience as the basis for some of his tortured fantasies, so that having a more precise image of his world is an advantage indeed.<br />The text does not quite match the extraordinary beauty of the illustrations.  Adler does not give a poor introduction to Kafka's life, but it is a spotty introduction.  Some of the truly big questions in Kafka's life are left undiscussed, while others are dealt with quite satisfactorily.  For instance, hints are given that Kafka's political beliefs were decidedly leftist, but no substance is given to them.  Adler writes of his association with Zionist writers and of his sympathy with Zionist ideas, but to what degree did Kafka subscribe to them?  Relatedly, Adler somewhat ignores Kafka's metaphysics for his psychology.  One does not catch the bleakness of Kafka's sense of life by reading Adler.  In contrast, compare this passage from Kafka's closest friend Max Brod:  \\"'We are nihilistic thoughts, suicidal thoughts that come into God's head,' Kafka said.  This reminded me at first of the Gnostic view of life:  God as the evil demiurge, the world as his Fall.  'Oh no,' said Kafka, 'our world is only a bad mood of God, a bad day of his.' 'Then there is hope outside this manifestation of the world that we know.' He smiled.  'Oh, plenty of hope, an infinite amount of hope--but not for us.\\"  One gains a great sense of the way that Kafka thought and felt from that brief passage than in Adler's entire biographical essay.  Nonetheless, while just lacking as an in depth study of Kafka, one will in conjunction with the wonderful photographs, which are tied closely to the text (compare this to the same series' biography of Proust, where the illustrations frequently have only a very loose connection to either Proust or the narrative) gain a increased appreciation for Kafka's world.  I have read Max Brod's memoir/biography and much in Ronald Hayman's more recent biography, but neither gave me such a vivid impression of what Kafka's world was like.<br />I can't overemphasize just how fine the photographs in this book are.  One finds pictures of all the crucial places and people in Kafka's life, and some assist marvelously in reading specific works.  For instance, there is a great photograph of the castle in Friedland in northern Bohemia, where Kafka lived briefly in his capacity as representative of the Workers' Accident Insurance.  The factory is in the foreground of the photograph, but behind it, up on top of a tor that rises suddenly above the surrounding land, is the castle that has been cited as a possible source for the one in Kafka's final novel.<br />If one attends to the dates of the deaths of many of the individuals in the photographs in the book--especially Kafka's relatives and his romantic attachments--one appreciates the degree to which WW II destroyed Kafka's world.  Had he lived, one wonders if he would have stayed and died with his family and lovers, or if he would have fled with Max Brod to Palestine or elsewhere.  It also, however, serves as a macabre confirmation that the horrific events in his novels and stories are not so terribly removed from reality.  \\"The Penal Colony\\" was transformed by actual events into prophetic fiction or realism instead of nightmarish fantasy.ved from reality.  \\"The Penal Colony\\" was transformed by actual events into prophetic fiction or realism instead of nightmarish fantasy.	2004-02-14
793426:US	52048190	R14BFJY5RQOPCW	0393037010	680723399	Master and Commander (Vol. Book 1)  (Aubrey/Maturin Novels)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	An absolutely superb historical novel	I must confess myself to be among the many new readers of the Aubrey/Maturin books brought to the series by the recent Peter Weir film MASTER AND COMMANDER: THE FAR SIDE OF THE WORLD.  I enjoyed the movie a great deal, and from watching it could easily imagine that the novels, of which I had heard many good things, would be in all likelihood even more rewarding than the movie.  And indeed the first novel, at least, is.  I enjoyed it so much, that I am now moving on to the second novel in the series, POST CAPTAIN, and fully intend to read the rest of the series.  I'm sure virtually everyone knows this, but I'll repeat it for the few who don't, but the movie bears virtually no relation to the novel MASTER AND COMMANDER (apart from lifting two or three minor events and transplanting it to the other story), but is in fact based on a later novel in the series, THE FAR SIDE OF THE WORLD.<br />Reading this novel brought to mind the changes that have taken place in our understanding of the historical novel over the past century and a half.  In the early nineteenth century, many of the most respected novels were historical, by that meaning that that they were set in an earlier historical epoch.  In these novels, a great premium was not placed on historical accuracy.  In the middle of the 19th century, however, under the influence of Realism in both painting and literature, the historical novel rapidly went out of fashion.  While many of Thackeray's contemporaries considered his THE HISTORY OF HENRY ESMOND, a historical novel set in the reign of Queen Anne, today the novel is only rarely in print.  Many readers of George Eliot considered her ROMOLA, set in late 15th century Florence, to be perhaps her finest work, today it is regarded as one of her least achievements.  The historical has never really regained the standing it once had, and moreover its nature has altered as well.  Today the historical novel is expected to achieve a high degree of historical accuracy.  While a historical novel of 1845 might place character first and then plot (or vice versa), and only after that historical accuracy, the contemporary historical novel is rather the reverse.<br />What sets Patrick O'Brian apart from most other historical novelists is his rare ability to blend astonishing historical detail and accuracy with psychologically fascinating characters.  The plot of MASTER AND COMMANDER is nothing memorable.  It is more a collection of randomly scattered events and incidents.  But the sketching of the characters-especially the main characters of Jack Aubrey, Stephen Maturin, and James Dillon-is unforgettable.  O'Brian is a great educator as well, striving not merely to bring in detail for the sake of impressing the reader with his erudition, but trying to explain why things are done in certain ways.  By the end of the book, one will have a much stronger impression of what life was like on a ship of the British Navy in the early 19th century.  The book also made me want to learn more about sails, kinds of boats, and nautical terms.  I have read Melville and Conrad, but their use of nautical terminology pales beside O'Brian's.<br />Although there is not a great deal of plot in the novel, the interaction between the characters is fascinating.  The most interesting character in the novel is in many ways Lt. James Dillon, who has to hide not only his former involvement in the fight for Irish independence but his Catholicism as well.  My favorite part of the book may have been a long discussion he and Stephen Maturin has, which discloses the common past they both share in the Irish cause, which both of them hides from Capt. Aubrey.  I'm sure this aspect of Maturin's past will be an element in future novels.  As one with only a single novel under my belt, I confess to a great curiosity as to whether Stephen will ever confess to his friend Aubrey, a vehement anti-Papist, his past.<br />If one is looking for a simple adventure story, this might not be a taleto one's liking.  It is heavy on historical detail, rich in psychologically developed characters, but light on plot.  But I personally had a great time reading the book, and very much look forward to reading additional installments in the series.to one's liking.  It is heavy on historical detail, rich in psychologically developed characters, but light on plot.  But I personally had a great time reading the book, and very much look forward to reading additional installments in the series.	2004-02-08
794211:US	52048190	R14S12KMCGQGFD	0192854070	23032690	Machiavelli: A Very Short Introduction	Books	5	27	28	N	Y	A superb brief introduction to a misunderstood thinker	I first read this short introduction to Machiavelli about ten years ago, when it was a volume in the Oxford University Press Past Masters series.  It has been resurrected in updated form to be a part of their Very Brief Introductions series.  The changes are all to the good.  Whereas the Past Masters edition was printed on cheap paper with a tendency to age and yellow, the new edition features updated bibliography, the addition of graphics, reset font, a sturdier binding and paper cover, and a much higher grade of paper.  In everyway, this new volume is an improvement over the earlier edition.<br />Content wise, you couldn't ask for a better brief introduction to Machiavelli.  Skinner is one of the great historians of political thought of this generation, and probably the finest.  His knowledge of 16th and 17th century political thought is difficult to rival.  He covers Machiavelli's political thought in loosely chronological fashion, blending the highpoints of his biography with longer expositions of his three great political works.  There are four chapters in all.  The first details some of Machiavelli's experience working as a diplomat for the Florentine republic.  It was by observing many of the political leaders he dealt with that he gathered the ideas for the composition by which he is best known today, THE PRINCE.  Chapter Two provides a brief sketch of the contents and argument of THE PRINCE, and it alone would justify the purchase of the book.  Luckily, the book contains more, including an exposition of his DISCOURSES ON LIVY in Chapter Three.  This chapter (and Machiavelli's book) should be of great interest to any American interested in the founding of the United States, because many of the Founders considered themselves students of Machiavelli, though not of THE PRINCE, but the discourses.  Most of the Founders had a fascination with the Roman Republic, and in founding the United States sought to emulate many of its features.  Much of their exposure to the Roman Republic came via Livy and through Machiavelli's book, which covers the first ten books of Livy's history of Rome.  The final chapter covers the history of Florence that the Medici family commissioned him to write, a history that expresses a deeply ambivalent opinion about the value of principalities over republics.<br />Skinner's book will not substitute for the reading of Machiavelli, and it certainly cannot constitute an in depth study of his work.  But it makes an absolutely ideal overview to anyone about to read any of Machiavelli's works.he Roman Republic came via Livy and through Machiavelli's book, which covers the first ten books of Livy's history of Rome.  The final chapter covers the history of Florence that the Medici family commissioned him to write, a history that expresses a deeply ambivalent opinion about the value of principalities over republics.  <br />Skinner's book will not substitute for the reading of Machiavelli, and it certainly cannot constitute an in depth study of his work.  But it makes an absolutely ideal overview to anyone about to read any of Machiavelli's works.	2004-02-08
794644:US	52048190	RKLTPMRDWP9CJ	0060953020	198870493	Pilgrim at Tinker Creek	Books	5	8	9	N	N	One of the greatest American nature classics	In my opinion, the three greatest nature classics of the last half of the twentieth century were A SAND COUNTY ALMANAC by Aldo Leopold, DESERT SOLITAIRE by Edward Abbey, and this remarkable book by Annie Dillard, PILGRIM AT TINKER CREEK.  The three authors make a fine study in contrast:  a chain-smoking scientist, professor, and forester in Leopold; a shoot-from-the-hip anarchist, pagan, and provocateur in Abbey; and the poetical, contemplative, and religious Dillard.  Leopold looks at nature and sees a self-contained ethical entity; Abbey looks at a mountain and sees merely a mountain; Dillard looks at a goldfish's fin and sees god.<br />I have to confess that in my own reading, I lean heavily towards dead people.  It is not that I do not want to support living writers; I just am not always certain which writers are fads.  The great virtue of dead authors is that they have withstood the test of time.  I have made an exception over the years of Annie Dillard.  She has a wonderful eye, a vivid imagination, a wonderful prose style, and can tease insight out of the most unlikely of sources.  Although she has authored many wonderful books--TEACHING A STONE TO TALK, THE WRITING LIFE, LIVING BY FICTION, AN AMERICAN CHILDHOOD--this early book remains in many ways my favorite.  In it Dillard looks intently at nature, and wherever she looks she finds God.<br />The book on one level is a modern reiteration of the existence of God, the resurrection of the cosmological argument for his existence.  I admit its power.  Of the traditional arguments for the existence of god, I have never felt the power of the more celebrated ontological and teleological arguments.  The latter I never felt especially compelling, while the former always seems to be a mental trick, hard for a newcomer to philosophy to refute, but an argument one instinctively feels to be bogus.  But I admit that I have felt the power of moral arguments for God's existence (a two edged sword, since one can easily concoct argument's for God's nonexistence based on pain and suffering, as Ivan does so memorably in the \\"Rebellion\\" chapter in THE BROTHERS KARAMAZOV).  But even atheistic thinkers have confessed the power of the cosmological argument, though it isn't an argument so much as a sensation created in us as we contemplate nature.  Atheistic David Hume confessed it difficult not to imagine a Creator when observing the heavens, and the somewhat more religious Immanuel Kant proclaimed that two things filled his heart with wonder: the moral law within and the starry heavens above (and in both places he found a necessity for a deistical god).<br />Dillard, as she gazes about her in the Shenandoah Valley, finds many wondrous things to contemplate.  She writes beautifully about all she looks at, and if she is sometimes mildly guilty of the anthropomorphizing that Edward Abbey railed so passionately against (a mountain doesn't \\"feel\\" anything, he argued; a mountain simpley \\"is\\"), she also writes about everything she looks at with a nontrivial prose that never takes anything for granted, and which is intent on giving every entity its due.  Ultimately, she writes about God.<br />Although the book as a whole is remarkable, the highpoint for me are two extraordinary chapters, chapters that express the cosmological sentiment better than anything else I have ever read.  The first of these is \\"Intricacy,\\" in which she delves into the amazing complexity and diversity of the designs of nature.  Her discovery is that nature doesn't tend towards simplicity, but to its opposite.  As she gazes about, she concludes \\"Look, in short, at practically anything--the coot's feet, the mantis's face, a banana, the human ear--and see that not only did the creator create everything, but that he is apt to create ANYTHING.  He'll stop at nothing.\\"  The other chapter I want to mention is \\"Fecundity,\\" which ends up as a sort of Sheer Quantity Argument for the Existence of God.  We think of evolution (a theory she wishes to embellish rather than deny) as being economical, tending towards simplicity.  But Dillard is astonished at the sheer fecundity of nature, that \\"In a single cubic inch of soil, the length of the root hairs [of the rye plant] totaled 6000 miles.\\"  She is also cognizant of the maximal implications of cosmological arguments for believing in god:  they point to a creator, but not to what kind of creator.  As she puts it, \\"We have not yet encountered any god who is as merciful as a man who flicks a beetle over on its feet.\\"  I delight in many of her conclusions as she regards nature.  \\"Although it is true that we are moral creatures in an amoral world, the world's amorality does not make it a monster.\\"  Or, \\"Nature love the idea of an individual, if not the individual himself.\\"  The book is stuffed to overflowing with reflections like this.ory she wishes to embellish rather than deny) as being economical, tending towards simplicity.  But Dillard is astonished at the sheer fecundity of nature, that \\"In a single cubic inch of soil, the length of the root hairs [of the rye plant] totaled 6000 miles.\\"  She is also cognizant of the maximal implications of cosmological arguments for believing in god:  they point to a creator, but not to what kind of creator.  As she puts it, \\"We have not yet encountered any god who is as merciful as a man who flicks a beetle over on its feet.\\"  I delight in many of her conclusions as she regards nature.  \\"Although it is true that we are moral creatures in an amoral world, the world's amorality does not make it a monster.\\"  Or, \\"Nature love the idea of an individual, if not the individual himself.\\"  The book is stuffed to overflowing with reflections like this.	2004-02-07
794743:US	52048190	R2RY70POJOEC80	0749005408	368356330	Absolute Beginners (Absolute Classics)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A brilliant novel of late 1950s London hip culture	The thing to keep in mind about London in the late 1950s is that it wasn't cool.  London wouldn't become one of the capitals of youth style until 1963 and later (brilliantly recounted in Shawn Levy's READY, STEADY, GO!).  In this great novel, Colin MacInnes paints the portrait of an age that has received little attention, a time when England did not yet possess a full-fledged youth culture, a creature whose time was coming round at last, and was slouching towards Soho to be born.  In the depiction of teens in search of self-authentication and self-realization, the novel is very much an English equivalent of Kerouac's ON THE ROAD.<br />Like the Kerouac novel, ABSOLUTE BEGINNERS is brilliant not for its story, but for its characters and the almost sociological and anthropological quality of its chronicle.  Above all, it chronicles the social upheaval that was already taking place in London, with the central place that drugs, jazz, sex, and alcohol was more openly playing in youth culture.  There is also a new and heightened consciousness of race, as well as an absence of the values that had been the mainstay of the previous generation.  Although it wasn't yet the sixties, you can feel it coming throughout the book.<br />I don't want to mislead a prospective reading by promoting this as one of the great classics.  It isn't.  But like the central character, who is an aspiring photographer, the novel serves as a fictional photo essay on a neglected and under-romanticized period of English life.  I can't imagine anyone not truly loving it.<br />The novel was in the 1980s made into a fairly decent musical (with an absolutely astonishing opening sequence) starring Patsy Kensit and with a host of musical performers in minor roles, including David Bowie, Ray Davies, and Sade.  But I would definitely recommend the book over the film.	2004-02-07
795457:US	52048190	R2ZSF1E59JV2HW	0140445897	284528369	Papers and Journals: A Selection	Books	5	29	30	N	N	A superb one-volume distillation of Kierkegaard's journals	Along with an older and somewhat smaller one-volume edition by Alexander Dru (worth seeking out, but very difficult to find), this provides readers of Kierkegaard's works a usable collection of highlights from his massive and exceedingly important JOURNALS AND PAPERS.  Although this volume runs to over 700 pages, it does not represent a tenth of the complete edition in Danish.<br />There are many reasons for someone to read in Kierkegaard's journals.  He used his journals for dry runs for many ideas that later cropped up in his various books and discourses.  He often presents these ideas in a more straightforward manner than he would in his books.  But he also often writes things that he did not intend to be seen by the public in his lifetime.  Make no mistake about it:  Kierkegaard definitely wrote these journals with the assumption that they would later be read by others in published form.  But the knowledge that this would only come after his death freed him from any form of constraint, not that even here he is terribly forthcoming.<br />Reading the journals is also essential because it is the only way to get a truly balanced picture of his literary career and life.  For instance, the caricature of Kierkegaard is of a soul who unhappily engaged in a Quixotic battle with the Danish Lutheran church in the final years of his life.  The image is of an unhappy, isolated, tormented soul who never finds his rest.  In fact, from the journals we find a person who has achieved a great deal of personal peace and a quiet contentment.  This cannot be drawn from the books he published in his lifetime, but only from the journals.  For all these reasons, anyone interested in Kierkegaard will profit enormously from these pages.<br />My lone complaint is that Alastair Hannay is not the most gifted prose stylist in the world.  I have read just about all his words in English (all dealing with Kierkegaard or translations of Kierkegaard), and while I have no doubt about his accuracy as a translator, I have no confidence in his literary abilities.  As a result, the volume--like the other volumes he has translated for Penguin--is highly serviceable, but not something that will thrill and inspire.<br />I should mention that Amazon shows a Princeton University Press edition of the JOURNALS scheduled to appear in the fall of 2004.  I do not know very much about this edition.  I am assuming that it is a single volume edition, but I have no idea how extensive of an edition this will be.  Princeton's publications of Kierkegaard's works tend to be somewhat schizophrenic.  While their edition of Kierkegaard's works are likely to be the standard edition for a very long time to come, they also produce some odd collections that seem to be targeted at a more popular audience.  Perhaps their edition will be scholarly (my hope).  Either way, this excellent volume by Penguin will either serve if the Princeton is unhelpful, or a useful alternative if it is successful.s a translator, I have no confidence in his literary abilities.  As a result, the volume--like the other volumes he has translated for Penguin--is highly serviceable, but not something that will thrill and inspire.  <br />I should mention that Amazon shows a Princeton University Press edition of the JOURNALS scheduled to appear in the fall of 2004.  I do not know very much about this edition.  I am assuming that it is a single volume edition, but I have no idea how extensive of an edition this will be.  Princeton's publications of Kierkegaard's works tend to be somewhat schizophrenic.  While their edition of Kierkegaard's works are likely to be the standard edition for a very long time to come, they also produce some odd collections that seem to be targeted at a more popular audience.  Perhaps their edition will be scholarly (my hope).  Either way, this excellent volume by Penguin will either serve if the Princeton is unhelpful, or a useful alternative if it is successful.	2004-02-07
797298:US	52048190	R27AVIUUPW7Y8D	0670032735	748219420	The Book on Bush: How George W. (Mis)leads America	Books	5	72	79	N	N	An excellent addition to the growing number of Books on Bush	Only six months ago, there was a dearth of good books on George W. Bush's presidency.  Then, beginning in late summer 2003 a spate of books started coming out, from Paul Krugman's THE GREAT UNRAVELING to Joe Conason's BIG LIES to Al Franken's LIES AND THE LYING LIARS and Molly Ivins and Lou Dubose's BUSHWHACKED and Scott Ritter's FRONTIER JUSTICE and David Corn's THE LIES OF GEORGE W. BUSH.  Now we are seeing a second wave of books.  It began with Ron Suskind's THE PRICE OF LOYALTY and Kevin Phillips's AMERICAN DYNASTY, and we will shortly be seeing Australian philosopher Peter Singer's THE PRESIDENT OF GOOD AND EVIL and Mark Crispin Miller's CRUEL AND UNUSUAL:  BUSH/CHENEY'S NEW WORLD ORDER.  Given this thick pack of books, is there room for yet one more?  In other words, Do we really need Eric Alterman and Mark Green's THE BOOK ON BUSH: HOW GEORGE W. BUSH (MIS)LEADS AMERICA?<br />The answer is yes and no.  It is no in the sense that there is very little in this book that one who has read the bulk of the books above will not already have encountered.  I have read all of the above-mentioned books (except for the two forthcoming titles), and I learned very little from this new book by Alterman and Green.  However, I will add that this is probably the best single-volume summation of the presidential record of George W. Bush that I have encountered.  The authors do a marvelous job of systematically organizing Bush's record of deception.  What is especially effective is the historical approach they take to each area of deception.  For instance, they may begin with his approach to an issue while governor of Texas, and then move on to statements he made during the 2000 campaign (which frequently clashed strongly with his actual policies upon assuming office), and finally to the history of his statements during the course of the three years of his presidency.  The topics covered include his environmental policies; his economic policies (or lack therefore, since he really hasn't articulated any policies apart from blindly cutting taxes regardless of what the situation calls for); his handling of the rampant fraud in companies like Enron, World Com, and Andersen; his assault on civil liberties; his mania for privatization of healthcare and his passion for tort reform to limit pain and suffering jury awards (in my day job I work for one of the largest medical insurers of hospitals in the world, and I can't generate the tiniest bit of sympathy for his suggestions); his policies on race; his education policy; his attitudes towards science and his mania for replacing scientific experts with ideologues; his judicial appointments; his sympathy for NRA gun policies; his embracing of preemptive foreign policy; the fiasco in Iraq and the failure to address the problem of terrorism; the bullying nature of American foreign policy and the alienation of many nations formerly friendly with us; and his sense of messianism, his belief that he is an instrument of God's will.<br />In every instance, Alterman and Green do a tremendous job of teasing out the misdirection and deception in the various public statements by the Bush administration.  They fully document the errors contained in Bush's positions, and all in all provide an extremely comprehensive guide to the history (so far) of his administration.  If one is reading one's first book on Bush, I would recommend this one and the volume by Ivins and Dubose above all others.<br />My lone complaint with the book is that the authors often talk in the language of liberal versus conservative.  More and more I have come to consider this an unhelpful distinction in today's political climate.  The Democratic party can hardly be considered a liberal party today.  They tend to be fairly liberal on social issues, but overwhelmingly conservative on economic issues.  On the other hand, if one has studies the history of conservativism to any degree at all, it is impossible to deny that there is no connection between conservative political thought as traditionally conceived and the prime movers in today's Republican party.  When Alterman and Green talk of Bush espousing a conservative position, they are simply wrong.  Bush is right wing without being conservative.  Not everyone on the left is liberal, since socialists and anarchists and Marxists detest liberals as much as they hate the Right.  Likewise, the current GOP hates true conservatives.  Just as with the Left, the Right can contain Libertarians, classical Conservatives, Nazis, and Fascists, all of whom hate one another.  Bush hold to a right wing ideology that elevates the investment class above all others, that embraces an aggressive preemptive foreign policy that has no roots in conservative thought, and elevates religious considerations to a damaging degree.  In the face of this, Alterman and Green hold to an exceedingly simplistic Liberal/Conservative dichotomy.<br />Still, this is a very good book, and unless one has read eight or nine other books on Bush's administration, one will be able to learn a very great deal from reading this.tween conservative political thought as traditionally conceived and the prime movers in today's Republican party.  When Alterman and Green talk of Bush espousing a conservative position, they are simply wrong.  Bush is right wing without being conservative.  Not everyone on the left is liberal, since socialists and anarchists and Marxists detest liberals as much as they hate the Right.  Likewise, the current GOP hates true conservatives.  Just as with the Left, the Right can contain Libertarians, classical Conservatives, Nazis, and Fascists, all of whom hate one another.  Bush hold to a right wing ideology that elevates the investment class above all others, that embraces an aggressive preemptive foreign policy that has no roots in conservative thought, and elevates religious considerations to a damaging degree.  In the face of this, Alterman and Green hold to an exceedingly simplistic Liberal/Conservative dichotomy.<br />Still, this is a very good book, and unless one has read eight or nine other books on Bush's administration, one will be able to learn a very great deal from reading this.	2004-02-05
802235:US	52048190	R1UUGL9BJU7BSO	0670032646	621157776	American Dynasty: Aristocracy, Fortune, and the Politics of Deceit in the House of Bush	Books	5	383	395	N	N	Not merely about the Bushes, but about the nation as a whole	I have to admit by being completely surprised by this book.  From the title and from reading the dust jacket, it sounded a tad conspiratorial to me, as if it were trying to force a template on history that wasn't there.  But Phillips's case about the worldview that the Bush and Walker families generated that determined the policies and points of view and values of both George H. W. Bush and George W. Bush is close to overwhelming.  I expected going into the book that it would be mildly informative; coming out, I have to say that no book that I have read on either of the Bushes (and I have at this point read pretty all of them) has been as informative and as full of insight as this one.<br />It is essential to stress two things.  First, unlike some of the one star reviewers who obviously haven't cracked the book, Phillips means this as a warning against all political dynasties, which was, in fact, a major concern of the Founding Fathers.  They were terrified of political families whose influence would extend from one generation to another.  And this fear persisted well into the 19th century.  Anyone doubting this should read a good biography of John Quincy Adams.  Phillips points out early in the book that the Kennedy family was a bit of a dynasty (and would have been one for certain had Robert F. Kennedy not been assassinated in 1968), and he acknowledges that if Hillary Clinton were to run and win in 2008 that would also constitute a dynasty.  His decision to focus on the Bush/Walker family derives from the fact that they in fact have had two presidencies in less than a decade, as well as other members of the family holding other political positions (Preston Bush was a U.S. Senator and Jeb Bush a governor).  Second, this book is an exploration of many of the ills of the political system.  The faults and flaws are not tied merely to the personalities of Bush 41 and Bush 43, but are systemic and run across the political spectrum, and across the political spectrum.  Put simply, the problem is the dominance of the industrial-military complex that Eisenhower tried to warn us against (though Phillips would characterize it as the industrial-military-investment-energy-secret service complex).  In \\"Who is an Author?\\" Michel Foucault argued that the author was a nexus through which all of society produced a book.  In a sense, Bush 41 and Bush 43 are merely conduits through which the great conglomerate that Phillips describes with such clarity makes concrete its goals.  Even if Bush 43 is defeated in 2004, this complex is not going to go away.  Bush is part of the problem, but merely a part.<br />The power of the book derives from the deep background he provides of the founders of the Bush/Walker dynasty.  Ironically, although two Bushes have become president, the real founding of the family came on the Walker side.  George Herbert Walker, Bush 41's maternal grandfather, is the Joseph Kennedy of the Walker/Bush clan.  Every indication is that Preston Bush, George H. W. Bush, and George W. Bush are marginally gifted individuals, with no real abilities of their own, who have managed to be successful because of the mass of extraordinarily high-level connections established by George Herbert Walker.  It was through Walker that the two families became allied with many of the most powerful individuals in 20th century American life, connections that Bush 41 and Bush 43 have exploited over and over and over again.  I had read before about key individuals who had assisted, say, Bush 43 in ventures like Arbusto or Bush 41 in the Zapata oil operations, but reading of the individuals who would step is with enormous investments meant little to me.  But those investors were without exception individuals who had become aligned with the family through George Herbert Walker.  These are classic instances of what is known as crony capitalism, which has been key to the ascent of both Bushes to the White House.<br />Phillips does a magnificent job at detailing the family connections to the investment world, the world of oil and energy, to the Middle East (extending back not merely to the first president, but to George Herbert Walker and his massive business ties to the region in the 1920s and thereafter), and (largely through their Yale connections and through Walker's business ties) to the intelligence community, and especially the CIA.  Most disturbing is the way he describes the family's enormously circumscribed view of economics.  Essentially, the family knows nothing of business or economics outside the narrow purview of investment (even their connections with oil and energy has been on the investment side).  They have little knowledge or contact with industry or small business or, really, any aspect of the economy outside of investing.  Therefore, the family assumption is that if you take care of investors, you have taken care of the only thing in an economy that matters.  If investors are doing well, you needn't pay direct attention to any other facet of the economy, like jobs or manufacturing capacity.  Although many economists are deeply concerned about the current state of the U.S. economy (with gigantic deficits, enormous debt to nations like China, and continued employment difficulties), from the narrow view of the Bushes, things are good because they have taken care of the investment class.<br />I heartily recommend this book to anyone concerned with the current state of politics in America.  It is not, as I said, merely a book on the Bushes, but on many of the things truly wrong today in America.  Essential reading.iling the family connections to the investment world, the world of oil and energy, to the Middle East (extending back not merely to the first president, but to George Herbert Walker and his massive business ties to the region in the 1920s and thereafter), and (largely through their Yale connections and through Walker's business ties) to the intelligence community, and especially the CIA.  Most disturbing is the way he describes the family's enormously circumscribed view of economics.  Essentially, the family knows nothing of business or economics outside the narrow purview of investment (even their connections with oil and energy has been on the investment side).  They have little knowledge or contact with industry or small business or, really, any aspect of the economy outside of investing.  Therefore, the family assumption is that if you take care of investors, you have taken care of the only thing in an economy that matters.  If investors are doing well, you needn't pay direct attention to any other facet of the economy, like jobs or manufacturing capacity.  Although many economists are deeply concerned about the current state of the U.S. economy (with gigantic deficits, enormous debt to nations like China, and continued employment difficulties), from the narrow view of the Bushes, things are good because they have taken care of the investment class.<br />I heartily recommend this book to anyone concerned with the current state of politics in America.  It is not, as I said, merely a book on the Bushes, but on many of the things truly wrong today in America.  Essential reading.	2004-02-01
809874:US	52048190	R1ANEA2PLWCMRR	0140213058	951796088	Realism (Style and Civilization)	Books	5	27	28	N	N	Superb introduction to a predominant 19th century art trend	Realism was a major movement of mid- to late-19th century art, literature, and architecture, and has left a lasting impact on the culture of the 20th and 21st centuries.  Before realism, most painting dealt with either historical or allegorical subjects, but afterwards, almost all art has primarily been concerned with contemporary subjects, and allegory is close to unheard of.  As Nochlin shows, Realism is not merely a mimetic recreation of what one sees or photo-realism.  The Dutch masters and especially Vermeer had produced paintings of great verisimilitude to real life, but they have little in common with 19th century Realism because of the overall social context.<br />Realism has the unusual distinction of both being a school and not being one.  Although many painters could be said to be realists, there is not an easily identifiable school of realist painters like with the Impressionists, who were, in fact, some of the leading exponents of realist principles.  There were self-consciously realist writers, like Zola, but as a group they did not actually attach themselves to the label as long as one might suppose.<br />Nochlin does a great job of explaining precisely what was unique about realism by examining the way that several painters--in particular Courbet, Manet, Monet, Degas, Renoir, and a few other key figures--expressed realist values in their paintings.  Her strategy is to do this by discussing realism in the context of several themes.  First, she surveys the ways in which realist painters dealt with death.  This primarily consisted in the demystification of death, stripping it of the metaphysical, mythological, moralistic, and religious trappings with which it had traditionally been treated.  Second, she deals with the question of contemporaneity, which in many ways has been the most influential aspect of realism.  As mentioned above, after realism historical painting became increasingly suspect.  Finally, she discusses what she terms \\"The Heroism of Everyday Life.\\"  This is the celebration and elevation of everyday activities and people as acceptable and laudable subjects of paintings.  The book ends with a Epilogue that takes up the question of realism in architecture, and what this could mean in the context of the 19th century.<br />Some understanding of realism is essential for understanding both 19th century art, and the development of post-impressionist and abstract art (since these had very different understandings of what was \\"real\\").  Like everything that Linda Nochlin writes, this is of the utmost interest not merely to students of art, but to anyone interested in the aesthetic values that went into the making of modernism.  I would very much like to see a new edition of this book come out, hopefully with updated illustrations and graphics.  It is hard to imagine a stronger introductory treatment of 19th century Realism than this excellent volume.Everyday Life.\\"  This is the celebration and elevation of everyday activities and people as acceptable and laudable subjects of paintings.  The book ends with a Epilogue that takes up the question of realism in architecture, and what this could mean in the context of the 19th century.<br />Some understanding of realism is essential for understanding both 19th century art, and the development of post-impressionist and abstract art (since these had very different understandings of what was \\"real\\").  Like everything that Linda Nochlin writes, this is of the utmost interest not merely to students of art, but to anyone interested in the aesthetic values that went into the making of modernism.  I would very much like to see a new edition of this book come out, hopefully with updated illustrations and graphics.  It is hard to imagine a stronger introductory treatment of 19th century Realism than this excellent volume.	2004-01-27
824965:US	52048190	R2SSD5YRQ95Z82	0439139600	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire	Books	5	3	6	N	N	A dramatic improvement on the earlier novels	I really enjoyed this book, far more than I had expected to.  I am going to make a confession and acknowledge publicly that I did not care for the first three Harry Potter books, and have delayed reading the fourth or fifth because I was so disappointed in those.  After all the hype and having resisted reading the first three, I finally broke down in 1999 and read the first three.  I was astonished at how average they were.  Compared to other children's books like ALICE IN WONDERLAND or THE LION, THE WITCH, AND THE WARDROBE, they were positively mediocre in comparison.  They are not memorably written, I felt the three stories were terribly formulaic, and nothing really stood out about them.  Worst of all, there seemed to be no real evil in them.  Lord Voldemort was wretchedly lame in all three (though less so in the third novel) that Harry and his friends seemed to be facing up to a cardboard bogeyman.  One only has to contrast the forces of evil in the first three Harry Potter books with Tolkein to see what I mean.  And on top of everything else, not only did quidditch never sound like \\"the greatest game in the world\\" as Harry was supposed to have opined, it seems positively boring and silly.<br />I think this fourth novel (and I now very much want to read the fifth) is a huge leap forward.  As a whole, the characters were all more interestingly written than in the other books, the story as a whole a lot more immersive, and the threat of evil from Voldemort considerably more tangible and real.  On the last point, as the novel ends, you really do have a sense of dread about what the future holds.  You do feel that many will be in mortal danger.  The novel is still too formulaic for my taste, but that bothered me far less in this book than in the others.  The book still isn't on the level of Lewis Carroll or C. S. Lewis or J. R. R. Tolkein, but it very definitely one of the best children's novels of recent decades.<br />I also have to express tremendous admiration for J. K. Rowling for being so enormously respectful of her readers.  I think it is clearly true of the first four novels that each one is a considerable improvement over the ones that came before.  Her books have engendered a huge response from a very large number of readers, both young and old, and she could have responded by turning out a quickly written book that would have approximated the earlier ones and that would have possibly satisfied her fans.  Instead, she has clearly worked very hard at making each book not merely longer but better.  I respect her enormously for taking the pains to turn out the very best book that she can.<br />Fans of Harry Potter need no urging to read this book, but I can strongly recommend this to other nonfans (as I used to be).  I think most readers will find it to be rather delightful.r J. K. Rowling for being so enormously respectful of her readers.  I think it is clearly true of the first four novels that each one is a considerable improvement over the ones that came before.  Her books have engendered a huge response from a very large number of readers, both young and old, and she could have responded by turning out a quickly written book that would have approximated the earlier ones and that would have possibly satisfied her fans.  Instead, she has clearly worked very hard at making each book not merely longer but better.  I respect her enormously for taking the pains to turn out the very best book that she can.<br />Fans of Harry Potter need no urging to read this book, but I can strongly recommend this to other nonfans (as I used to be).  I think most readers will find it to be rather delightful.	2004-01-15
832378:US	52048190	R747T7YGMYALP	140004961X	21589592	The Onion Ad Nauseam: Complete News Archives Volume 14	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Thank god for the Onion!	My daughter just gave me this hysterical collection as a birthday present, and all I can say is that I must have raised her right.  This is a very, very funny collection.  Yes, as one reviewer below stated, it is like the other collections.  Is this a problem?  Of course not!  Is it somehow supposed to be unlike the other collections?  How is it a criticism of The Onion to resemble The Onion?  As far as the other reviewer who said that the previous volume was funnier, I don't know what to say.  I found a great deal to laugh at, just as I found a great deal to laugh at in the past.  I can't detect any decline in either the humor or the sharpness of it.<br />In an age that does not especially satire (one would need to read a great deal of historical material from various periods to see how this is an art that has somewhat died out), The Onion is arguably the richest source of political and social satire since the heyday of the weekend news on Saturday Night Live when Al Franken was providing much of the material.<br />The headlines are consistently priceless.  \\"Bush on Economy:  We Need to Get Saddam Now.\\"  \\"Judge Orders God to Break Up Into Smaller Deities.\\"  \\"Anti-Spam Legislation Opposed by Powerful Penis-Enlargement Lobby.\\"  As a Yo La Tenga fan (a very highly regarded indie rock band from NYC whom I have seen around 15 times live, for the uninitiated), I especially loved \\"37 Record-Store Clerks Feared Dead In Yo La Tenga Concert Disaster.\\"  Sometimes the humor can be merely funny, but sometimes cutting, such as the one that shows a photo of Cardinal Anthony Bevilacqua beside the headline:  \\"Starving Third World Masses Warned Against the Evils of Contraception.\\"<br />Hopefully the Onion will be with us for a very, very long time, and I pray that their humor stays as sharp	2004-01-10
841343:US	52048190	R134S0LMDTHCR4	0380726238	733601761	A Drink Before the War (Patrick Kenzie/Angela Gennaro Novels)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Outstanding first novel by today's best detective writer	For a first novel, this one truly delivers the goods.  Few veteran writers have produced tenth novels as polished and as gripping as this one.  The characters are all very well drawn, the situation well developed, and the complex situation resolved in satisfying fashion.  My lone complaint is that the sexual chemistry between Kenzie and Gennaro seems forced in this one.  Not all writers handle all aspects of a tale equally well.  Lehane excels at violence, darkness, and suspense, not romance.<br />One of the great things about this book is the almost tactile feel you get for Boston.  One of the complaints that I have had with Robert Parker is that his Boston doesn't feel all that uniquely Boston.  Substitute other street and place names, and you could have Chicago or Detroit or Philadelphia, or wherever.  But Lehane absolutely nails the local scenery in Boston, the attitudes of locals in the neighborhoods.<br />Occasionally you will see blurbs describing Lehane as the heir to Hammett or Chandler, but this does a tremendous disservice to all three.  Lehane writes in no way like either of those two.  He does not possess either's scintillating prose style, nor does he structure his stories in anything like the way that they did.  The true comparison is with the third master of the American hardboiled detective story:  Ross MacDonald.  In nearly all of his novels, MacDonald works on a Biblical theme:  &quot;The sins of the fathers will be visited unto the second and third generations.&quot;  In a typical MacDonald plot, someone dies or is abducted or commits a crime, and as he uncovers the evidence he learns that the root cause lies fifteen or twenty or even thirty years in the past.  Lehane writes in precisely this manner, also focusing on the psychological damage that the past can inflict on innocents.<br />Since the publication of A DRINK BEFORE THE WAR, Lehane has been the most interesting writer of detective fiction in the United States.  He is still quite young, and it will be fascinating to watch his career in the future.and it will be fascinating to watch his career in the future.	2004-01-04
845741:US	52048190	R2NKAS54B827G4	0394703170	962910322	Anti-Intellectualism in American Life	Books	5	383	411	N	N	A penetrating analysis of the American character	One reviewer below insists that this book, while excellent, is \\"dated.\\"  I find this an astonishing evaluation.  What stunned me about this book was how familiar the anti-intellectualism from each period in American history felt.  True, we are not today facing McCarthyism--our own particular moment in history feels Orwellian more than anything--but Hofstadter's overall point about anti-intellectualism being a constituent part of the national character has not been invalidated by the past forty years.  Indeed, his points have been confirmed at nearly every point.  And while the anti-intellectuals in the fifties may have railed against \\"eggheads,\\" today the GOP directs much of their fury against the \\"liberal elite.\\"  Since most of \\"the elite\\" is comparatively poor compared to the Right-wing economic elite, clearly they are aiming their guns at the intellectual elite.  Figures Hofstadter quotes from the 18th century sound like they could be one of today's right wing pundits.<br /><br />Few books that I have ever read have helped me understand the American character as well as this one.  Many of the chapters in American history that he chronicles are somewhat forgotten, but just as essential as the more familiar figures and events.  I was familiar with much of what he discusses in the role of religion in fomenting anti-intellectualism in America (though he didn't mention one of the most important factors in the spread of anti-intellectual religion in America:  the success of denominations that did not require a college education in their ministers--in fact, were suspicious of ministers who possessed much education--due to geographic remoteness from the colonial colleges, so that Methodists and Baptists throve in the South, which was far away from the colleges that existed in 18th century America; therefore, I believe geography played a greater role and the Great Awakening played a smaller role in building anti-intellectualism than Hofstadter credits).  I was also aware of the role that Jeffersonian and Jacksonian democracy had played in building a prejudice against literacy and culture.  The sections on \\"The Practical Culture\\" and \\"Education in a Democracy,\\" however, covers subjects that were somewhat less familiar to me.  I was especially fascinated on the chapters on educational theories of the 20th century, with the educational establishment itself espousing anti-intellectual theories by deemphasizing college preparation for students and instead focusing on vocational training.<br /><br />I would put this book on the shortest of short lists of books that anyone interested in understanding the American character ought to read.  I have a large number of friends from other parts of the world, and to an individual they are baffled and mystified at the almost willful ignorance they have discovered on the part of Americans.  Hofstadter's book will assist anyone in understanding why so many Americans are antagonistic towards intellectuals and those who possess an advanced literacy.  This is also one of Hofstadter's greatest books.  Unbelievably, despite the several classic volumes he penned, Hofstadter died at the early age of 54.  He was in his forties when he wrote this.  One wonders what classics we are now missing because of his premature death.ole that Jeffersonian and Jacksonian democracy had played in building a prejudice against literacy and culture.  The sections on \\"The Practical Culture\\" and \\"Education in a Democracy,\\" however, covers subjects that were somewhat less familiar to me.  I was especially fascinated on the chapters on educational theories of the 20th century, with the educational establishment itself espousing anti-intellectual theories by deemphasizing college preparation for students and instead focusing on vocational training.    I would put this book on the shortest of short lists of books that anyone interested in understanding the American character ought to read.  I have a large number of friends from other parts of the world, and to an individual they are baffled and mystified at the almost willful ignorance they have discovered on the part of Americans.  Hofstadter's book will assist anyone in understanding why so many Americans are antagonistic towards intellectuals and those who possess an advanced literacy.  This is also one of Hofstadter's greatest books.  Unbelievably, despite the several classic volumes he penned, Hofstadter died at the early age of 54.  He was in his forties when he wrote this.  One wonders what classics we are now missing because of his premature death.	2004-01-01
851161:US	52048190	R12EL1709RN1Q3	0345329821	970074876	Raney	Books	5	22	25	N	N	Funny, well-written, and incredibly true-to-life	Although I live now in Chicago, was educated at Yale and the University of Chicago, and raised in Little Rock, Arkansas, nearly all my relatives are small town and rural folk exactly like Raney.  There are many, many things to praise about this book:  the voice of the narrator, the consistent excellence of the prose, the humor that pops up at every point, and the critical yet affectionate portrait of what life in the South is truly like, but the thing that most stands out for me is the extraordinary veracity of the characters.<br />If I could choose a book to add to a time capsule to be opened on July 4, 2376, to show people living then what life in the south truly was like way back in the late 20th century, this is the book I would select.  It might not deal with the big themes, like slavery in TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD, or the mystery of evil as in the writings of Flannery O'Connor, or possess the literary marvels of Faulkner, but it shows in vivid fashion exactly what small town life in the South is like in our time.  I just reeled from the detail.  For instance, many of my country cousins, when they wash dishes, do it precisely like Raney does:  filling a sink with soapy water, and removing each dish or utensil after washing it in the same water that one uses for everything else.  As a practice, it is indefensible from a hygienic point of view, yet it is a widespread cultural custom.  Edgerton nails detail after detail.<br />I don't want to make this sound like a thinly disguised anthropological study, or suggest that this attention to detail is what makes the novel special.  What makes this a great novel is the loving portrait Edgerton crafts of Raney herself.  Although she possesses her own quirks and country foibles, she is throughout the book an adorable, sweet, lovable human being, believably and memorably brought to life by a master novelist.  It is easily one of the finest novels about the South that I have ever read.	2003-12-28
854070:US	52048190	R34DTNZMRMT2X6	0500202893	556669554	Manet (World of Art)	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Very good at many points, but lacks comprehensive overview	I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in Edoard Manet.  Although T. J. Clark's masterful THE PAINTING OF MODERN LIFE is the most essential study of Manet in English, it functions better as a theoretical treatise on politics and the philosophy of art than as an introduction to Manet's art.  But Clark's work keeps in sight something that Krell's work never achieves:  a sense of the overall point of Manet's art.<br />I find overall that Krell discussed quite well various specifics in Manet's work.  He is especially good at covering at an introductory level many aspects of particular paintings, and was outstanding at articulating the response of Manet's contemporaries to each work.  Like many recent art historians, Krell does a great job of informing the reader of where each major work was originally shown.  Previous generations of art historians ignored the context for the public debut of paintings, as if all work was created in an ahistorical vortex divorced from the real world.<br />What keeps me from giving this book five stars is the lack of any kind of overview of Manet's greater historical significance, and specifically how he helped change the history of art (and change it he certainly did).  From reading other works one will learn that Manet was a key figure--in fact, one of the key figures--in moving painting from historical and allegorical subjects to every day subjects.  But Krell hardly alludes to this, although its having been the case underlies nearly everything he writes about Manet.  There is furthermore absolutely no effort to distinguish Manet from the Impressionists and the painters who followed in his wake.  He might cover the way that Manet treats cafe life in contrast to Degas, or he might allude to the fact that Manet rarely painted in plain air unlike the Impressionists, but all in all he does not do an especially good job of explaining what made Manet unique.  On the other hand, I found his frequent allusions to the social alienation of the characters in Manet's paintings to be very helpful.  Although I was previously familiar with Manet's paintings, I had never before been made aware of the degree to which the various individuals in his paintings fail to interact with one another.  Manet emerges not merely as the recorder of social life of his time, but witness to the social alienation inherent in modern life.ion of the characters in Manet's paintings to be very helpful.  Although I was previously familiar with Manet's paintings, I had never before been made aware of the degree to which the various individuals in his paintings fail to interact with one another.  Manet emerges not merely as the recorder of social life of his time, but witness to the social alienation inherent in modern life.	2003-12-25
866798:US	52048190	R3E8QIWQ4OYHR4	0812970411	218999601	The American Revolution: A History (Modern Library Chronicles)	Books	5	42	44	N	N	Amazingly comprehensive given its brief size	Gordon S. Wood is one of the deans of scholarship on the American Revolution, and this volume in the Modern Library Chronicles series (each volume dedicated to providing a brief but sound introduction to a specific subject) is the distillation of a lifetime of study of the subject.  Although short, this is not a book lacking in content.  Some of the reviewers seem to misunderstand the subject:  the American Revolution was not primarily a military adventure but an intellectual one.  Therefore, the book rightfully dedicates most of its pages to the ideas that drove the revolt against Britain and the formation of a completely original form of government based upon equality and the sovereignty of the people.<br />The genius of the book is not merely that Wood finds space to mention every significant aspect of the American Revolution, but that he is able in a very brief space explain the why and the wherefore.  For instance, in explaining why the people making up the new nation did not respect the rights of Native Americans and consider them equals, Wood explains that the widespread view was that independent individual owned and cultivated land, and since the Indians were hunters, they could not could that they were potential citizens like themselves.  Therefore, they could only treat them as foreigner nations.  Wood does not condone their conclusions, but he does a great job of explaining their thinking.  Likewise, when he addresses the question of slavery, he points out that while the founders did not carry through with the logical implications of the notion that all men are created equal, the foundations where nonetheless laid for its eventually expungement.  As he writes, &quot;The Revolution had a powerful effect in eventually bring an end to slavery in America.  It suddenly and effectively ended the social and intellectual environment that had allowed slavery to exist everywhere for thousands of years without substantial questioning.&quot;  The book contains a host of similar insights.  Although I have read other and longer books on the Revolution, I have read few that were filled with as much insight.<br />The book proceeds on a series of topics that are largely chronological, beginning with the changes in American society following the end of the French-Indian Wars and the refocusing of the British government on the colonies after several decades of some neglect, and ending with the Constitutional Convention in 1787 in Philadelphia.  His focus is overwhelmingly on the ideas that drove the Revolution.  He is almost entirely unconcerned with the battles of the War, which he does not view as especially decisive.  As he points out, the odds of the British defeating the colonists were long at best, given the overwhelming hostility felt against the Crown and the widespread sentiments for independence.  Wood spends approximately fifteen pages on the actual military campaign.  There is little regret for this because he is so superb in discussing the nonmilitary aspects.<br />Although the account is first rate, an additional reason this is such a valuable book is the exceptional bibliographical essay that closes the book.  Wood provides a ten-page survey of the literature on the Revolution, and if one is unfamiliar with the period, he or she will have a host of suggestions of additional books to read upon completion of Wood's book.<br />I really find it difficult to praise this book too strongly.  This book is ideal for someone unfamiliar (or even those familiar desiring a brief survey) with the central factors of the Revolution and wanting a brief but superb analysis of the events leading to the creation of the United States.st of similar insights.  Although I have read other and longer books on the Revolution, I have read few that were filled with as much insight.<br />The book proceeds on a series of topics that are largely chronological, beginning with the changes in American society following the end of the French-Indian Wars and the refocusing of the British government on the colonies after several decades of some neglect, and ending with the Constitutional Convention in 1787 in Philadelphia.  His focus is overwhelmingly on the ideas that drove the Revolution.  He is almost entirely unconcerned with the battles of the War, which he does not view as especially decisive.  As he points out, the odds of the British defeating the colonists were long at best, given the overwhelming hostility felt against the Crown and the widespread sentiments for independence.  Wood spends approximately fifteen pages on the actual military campaign.  There is little regret for this because he is so superb in discussing the nonmilitary aspects.<br />Although the account is first rate, an additional reason this is such a valuable book is the exceptional bibliographical essay that closes the book.  Wood provides a ten-page survey of the literature on the Revolution, and if one is unfamiliar with the period, he or she will have a host of suggestions of additional books to read upon completion of Wood's book.<br />I really find it difficult to praise this book too strongly.  This book is ideal for someone unfamiliar (or even those familiar desiring a brief survey) with the central factors of the Revolution and wanting a brief but superb analysis of the events leading to the creation of the United States.	2003-12-12
874074:US	52048190	R2R3BPTC8KMS8J	0812210425	148215216	Kierkegaard: A Kind of Poet	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Easily one of the few superb studies of SK in English	There is a bit of a paradox in Kierkegaard studies in the English speaking world:  there has been a vast number of studies on Kierkegaard produced in English, but the overwhelming majority has proven to be simply awful.  I would argue that no major intellectual figure of the past few hundred years has been subjected to so few good books and yet such a deluge of bad ones.  Kierkegaard himself was worried about his fate at the hands of &quot;the professors,&quot; but the non-professors have hardly been any better writing about him (see the essays by John Updike on Kierkegaard if I am doubted).  There have been a few good books, but only a few.  Three that leap to mind are Bruce Kirmmse's KIERKEGAARD IN GOLDEN AGE DENMARK, Anthony Rudd's KIERKEGAARD AND THE LIMITS OF THE ETHICAL, and David Gouwen's KIERKEGAARD AS A RELIGIOUS THINKER.<br />Luckily, Louis Mackey's KIERKEGAARD: A KIND OF POET is another superb book, despite his central thesis being both uninteresting and unhelpful in reading Kierkegaard.  As the title implies, Mackey views Kierkegaard as being fundamentally a poet, a notion that really does very little work in enlightening any would-be or actual reader of Kierkegaard.  And in reading the book, very little light is shed on Kierkegaard by this notion of his being a poet.  So given the paucity of the central interpretative tool in Mackey's book, why do I insist that it is a great book?  Because at every other point Mackey possesses a profound and acute understanding of Kierkegaard's work.  It is as if Mackey really understood Kierkegaard, but couldn't be content with a superb analysis of his work, but had to bring in some extraneous gimmick to give the book more interest.<br />Kierkegaard's works can largely be divided into his Pseudonymous Authorship (what Kierkegaard himself calls &quot;My Authorship&quot; and his later works that are sometimes called, following a suggestion by Robert L. Perkins, his Second Literature.  The Second Literature is marked by Kierkegaard's writing his works usually in his own name, by the subject matter almost always being explicitly religious in nature, and in often having social or political overtones as well.  The Pseudonymous literature comprises almost all of Kierkegaard's best-known works.  These books were all written using Pseudonyms.  These Pseudonymous authors would not necessarily (and in fact usually did not) represent Kierkegaard's own point of view.  Some of these works dealt with aesthetical themes, some with ethics, and some with religious themes.  The fundamental goal in these works was to demonstrate the shortcomings in the lives of individuals who lived lives determined by aesthetic or ethical principles, and the possibility of a religious existence that would go beyond these and yet fulfill them.  Mackey writes almost exclusively about this Pseudonymous literature in this book.  This is, in fact, the finest introduction to the Pseudonymous literature that exists in English.<br />A word of warning:  Mackey has published a second book on Kierkegaard, POINTS OF VIEW: READINGS OF KIERKEGAARD.  There are a couple of good essays in this book, mainly ones written about the time or before he wrote KIERKEGAARD: A KIND OF POET.  Tragically, however, the further Mackey went in his career as a Kierkegaard scholar, the more enamored of postmodernist criticism he became, and he grew less and less intelligible as he went on.  I find his second collection to be of virtually no interest at all.  But that doesn't mitigate the tremendous value of the earlier book.<br />Movie fans ought to note that Mackey has managed a small but notable appearance in motion pictures.  University of Texas (where Mackey taught) graduate student Richard Linklater (most recently the director of box office smash THE SCHOOL OF ROCK) has cast Mackey two of his films.  In his breakout film SLACKER, Linklater cast Mackey in the role of The Old Anarchist (for those who have seen the film, the older man who caughta young person attempting to rob his house, but who he engages in conversation, telling him about his days in the Spanish Civil War, though his granddaughter later explains that he never did).  And in the magnificent animated film WAKING LIFE, Linklater uses Mackey to more or less play himself for a small bit.a young person attempting to rob his house, but who he engages in conversation, telling him about his days in the Spanish Civil War, though his granddaughter later explains that he never did).  And in the magnificent animated film WAKING LIFE, Linklater uses Mackey to more or less play himself for a small bit.	2003-12-07
874674:US	52048190	RZD4DIJNWUJ86	0521558794	428237087	A World at Arms: A Global History of World War II	Books	5	16	16	N	N	As fine a one-volume history as we could hope to have	Gerhard L. Weinberg's single-volume history of WW II is truly remarkable in that it presents not merely an account of the battles and major events of the war, but the politics and diplomacy that were truly as important and as essential as what happened on the battlefield.  Too many histories of wars are written by historians who are fixated on battles, and the development of wartime technology, and bombing campaigns, and tactics on the field.  Weinberg does not neglect these expects of the war, but he knows that these other aspects are in large part an outgrowth of other factors:  industrial output, the cooperation between allies in sharing ideas, goals, and materials as well as coordinating battle plans, and the personalities driving each country.<br />In short, this is a comprehensive history of World War Two, and not merely an account of its military campaigns.  Not only this, but Weinberg successfully addresses the greatest fault of most Anglo-European histories of the war:  to focus too much on the European Western front and the Pacific campaign, ignoring the fact that by far the greatest amount of fighting--both in terms of men deployed and in casualties suffered and inflicted--came on the long and decision Russian front.  Although the Germans deployed far more of their military along their Eastern front, in the West we constantly tend to forgot this.  Unquestionably, this is in part a function of the natural myopia all human beings are subject, as we tend to focus more closely on those aspects of an affair that more directly involve us.  But in the West it is also a lingering offshoot of the Cold War, during which time Americans and Europeans unquestionably minimized and even ignored the massive Soviet contributions to the war.  No nation gave more of its lifeblood in the winning of World War Two, and Weinberg is to be praised for writing accurately about it.<br />Despite being only one volume, this is truly a massive book.  Weinberg deals with every imaginable aspect of the war, some that I have already noted.  It is a weighty, thick book, replete with extensive bibliography and footnotes.  There are no illustrations, a decision that was probably made because there are thousands of other books that visualize the war in every imaginable fashion.  My complaint concerns the paucity of maps.  There are a group of maps contained at the end of the volume, but I think the text would have been far more useful with a series of additional and smaller maps that would have more precisely located geographically where major events were taking place.  But this is a minor point.  A more substantial criticism is that the book leaves out almost entirely the social aspect of the war and does not deal as extensively with what was happening on the homefront, on how the war was changing and altering the nations participating.  For instance, the war exerted massive influence on the United States, having dramatic effects on politics, race, gender, and economic matters.  These topics are almost completely left alone.  In a one-volume history, one must make decisions about what to leave in and out, and Weinberg focuses on the fighting and the geopolitical aspects.<br />There is a wealth of other one-volume histories of World War Two available, but this is, I believe, clearly the one for anyone wanting to learn more about the war in depth to read.  I would, however, argue that any event the magnitude of WW II requires the serious student to approach it from several points of view.  No single volume could ever do the trick.able aspect of the war, some that I have already noted.  It is a weighty, thick book, replete with extensive bibliography and footnotes.  There are no illustrations, a decision that was probably made because there are thousands of other books that visualize the war in every imaginable fashion.  My complaint concerns the paucity of maps.  There are a group of maps contained at the end of the volume, but I think the text would have been far more useful with a series of additional and smaller maps that would have more precisely located geographically where major events were taking place.  But this is a minor point.  A more substantial criticism is that the book leaves out almost entirely the social aspect of the war and does not deal as extensively with what was happening on the homefront, on how the war was changing and altering the nations participating.  For instance, the war exerted massive influence on the United States, having dramatic effects on politics, race, gender, and economic matters.  These topics are almost completely left alone.  In a one-volume history, one must make decisions about what to leave in and out, and Weinberg focuses on the fighting and the geopolitical aspects.<br />There is a wealth of other one-volume histories of World War Two available, but this is, I believe, clearly the one for anyone wanting to learn more about the war in depth to read.  I would, however, argue that any event the magnitude of WW II requires the serious student to approach it from several points of view.  No single volume could ever do the trick.	2003-12-06
874941:US	52048190	R2G5BCBV73EC8M	0684813785	681707236	The Making of the Atomic Bomb	Books	5	24	26	N	N	A brilliant epic retelling of the birth of the atomic bomb	Richard Rhodes's masterpiece is one those books that is almost impossible to over praise.  Since reading it a number of years ago, I have been amazed how many times I have heard about one individual or another mentioned in these pages, and either remember specific things about them from this book, or the greater background in which they worked.  The book is not, it must be emphasized, not about the Manhattan Project, although that features as a significant feature in the story.  Rhodes's tale begins well in advance of that, and his narrative for several hundred pages is a story of the men and women who first started thinking within the field of physics that would eventually make the atomic bomb a theoretical possibility.  The cast of characters is immense, and involves nearly all of the major theoretical physicists of the first half of the twentieth century (though many would continue to dominate well into the 20th--indeed, one of the major players, Edward Teller, died only a few weeks before my writing this review).<br />The first part of the book deals with those men and women who did made a series of brilliant breakthroughs in physics that made the building of an atomic bomb not merely conceivable but feasible, at least sufficiently feasible for the major players in WW II to explore in a full-fledged way whether an atomic bomb could be built.  The second half of the book details the efforts of the major players in WW II to build such a bomb.  I found this especially interesting, because often writers mention the danger of Hitler having built an atomic bomb before the allies, but Rhodes pretty much destroys any illusions about this.  He shows that, first, the German atomic program was tremendously under funded and given only a modicum of support by Hitler and his advisors.  There were two major reasons for this.  First, the Nazis had little or no access to the materials that would make such a program successful, in particular to an unstable uranium isotope.  Their lone source lay in heavy water, which they were able to get from Sweden, but it is exceedingly doubtful that they would have had enough to produce sufficient material for a bomb even if they had known how to do so.  But the greater impediment to the building of a bomb was Hitler's own disinclination to do so.  Partly because of his own experience with mustard gas in WW I, Hitler was personally opposed to the use of what we would today call WMDs.  But as Rhodes shows, even in America there was uncertainty about how devastating such a weapon would be, and some of the Nazis felt that the bomb would result in setting the earth's atmosphere on fire.  Therefore, the German atomic threat is greatly exaggerated.  Yet, it is still asserted.  I read just recently a book by former MP and cabinet minister Roy Jenkins, in which he discusses the possibility of the Nazis getting the bomb first in WW II, an event that is at most a remote possibility.  In addition to the German program, Rhodes also discusses the almost nonexistent Japanese program.<br />The greater part of the book deals with the efforts at Los Alamos, New Mexico to build a workable atomic bomb.  The Manhattan Project (so-called because its first administrative offices were in New York) is one of the most massive undertakings in human history, and the story of how General Leslie Groves (whose other great achievement was overseeing the building of the Pentagon) and Robert J. Oppenheimer headed up the program makes for absolutely riveting reading.  There is simply no way in the course of a brief review to express the sheer scope and range of issues--scientific, social, political, historical, and military--that Rhodes addresses in this book.  It is one of those rare books that not merely informs you on a particular subject, but deepens and broadens one's knowledge of modern history.  I would quickly put this volume on the briefest of short lists of modern classics that one ought to have read to understand the world.This truly is a classic that ought to be not merely honored but read.This truly is a classic that ought to be not merely honored but read.	2003-12-06
875039:US	52048190	R1ZLZNQKLB0TBI	0226318079	698239404	Forests: The Shadow of Civilization	Books	5	18	18	N	N	An important work with appeal to several fields	Although this is clearly a work in literary criticism, it is one that will appeal to those working in other areas.  For instance, those working on Environmental Ethics will find a great deal of very information about how forests have been conceived in a great deal of the literature of the greater European world throughout history.  Intellectual historians with an interest in how Europeans have conceived nature as a whole will find a great deal to interest them in this book that deals with forests in particular.  But the primary audience is students of literature.<br />The narrative of the book runs chronologically to the dawn of written history to Frank Lloyd Wright, though the vast majority of figures discusses are writers, and of those primarily writers of nonfictional literature.  Harrison discusses an immense range of writers and works, from the EPIC OF GILGAMESH to Chaucer to Dante to Shakespeare to Descartes to Rousseau to Wordsworth to the Brothers Grimm to Thoreau.  Although Harrison's prose style is not exhilarating, I never found the book to be less than interesting.<br />Whether someone will find this interesting will depend on whether they want to know more about the way that forests have been conceived in European history.  At various periods of time they have been view as scared, as dark places of fear, as resources for human exploitation, or as ecosystems valuable in their own right.  Harrison does not touch upon all these aspects, but I don't think anyone interested in Western attitudes towards nature could help but find this book to be of the greatest help.	2003-12-06
882777:US	52048190	R5Y8ZMTDQL24J	0684807610	438783610	Benjamin Franklin: An American Life	Books	4	29	31	N	N	Good, but doesn't supplant previous biographies	This is a serviceable biography and provides a easy-to-read account of Franklin's life, but does not, in my mind, the shorter but better biography by Morgan or the slightly earlier biography by Brands, or the much earlier--and slightly hagiographical biography--of Van Doren.  I find Isaacson good at finding the trees--especially the unflattering trees--but not so good at describing the forest.  As a result, while the volume is excellent at acquainting the early 21st century reader with the questions that most early 21st century readers would ask about Franklin, he falters somewhat at answering what it all means.  In other words, it is a biography without a very good sense of history, and is likely to have less interest for future generations, who are less interested in a tailored-to-the-moment biography,<br />I did want to make a reply to one especially negative review below where Franklin was rounding criticized for 1) being arrogant, 2) ignoring men and women of African descent, and 3) having had the audacity to rewrite the Declaration of Independence.  It is very helpful in writing a negative review to at least have read about the individual in question.  If the reviewer in question had, he would have know that Franklin held some of the most enlightened views towards Americans of African descent in America.  His last public controversy, in fact, was to call for the abolition of slavery and write a piece excoriating its evils.  Unfortunately, he died only a couple of months after engaging in this controversy.<br />As far as arrogance, I'm not sure where that impression comes from.  He certainly had a high and exceedingly well justified opinion of his own self worth, but arrogance was not a word that people who actually dealt with him used.  It is not an exaggeration to say that many people in Europe considered him to the world's most remarkable man (much of his representation in art prior to the Revolutionary War--when his public image necessarily becomes politicized--bears this high regard out).  But Franklin was never dictatorial in his wishes, never browbeat his intellectual opponents, never lauded his merits over others.  If one reads accounts of the constitutional congress, Franklin's greatest contributions was as promoter of compromise, not as arrogant declaimer.<br />Now, about his rewriting sections of the \\"constitution\\" that Jefferson wrote.  There are multiple confusions at work here.  First, Jefferson was not involved in the writing of the constitution at all, actually being in France while it was being written.  In fact, Jefferson wrote NONE of the constitution.  Obviously, the reviewer meant the Declaration of Independence.  Facts confused again.  Those assembling to declare independence from Britain appointed a committee to undertake the writing.  It was expected that the committee would produce the Declaration as a committee and not as the work of one person, and that Franklin, as the most famous writer in the colonies, would contributor a great deal.  But because of his gifts as a prose stylist, it was agreed that Jefferson should write the first draft.  Franklin, whose gifts as a writer were regarded more highly than anyone excepting Jefferson, made some light but on the whole very helpful changes, but otherwise stated his opinion that Jefferson had done the committee's work for them.  Franklin, Adams and the others agreed to accept Jefferson's slightly amended draft.<br />I am not, however, a big fan of Isaacson's biography.  I felt uncomfortable with many of the emphases on Franklin's life as a businessman, and didn't, I believe, sufficiently emphasis Franklin's enormous sense of responsibility that he felt American's bore their society.  Furthermore, he was not the entrepreneur that Isaacson portrays him to be.  In fact, he repeatedly turned down entrepreneurial opportunities, most famously in refusing the patent for his stove, which would have netted him a fortune.  I still prefer Van Doren's perhaps toopraiseworthy biography or either of the more recent biographies of H. W. Brands and Edmund Morgan.too praiseworthy biography or either of the more recent biographies of H. W. Brands and Edmund Morgan.	2003-11-30
884845:US	52048190	R2R3IH7QG50CUE	0449005615	678550726	Seabiscuit: An American Legend (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An extraordinarily entertaining book	It is difficult to over praise this exceptional retelling of the career of Seabiscuit, one of the more improbable sports heroes in American history.  The book centers on four individuals:  Charles Howard, who made a fortune in dominating the sales of Buicks in the Western half of the U.S. and who was the flamboyant owner of Seabiscuit; Tom Smith, laconic horseman and the trainer who salvaged the career of Seabiscuit after Howard purchased him; Johnny &quot;Red&quot; Pollard, the Shakespeare-quoting ex-boxer and also-ran jockey who managed to ascend briefly to the top of sport through his unique partnership with Seabiscuit; and Seabiscuit himself.  Nearly as important as these primary players is George Woolf, who played a key role in some of Seabiscuit's greatest victories, including his defeat of War Admiral in the race that truly is considered perhaps the greatest race in the sport's history.  In Hillenbrand's able hands, the story because what it truly was: the quintessential story of the underdog who makes good.  And everyone knows American's love underdogs.  She tells the story so well that the book is almost impossible to set down.  I managed to read it in slightly more than a day and a half, despite Thanksgiving activities.  I'm sure this is not an uncommon experience.<br />The book also serves as a fantastic introduction to the sport of thoroughbred horse racing.  Hillenbrand does a masterful job of explaining many aspects of the sport.  If one knows nothing of the sport before reading this book, they will have a decent overview coming out.  Especially entertaining was the sometimes-jarring chapter that explained the extremes to which jockeys in the thirties would go in maintaining their weight.  But I really want to emphasize that an interest in racing either before or even after reading it really isn't necessary for a complete enjoyment of the book.  It is fundamentally a great piece of story telling.<br />The story of Seabiscuit is also the story of War Admiral, one of the great thoroughbreds in racing history.  In fact, in most polls of sportswriters or racing authorities, War Admiral is usually rated more highly than Seabiscuit in the roster of the sport's greats.  In part this is because of Seabiscuit's somewhat inconsistent career and War Admiral's consistent brilliance.  He was, by any measure, a late bloomer, all his great achievements coming after the age at which War Admiral, a Triple Crown winner, retired.  One important aspect of the story that Hillenbrand neglects to mention is that Seabiscuit truly needed a horse as great as War Admiral to establish his reputation.  As an Eastern horse, War Admiral's stature would not have been especially enhanced by beating the Western Seabiscuit, while Seabiscuit needed the validation that beating War Admiral provided.  One can understand the hesitancy of War Admiral's owner to pit his horse against Seabiscuit:  he had almost nothing to gain by the race, while Seabiscuit had everything.<br />If I have a complaint with the book, it is that it doesn't tie the reader into the specific era in which it takes place to the degree that it could have and should have.  The story has of Seabiscuit possessed a social and historical significance that the book doesn't quite get at.  Jane Leavy in her SANDY KOUFAX: A LEFTY'S LEGACY brings raises far better the greater significance of Koufax in his historical era than Hillenbrand does for Seabiscuit in his.  And that is a shame, since few athletes--human or four-footed--has had a greater impact on his age as Seabiscuit.<br />But this is nitpicking.  Despite this minor lack, this is a brilliantly told and highly entertaining tale.  The story is only in part a story of the successes of Seabiscuit.  It is also very much the tale of the often extraordinary obstacles placed before Seabiscuit and especially Red Pollard in their achieving their successes.miral, one of the great thoroughbreds in racing history.  In fact, in most polls of sportswriters or racing authorities, War Admiral is usually rated more highly than Seabiscuit in the roster of the sport's greats.  In part this is because of Seabiscuit's somewhat inconsistent career and War Admiral's consistent brilliance.  He was, by any measure, a late bloomer, all his great achievements coming after the age at which War Admiral, a Triple Crown winner, retired.  One important aspect of the story that Hillenbrand neglects to mention is that Seabiscuit truly needed a horse as great as War Admiral to establish his reputation.  As an Eastern horse, War Admiral's stature would not have been especially enhanced by beating the Western Seabiscuit, while Seabiscuit needed the validation that beating War Admiral provided.  One can understand the hesitancy of War Admiral's owner to pit his horse against Seabiscuit:  he had almost nothing to gain by the race, while Seabiscuit had everything.<br />If I have a complaint with the book, it is that it doesn't tie the reader into the specific era in which it takes place to the degree that it could have and should have.  The story has of Seabiscuit possessed a social and historical significance that the book doesn't quite get at.  Jane Leavy in her SANDY KOUFAX: A LEFTY'S LEGACY brings raises far better the greater significance of Koufax in his historical era than Hillenbrand does for Seabiscuit in his.  And that is a shame, since few athletes--human or four-footed--has had a greater impact on his age as Seabiscuit.<br />But this is nitpicking.  Despite this minor lack, this is a brilliantly told and highly entertaining tale.  The story is only in part a story of the successes of Seabiscuit.  It is also very much the tale of the often extraordinary obstacles placed before Seabiscuit and especially Red Pollard in their achieving their successes.	2003-11-28
890905:US	52048190	R289TEUM00N38R	0689854919	389649255	Buffy the Vampire Slayer: The Script Book, Season Two, Volume 3	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Who imagined that television writing could be this good?	Television writing is simply not supposed to be this good.  Or at least we have become acclimated to a good deal less even in very good shows.  But I am not sure that any other show in the history of television has put together five shows with scripts this strong.  In the history of Buffy, these are the episodes in which the show moved to an entirely different plane from all other contemporary shows.  Not since TWIN PEAKS had TV seen anything this well written.  Seeing these episodes for the first time, I was in complete awe that the Neanderthals running the WB had actually allowed anything this good to hit the screen.  These are also significant episodes because in them Buffy started becoming a show that appealed as much to adults as to teens, as the themes and issues became progressively more complex and darker.<br />\\"Surprise\\" was written by Marti Noxon, who had very quickly in her first season on Buffy established herself as one of the best writers on the show.  She was not merely good; she was prolific.  This is one of the more interesting scripts to compare to the actual show produced.  These collections compile the shooting scripts; they are not transcripts of the final product.  Usually, one will find slight wording alterations, or small scenes that got excised in the final shooting.  Often shooting instructions provide a great deal of insight into what is happening in the scenes.  But in this script, there are significant differences between the final result and the script, especially scenes involving Cordy and Xander.  The script was much, much too long for the time slot, and heavy editing took place.  The story itself, of how Buffy came to lose her virginity to Angel, resulting in his losing his soul, provides the foundation for everything that happens thereafter in both BUFFY and ANGEL.  We'll leave aside the fact that the gypsy curse-that because he has a soul Angel lives in torment for his past crimes, but if he achieves a moment of perfect happiness he loses his soul and reverts to the evil Angelus-is a bald and rather dumb plot device.  It makes no sense as a curse, and his potentially becoming evil again makes the curse profoundly self-defeating.  But so much else is tremendous, I and apparently everyone else cut them some slack on this one.<br />Joss Whedon himself wrote \\"Innocence,\\" in which we learn that Angel, after having made love to Buffy, has lost his soul.  If the show had been a teen series before, it was not after we see Buffy's boyfriend literally transformed into a monster on the morning after.  It's an old adage that bad characters are more interesting than good ones, and it is reproven in the transformation of Angel into Angelus.  But not just Angel, but Buffy is transformed as well.  I believe the title in part is a reference to Blake's SONGS OF INNOCENCE AND SONGS OF EXPERIENCE.  Buffy loses her innocence as she gains in experience.  Willow also struggles with new pain when she catches Xander and Cordelia kissing in the stacks.  (By the way, part of the joy of the scripts is reading the directions.  As Xander and Cordy begin to kiss we read:  \\"They haben der big smootchen.\\"  And when Willow sees them she \\"has pain on her face like a blush.\\")  In an episode of many awesome moments, one of my favorites is the freshly reborn Angelus killing a streetwalker smoking a cigarette, and then him expelling her smoke out of his lungs after he kills her.  That was shot precisely as written.<br />\\"Phases\\" was written by the team of Rob Des Hotel and Dean Batali, who were also the final script editors on the show until they left for THAT SEVENTIES SHOW.  Often in Buffy episodes as strong as \\"Surprise\\" and \\"Innocence\\" are followed by relatively weak episodes, as if they are trying to create a balance between weak and strong scripts.  But \\"Phases\\" is a fun, fascinating, and tragic episode in its own right, although it provides a break from the emotional roller coaster of the previous two shows.  Buffy never deals with potentially hackneyed subject like werewolves in unoriginal fashion, and that is true here.<br />Well, others start noticing Cordy and Xander's not-terribly-well-hidden relationship, so Cordy dumps Xander to salvage her social reputation.  Marti Noxon produced yet another stellar script in \\"Bewitched, Bothered &amp; Bewildered,\\" in one of the funniest shows ever in the series.  Because Cordy dumped Xander, he wants revenge by having Amy the school witch (from the first season) created a love potion that would make her love him, allowing him to then dump her.  But it backfires and every girl in the school EXCEPT for Cordelia falls her him. After the emotional stress of the previous episodes, the show provides a great deal of comic relief.  Great moment:  Xander demands that Cordy give back the necklace he gave her as a Valentine's present.  She goes to her locker to get it, but discretely takes it from around her neck.<br />\\"Passion\\" by Ty King is simply stunning.  The show had often proven it could be funny, and sometimes scary, but there is gothic horror in this episode that can bring a tear to the most hard-hearted.  Angel's voiceovers would work perfectly in the final shooting, giving a structure to what is one of the most tragic episodes in the run of the show.  The episode also served as a warning to its fans:  anything can happen on this show.  On other shows, the main characters are safe, but here they can die, and proved it by having Angel murder Jenny Calendar.  But her death was not as horrific as the macabre scene where Angel has rearranged Giles's apartment to make it seem like Jenny had staged a romantic tryst, only for a romantically touched and excited Giles to ascend his stairs to find Jenny's body in his bed.<br />This is by far the best single collection of scripts yet published in this series.  One writer in the early nineties stated that television had a greater potential for excellence than cinema, and that eventually a series could come along to prove this.  I believe that it was in these five episodes that BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER did precisely that.als with potentially hackneyed subject like werewolves in unoriginal fashion, and that is true here.<br />Well, others start noticing Cordy and Xander's not-terribly-well-hidden relationship, so Cordy dumps Xander to salvage her social reputation.  Marti Noxon produced yet another stellar script in \\"Bewitched, Bothered &amp; Bewildered,\\" in one of the funniest shows ever in the series.  Because Cordy dumped Xander, he wants revenge by having Amy the school witch (from the first season) created a love potion that would make her love him, allowing him to then dump her.  But it backfires and every girl in the school EXCEPT for Cordelia falls her him. After the emotional stress of the previous episodes, the show provides a great deal of comic relief.  Great moment:  Xander demands that Cordy give back the necklace he gave her as a Valentine's present.  She goes to her locker to get it, but discretely takes it from around her neck.<br />\\"Passion\\" by Ty King is simply stunning.  The show had often proven it could be funny, and sometimes scary, but there is gothic horror in this episode that can bring a tear to the most hard-hearted.  Angel's voiceovers would work perfectly in the final shooting, giving a structure to what is one of the most tragic episodes in the run of the show.  The episode also served as a warning to its fans:  anything can happen on this show.  On other shows, the main characters are safe, but here they can die, and proved it by having Angel murder Jenny Calendar.  But her death was not as horrific as the macabre scene where Angel has rearranged Giles's apartment to make it seem like Jenny had staged a romantic tryst, only for a romantically touched and excited Giles to ascend his stairs to find Jenny's body in his bed.<br />This is by far the best single collection of scripts yet published in this series.  One writer in the early nineties stated that television had a greater potential for excellence than cinema, and that eventually a series could come along to prove this.  I believe that it was in these five episodes that BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER did precisely that.	2003-11-23
891152:US	52048190	R1PPY81OP60JA3	1573225517	138260184	High Fidelity	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Who said my life could be made into a book?	OK, this isn't really about my life, but there are some eerie similarities.  The movie even more so, since the film shifted the locale to Chicago, where I live.  So why do I say the book is about me?<br />1. My name is Robert and many (including my mother) call me Rob.<br />2. I have a major ex-girlfriend named Lara, which is quite close to Laura, the name of the book's ex-girlfriend.<br />3. I am an inveterate list maker.<br />4. I'm obsessive about great alternative music.<br />5. Like Rob in most of the book, my love life mainly sucks, and hopefully will turn out to be good as his does (still waiting on that resemblance to take place).<br />6. I'm chronically underemployed and a bit of an underachiever.<br />But I'm sure than many readers get the feeling that the book could almost be about them, even those readers not named Rob and not underemployed and not blessed with an ex-girlfriend named Laura (or even Lara).  The book is a masterful depiction of an average male inhabitant of 1995 in England, but it could just as easily be Australia or the United States or Canada, because of the way that pop culture has linked together the various nations of the English-speaking world.  This is part of the underlying point of the book, that the glue of our culture is not political beliefs or philosophical positions or social philosophies, but L.A. LAW and GONE WITH THE WIND and Stevie Wonder and the Ramones and TERMINATOR 2 and Gram Parsons.  Movies, TV, and music.  Not even novels make much of a dint in Rob's cultural universe.  I think the novel's familiarity with and obvious affection for the culture in which we all live and swim is the clue to why the book is so immediate in its appeal.  And the novel has a very real moral message behind this:  pop culture, as wonderful and invigorating as it is, sometimes obscures the way our involvement with it masks our own lack of substance and depth as individuals.<br />The novel is also very much about the need to commit, to not be afraid of taking risks.  It does this in a very compelling and non-didactical way.  Is the book a masterpiece?  No.  But it is, I believe, very much a snapshot of the way the world looked and felt in the late 20th century.  The book is highly entertaining, but it possesses archaeological significance:  for someone in the year 2273, wanting to know what life was like and felt like in 1995 (even though the novel is set earlier, that was the year it was published) one could do a lot worse than reading this book.  But in the meantime, this is a very entertaining book that anyone should consider picking up, even if your name isn't Rob.of taking risks.  It does this in a very compelling and non-didactical way.  Is the book a masterpiece?  No.  But it is, I believe, very much a snapshot of the way the world looked and felt in the late 20th century.  The book is highly entertaining, but it possesses archaeological significance:  for someone in the year 2273, wanting to know what life was like and felt like in 1995 (even though the novel is set earlier, that was the year it was published) one could do a lot worse than reading this book.  But in the meantime, this is a very entertaining book that anyone should consider picking up, even if your name isn't Rob.	2003-11-23
891233:US	52048190	RYY07MUM0HLRA	0684801221	737092002	The Old Man and The Sea	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Hemingway's final, beautiful, simple masterpiece	When Hemingway published THE OLD MAN AND THE SEA, it had been sometime since he had last published anything that would stand as being among his best work.  Like too many writers, too many years of hard living and very hard drinking had taken its toll.  He had tasted success, and perhaps he was no longer as hungry as he had once been.  But whatever the circumstances, he managed to resummon his considerable talents for one final masterpiece.<br />The remarkable thing about THE OLD MAN AND THE SEA is that it tells a story so simple that a child can appreciate it (I read it to my daughter when she was seven years old, and she loved it--she wanted to know more about this mysterious and obviously great Joe DiMaggio) yet only an adult can fully appreciate.  It also represents graphically Hemingway's own philosophy of life, a philosophy that even his own suicide couldn't completely negate.  Hemingway was fascinated with Norse mythology, and the imagery of the gods and heroes of Valhalla struggling against an enemy against whom they were destined to fail fascinated him.  Like them, he felt that the struggle was everything.  The Old Man of the story similarly struggles to win with victory improbable.  But in the end, his failure to bring his magnificent blue marlin to market pales beside the courage and fortitude he displays in his struggle.<br />Everything about this simple tale is &quot;just right.&quot;  It is the right length for the story, has just the correct number of characters to keep it from feeling too sparse or too cluttered, just the precise, deft language needed to tell the tale.  It partakes almost more of the folktale than the modern short novel.  And in his depiction of The Old Man, Hemingway has created one of his greatest characters, simultaneously noble, simple, wise, and courageous.	2003-11-23
891830:US	52048190	R2CAUKK6YUZC2P	0743423380	788537654	Buffy the Vampire Slayer: The Script Book, Season Two, Volume 2	Books	5	0	1	N	Y	Possibly even better than the scripts that preceded these	Although BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER had been a first rate show from its inception, it was during the shows based upon the scripts that it started moving towards something approaching genuine greatness.  Before these shows, it had been a superb series, but after these it became something considerably more.  The most unbelievable thing is that as great as these six episodes (well, five of them anyway) are, the ones following were even greater, so great as to place Buffy among the greatest shows in the history of the genre, and arguably the greatest.  The two episodes following these six would be ?Surprise? and ?Innocence,? and from that moment on Buffy would exist on an artistic level unmatched on television.<br />?Lie to Me? was written by Joss Whedon, and as fine as many previous shows had been, it is one of the first truly great moments in the series.  Billy Fordham, played by Jason Behr (who would shortly after this achieve television stardom playing an alien in ROSEWELL), an ex-boyfriend of Buffy?s from L.A., shows up unexpectedly in Sunnydale.  Eventually we learn that he is, in fact, dying, and has cut a deal with Spike and his crew to turn the Slayer over to them in exchange for being made a vampire.  The episode has many funny moments (such as when Angel, Xander, and Willow go to a faux vampire club, and Angel remarks that none of them know anything about vampires, including how they dress, when a wannabe walks by dressed exactly like Angel), but even more poignant moments, like when Ford explains to Buffy his reasons for betraying her.<br />?The Dark Age? was written by Dean Batali and Rob DesHotel, who co-wrote a number a number of episodes of Buffy during the first two seasons.  This is the best script they produced.  Ethan Rayne, to whom we were introduced in ?Halloween,? makes his second appearance in the series.  By far the most interesting aspect of the show is the way that we manage to learn more about Giles background, all the way to learning that his former mates had called him ?Ripper.?  I enjoyed the few episodes that featured Ethan Rayne, and was always perplexed that he appeared in only four shows??Halloween? and this episode in Season Two, ?Band Candy? in Season Three, and ?A New Man? in Season Four.  There was talk on a couple of occasions of Anthony Stewart Head doing a show set in England based on ?Ripper,? and if he had, I?m sure Robin Sachs would have been his ?Lex Luthor.?<br />?What?s My Line?? is a phenomenal two parter, and is notable not merely for introducing Kendra, the second slayer, but for the writing debut of the great Marti Noxon, who would become one of the greatest writers in the run of the show as well as co-executive producer, eventually running things when Joss Whedon ceased the day-to-day overseeing of the show.  She co-wrote the first half with Howard Gordon, and then wrote the second by herself.  One of the major themes of Buffy during the first two seasons was her hesitancy to embrace her calling as slayer.  Although she wouldn?t fully accept the role until the first show of the third season (?Anne?), these two episodes stress her reluctance to be the Slayer more than any other shows prior to them (and even after ?Anne,? although she has accepted who she is, she struggles against her fate).  These are exceptionally well-written shows, and one can engage in endless discussion the Kendra/Buffy relationship.  Kendra, unlike Buffy, has completely accepted her fate, and while Buffy can never be like Kendra, she does learn from her to accept her calling.<br />?Ted? (written by David Greenwalt and Joss Whedon) is not as strong on paper as it ended up being onscreen.  Although it is a first rate script, John Ritter absolutely nailed the part of the psychotic robot Ted, and turned in one of the most memorable guest appearances in the entire history of the show.  This is the episode that contains Giles famous quote about subtext rapidly becoming text.  No other show in the history of TV hasever contained lines as clever as that one.<br />?Bad Eggs? was Marti Noxon?s third contribution to the show, and unfortunately perhaps the weakest script she ever did.  One of the most amazing thing about the Second Season is that while the strong episodes established it as one of the great shows in the history of television, it nonetheless had a surprising number of pretty rotten episodes.  Also, some of the strongest shows are preceded by the weakest.  Just as ?Becoming? would later be preceded by ?Go Fish,? so ?Surprise? is preceded by ?Bad Eggs.?  This might be an accident, but I doubt it.  I suspect they realized it was a weak script, and wrapped the season-long story arcs around it.  After this season, each season had considerably fewer weak episodes.<br />These six scripts show Buffy, which was already a very good show, in the process of becoming a great one.  The scripts that immediately follow the ones in this collection are arguably as strong a group of scripts as any show in the history of television.has ever contained lines as clever as that one.<br />?Bad Eggs? was Marti Noxon?s third contribution to the show, and unfortunately perhaps the weakest script she ever did.  One of the most amazing thing about the Second Season is that while the strong episodes established it as one of the great shows in the history of television, it nonetheless had a surprising number of pretty rotten episodes.  Also, some of the strongest shows are preceded by the weakest.  Just as ?Becoming? would later be preceded by ?Go Fish,? so ?Surprise? is preceded by ?Bad Eggs.?  This might be an accident, but I doubt it.  I suspect they realized it was a weak script, and wrapped the season-long story arcs around it.  After this season, each season had considerably fewer weak episodes.<br />These six scripts show Buffy, which was already a very good show, in the process of becoming a great one.  The scripts that immediately follow the ones in this collection are arguably as strong a group of scripts as any show in the history of television.	2003-11-22
892563:US	52048190	R1VQPELTKA3OBV	0743410149	954946495	Buffy the Vampire Slayer: The Script Book, Season Two, Volume 1	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A mixed group of scripts kicks off a phenomenal season	As fine as Season One of BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER had been, it was nonetheless at the start of Season Two merely a very good show.  During the second season, however, Joss Whedon and his stable of crack writers would transform the show into something truly great.  Nonetheless, it took some time for Season Two to achieve the greatness that it ended up being.  So, in a sense, the scripts in this volume represent the last shows where Buffy was struggling to realize its enormous potential.  Not that they aren't very good, or even in a couple of instances quite exceptional; they simply aren't as stellar as what immediately followed.<br />&quot;Lie to Me&quot; is, like many season openers, the product of Joss Whedon.  As fine as other writers on the show are, I don't think anyone would question that Whedon always remained the King of the Hill.  This script provides a marvelous transition from &quot;Prophecy Girl,&quot; the Season One finale.  Buffy returns to Sunnydale after spending the summer in L.A., and she is obviously reexperiences the trauma of her encounter with and death by the Master.  She completely supplants Cordelia as the Queen [word that rhymes with &quot;witch&quot;] of Sunnydale high.  Not only is she indifferent to almost everything, she is positively nasty to Cordelia, and engages in an over-the-top sexy dance with Xander that both unmercifully steams him up only to dash him with cold water, and cruelly makes Angel jealous.  As Xander and Willow agree, Buffy has always been different, but she had never been mean before.  But when vampires kidnap Willow, Giles, Jenny, and Cordelia to perform a ritual to resurrect the Master, Buffy not only saves her friends, but as Xander puts it &quot;works out her issues&quot; by killing all the vampires.<br />&quot;Some Assembly Required&quot; is one of the weakest episodes in the entire run of the show.  When fans are polled on the worst episodes ever, it usually garners one of the highest vote totals.  As a rule, Buffy is a highly nonderivative show, but this episode is a fairly lame updating of BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN.  It does contain one of my all time favorite exchanges.  Upon seeing Giles, who is trying to work up the nerve to ask out Jenny Calendar, Xander says:  XANDER:  And speaking of love . . .  WILLOW:  We were talking about the reanimation of dead tissue.  XANDER:  Do I deconstruct your segues?<br />&quot;School Hard,&quot; written by David Greenwalt, is a very good episode, with several memorable moments.  I don't think it is quite up to the level of the better scripts later in the year, but it is still extremely fine.  Two things make it especially memorable.  First, we meet Spike and Druscilla for the first time.  Spike's part is especially well written, but reading the script demonstrates just how much James Marster's brings to the role.  All the performers bring a great deal, but I believe he adds more to his part than any other performer.  The second great thing in the episode is Spike's killing &quot;the Annoying One&quot; near the end of the episode.  The episode is also crucial for reemphasizing the nontraditional nature of our heroine.  Most heroes are loners, bereft of friends and family, but Buffy is great because of her friends and family.  As Spike remarks, &quot;A Slayer with family and friends.  That sure as hell wasn't in the brochure.&quot;<br />&quot;Inca Mummy Girl,&quot; written by Matt Kiene and Joe Reinkemeyer, continues the pattern of the first season and a half of Buffy, of one very strong script followed by a fairly weak one.  This episode isn't as bad as &quot;Some Assembly Required,&quot; but it is one of the weakest of the season.<br />David Greenwalt's &quot;Reptile Boy&quot; is an odd bird:  unpleasant story with a bevy of absolutely great lines.  If you focus on the story, this isn't a very good episode, but if you focus on the lines, it is great.  The opening bit with Buff, Will, and Xander watching TV is a stitch.  The episode contains one of the greatest of all Angel/Buffy exchanges:  ANGEL:  This isn't some Fairy Tale: when I kiss you you don't wake up from a deep sleep and live happily ever after.  BUFFY:  No.  When you kiss me, I want to die.<br />&quot;Halloween&quot; was the only script that Carl Ellsworth wrote for Buffy, and while it isn't an especially great one, it is definitely a lot of fun.  The idea of people becoming who or what they dress up as on Halloween seems a tad familiar, but it is all done in fun fashion.  One of the great things about the show is the continuity from one episode to another.  On several occasions in the future, Xander's having been a soldier briefly plays a crucial role in plotlines.<br />So, overall, not nearly as strong a group of scripts as we would see later in the season.  Season Two is unquestionably great, but it is on the basis of what came after what we find here.  In fact, the greatness would start with the very next script that follows these:  &quot;Lie to Me.&quot;ntains one of the greatest of all Angel/Buffy exchanges:  ANGEL:  This isn't some Fairy Tale: when I kiss you you don't wake up from a deep sleep and live happily ever after.  BUFFY:  No.  When you kiss me, I want to die.  <br />&quot;Halloween&quot; was the only script that Carl Ellsworth wrote for Buffy, and while it isn't an especially great one, it is definitely a lot of fun.  The idea of people becoming who or what they dress up as on Halloween seems a tad familiar, but it is all done in fun fashion.  One of the great things about the show is the continuity from one episode to another.  On several occasions in the future, Xander's having been a soldier briefly plays a crucial role in plotlines.  <br />So, overall, not nearly as strong a group of scripts as we would see later in the season.  Season Two is unquestionably great, but it is on the basis of what came after what we find here.  In fact, the greatness would start with the very next script that follows these:  &quot;Lie to Me.&quot;	2003-11-21
893801:US	52048190	RE9LTWQ9728HO	014016930X	21744022	Angle of Repose (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	5	386	407	N	N	One of the great novels about the real West	One of Wallace Stegner's greatest peeves as a Western writer was the myth of the West that was promulgated in the bulk of the books about the region.  The vast majority of Western novels and movies tended to perpetuate utter myths about the West, instead of grappling with the West itself.  Perhaps no American writer knew the West as well as Stegner, not excepting his student Edward Abbey.  An inveterate hiker and explorer, he camped or walked nearly every area in the West.  He wrote innumerable books about the West and took time to visit every spot he wrote about.  For instance, in writing of John Wesley Powell's trip down the Colorado, he retraced his route to gain the greatest possible grasp of what he saw.  He traveled the trails that the Mormons and others took in relocating to the West.  He was one of the few people to hike along Glen Canyon before Lake Powell consumed it.  Moreover, he was raised in the West, spending his childhood on what remained on the frontier.<br />Given all this, I find it utterly astonishing that a couple of reviewers should have the impression that he does not know whereof he wrote.  For instance, one reviewer wrote, &quot;Bottom line: the West has a geography, and its denizens a temperament, that demands that we write and read about it in a way that does justice to the hard realities of life in a barren place.&quot;  Why he would imagine that Stegner, who was intimately familiar with the geography, was one of its denizens, and knew first hand the hard realities of the place by spending his childhood in a variety of barren places, utterly baffles me.  I suspect that it is because the book writes about the REAL West and not the West of the Imagination.<br />Lyman Ward, distinguished historian (Stegner himself, though primarily a writer of fiction, was the author of several works of history, though the character was based on former colleague of his who suffered from a physical condition precisely like Ward's) is studying family documents with an eye to writing a book detailing the story of his grandmother and grandfather.  The novel is brilliant on multiple levels.  It is a fascinating study of the travails of an invalid struggling with his own enormous physical sufferings.  It is a vivid and accurate retelling of a story of what life war actually life in the frontier in the late nineteenth century.  But primarily it is a powerful and overwhelming reflection on the nature of human frailty, love, and the healing power of forgiveness.  Although Ward reflects on the marriage of his grandparents, this is actually a surrogate for confronting the tragedies in his own, and whether he will rigidly refuse to forgive his wife for her wrongs against him, or whether he will allow redemption and healing to take place.<br />The novel has aroused considerable controversy among some feminist writers, for an interesting reason.  Stegner himself was a very strong supporter of women's rights (indeed, although he was uncomfortable with the youth movements of the sixties, he remained an old school liberal all his life, with powerful convictions about toleration and acceptance of all people regardless of race, creed, or gender).  Stegner became aware of the unpublished letters of the 19th century writer and painter Mary Hallock Foote.  He gained permission from a family member to incorporate portions of those letters in a work of fiction, and he did so in ANGLE OF REPOSE, Foote providing the explicit model for Susan Burling Ward.  The controversy has rested in whether Stegner used too much of the prose of Mary Hallock Foote in his book.  Some have estimated that as much as 10% of the entire text might stem from Foote.  My own take is that his use of Foote's letters was far more creative than plagiaristic.  For one thing, he didn't so much take the story he tells from Foote's letters as builds a brilliant story around them.  Also, some of the details of the novel of greatest import--such as the question of Susan Ward's possible adultery--were not part of Foote's story at all.  Moreover, while the letters that Stegner uses are quite good, they do not match the other sections of the book where Stegner writes in his own voice.  Stegner is clearly a better prose writer than Foote, and why a better writer would be thought to have need of a lesser one to generate a novel is difficult to explain.  Moreover, Foote in no way contributed to the architecture of the novel as a whole, and she obviously played no role in the contemporary sections of the book.  Finally, to the degree that Ms. Foote is remembered at all today, it is entirely because of Wallace Stegner.  He not only included some of her work in anthologies he did earlier, but elevated part of her story to a central place in this very great novel.  Given all this, I'm not sure how Stegner can be justly accused of any wrongdoing.<br />Regardless of the controversy, this remains not merely one of the greatest novels ever written about the West, but one of the finest American novels of the second half of the twentieth century.  Stegner remains a staggeringly underappreciated as a writer.  He wrote in a beautiful, distinctive, gorgeous prose that not even his extremely illustrious stable of students (Edward Abbey, Wendell Berry, Thomas McGuane, Ken Kesey and Larry McMurtry, Ivan Doig, and many, many others) has been able to match.  Edward Abbey said shortly before Stegner's death following an automobile accident that he was the only living American writer deserving of the Nobel Prize, and I believe he was right.possible adultery--were not part of Foote's story at all.  Moreover, while the letters that Stegner uses are quite good, they do not match the other sections of the book where Stegner writes in his own voice.  Stegner is clearly a better prose writer than Foote, and why a better writer would be thought to have need of a lesser one to generate a novel is difficult to explain.  Moreover, Foote in no way contributed to the architecture of the novel as a whole, and she obviously played no role in the contemporary sections of the book.  Finally, to the degree that Ms. Foote is remembered at all today, it is entirely because of Wallace Stegner.  He not only included some of her work in anthologies he did earlier, but elevated part of her story to a central place in this very great novel.  Given all this, I'm not sure how Stegner can be justly accused of any wrongdoing.<br />Regardless of the controversy, this remains not merely one of the greatest novels ever written about the West, but one of the finest American novels of the second half of the twentieth century.  Stegner remains a staggeringly underappreciated as a writer.  He wrote in a beautiful, distinctive, gorgeous prose that not even his extremely illustrious stable of students (Edward Abbey, Wendell Berry, Thomas McGuane, Ken Kesey and Larry McMurtry, Ivan Doig, and many, many others) has been able to match.  Edward Abbey said shortly before Stegner's death following an automobile accident that he was the only living American writer deserving of the Nobel Prize, and I believe he was right.	2003-11-20
899340:US	52048190	R35JOH8DSORB6Y	0689857616	809770141	Buffy the Vampire Slayer: The Script Book, Season Two, Volume 4	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Contains three of the greatest Buffy's scripts ever written	This collection of shooting scripts contains three of the greatest scripts ever produced for the show, as well as one of the weakest.  The two-part &quot;Becoming&quot; solidified the emergence of BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER as one of if not the best-written shows in the history of television.  Although the season as a whole was remarkable, earlier in the season with &quot;Surprise&quot; and &quot;Innocence,&quot; the show moved beyond being merely one of the finest shows on television to one of the finest ever produced.  The emotional depth and complexity of those two episodes, and later of &quot;Passion,&quot; signaled that this truly was a remarkable series.<br />The question as the second season began winding down was whether the season ending could match the highpoints of the season.<br />&quot;Killed by Death&quot; didn't bode well for the end, being the second weakest show of the season (following &quot;Some Assembly Required&quot;).  It was not a flat out dreadful show, but it failed to match the inventiveness and passion of earlier episodes.  Whenever fans vote for the weakest episodes in the history of the show, &quot;Killed by Death&quot; usually receives a significant number of votes, though it never rivals such shows like &quot;Some Assembly Required&quot; or &quot;Beer Bad&quot; for the top (bottom?) slot.  The episode provides some opportunities for some funny lines, such as Xander's &quot;My whole life just flashed before my eyes.  I've got to get me a life.&quot;<br />If one had any idea that the show might be slipping at all, &quot;I Only Have Eyes for You,&quot; put any fears to rest.  Marti Noxon's final script for her first year with the show, is arguably her best in the superb way she blends a wonderful ghost story about a female teacher who had been murdered by a student with whom she had been having an affair, with Buffy's feelings about her relationship with Angel.  Although the scene between the dead lovers is played out twice earlier in the episode, the force and power when the two ghosts reenact the scene near the end is almost overwhelming in its power, not least because the ghost of the murdering male enters Buffy, and Angel speaks the lines of the school teacher.  When it was filmed, an actress I have always loved but have too rarely seen, Meredith Salinger, plays the schoolteacher.  I'm baffled why she hasn't been in more roles in her career.<br />&quot;Go Fish&quot; is not an episode that I like very much.  It doesn't do much in carrying forward the story arc, though it was probably helpful to have a tiny bit of a break before the emotionally overwhelming end to the season.  The episode provides a few laughs at the expense of Xander, but I just couldn't get into the story of a high school coach who biochemically alters his swimmers to enhance their performance.<br />Joss Whedon saved the final two episodes of the season, &quot;Becoming,&quot; for himself.  I am not sure that anyone not named Joss Whedon has ever written two better scripts for a television series than these, and in non-series perhaps only Rod Serling.  Whedon is like a juggler with eight or nine balls in the air at once while riding about on a unicycle.  The balance between all the elements in these two shows, as Angelus gradually brings the crisis to a head, Kendra returns to Sunnydale and is killed by Druscilla, and Buffy is separated from all her friends and mother is nothing short of astonishing.  Every few seconds in the show brings forth some gem, either a new shock (like Kendra dying or Joyce learning that her daughter is the slayer) or line (as when Joyce asks &quot;Have you ever tried not being the Slayer?&quot;) or comic moment (such as Joyce and Spike sitting silently in the Summers's living room, and her asking whether they had met before) or jolt (such as Angel recovering his soul only to have Buffy kill him a few seconds later) or even introducing a new character (the extraordinary and mysterious Whistler, who tragically did not become an occasional visitor on the show, but who at least managed some utterly memorable lines), all of it culminating in that one heartbreakingly awful moment when Buffy finishes kissing Angel, and whispers to him, &quot;Close your eyes.&quot;  For me this remains the two most emotionally devastating hours in the history of television.<br />At the end of the first season, BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER had established itself as an absolutely first rate, funny, and exceedingly hip show, but one wouldn't after the first twelve episodes have been able to describe it as truly great.  But Season Two changed that.  Buffy became a genuinely great show this season, one of the high-water marks in the history of the medium.  And the foundation for that was the writing.  It isn't an accident that the scripts of this show are being reproduced:  it is a demonstration of what truly great writing grounded the whole show.cally did not become an occasional visitor on the show, but who at least managed some utterly memorable lines), all of it culminating in that one heartbreakingly awful moment when Buffy finishes kissing Angel, and whispers to him, &quot;Close your eyes.&quot;  For me this remains the two most emotionally devastating hours in the history of television. <br />At the end of the first season, BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER had established itself as an absolutely first rate, funny, and exceedingly hip show, but one wouldn't after the first twelve episodes have been able to describe it as truly great.  But Season Two changed that.  Buffy became a genuinely great show this season, one of the high-water marks in the history of the medium.  And the foundation for that was the writing.  It isn't an accident that the scripts of this show are being reproduced:  it is a demonstration of what truly great writing grounded the whole show.	2003-11-16
899947:US	52048190	R376NACXHUUVOF	0805069593	406845946	Franklin Delano Roosevelt: The American Presidents Series: The 32nd President, 1933-1945	Books	5	17	17	N	Y	A fine final work by a preeminent political biographer	Sadly, English politician and biographer Roy Jenkins died just before finishing this book, which was finished by Richard E. Neustadt, who himself recently passed away.  In many ways, it is unfortunate that Jenkins wrote this particular biography of Roosevelt, instead of a different, much fuller one.  There is a considerable need at the present for a substantial, single-volume biography of Roosevelt that covers his entire life.  There are multi-volume biographies, and a wealth of single volume studies on a wide range of his career, but not an obvious choice for a one-volume work.  A biography along the lines of Jenkins's GLADSTONE or CHURCHILL would have been a delight indeed.  Furthermore, the format of this series does not ideally suit Jenkins's virtues as a biographer.  He is at his best when he is free to ramble far a field, summoning up obscure comparisons between various individuals, slowly mulling over various possible motives for an action or belief.  Unfortunately, the brief format of this series places great restraints on Jenkins.<br />Surprisingly, these restrictions hamper Jenkins less than one might expect.  Although I would have preferred a much longer biography from him, what we have here is a highly serviceable biography that reflects Jenkins unique and mildly eccentric point of view.  Jenkins, as in his other books, is far more concerned with conflict of personality than with intellectual or policy disputes.  He is always at his best when describing how two individuals mesh or clash, the alchemy of personality.  As a result, this book is more of a biography of Roosevelt's relationships than his policies and ideas.  This is true also of his books on Gladstone and Churchill, and is both his virtue and vice as a writer.  Jenkins also is hurt somewhat by not having the encyclopedic knowledge of American politics that he possesses of political life in England.  He has a grasp of the most elusive subtleties of apparently every British politician of the past couple of centuries, and to a somewhat unnerving degree.  He sometimes displays a similar knowledge of the American scene, but not universally.<br />Still, this is an impressive short biography of the dominant American president of the 20th century.  Jenkins, in fact, would nominate him one of the two great political figures of the century, along with Churchill.  He does ably show how under Roosevelt the American presidency evolved into what it is today:  the most influential political office in the world.  Roosevelt is the first president of whom that is the case.  The book is also outstanding for its balance.  Jenkins is simultaneously aware of both his enormous virtues and his lamentable shortcomings.  The former embraces his enormous self-confidence (which others found infectious), his charismatic personality, he profound gift for political maneuvering (here construed as a virtue and not a vice, i.e., not &quot;mere&quot; politics), the enormous role he played in shaping not merely the United States as it exists today but also the world as a whole, and the dual achievements of both having helped the country avert collapse during the Depression and leading it capably through WW II.  The shortcomings include his deplorable treatment of Eleanor in their marriage (of which there is much early in the book, far less later), his tendency to avoid conflict and confrontation on a personal (if not military) level, and his unfortunate (and needless, as Jenkins shows) scheme to pack the Supreme Court.  This balance is one of the book's greatest strengths, and perhaps only a non-American could have struck it, since Roosevelt is subject to much partisan bickering today.<br />The book does show slight signs of not having been completely finished.  For instance, when describing Churchill and Roosevelt's first meeting in the Atlantic, he writes of the former arriving on a much larger ship, and describes the poignancy that many of the crewmen would later die when the ship sunk.He does not, however, name the ship.  I know from other sources that it was the HMS Prince of Wales, but the text omits this fact.  Probably Jenkins in looking over the galleys would have spotted this. Neustadt, a formidable presidential historian in his own right, wrote the final fifteen pages, and while they certainly represent no disruption in the flow of ideas, they do contrast with Jenkins own style, which was both brilliant and unique.<br />In short, this is an admirable addition to a fine series of brief presidential biographies, and a fitting culmination of the writing career of one of the finest political biographers of our time.k.  He does not, however, name the ship.  I know from other sources that it was the HMS Prince of Wales, but the text omits this fact.  Probably Jenkins in looking over the galleys would have spotted this. Neustadt, a formidable presidential historian in his own right, wrote the final fifteen pages, and while they certainly represent no disruption in the flow of ideas, they do contrast with Jenkins own style, which was both brilliant and unique.<br />In short, this is an admirable addition to a fine series of brief presidential biographies, and a fitting culmination of the writing career of one of the finest political biographers of our time.	2003-11-15
903009:US	52048190	R3OG1RCS7O2HK3	0198662130	565997273	Oxford Reader's Companion to Dickens (Oxford Reader's Companions)	Books	5	30	30	N	Y	Strongly recommend the hardback rather than the paperback	This is an essential reference book for any serious student or reader of Dickens, though I would strongly recommend that one take the extra effort to obtain a copy in hardcover rather than paper.  The two editions are entirely different productions.  If one had held both editions on one's hand, the differences are blatant, but merely reading about them will not reveal how profoundly they vary from one another.  The paperback has a single virtue:  price.  It is cheaper by a considerable margin.  Looking at the pagination, one might imagine that the paper edition contains everything found in the hardback.  The paper edition runs to 675 pages, while the hardback runs to 654.  The hardback, however, in addition to being a far more attractive volume and containing some sections in a larger, more easily read typeface, contains a host of photographs, illustrations, and maps that greatly enhance the value of the volume.  I would like to point out that while the hardback lists for $55.00, it can persistently be found on Amazon for far less than that.  I obtained my copy remaindered on Amazon for $16.95, which is the same as the list price for the paperback.<br />I can't say enough about the quality of the articles in this volume.  Top Dickens scholars from around the world have been recruited to write on a host of subjects, in particular on subjects that will cast light on the world in which Dickens lived and about which he wrote.  Although his books are certainly not neglected, the emphasis is as much on Dickens and his world as on Dickens and his books.  The goal of the book is clearly an understanding of Dickens in context, with the added belief that knowing his context will immeasurably deepen one's enjoyment and understanding of his works.<br />My lone complaint with the book is the book does not contain a usable index or list of characters.  There is an alphabetical list of all characters in Dickens's books at the end, but such a list only tells you what work a character appears in, not who they are.  If you are dipping back into a novel of Dickens with the intent of enjoying a chapter or two (as opposed to rereading the entire work from beginning to end), one might not remember whom a particular individual is.  It would have been nice to have a one or two line explanation of whom each character is, in addition to what work in which they appeared.  I believe this would have enhanced the value of this as a reference work.<br />The inherent problem of any reference work like this will be the degree to which it is usable.  There is a host of information, but how can it be accessed and recovered?  This volume suffers to some degree, but Paul Schlicke has gone to great lengths to multiply the number of aides to teasing out the book's information.  The articles are organized alphabetically, but there is a wealth of indexes.  There is, for instance, a &quot;Classified Contents List,&quot; that has headings such as &quot;Dickens's Reputation,&quot; and subheadings under that like &quot;Critics and scholars of Dickens&quot; and &quot;Scholarly and critical approaches to Dickens,&quot; with titles of articles under each.  By reading those articles, one finds the information one needs.  There is some overlap with the book's index (which tends to refer to article titles rather than page numbers--perhaps that was in order to accommodate both the hardback and paperback editions, which have different pagination) and the &quot;Classified Contents List,&quot; but these provide two different approaches to obtaining the information one needs.<br />This is not the only book on Dickens that a reader of Dickens would want to own.  One would certainly want to refer to a biography by someone like Peter Ackroyd or Edgar Johnson, or perhaps a critical appreciation like that of G. K. Chesterton.  But I would definitely place it on the short list of books that one would like to own.er appears in, not who they are.  If you are dipping back into a novel of Dickens with the intent of enjoying a chapter or two (as opposed to rereading the entire work from beginning to end), one might not remember whom a particular individual is.  It would have been nice to have a one or two line explanation of whom each character is, in addition to what work in which they appeared.  I believe this would have enhanced the value of this as a reference work. <br />The inherent problem of any reference work like this will be the degree to which it is usable.  There is a host of information, but how can it be accessed and recovered?  This volume suffers to some degree, but Paul Schlicke has gone to great lengths to multiply the number of aides to teasing out the book's information.  The articles are organized alphabetically, but there is a wealth of indexes.  There is, for instance, a &quot;Classified Contents List,&quot; that has headings such as &quot;Dickens's Reputation,&quot; and subheadings under that like &quot;Critics and scholars of Dickens&quot; and &quot;Scholarly and critical approaches to Dickens,&quot; with titles of articles under each.  By reading those articles, one finds the information one needs.  There is some overlap with the book's index (which tends to refer to article titles rather than page numbers--perhaps that was in order to accommodate both the hardback and paperback editions, which have different pagination) and the &quot;Classified Contents List,&quot; but these provide two different approaches to obtaining the information one needs.<br />This is not the only book on Dickens that a reader of Dickens would want to own.  One would certainly want to refer to a biography by someone like Peter Ackroyd or Edgar Johnson, or perhaps a critical appreciation like that of G. K. Chesterton.  But I would definitely place it on the short list of books that one would like to own.	2003-11-13
905932:US	52048190	RQUMZ66F2S8OU	158322601X	828517158	The Oh Really? Factor: Unspinning Fox News Channel's Bill O'Reilly	Books	4	128	149	N	N	A valuable survey of Bill O'Reilly's &quot;journalistic&quot; tactics	I recently heard Bill O'Reilly on Terry Gross's FRESH AIR on NPR, and his behavior convinced me that he is either mentally ill or calculatingly manipulative.  I tend to the latter.  O'Reilly suddenly pretended to be outraged at what he alleged was unfair, biased questioning, but it was interesting that he allowed the interview to go on for 50 minutes, knowing that he was scheduled for a 55 minute time slot.  It was obvious that he planned from the outset to blow up and get outraged, in order to have fodder for his own show.  That was my impression at the time of the show, but my conviction has been consolidated by this book.<br />Bill O'Reilly depresses me, partly because who he is-a loutish, aggressive, rude, combative, uninformed bully-but partly about what he says about contemporary American politics.  Several former high level Republican leaders-a former speaker of the house and a former senate majority leader(Bob Michel and Bob Dole)-have stated and lamented  that a new aggressive, take-no-prisoners style began to emerge with the 1984 Congressional class, led by raucous, unpleasant individuals typified by Newt Gingrich.  With Lee Atwater's leading the GOP, the Republicans took on a new hyper-aggressive, win-at-all-costs approach to politics.  And with the emergence of pundits like Rush Limbaugh and billionaires like Richard Mellon Scaife funding hordes of ultra Right Wing organizations and projects, any semblance of gentility disappeared, with Right Wingers accusing Democrats of every conceivable crime, knowingly manufacturing untruths (such as multiple accusations against Dukakis in 1988), and then-during the Clinton years-unleashing an unrelenting deluge of absurd charges and innuendos.  Bill O'Reilly is another piece of this Right wing strategy to slant and mold political thinking in America.  O'Reilly's contribution is unique in that he pretends to being unbiased and independent, and by taking the outrageous step of calling his show the \\"No Spin Zone,\\" whereas it is \\"All Spin, All the Time.\\"<br />I am tremendously upset that a book like this is needed.  It hasn't been a good year for O'Reilly.  First, he made a fool of himself at a table discussion featuring Molly Ivins (who managed to stay above the fray) and Al Franken (who I normally like, but who did, I'm afraid, did bait O'Reilly some, with tremendous success, and O'Reilly, who was unable to control the situation like he does on his show when he shouts people down, was made to look rather absurd).  Then he attempted to engineer a lawsuit to prevent the publication of Franken's LIES AND THE LYING LIARS WHO TELL THEM, only to lose when the judge laughed the lawsuit out of court, all of which caused Franken's book to skyrocket to the top of the NY Times Bestseller List.  He then made a fool of himself on the Terry Gross interview (though I'm sure his followers will not take the time to hear the entire interview, and will buy his own \\"spin\\" on what happened, which is a travesty of what actually occurred-anyone doubting me should go to [...] look up the Fresh Air link, and listen to the whole interview).  Finally, Peter Hart brings out this book, which competently documents O'Reilly's tactics, ploys, and struggles with the truth.<br />I don't enjoy books like this, though they are needed.  The book does a more complete job than Franken or Joe Conason in his book BIG LIES of documenting O'Reilly's claims.  I was already aware of the nature of his strategy, of attempting to portray himself as an independent, whereas he is, in fact, solidly to the Right (though not as far as Rush Limbaugh).  Hart quotes Bishop John Spong (a writer I normally dislike enormously), who tells O'Reilly quite accurately on his show, \\"You're Rush Limbaugh with perfume.\\"  It is helpful to have an extensive list of O'Reilly's factual errors.  It become pretty obvious that O'Reilly in general just doesn't have a very good grasp of the facts, but tends instead, despite his claims to being a journalist, has the political grasp of a guy arguing politics in a barbershop.  In fact, I became impressed with the overall resemblance of his style of \\"debating\\" with that of Ronald Reagan.  Reagan's strategy was, when trying to prove a point, to spout statistics or \\"facts\\" that tended to bolster his position, statistics or facts that no one would be likely to be able to challenge on the spot, but which turned out to be untrue upon a reexamination.  Basically, O'Reilly \\"spouts\\" pseudo facts to prove his point, but does not later correct himself on any of his errors.  One thing that disturbs me about the Right these days is how comfortable many of its supporters are with factual inaccuracy.  How can O'Reilly maintain such a large audience when he has such a weak grasp of the truth?<br />At any rate, this book is valuable for calling O'Reilly to the carpet for his lamentable weaknesses as a journalist.  But to me, these faults pale in comparison to his unpleasantness as a debater, his aggressiveness towards those he considers his enemies, and his rudeness.list, has the political grasp of a guy arguing politics in a barbershop.  In fact, I became impressed with the overall resemblance of his style of \\"debating\\" with that of Ronald Reagan.  Reagan's strategy was, when trying to prove a point, to spout statistics or \\"facts\\" that tended to bolster his position, statistics or facts that no one would be likely to be able to challenge on the spot, but which turned out to be untrue upon a reexamination.  Basically, O'Reilly \\"spouts\\" pseudo facts to prove his point, but does not later correct himself on any of his errors.  One thing that disturbs me about the Right these days is how comfortable many of its supporters are with factual inaccuracy.  How can O'Reilly maintain such a large audience when he has such a weak grasp of the truth?  <br />At any rate, this book is valuable for calling O'Reilly to the carpet for his lamentable weaknesses as a journalist.  But to me, these faults pale in comparison to his unpleasantness as a debater, his aggressiveness towards those he considers his enemies, and his rudeness.	2003-11-11
906472:US	52048190	R2ATGXD1SMG1BM	0691020361	979552024	Philosophical Fragments/Johannes Climacus : Kierkegaard's Writings, Vol 7	Books	5	53	53	N	N	One of Kierkegaard's most essential works	If one were to read only two or three of Kierkegaard's works, this is unquestionably one of the ones to read.  In this work and in its successor, Kierkegaard, employing the pseudonym of Johannes Climacus, seeks to explain the nature of Christianity in such as way as to bring out its demands on the individual, and to emphasize its incompatibility with the theology based on the work of Hegel that was becoming progressively more influential in Denmark (and in the rest of the world as well).  In PHILOSOPHICAL FRAGMENTS, Kierkegaard explains through his pseudonym, he wants to present the problem of Christianity &quot;algebraically&quot; (i.e., logically), while in the ironically titled CONCLUDING UNSCIENTIFIC POSTSCRIPT TO THE PHILOSOPHICAL FRAGMENTS (ironic because the earlier book is quite short, while the POSTSCRIPT is four times longer) intends to &quot;clothe the problem in historical dress.&quot;  What Kierkegaard purports to do in this brief book is present the logic of Christianity.<br />The title is badly translated in all English editions, being a Biblical reference, to the story of the rich man Dives and Lazarus.  Just as the poor man Lazarus had to be content with the crumbs from the rich man's table, so Johannes Climacus, who passionately denies that he has any contributions whatsoever to make to the grand Hegelian System, claims to be content with mere philosophical crumbs.  For some reason, no publisher or translator has been willing to employ the more accurate if less palatable PHILOSOPHICAL CRUMBS.<br />Johannes Climacus presents the heart of the conflict between Hegel and Christianity in the first chapter.  In Hegelian thought, Jesus in essence is viewed as the non-unique Son of God, and sees him as important for his teachings and the example for others for a transition to all people potentially becoming children of God.  The emphasis is on the teachings, and the &quot;truth&quot; of Jesus can be construed as that which he taught.  Kierkegaard thinks this is profoundly mistaken, and tries to get at the problem by a thought project that opens the book.  Kierkegaard contrasts two kinds of teacher.  One is the kind of teacher found in Socrates, where he is able to assist others in learning things because they already had the capacity to learn them.  In the case of the Socratic teacher, the individual instructor is not essential to learning the truth.  But Kierkegaard asks us to consider a second kind of teacher, one who not merely teaches us the truth, but provides the conditions for making such learning possible.  This second kind of teacher is essential to someone learning the Truth, and it is this kind of teacher that Kierkegaard sees as representing Christ.  The problem, as Kierkegaard understands it, is that we are separated from God by sin, and therefore we are in a position of needing to be restored to a relationship with God before coming to know God.  Jesus is therefore not an accidental teacher of truths of a divine nature, but himself the essential foundation for anyone wanting to come to know God.  In other words, for Kierkegaard, Christianity is an event and not a set of teachings: the incarnation of God in Christ as opposed to the things he wanted to teach us.<br />The remainder of the book explicates this essential distinction between the Christ of Christianity and the Jesus of Hegel.  In particular, he deals with the question of the &quot;disciple at second hand&quot; versus the &quot;contemporary disciple.&quot;  This is essential to consider because while Hegel is thought to take history seriously, his Jesus becomes nonhistorical, while Kierkegaard is intent on emphasizing his historicity.<br />This is essential Kierkegaard, and along with the CONCLUDING UNSCIENTIFIC POSTSCRIPT and THE SICKNESS UNTO DEATH, my own favorites among his writings.  One cannot understand Kierkegaard's thought without reading this book, and along with its sequel represents the heart of what he was trying to achieve in whathe called his &quot;Authorship.&quot;he called his &quot;Authorship.&quot;	2003-11-10
919817:US	52048190	R17IF8MZECLAIC	0805069070	100459469	Dwight D. Eisenhower	Books	5	6	9	N	Y	A good, brief biography of Eisenhower the president	One reviewer complained that this was not a complete biography, and that is certainly correct.  It is a biography of Eisenhower as president, in a series devoted to covering the American presidents.  That is the focus of the series, and most of the books in this series ought to share that focus.  Apart from a biography on William Henry Harrison and Garfield, the emphasis on all these books should be on the presidential career of each individual.<br />I will confess that I am an admirer of General Eisenhower, but not of President Eisenhower.  He certainly did count many achievements to his credit during his two terms of office, but his administrations were marred by some utterly dreadful events, and not a few failures to take strong moral stands by Eisenhower himself.  His administration also established several unfortunate precedents, such as overthrowing foreign governments.  Wicker focuses more on the failures than the achievements, but the most he can be accused of here is a slight--and I think it is very slight indeed--lack of balance.  In the more recent presidents, we tend sometimes to see what we want to see, and many simply do not want to see the failures of his years in office.<br />The general assessment of Eisenhower as president is that he had some real achievements in foreign policy but fared far worse in domestic policy.  On the former, he is credited with keeping the United States out of war (and getting us out of Korea) during the increasing tension of the Cold War.  He also, in what I believe was his greatest moment as president on the foreign front, intervened strongly when France and Britain attempted to seize control of the Suez Canal in conjunction with an Israeli invasion of the Sinai.  As Wicker correctly points out, however, this has to be balanced with the tragedy of the Gary Powers incident, which sabotaged a probable arms treaty with the Soviet Union.  Worse, Eisenhower supported some morally reprehensible covert operations in Iraq (where we deposed a popular leader and replaced him with the Shah), Guatemala (where we deposed a democratically elected government), and in Cuba (where Eisenhower's folks undertook the planning for what later became the Bay of Pigs--Kennedy's greatest failure being not to reject the plan entirely).  Eisenhower also is responsible for our initial involvement in Vietnam, which would deepen tragically in the Kennedy and Johnson years.<br />Wicker does a fine job of covering the domestic issues, although I think he draws back from a rather obvious conclusion (though many other writers do not):  Eisenhower, although himself a moral, good individual, was at best morally timid and at worst a moral coward.  In the terms used my countless ministers in my own Southern Baptist church, Eisenhower engaged in sins of omission.  He lamented the Brown v. Board of Education, and failed to support it or implement it, although he did intervene in my hometown of Little Rock, Arkansas when our governor Orville Faubus refused to allow the integration of Central High School.  But overall, Eisenhower had a dreadful record on Civil Rights, and we know from numerous personal comments--many of which Wicker records--that he was personally not very sensitive on racial matters (and that is putting it somewhat mildly).  Also, despite personally deploring Senator Joe McCarthy and his tactics, Eisenhower did not intervene for several years of his presidency and did not condemn McCarthy publicly.  Especially tragic was his failure to defend his patron George Marshall, one of America's great public servants (both in running WW II from Washington and later in his tremendous service in the State Department) from explicit charges of treason by McCarthy.  On the other hand, Eisenhower did oversee the creation of NASA (though he wouldn't promote it the way that Kennedy did upon becoming president, for whom going to the moon was a mania).  Wicker does point out briefly his great achievement in overseeing the building of the Interstate Highway system, and spends rather more time on his largely ineffectual attempt to convince the American populace that no missile or nuclear gap existed between the US and the USSR.  Ironically, during the Eisenhower years, it was the Democrats who were pushing for more military spending, with Ike convinced that the US had more than enough to deter and defeat the Soviet Union in any forthcoming war.  Significant mention is made of Eisenhower's farewell address, the first significant farewell since Washington's.  In that he warned of the expanding influence of the Military-Industrial complex, a warning that we have not yet heeded.<br />Wicker also does a good job of discussing the bizarre lack of support that Eisenhower gave Nixon, a lack that undermined Nixon's campaign in an excruciatingly tight election that might have cost him the presidency.  It remains one of Eisenhower's most perplexing failures.  Although I myself would have preferred Kennedy to Nixon, there is good reason to believe that Eisenhower negatively affected the outcome of the election, from a Republican point of view.<br />This is a good, brief book on the presidency of Dwight D. Eisenhower.  Wicker, although admiring of Ike as a man, is unsympathetic to him as a president.  But I would argue that he is fair.  If one wants a full-length biography of Eisenhower, one could turn to Stephen Ambrose's two-volume biography, or Carlo D'Este's superb biography of Eisenhower's military career.uilding of the Interstate Highway system, and spends rather more time on his largely ineffectual attempt to convince the American populace that no missile or nuclear gap existed between the US and the USSR.  Ironically, during the Eisenhower years, it was the Democrats who were pushing for more military spending, with Ike convinced that the US had more than enough to deter and defeat the Soviet Union in any forthcoming war.  Significant mention is made of Eisenhower's farewell address, the first significant farewell since Washington's.  In that he warned of the expanding influence of the Military-Industrial complex, a warning that we have not yet heeded.<br />Wicker also does a good job of discussing the bizarre lack of support that Eisenhower gave Nixon, a lack that undermined Nixon's campaign in an excruciatingly tight election that might have cost him the presidency.  It remains one of Eisenhower's most perplexing failures.  Although I myself would have preferred Kennedy to Nixon, there is good reason to believe that Eisenhower negatively affected the outcome of the election, from a Republican point of view.  <br />This is a good, brief book on the presidency of Dwight D. Eisenhower.  Wicker, although admiring of Ike as a man, is unsympathetic to him as a president.  But I would argue that he is fair.  If one wants a full-length biography of Eisenhower, one could turn to Stephen Ambrose's two-volume biography, or Carlo D'Este's superb biography of Eisenhower's military career.	2003-10-30
920621:US	52048190	R1NS3VXUMQPF1F	1585674052	677945870	Marcel Proust	Books	4	23	23	N	Y	Not a bio, but an introduction to Proust's world	This is a very nice little book, but anyone turning to it for a brief biography of Proust will be more than a little disappointed.  In fact, unless one already knows a fair amount about Proust, I think this book will be more than a little baffling.  To be honest, I bought this primarily because with Proust, I am a bit of a completist:  I own a substantial number of the books published about Proust in English.  I was expecting a short biography perhaps along the lines of Edmund White's excellent short bio in the Penguin Brief Lives series.  Instead, this really would function as a nice adjunct to that book.<br />Caws really writes about Proust's world, rather than about Proust.  Much essential biographical material is left out entirely, and many characters in his great novel are mentioned, references that will be unintelligible to anyone who hasn't already read Proust.  Working in this manner, Caws is able to get in a surprising amount of detail in this relatively brief book.<br />Like the other volumes in the Overlook Illustrated Lives series, this is a gorgeous book.  The print is a bit on the tiny side, but the photographs, while small, are superbly reproduced, and for the most part, they do a great job of illustrating the world Proust inhabited.  If I have a complaint with the book, it is that in a book of only 117 pages (two completely blank pages are inexplicably numbered 118 and 119), they devote too much space to individuals only peripherally connected to Proust.  Why, for instance, an entire page for a photograph of Colette, who was utterly inessential in a book about Proust?  I also found some of the paintings to be a bit too peripheral, such as Gustave Moreau's &quot;The Apparition.&quot;  It would be appropriate for a book on Huysmans, but why Proust?  Actually, I do have one additional complaint:  I find the book to be a bit too slender for its $19.95 list price.<br />But there is a great deal of value in the book for any lover of Proust.  There are a number of photographs that I don't have in any other book on Proust.  For instance, while the book collects several of the more famous photographs of Count Robert de Montesquiou, there were a couple I hadn't seen before.  In fact, the book functions very well as a photographic supplement to a biography of Proust.  The content of the text seems to rely very heavily upon William C. Carter's massive English language biography on Proust, but contains a wealth of images not found in that book.  The collection of Paul Nadar photographs, THE WORLD OF PROUST, surpasses this slender volume in its coverage of the personalities of the time, but does not contain images not taken by Nadar himself.<br />For anyone wanting to study Proust's life to any degree, I would strongly recommend reading one of the larger biographies, preferably Tadie or Carter, or the Edmund White short biography, and supplement that with this small volume and the Nadar volume for the illustrations.a number of photographs that I don't have in any other book on Proust.  For instance, while the book collects several of the more famous photographs of Count Robert de Montesquiou, there were a couple I hadn't seen before.  In fact, the book functions very well as a photographic supplement to a biography of Proust.  The content of the text seems to rely very heavily upon William C. Carter's massive English language biography on Proust, but contains a wealth of images not found in that book.  The collection of Paul Nadar photographs, THE WORLD OF PROUST, surpasses this slender volume in its coverage of the personalities of the time, but does not contain images not taken by Nadar himself.  <br />For anyone wanting to study Proust's life to any degree, I would strongly recommend reading one of the larger biographies, preferably Tadie or Carter, or the Edmund White short biography, and supplement that with this small volume and the Nadar volume for the illustrations.	2003-10-30
926347:US	52048190	R304F41QWP3MC6	068985918X	76930753	Buffy The Vampire Slayer: "Once More, With Feeling": The Script Book	Books	5	10	13	N	N	The shooting script and sheet music for &quot;Buffy: The Musical&quot;	First, a comment on a reviewer below who noted that the script in this book differed markedly from the episode as it appeared:  this is a copy of the shooting script, i.e., the script they actually made the show from.  Shooting scripts almost never coincide completely with an episode as it actually appears.  Some small bits have to be cut out to make the episode fit the time slot, some slight additions are made, on-the-spot rewritings take place, and so forth.  If one gets any of the Buffy script collections, it will be obvious that none of them match up with the finished product.<br />&quot;Once More, With Feeling&quot; is, of course, one of the most famous episodes in the history of BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER, ranking with &quot;Hush&quot; from Season Four and &quot;The Body&quot; from Season Five as one of the finest episodes in the series.  The pretext for the episode is simple:  Xander accidentally summons a demon named Sweet (brilliantly portrayed by veteran hoofer Hinton Battle, who long ago I saw as The Scarecrow in THE WIZ on Broadway) down to Sunnydale, a demon who causes all the residents of the town to express their innermost feelings through song and dance.  The danger, apart from the fireworks caused by brute honesty, is that their dancing will get complete control of them and cause them literally to burn.  Thus, the plot has strong elements taken from Hans Christian Andersen's &quot;The Red Shoes.&quot;  By putting on an amulet that is tied to the original spell, Dawn is mistakenly assumed by Sweet to be the one who cast the spell, and he attempts to claim her for his hellish queen (leading to the funny line that Dawn sings &quot;I'm only fifteen/So this queen thing's illegal&quot;).  Buffy finally confronts Sweet, and everything works out, except for the fact that everyone has revealed far more about themselves than they had intended, so much so that the final number, &quot;Where Do We Go From Here,&quot; isn't merely rhetorical.<br />There is a wealth of spectacular things about this episode.  Though there are few trained singers in the cast, all who are relied upon to sing much (ironically, the finest actor in the cast, Alyson Hannigan, seems to possess the weakest voice) do so quite well.  Sarah Michelle Gellar does a surprisingly decent job in her songs, James Marsters slashes through his lyrical attack on Buffy for taking his love so lightly, and Nicholas Brendon and Emma Caulfield manage a great take off on an old style musical duet (one could imagine Judy Garland and Gene Kelly doing the same number).  But the top awards for the episode, apart from the splendid Hinton Battle, go to Anthony Stewart Head for his excellent vocal work (he has actually recorded some solo albums, and has sung on work by his brother Murray Head, who originated the role of Judas in JESUS CHRIST, SUPERSTAR and had a big hit in 1984 with his single &quot;One Night in Bangkok&quot;); to Emma Caulfield for her phenomenal hard rock attack on those evil entities known as &quot;bunnies&quot;; and Amber Benson for her superb singing of &quot;Under Your Spell,&quot; which she reprises with Head as a duet.  Some of the cast members do a bit of dancing, but I was quite impressed with Michelle Trachtenberg, who obviously has had prior dance training, and possesses a dancer's long, lithe body.<br />The episode also features arguably the highest production values of any single show.  It was filmed in widescreen, to maximize the amount of action visible at any moment, and the number of boom shots is amazing.  Some shots are exquisite, such as when, from what could almost be a shot from a Disney big production number, Buffy dusts a vampire from one angle, we then get a shot of the back of the soon-to-disintegrate vampire, and then a brilliant close up of Buffy's face as simultaneously the vampire turns to dust and Buffy wails the last note of the song.<br />I give the book five stars, but I am being a tiny bit generous.  I am delighted to have the shooting script of the episode, and the sheet music for the songs is great, but I was a little disappointed at the middle section of the book, which features material on the show itself.  This is a section that had great potential, and I don't think they actualized it.  They could have featured interviews with all the major characters on what it was like to sing on the show, they could have interviewed Hinton Battle on his appearance (easily one of the great guest spots in the history of the show), and have talked at great length about how the show was put together.  Some of this is done in a minor way, but I think they could have put a great deal more work into this section.<br />Still, this is an essential addition to the library of any serious Buffy fan.e the shooting script of the episode, and the sheet music for the songs is great, but I was a little disappointed at the middle section of the book, which features material on the show itself.  This is a section that had great potential, and I don't think they actualized it.  They could have featured interviews with all the major characters on what it was like to sing on the show, they could have interviewed Hinton Battle on his appearance (easily one of the great guest spots in the history of the show), and have talked at great length about how the show was put together.  Some of this is done in a minor way, but I think they could have put a great deal more work into this section.<br />Still, this is an essential addition to the library of any serious Buffy fan.	2003-10-25
926453:US	52048190	RVYTIKEVZ2O3P	0805069534	170491545	William McKinley: The American Presidents Series: The 25th President, 1897-1901	Books	5	38	43	N	Y	A lively, bold apologia for a possibly underrated president	I have tremendously enjoyed the volumes that have appeared so far in Arthur Schlesinger Jr.'s The American Presidents, but this is the first volume to have appeared so far that managed to transcend the limitations inherent in a series such as this.  Most of the other volumes consist of a chronological recounting of the relevant president's life and career, with some assessment of his significance and achievements.  Kevin Phillips, in a comparable number of pages, manages to present a case for a complete revision of the popular understanding of William McKinley, our 25th President.  Although many of McKinley's biographers have argued some of the same things that Phillips does here, he does so in a much more vigorous fashion.<br />The stereotype of McKinley is that he was a somewhat dimwitted puppet under the control of Big Business, a man of little imagination, no culture, and a nonprogressive who was eclipsed by the ascendance of Teddy Roosevelt following his assassination.  Phillips, on the other hand, wants to argue that he was a self-confident reformer who masked his goals under a congenial exterior, possessed a highly cultivated knack for maneuvering others to his own position, was vastly more concerned with protecting laborers and wages than the desires of business, and laid the foundations for progressive reforms that he himself would have begun had his life not ended so suddenly.  Phillips shows that McKinley's obsession with tariffs had little to do with a desire to reward the rich, but with a desire to increase the wages of American workers.<br />Though but lightly stated, much of Phillips's book is intended as a polemic against contemporary misuses of McKinley, such as Karl Rove, George W. Bush's chief aide.  Many conservatives envision turning government back to a time before the unquestionably Progressive Roosevelt, to a mythical William McKinley who is assumed to share many of the values of contemporary supporters of Bush.  Phillips shows over and over, however, that McKinley in fact shared almost no basic political goals or values with contemporary conservatives.  Continually throughout the book, Phillips shows that McKinley had deep ties to labor, and was concerned with the needs of business primarily to the degree that healthy business meant higher wages for workers.  He was quite sympathetic to organized labor, to a degree unusual in his time, and even the right of workers to strike.  On the other hand, he, like all 19th century American presidents, found the accumulation of excessive amounts of wealth to be repugnant and a little obscene, hardly a quality he holds with contemporary conservatives.  Even further destroying the parallels between current conservativism and McKinley, Phillips refers to McKinley's concerns with tax fairness, which did not mean lessening the tax burden on the wealthy and business, but the demand for a progressive tax structure that required those best off paying more than those less well off.  McKinley's progressivism in the book comes out also in his strong support for women being given the right to vote, for blacks to be allow to vote unimpeded, and for senators to be voted by direct vote by the people, and not by selection by state legislatures.<br />Phillips notes that many give McKinley more credit for achievements in foreign policy, but brings the credit he deserves into sharper focus, noting that during the crisis with Spain he essentially took on the jobs of Secretary of State (due to the unexpected rapid aging of John Sherman) and Secretary of War.<br />Lest one imagine that these are all creative rereadings of McKinley's career based on playing lose with the facts, Phillips shows that the essential assessment he makes was borne out by the evaluations of the illustrious individuals who served in his cabinet.  He also displays the causes for the unflattering portrait of McKinley that grew up after the onset of the New Deal.<br />One could easily disagree with much in the book, and nonetheless celebrate it for being a significant and spirited reevaluation of a significant American president.  Nearly all the writers in this series have attempted to validate the claim that their subjects were underrated presidents (except Robert Remini, who though maintaining that John Quincy Adams is one of the great American public servants, concedes that he was a pretty dismal president), but Phillips wants to do more than that.  In Schlesinger terminology, he wants to argue that he is a near great president, but on top of that has been horribly misunderstood in profound and important ways.  Whether one agrees with his reassessment, this book performs a great service by dismantling a persistent but untenable stereotype.  Of all the books in this series (I have read all but Garry Wills book on Madison), this one is by far the most invigorating one that I have read.  The other volumes have deepened my knowledge of several of our presidents, but this one has actually changed my mind.he book, and nonetheless celebrate it for being a significant and spirited reevaluation of a significant American president.  Nearly all the writers in this series have attempted to validate the claim that their subjects were underrated presidents (except Robert Remini, who though maintaining that John Quincy Adams is one of the great American public servants, concedes that he was a pretty dismal president), but Phillips wants to do more than that.  In Schlesinger terminology, he wants to argue that he is a near great president, but on top of that has been horribly misunderstood in profound and important ways.  Whether one agrees with his reassessment, this book performs a great service by dismantling a persistent but untenable stereotype.  Of all the books in this series (I have read all but Garry Wills book on Madison), this one is by far the most invigorating one that I have read.  The other volumes have deepened my knowledge of several of our presidents, but this one has actually changed my mind.	2003-10-25
935712:US	52048190	R3EIVZ5D901L9S	0060933291	45372276	Sandy Koufax: A Lefty's Legacy	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	By far the best sports biography I have ever read	This is a very special book in many ways, not merely in telling the story of one of the most remarkable 20th century American athletes, but in the way author Jane Leavy tells his story.  She deftly blends Sandy Koufax's own story with the story of the way our society and the game of baseball have changed since Sandy Koufax's career ended.  Indeed, the world that Koufax knew when he first started playing professional baseball was already changing dramatically by the time he retired, and in many ways he helped it to change.<br />Many of the changes that Leavy notes were for the worst; many for the better.  On the former, she documents the growth of the cult of celebrity, and the way public attention has made being famous an ordeal in addition to a supposed blessing.  She recounts a simpler time, with less crass materiality, and perhaps more love of the game.  On the other hand, she also shows how far we have come in attitudes towards race and the patriarchal attitude of baseball owners and managers.  She hints at, but doesn't fully cover, the changes in the ways that pitchers are used since Koufax's day, changes that today extend the careers of many players.  Bill James in his most recent historical abstract speculates that if Koufax were pitching today, he would have pitched every fifth day instead of every fourth, would have been held out of a start if his elbow was hurting too badly, and would have been held strictly to a pitch count each game.  While he probably wouldn't have had individual seasons as great as he did, he would have probably pitched an additional eight or nine years, and instead of retiring with 165 wins, would probably have eclipsed 300.  Leavy also connects many aspects of Koufax's career with some of the seminal events of the sixties.<br />I was raised Baptist, not Jewish, but my closest friend is Jewish, and although not at all a baseball fan, instantly said to me upon my telling her I was reading a great biography of Sandy Koufax, &quot;Oh yeah, he is the guy who refused to pitch on Yom Kippur.&quot;  Leavy expends a good deal of energy in detailing the enormous cultural impact that Koufax had by his insistence on not pitching in the World Series on Yom Kippur.  She deals both with the contradictions (he was, after all, not a practicing Jew, and never had a bar mitzvah) and the motivations behind his refusal.<br />What emerges in the midst of all this is a heightened appreciation of Sandy Koufax as a baseball player, but even more admiration for him as a human being.  I was impressed with his lack of desire to be a famous celebrity, his sense of social fairness and lack of racism, his integrity and personal courage, and what seems to be a genuinely good heart.  You get a portrait of someone who is a fundamentally good human being, someone you admire apart from his excellence as a baseball pitcher.  I especially enjoyed learning of things he has done since retiring, of his passion for life.  One traditional view of the good life was that of fulfilling one's potential as a human being, and that certainly seems to fit the case of Koufax.<br />Years ago I more or less gave up on sports biography as a genre.  Probably 99.5% of all sports biographies are puff pieces, pabulum for instant and easy consumption by fans who don't normally read books.  That is absolutely not the case with this superb book.  Perhaps there is a better sports biography, but if there is, I would very much like to know about it.  I can honestly recommend this book not merely baseball fans, but anyone interested in American life in the latter half of the twentieth century.  I hope this book becomes a model for other writers on sports figures.eah, he is the guy who refused to pitch on Yom Kippur.&quot;  Leavy expends a good deal of energy in detailing the enormous cultural impact that Koufax had by his insistence on not pitching in the World Series on Yom Kippur.  She deals both with the contradictions (he was, after all, not a practicing Jew, and never had a bar mitzvah) and the motivations behind his refusal.  <br />What emerges in the midst of all this is a heightened appreciation of Sandy Koufax as a baseball player, but even more admiration for him as a human being.  I was impressed with his lack of desire to be a famous celebrity, his sense of social fairness and lack of racism, his integrity and personal courage, and what seems to be a genuinely good heart.  You get a portrait of someone who is a fundamentally good human being, someone you admire apart from his excellence as a baseball pitcher.  I especially enjoyed learning of things he has done since retiring, of his passion for life.  One traditional view of the good life was that of fulfilling one's potential as a human being, and that certainly seems to fit the case of Koufax.<br />Years ago I more or less gave up on sports biography as a genre.  Probably 99.5% of all sports biographies are puff pieces, pabulum for instant and easy consumption by fans who don't normally read books.  That is absolutely not the case with this superb book.  Perhaps there is a better sports biography, but if there is, I would very much like to know about it.  I can honestly recommend this book not merely baseball fans, but anyone interested in American life in the latter half of the twentieth century.  I hope this book becomes a model for other writers on sports figures.	2003-10-18
938800:US	52048190	R36TQCI56AUWVK	0684163225	369552918	Of Wolves and Men	Books	5	34	36	N	N	One of the finest nature books of the past thirty years	The greatest virtue of this book is that it makes you care. Some of the great wolf books presume already that you have an interest in the subject, like Mech's, as fine and as informative and as authoritative as it is, won't necessarily create a sense of awe like Lopez's. But through a judicious use of scientific and mythological materials, fused together with a marvelous literary sense, Lopez creates an epic retelling of the wolf in North America.<br />Since reading this book for the first time, a host of sections have remained vivid to me. For instance, a schoolroom that is to be visited by a wolf and its handler. The children are asked to make a drawing of a wolf beforehand, and most create a beast with huge and menacing teeth. After the visit, they are told once again to draw a wolf, and this time draw a dog-like animal with enormous paws. No other section of the book emphasized to me how dreadfully we misconceive wolves. Lopez meanders over the course of Western civilization harvesting tales and stories--both scientific and mythic--recounting the myriad ways we have thought about wolves. Few of our imaginings do their fine qualities justice, and most often we demonize them. As a result, the wolf as we know it is largely a creation of our fevered imaginations. Lopez tries to break through the fictions about wolves to focus more on their truer qualities and natures. The heartbreaking pages that end the book bring to mind the great tragedy it was for the North American wolf for Europeans to have discovered America.<br />One might have to cut the book a tiny bit of slack because of the graphics. The pictures are judiciously chosen, and while graphics methods have improved dramatically in the past twenty years due to computer technology, and the book the drawings are superb, the photos good if a tiny bit blurry given their age, and the illustrations highly informative. I especially love the reproduction of the print of a three-year-old Alaskan timber wolf. I used to take the paw of my German Shepherd Birgit and place it over the print, and was astonished at how huge the wolf print was in comparison.<br />This is a truly enjoyable and informative book, one that will enrich and alter the way one looks at nature. Certainly, I now never go to a zoo without a great deal of awe and regret when passing a wolf.o take the paw of my German Shepherd Birgit and place it over the print, and was astonished at how huge the wolf print was in comparison. <br />This is a truly enjoyable and informative book, one that will enrich and alter the way one looks at nature. Certainly, I now never go to a zoo without a great deal of awe and regret when passing a wolf.	2003-10-15
939439:US	52048190	R1SW1GJUTG6TKG	1932100083	530480322	Seven Seasons of Buffy: Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers Discuss Their Favorite Television Show (Smart Pop series)	Books	5	147	149	N	Y	Hands down, the best Buffy anthology that there is	I have read a lot of serious essays on Buffy:  all of the essays on [...] and the entirety of the contents of the collections edited by Kaveney, by South, and by Wilcox and Lavery.  But this new collection is far and away the best of the lot.  I believe there are two reasons for this.  First, the writers of the essays in this volume have the tremendous advantage of being able to look back on all seven seasons of Buffy and speak with some authority on what actually happened.  If you read the other collections, there was always constant speculation about what might happen in the future.  Now we know what happened.  But the second and more important reason this collection is so superb is the fact that it was written almost exclusively by creative writers rather than academics.  Although I am an academic myself, too many of the academic essays written on Buffy seem to me transparent attempts to graft unconnected academic interests onto the writers' favorite TV show.  The writers here, however, are truly trying to tease out the meaning of the show on its own terms, and not trying to force the themes of the show fit the needs of philosophical, cultural, or feminist theory.<br />Another advantage of this collection is that just about every selection in the volume is excellent.  I might want to differ with a couple, like the one that defends Riley as the best boyfriend for Buffy or the one that lavishes extensive praise on Tara (I don't dislike Tara, and loved her singing in &quot;Once More, With Feeling,&quot; but I can't really get excited about her, either; I do, however, really dislike Riley, like a majority of Buffy fans), but even those take up positions that are fun to argue with.  Some of the pieces are flat out outstanding, such as an early one that is cast as a essay question on a test in which a demon is asked to explain which is the most powerful force for good in Sunnydale and why (answer:  Xander, with an interesting defense).  In the other anthologies, there were essays I had to suffer through in order to get to others more to my liking.  There isn't a clunker in the bunch here.<br />If I had a complaint--though I really don't--it would be that too many of the essays are fixated on the romance aspects of Buffy.  I would estimate that well over half of the essays primarily are focused on one or more of the romances in the series.  My own interests have always focused on the ethical aspects (e.g., did Spike's actions in Seasons 5 and 6 give him something like a soul before the shaman gave him one at the end of Season 6?, or on the extraordinary optimism that pervades the series that people can grow and become more than they are, that leopards can indeed change their spots), but clearly anyone who hates romance is not going to enjoy Buffy for very long.  My lone complaint is that there isn't a bit more diversity of subject matter.  There are just a few too many articles focusing on romance than I would have liked.<br />Still and all, this is a great, great book, and although I have frequently noted in other reviews that anthologies by their very nature are inconsistent and uneven, this one breaks that rule.  It starts off great and stays that way all the way through.  I can't imagine anyone with any interest in Buffy at all, not loving this collection.were essays I had to suffer through in order to get to others more to my liking.  There isn't a clunker in the bunch here.<br />If I had a complaint--though I really don't--it would be that too many of the essays are fixated on the romance aspects of Buffy.  I would estimate that well over half of the essays primarily are focused on one or more of the romances in the series.  My own interests have always focused on the ethical aspects (e.g., did Spike's actions in Seasons 5 and 6 give him something like a soul before the shaman gave him one at the end of Season 6?, or on the extraordinary optimism that pervades the series that people can grow and become more than they are, that leopards can indeed change their spots), but clearly anyone who hates romance is not going to enjoy Buffy for very long.  My lone complaint is that there isn't a bit more diversity of subject matter.  There are just a few too many articles focusing on romance than I would have liked.<br />Still and all, this is a great, great book, and although I have frequently noted in other reviews that anthologies by their very nature are inconsistent and uneven, this one breaks that rule.  It starts off great and stays that way all the way through.  I can't imagine anyone with any interest in Buffy at all, not loving this collection.	2003-10-15
939691:US	52048190	R2ZECGK4R348WH	0753506319	191357889	Slayer: An Expanded and Updated Unofficial and Unauthorized Guide to Buffy the Vampire Slayer	Books	5	7	7	N	N	For my money, the best Buffy episode guide there is	There are a number of Buffy episode guides on the market, but Keith Topping's are my favorite by a considerable margin.  Both volumes of THE WATCHER'S GUIDE are very fine, but I find they are more useful for the large number of interviews with cast and crewmembers.  Although Topping ends his volume with some interesting essays and reviews of various Buffy-related publications and websites, the vast bulk of his guides are devoted to the episodes themselves.  Currently this guide to episodes 1-5 is out of print in the United States (though available from Britain, I believe), and only the guide to Episode 6 in print here.  Hopefully, they will bring out a new one-volume edition of seasons 1-7.<br />Each episode is covered in around 4-6 pages, offering a very brief synopsis of the plot, some of the better quotes, some ravings about the highpoints, a fun section about illogical elements, a general comment section at the end, and a host of other fun things.  Oh yeah, those wanting to know about the music in each show can find a list here.  I don't agree with his evaluation of each episode (e.g., he hates \\"Anne,\\" which starts off Season 3, along with many others, but I think it is one of the best episodes ever, with a great deal of super clever writing that many people seem to miss), but he is always fun to argue with, and he is never merely sloppy.  Most of all, Topping is clearly a fan of great TV, and there is the spirit of a fellow-fan informing the book as a whole.  I also like the fact that each episode is introduced with the publication of the original date in the U.S. and in Great Britain, and also gives the titles in their French and German releases.<br />Now, I don't want to be misunderstood here, but this is also one of the great bathroom books of all time.  It rates right up there with Dave Marsh's THE BOOK OF ROCK LISTS,THE NORTON ANTHOLOGY OF POETRY, and THE ESSENTIAL BIFF.  Never underestimate the value of a good bathroom book.	2003-10-15
943509:US	52048190	R2116PHF7J5EEH	0226066487	36289027	The American Philosopher: Conversations with Quine, Davidson, Putnam, Nozick, Danto, Rorty, Cavell, MacIntyre, Kuhn	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Great interviews with top American philosophers	This collection, first published in 1994, contains a series of interviews by Italian philosopher Giovanna Borradori with a number of the more important American philosophers of the last third of the 20th century.  By no means is the roster of top philosophers interviewed.  The most important American philosopher during that period by far, John Rawls, is not included, nor many other prominent thinkers, such as Saul Kripke.  The inclusion of MacIntyre is somewhat troubling, since he is not American-born, making him the lone individual in this collection who was not.  This, of course raised the question of criterion for inclusion, for a number of foreign-born philosophers who enjoyed most of their careers in the United States could easily have been considered, such as Paul Feyerabend.<br />These interviews provide a first rate introduction to many of the top contemporary American philosophers.  In nearly every instance, these are thinkers who enjoyed the peak of their influence some years ago, so it also serves today as a bit of a retrospective.  Sadly, many of the thinkers included here have passed away in the past decade, including Quine, Davidson, Kuhn, and Nozick.  Unfortunately, if one is coming to these interviews from a general cultural standpoint, they underscore the shrinking importance of philosophy in the greater culture.  Although within philosophy these are all major figures, in our greater intellectual culture, virtually all of them remain unknowns.  For instance, as much as I have enjoyed reading Quine, how many otherwise very well read and highly educated people have even heard of his work?  Yet, he is one of the most important Anglo-American philosophers of the last half of the past century.  Donald Davidson is rightfully considered a major philosopher of language and philosophical psychology, yet upon his recent death very few nonphilosophers knew his name.  Danto is somewhat known in the New York City area for his art criticism and is therefore because of that somewhat better known (though probably the least regarded within the philosophical community.  But the only two thinkers here who could really be said to be well known figures in the greater intellectual community are Thomas Kuhn, because of his gigantically influential book THE STRUCTURE OF SCIENTIFIC REVOLUTIONS (the book that single-handedly popularized both the word \\"paradigm\\" and the concept of \\"paradigm shift\\"), and Richard Rorty, who is no longer even regarded as a philosopher by most philosophers but more of a literary or cultural critic.<br />Philosophy simply no longer plays an especially central role in educated circles.  My point can be illustrated by comparison with the 18th century.  In 1760 in either the American colonies or the British Isles, you could hardly be considered an educated individual if you had not read with degree of seriousness John Locke's ESSAY CONCERNING HUMAN UNDERSTANDING.  It was essential reading.  But today, would anyone consider it a blight on one's education if one had not read Saul Kripke's NAMING AND NECESSITY or Davidson's INQUIRIES INTO TRUTH AND INTERPRETATION or Quine's \\"Two Dogma's of Empiricism\\"?<br />As good as these interviews are, and as revealing and as illuminative as they are on the recent state of academic philosophy in America, I continued to be disturbed by the ongoing obliviousness of contemporary philosophers to the current irrelevance of the discipline to contemporary intellectual life.  This is a problem that greatly exercised Wittgenstein, who is idolized by all the thinkers mentioned in this volume.  What is the role of philosophy today?  Can it recover the centrality it once possessed in Western culture?  Has the role of philosophy been taken over by other disciplines?  Can a purely academic philosophy continue to exist in a world in which it is more and more on the periphery?  I would have liked to see these questions discussed in some detail.  So, while this remains a first rate collection,to what degree is its subject matter of especial significance?, to what degree is its subject matter of especial significance?	2003-10-12
944262:US	52048190	R2ZRY1HYC6VEAW	1586482181	485666128	Winning Modern Wars: Iraq, Terrorism, and the American Empire	Books	5	31	35	N	N	An impressive analysis of the invasion of Iraq and terrorism	General Wesley Clark's new book on the invasion of Iraq and the fight against terrorism is an absolutely first rate analysis not merely of those conflicts, but on the historical context of the innovations in foreign policy undertaken by the Bush administration.  It is of especial relevance now not merely because of the ongoing difficulties in Iraq, but because Clark has become a candidate for president.  Since he has recently been accused of having flip-flopped on Iraq, this book should serve as his definitive statement of his views on the subject.  He comes across as deeply insightful, cogent, and profoundly analytical.<br />Roughly the first half of the book is a marvelous recounting and analysis of the invasion of Iraq, with little regard to the reasons why Iraq was invaded or the overall political context.  It is fairly straightforward military history.  As such, it is likely to stand as one of the primary sources for future accounts of the invasion.<br />In writing of the invasion of Iraq, Clark writes like the former general he is.  He never writes of any unit in general terms; he always refers specifically to the units involved.  He writes not of U.S. soldiers and marines, but of the 3rd Infantry division or the 101st Airborne.  They don't merely attack the Iraqi army, but the Republican Guards, the Medina, or the Hammurabi and Nebuchadnezzar Divisions.  He writes of the American units as of old friends, dropping their names as if they are luminaries with whom he is proud to have associated in the past.  His discussions of the tactics, the technologies, and the hardware used in the war are enormously insightful.  I can't imagine many individuals, whether liberal or conservative, Democrat or Republican, who wouldn't enjoy the first half of the book.<br />The second half of the book delves more into foreign and domestic policy in general, and more specifically into the kind of vision the Bush administration has for America and the kind of future he would have us move towards.  Although he has since writing most of the book decided to run for president, the book is in no way the kind of puff piece that many politicians write before embarking on campaigns.  In fact, one can easily imagine him deciding to run for president while mulling over the ideas that form the second half of the book.  Clark is extremely critical of the Bush approach to a variety of issues.  Having overseen an international coalition in waging war in Kosovo as head of NATO forces, Clark is acutely aware of the advantages of international cooperation and coalitions.  He deeply laments the Bush embrasure of unilateralism and the eschewal of coalitions working through international organizations like the UN or NATO.  He is likewise upset that much foreign policy is being waged through the army, which he points out-and here his argument carries all the weight of four stars-is designed purely and simply to fight wars, not to serve as an occupying force, or act as police, or rebuild national infrastructures, or do anything other than fight.  His discussion of the particular pressures the Bush foreign policy unfairly place on the U.S. soldiers is especially illuminating.  He also goes into considerable detail about the real reasons for invading Iraq, recounting conversations he had with members of the Pentagon months before the invasion, with generals explaining in disgust that the White House was trying to find any pretext for invading Iraq.  Clark explains in great detail why the model the Bush administration utilizes in thinking about Iraq and terrorism-namely, that terrorists have state sponsors, whereas Al Queda represents a stateless form of terrorism-is both a relic of the Cold War and irrelevant to contemporary terrorism.  He spends considerable time limning alternatives to both the Bush way of conceptualizing the current situation and more effective responses.  Personally, I would have far more confidence in this man being in charge of the United States war on terrorism than the current administration.<br />In addition to Clark's military and political analysis of Iraq and the war against terrorism, I have been tremendously impressed with his overall knowledge of history.  Some writers make historical references as if they have just run to consult a book for a historical illustration.  Clark's book bristles with historical references that obviously come from having long been a serious student of history.  Moreover, he isn't a student of simply one period of history, but seemingly of all periods.  He has a great grasp not merely of military, European, and American history, but Roman, economic, and world history as well.  This is never in the foreground, but provides a great deal of depth to all of his discussions.<br />This book will appeal to three classes of readers:  first, anyone interested in the history of the invasion of Iraq; second, anyone interested in a critical discussion of current American foreign policy, especially as it pertains to terrorism; third, anyone wanting to investigate more fully the ideas of the man who could very possibly be our nation's next president.States war on terrorism than the current administration.<br />In addition to Clark's military and political analysis of Iraq and the war against terrorism, I have been tremendously impressed with his overall knowledge of history.  Some writers make historical references as if they have just run to consult a book for a historical illustration.  Clark's book bristles with historical references that obviously come from having long been a serious student of history.  Moreover, he isn't a student of simply one period of history, but seemingly of all periods.  He has a great grasp not merely of military, European, and American history, but Roman, economic, and world history as well.  This is never in the foreground, but provides a great deal of depth to all of his discussions.<br />This book will appeal to three classes of readers:  first, anyone interested in the history of the invasion of Iraq; second, anyone interested in a critical discussion of current American foreign policy, especially as it pertains to terrorism; third, anyone wanting to investigate more fully the ideas of the man who could very possibly be our nation's next president.	2003-10-11
951932:US	52048190	R2TGBR7DFSTLNA	1400050669	951260070	The Lies of George W. Bush: Mastering the Politics of Deception	Books	3	263	286	N	N	Despite agreeing with the author, a very disappointing book	I completely agree with David Corn's assessment of George W. Bush's struggle with personal honesty, and would go a step further and insist that is his most probably the most dishonest president in the history of our nation.  When he writes, &quot;So constant is [Bush's] fibbing that a history of his lies offers a close approximation of the history of his presidential tenure, &quot; he makes as profound a statement about the nature of this administration as is possible.  Moreover, I found myself virtually never disagreeing with any statement that he makes in the course of the entire book.  Also, as one of the key figures in covering the current (as I write this) story of two White House senior aides blowing the cover of Joseph Wilson's CIA agent wife, I am grateful to his superb journalist efforts over the years.<br />So why am I not thrilled with the book?  Because it is more or less just a laundry list of lies, and not a great deal more.  It is a one-note song.  My complaint is not with the book that it is, but with the book that it should have been.  After cataloging Bush's lies for over three hundred pages, I think only the most partisan of individuals could deny that Bush has a problem with truth telling.  The man is patently dishonest, and the book performs a valuable service by articulating all the ways that he engages in dishonesty.<br />But at the end of the book, I found myself dissatisfied in many ways.  Why this enormous reliance on disinformation in the Bush White House?  Does it originate from him or from his advisors or from some ongoing movement in the Republican right wing (I believe it is all three)?  What does this reliance on distortion and misleading the public say about American culture?  Why has the media, until recently, been unwilling to call Bush to the carpet on some of his more outrageous errors?  Or why couldn't Corn have discussed the question of whether it is possible to be honest in today's political climate?  This is not nitpicking:  these are the kinds of questions that would arise for any reasonably intelligent person reading the book.<br />I also have some trouble with using &quot;lie&quot; when in fact Bush's struggles with the truth are far more multifarious.  For instance, often what he says, while wrong, may be things he actually believes, for instance when he calls Ariel Sharon a man of peace.  No one who knows anything about Sharon could possibly make that assessment (indeed, his political base in Israel supports him precisely because he is not a man of peace), but when Bush says that, it is a lie, or a belief based either in ignorance or self-deception?  For something to qualify as a lie, one must consciously know that what one is saying is not true.  In other words, I believe a lot of the untrue things that Bush says is based on an inability to assess the truth of a situation.  Not every mistaken statement qualifies as a lie.<br />Mind you, Bush does lie, but many of his false statements are not, as such, lies.  Some are mistakes of fact.  Some result from his ability to convince himself that something is true that isn't.  A gigantic amount of what he says is simply PR or propaganda, such as calling his deregulation of environmental standards a &quot;Clear Skies&quot; program (whereas it is in fact merely a license to pollute).  This is clearly dishonest, and while there is a bit of the lie in all propaganda, it doesn't come up to the level of a lie.  Spinning a situation isn't lying so much as attempting to color the facts in a way that is more sympathetic to one's own agenda.  Dishonest, yet, but a lie, no.  I would have been more comfortable if the title of the book had been THE DISHONESTY OF GEORGE W. BUSH.<br />Nonetheless, the book is very definitely not without value, but of the recent spate of books critical of the Right and the Bush administration, this is not one of the best.  Paul Krugman in THE GREAT UNRAVELING deals with much of the dishonesty inherent in the Bush administration (Krugman was, in fact, the first journalist I know of to explicitly call Bush a liar).  Molly Ivins and Lou Dubose in BUSHWHACKED go into great detail about not merely the dishonesty of the Bush policies but the concrete ways in which they harm real human beings.  On a humorous level, Al Franken tackles Right wing (including Bush) dishonesty in a way that is both accurate and hysterical.  I would recommend all of these before Corn's book.tration (Krugman was, in fact, the first journalist I know of to explicitly call Bush a liar).  Molly Ivins and Lou Dubose in BUSHWHACKED go into great detail about not merely the dishonesty of the Bush policies but the concrete ways in which they harm real human beings.  On a humorous level, Al Franken tackles Right wing (including Bush) dishonesty in a way that is both accurate and hysterical.  I would recommend all of these before Corn's book.	2003-10-05
963353:US	52048190	RD8WWGOUGWYJI	1569714290	573404773	Buffy the Vampire Slayer Vol. 0: The Origin	Books	5	38	40	N	Y	Buffy's beginnings as a slayer told as intended	There are two reasons that this graphic comic retelling of Buffy's beginnings as a Slayer:  1) it is based pretty strictly on Joss Whedon's original screenplay that the Buffy movie was based on, and 2) it is one of a number of superb Buffy graphic tales from Dark Horse Comics.  For those who have exhausted all the Buffy and Angel episodes, and desirous of new sources of Buffyverse adventures, one can't do better than these comics.  Many of them are scripted by Buffy screenwriters such as Jane Espenson.  They aren't cynical and cheap attempts to rip off unsuspecting fans, but excellent stories in their own right.<br />Some people read THE ORIGIN and see a story remarkably similar to the movie, and others see enormous divergence.  I see less difference in story than in tone, though there are a couple of hugely important differences.  The two best known are the death of Merrick and the burning of the school gym, the latter referred to in the TV show and which appeared in Whedon's original script, but which was cut out for the shooting script.<br />The one difference in plot--and it is important one--that is more subtle is the frequent dreams that Buffy has of previous Slayers.  In this story, Merrick has some trouble convincing Buffy that she is the Slayer until he mentions her dreams.  Dreams play a gigantic role in the Buffy television series.  In fact, the first time we ever see Buffy is in a dream she is having.  Very nearly every episode has at least one dream sequence, and sometimes more than one, and the final episode of Season Four is almost all dreams.  The brilliant thing about the dreams in THE ORIGIN is that it both contrasts Buffy with her predecessors and ties her into a long decision.  She may be the Slayer, but she is not the only Slayer there has ever been.  Also, by stressing the brute fact of being a Slayer--that you only become her as the result of another's death, and you will be the Slayer until your own--a sense of doom and foreboding permeates the story.  Interestingly, we are not shown the moment when Buffy becomes the Slayer.  I have always wanted Whedon to address that, explaining who the Slayer immediately before Buffy was.  Also, I'd like to know why Buffy, who obviously was a potential for many years, had not been located before she had actually become the Slayer, and in fact was the Slayer before she was contacted.<br />The greatest difference between THE ORIGIN and the Buffy movie is tone and atmosphere.  BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER, the movie, was a summer teen comedy.  It overstressed the silliness of having a vampire slayer named Buffy, and focused entirely on the comic aspects of the story.  The TV series was the genre-buster extraordinaire, being comedy, drama, horror, action, and soap opera all at once.  The movie, however, is all comedy against a backdrop of horror.  The graphic comic hints at the multilayered product the movie might have been had the studio and producers signed onto Whedon's vision.  Instead of something unique and original, it was just another teen comedy with the quirk that the heroine was a bimbo cheerleader.  Fortunately, Whedon was given the opportunity to correct a series of wrongs, with spectacular results for seven years.he story.  Interestingly, we are not shown the moment when Buffy becomes the Slayer.  I have always wanted Whedon to address that, explaining who the Slayer immediately before Buffy was.  Also, I'd like to know why Buffy, who obviously was a potential for many years, had not been located before she had actually become the Slayer, and in fact was the Slayer before she was contacted.<br />The greatest difference between THE ORIGIN and the Buffy movie is tone and atmosphere.  BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER, the movie, was a summer teen comedy.  It overstressed the silliness of having a vampire slayer named Buffy, and focused entirely on the comic aspects of the story.  The TV series was the genre-buster extraordinaire, being comedy, drama, horror, action, and soap opera all at once.  The movie, however, is all comedy against a backdrop of horror.  The graphic comic hints at the multilayered product the movie might have been had the studio and producers signed onto Whedon's vision.  Instead of something unique and original, it was just another teen comedy with the quirk that the heroine was a bimbo cheerleader.  Fortunately, Whedon was given the opportunity to correct a series of wrongs, with spectacular results for seven years.	2003-09-25
964180:US	52048190	R3ZS2MWDGOQ6S	0394469070	791185350	The Silent Clowns	Books	5	11	13	N	N	An eloquent, magnificent celebration of silent comedy	Walter Kerr was one of the premiere theater critics of his generation, but he managed as well to write beautifully, movingly, and fascinatingly about the Golden Age of screen comedy.  Although he does in the course of his book write about many comedians, much of the focus of the book is on who he considers the four great silent comics or clowns:  Charlie Chaplin, Buster Keaton, Harold Lloyd, and Harry Langdon.<br />Kerr has never quite sold me on his own evaluation of these four great figures of silent comedy.  Clearly he loves Buster Keaton, and I will admit that my own high regard of Keaton comes in large part from Kerr's discussion of his comedy in this work.  Chaplin I have never enjoyed quite as much, despite acknowledging his genius.  His famous pathos strikes me now as a relic from another age, and while I can work myself into a point of view to appreciate it, it doesn't stick with me as a way of viewing things after moving away from the film and back into normal life.  In short, the emotions in Chaplin always strike me as artificial, which wouldn't be a problem except for the enormous emphasis that Chaplin himself places on them.  Despite Kerr's advocacy, I have never seen the charm of Harold Lloyd.  I have now seen quite a number of his films, but despite his enthusiasm and energy, and my own admiration of his performing all those astonishing stunts in spite of having lost much of one of his hands, his films simply do not move me.  Keaton and Chaplin both make me laugh, but Lloyd only makes me smile at best.  Harry Langdon I still have not seen, but it was reading this book that created in me a still-unfulfilled desire to see at least his three great films.  The numerous stills of Langdon create a powerful impression.  I still hope someday to see his films, primarily THE STRONG MAN, TRAMP TRAMP TRAMP, and LONG PANTS.<br />I go into detail about this because this is the kind of excitement and interest Kerr manages to generate in his book.  We tragically live in an age where many cannot abide a black and white film, let alone a silent one.  Yet Kerr can get you genuinely excited about these films.  Buster Keaton is one of my favorite performers, and I have to thank Kerr more than anyone for that being so.  He writes so passionately and intelligently about these performers that he creates an inner need in his reader to experience these films first hand.  As great as the text is, the stills chosen to illustrate the book are extraordinary.<br />THE SILENT CLOWNS belongs in the library of any film junkie, now merely because it is a glorious depiction of a time long past, but because it is a specimen of flat out gorgeous writing.  Critics now tend to be far more scholarly in their writing.  Kerr, although he certainly is not unscholarly, is also a masterful prose stylist.  He doesn't merely write about memorable individuals, he writes about them memorably.live in an age where many cannot abide a black and white film, let alone a silent one.  Yet Kerr can get you genuinely excited about these films.  Buster Keaton is one of my favorite performers, and I have to thank Kerr more than anyone for that being so.  He writes so passionately and intelligently about these performers that he creates an inner need in his reader to experience these films first hand.  As great as the text is, the stills chosen to illustrate the book are extraordinary.<br />THE SILENT CLOWNS belongs in the library of any film junkie, now merely because it is a glorious depiction of a time long past, but because it is a specimen of flat out gorgeous writing.  Critics now tend to be far more scholarly in their writing.  Kerr, although he certainly is not unscholarly, is also a masterful prose stylist.  He doesn't merely write about memorable individuals, he writes about them memorably.	2003-09-24
965609:US	52048190	R39AODW24FFDPZ	0375507523	644345297	Bushwhacked: Life in George W. Bush's America	Books	5	434	482	N	N	A powerful and depressing indictment of Bush's policies	Of the growing spate of liberal books to appear in the past few months, BUSHWHACKED by Molly Ivins and Lou Dubose is my favorite of the bunch.  It also holds the odd distinction of being one of the most thoroughly depressing books I have ever read.  No matter how low one's opinion of George W. Bush, it will be lowered through reading this book.<br />Many of the recent books on Bush and the Right have focused on the habit and strategy of intentionally misrepresenting positions held by those on the right.  They are, in effect, apologias for liberalism and honesty in politics.  This book is instead a direct examination of George W. Bush's policies and plans, and what they see scares them and me.  As they write near the end of the book, \\"The six most fatal words in the language are rapidly becoming `The Bush administration has a plan  . . . \\" (p. 295).<br />Ivins and Dubose don't discuss the Bush policies in abstract, but in terms of how they affect real live human beings.  They argue \\"this country no longer works for the benefit of most of the people in it\\" (p. 293) and they are determined to explain precisely why.  What is most informative about the book is not just the discussion of the more familiar failures of the Bush administration, but overlooked or under considered facets of their policies.  For instance, in Texas they have already undergone school reform of the kind promoted by Bush in the No Child Left Behind act.  In fact, as they demonstrate, it is a perfect recipe for leaving vast numbers of children behind, as high schools out of self-protection refuse to promote underachieving students past ninth grade, in many instances keeping them there until they turn eighteen and are no expected to stay in school.  Or consider the vast number of students in Texas who now graduate by taking the G.E.D as a way of avoiding the exams.  All education in Texas is now focused on preparing those students who have a fighting chance of passing the major exam, and shunting those with no prayer of doing so off to the side.  The result, in other words, of the No Child Left Behind equivalent has been disastrous, and now this is national policy as well.  As they demonstrate, with a minimal financial investment in schools, the federal government has maximum input, and not in a constructive way.  I found this chapter to be one of the scariest in the book.<br />The book is an unrelenting recitation of horrors.  500,000 poor Americans who Bush cut off from the federal program providing some support in paying heating bills in the winter.  Instituting faith based programs as a means of allowing religious institutions that would otherwise fail credentialing requirements to offer their services to individuals whose needs they are poorly equipped to meet.  Consistently sending ideologues instead of public policy experts to every imaginable international meeting.  In one such conference, the September 2002 World Summit on Sustainable Development, the U.S. delegates attempted to strike language that \\"would have included female genital mutilation, forced child marriage, and `honor' killings as human-rights violations\\" (p. 262).  Ivins and Dubose go on to cover the effects of his court policies, the Patriot Acts, his naked espousal of fundamentalist religion, his tax policies, his environmental policy, the EPA, his unilateralist foreign policy, his food policy . . . the list goes on and on and on, a veritable parade of horrors.<br />My assessment of President Bush before reading this book is that he could very well be considered one of the very worst presidents in American history.  Now, thanks to Ivins and Dubose, I think he is not only our worst president ever, but that one could make a powerful case for his being arguably the most destructive American to ever live.  I consider this book to be essential reading, but working through it won't be much fun.se with no prayer of doing so off to the side.  The result, in other words, of the No Child Left Behind equivalent has been disastrous, and now this is national policy as well.  As they demonstrate, with a minimal financial investment in schools, the federal government has maximum input, and not in a constructive way.  I found this chapter to be one of the scariest in the book.<br />The book is an unrelenting recitation of horrors.  500,000 poor Americans who Bush cut off from the federal program providing some support in paying heating bills in the winter.  Instituting faith based programs as a means of allowing religious institutions that would otherwise fail credentialing requirements to offer their services to individuals whose needs they are poorly equipped to meet.  Consistently sending ideologues instead of public policy experts to every imaginable international meeting.  In one such conference, the September 2002 World Summit on Sustainable Development, the U.S. delegates attempted to strike language that \\"would have included female genital mutilation, forced child marriage, and `honor' killings as human-rights violations\\" (p. 262).  Ivins and Dubose go on to cover the effects of his court policies, the Patriot Acts, his naked espousal of fundamentalist religion, his tax policies, his environmental policy, the EPA, his unilateralist foreign policy, his food policy . . . the list goes on and on and on, a veritable parade of horrors.  <br />My assessment of President Bush before reading this book is that he could very well be considered one of the very worst presidents in American history.  Now, thanks to Ivins and Dubose, I think he is not only our worst president ever, but that one could make a powerful case for his being arguably the most destructive American to ever live.  I consider this book to be essential reading, but working through it won't be much fun.	2003-09-23
968926:US	52048190	RUSWTFVKB8IEO	0465041213	670404372	Made in Texas: George W. Bush and the Southern Takeover of American Politics	Books	4	9	12	N	N	A fascinating book, but I'm leery of some distinctions	This is one of the more interesting books that I have read about George W. Bush, and it caused me to think about a number of new ideas and distinctions he makes, but ultimately, as much as I want to agree with him that George W. Bush and the agenda he brings to America is destructive to the nation, I am not at ease with his analysis.  Lind tries in this book to explain the roots of the mindset that makes someone like George W. Bush possible, with his reliance on fundamentalist, millennial Christian thought, his vision of America as imperialist power, and his commitment to the needs of big business.  His argument is primarily a historical one.  Ironically, I found the historical elements of his book less than convincing, though I also found his analytical insights into Bush to be utterly superb.  I would urge interested parties to read the book for the sake of the latter and not the former.<br />Historical causation is a dicey operation.  Essentially, MADE IN TEXAS tries to trace a line of historical trends that leads to the amalgam of George W. Bush.  As he sums it up late in the book, &quot;The Texan conservatism of George W. Bush combines seventeenth-century religion, eighteenth-century economics, and nineteenth-century imperialism.&quot;  Or as he puts it earlier, &quot;Today's Southern right combines the political economy of plantation owners with the fundamentalist religion of hillbillies.&quot;  These two quotes won't do justice to Lind's argument, but I think I can explain briefly why I am uneasy with these distinctions.  The first problem I have is with the mention of &quot;seventeenth-century religion.&quot;  The fact is that most of the core elements of contemporary Christian fundamentalism are of very recent origin.  The intellectual concerns of a 17th century protestant and a 19th or 20th (or 21st) century Christian fundamentalist are strikingly different.  To mention only three points of radical departure, (1) 17th century free church protestants tended to be very progressive politically, while today they are regressive; 2) while 17th century Protestants placed great emphasis on the Bible, they had no conception of the doctrine of Biblical Inerrancy that obsesses most contemporary Christian Fundamentalists; and 3) premillennial thought, that exerts a tremendous influence on contemporary American foreign policy (since many fundamentalists actually desire war in the Middle East in order to bring about the end of the world), was invented in the 19th century and popularized in the 20th, and was unknown to those in the 17th century.<br />A second plank in his historical argument is that Bush's economic views derive from the residue of plantation politics from the Old South.  I can't go into detail on this in the limited space I have, but I found there to be some merit to this, but not too much.  The problem is that the distinctions he makes are drawn too fine, and after many decades and too many other historical factors have entered the equation for Lind's conclusions to be especially probably.  I think there are certain parallels between attitudes of plantation owners and the current GOP, but I think this has more to do with the nature of large business owners in general, and is not unique to the Old South.<br />His third point is that Bush's model for foreign policy is that of the 19th century British Empire.  I find this to be true more metaphorically than historically.  It isn't as if George W. Bush is a student of history.  There are certainly parallels between his sense of privilege and entitlement and that of the British, but I still don't see any genuine historical connections.<br />In short, I find that the heart of Lind's book is tied to some untenable and quirky historical theses.  Nonetheless, I think the book is of enormous usefulness.  Lind rightly distinguishes between what Bush is trying to accomplish in America with what all-previous presidents since Franklin Roosevelt--and really since Teddy Rooseveltand the birth of Progressivism--accomplished.  Essentially, what Bush and many other Republicans like Grover Norquist and his ilk are trying to do is turn back the calendar before Teddy Roosevelt became president.  Teddy popularized the notion that government plays a crucial role in protecting the American people from the excesses of capitalism and has a vital function to play in improving the lives of Americans.  Many on the Right want as little government oversight and protection as possible, and would like to see the elimination of all entitlement programs.  In other words, they want everything that has been achieved in government since Teddy Roosevelt and especially Franklin Roosevelt to disappear.  Lind addresses much of this in his book.  He also writes of the dangers of unilateralism, as opposed to the internationalism that has characterized all presidents since FDR.  The book is filled with insights and reflections on a host of topics.  As a result, even though I cannot buy the central historical argument, I think the book is of great interest and deserves a wide readership.lt and the birth of Progressivism--accomplished.  Essentially, what Bush and many other Republicans like Grover Norquist and his ilk are trying to do is turn back the calendar before Teddy Roosevelt became president.  Teddy popularized the notion that government plays a crucial role in protecting the American people from the excesses of capitalism and has a vital function to play in improving the lives of Americans.  Many on the Right want as little government oversight and protection as possible, and would like to see the elimination of all entitlement programs.  In other words, they want everything that has been achieved in government since Teddy Roosevelt and especially Franklin Roosevelt to disappear.  Lind addresses much of this in his book.  He also writes of the dangers of unilateralism, as opposed to the internationalism that has characterized all presidents since FDR.  The book is filled with insights and reflections on a host of topics.  As a result, even though I cannot buy the central historical argument, I think the book is of great interest and deserves a wide readership.	2003-09-20
977586:US	52048190	R2MTJE9JK0QR5H	0312315600	636970772	Big Lies: The Right-Wing Propaganda Machine and How It Distorts the Truth	Books	5	38	45	N	Y	An important response to Right Wing Distortion	After a long period of hesitancy in fighting back at a long line of Right Wing distortions of everything from the genuine political goals of the Left (if the Left was the way the Right portrays it, I'd cease being a liberal today, but luckily for me they rarely or never get at the heart of any of my core beliefs or values) to the accomplishments of the major figures on the Right.  The number of good books on the left to combat the enormous Right Wing publication machine have until recently been few in number.  This last summer and fall will see the publication of a large number of books that help straighten out the record.<br />Joe Conason, who with the great Gene Lyons (along with Paul Krugman, E. J. Dionne, and Molly Ivins, my favorite syndicated columnist in the US) wrote the superlative THE HUNTING OF THE PRESIDENT, has now penned a book that tries to isolate and dismantle a few of the bigger lies that are perpetually circulated by the Right.  These lies run along largely familiar paths, and have been promulgated from the conviction that if you repeat something often enough, people will believe it.  I think that this is one of the major differences between the Right and the Left in the United States right now:  many on the Right willingly and knowingly repeat assertions about liberals or Democrats that they unquestionably know to be untrue, while the Left never says anything about the Right that they don't believe to be true.  Conason doesn't really discuss this, but anyone who has read widely enough knows approximately when this change in American political debate occurred.  Although Nixon employed many techniques to wrongly discredit his opponents (such as hiring drag queens to campaign flamboyantly as \\"Queers for Muskie,\\" at Muskie rallies in the 1972 primaries), it wasn't perfected until the 1980s.  The new techniques combined the ruthlessness advocated by Newt Gingrich (and detested by such old time Republicans as Bob Dole and Speaker of the House Bob Michel) with the all's-fair-in-love-and-war approach of Lee Atwater, along with other young party hacks such as Roger Ailes (later head of Fox News) and George W. Bush (working on his dad's 1988 campaign for president).  I think Democrats have been slow to respond because the various assertions of the Right have been so absurd that they couldn't conceive that anyone would believe it.<br />Conason does not focus on the weaknesses of the Right wings positions, because in fact they are not really a party of ideas any longer.  Instead, they are a party that specializes in attack politics.  The claims they make are bold, outrageous, and bereft of factual support.  For instance, as Conason points out, the Right-Wing propaganda machine portrays conservatives as fiscally responsible, frugal, and competent on financial matters, while Democrats love to tax and spend, concoct huge budgets, and are hostile to the market.  Conason rightly points out that the largest peace time spending increases in US history have occurred under Reagan and Bush, that both increased spending while dramatically reducing tax revenues, and that the stock market performed better under Clinton than under any recent Republican.  Furthermore, Bush increased spending and lowered taxes during a desperately stagnant economy, compounding the problems and dooming the country to larger and larger deficits.<br />Lie after lie is taken up and refuted.  The hypocrisy of the Right claiming to be more patriotic is exposed, by detailing the partisan nature of their flag flying, criticizing war heroes like triple amputee Max Clelland (who was not a Medal of Honor winner, despite Conason's claim, though it is true that all current Medal of Honor winners in congress are Democrats) as being unpatriotic by draft dodgers, or labeling anyone not supporting Bush in Iraq as traitors while they refused to support Clinton during Kosovo.  He delves into the private lives of politicians because of the constant assertion of the Rightthat liberals are models of vice and conservatives espouse high moral values.  While not denying that many liberals fail, he demonstrates that if anything more conservatives have been involved in scandals of one sort or another, so that one can only conclude that their poop smells like everyone else's.  To right wing complaints that Democrats are anti-military, he details the vast number of high-ranking Republicans who failed to serve at any level of the military.  My favorite moment had to be when he reported Tom DeLay's excuse for not having served in Vietnam:  he claimed there was no space in the army for him because all the minority youths trying to get out of the ghetto took all the spots.<br />Conason also focuses consistently on some of the worst offenders on the Right, such as Ann Coulter, who never allows facts to get in the way of a good slander (her SLANDER must be the most ironically titled book in publishing history).  He also brings up all the familiar Right Wing \\"news\\" sources who seem more concerned with spin (O'Reilly's \\"No Spin Zone\\" surely has to rival Ann Coulter's title in irony) and slant than on thoughtful analysis.<br />With books by writers like Conason, Paul Krugman, Molly Ivins and Lou Dubose, David Corn, Al Franken, Sidney Blumenthal, and Peter Hart, to go with previous efforts by Conason and Lyons, David Brock, Mark Miller, and Eric Alterman, perhaps sanity in political discourse will be partially restored.  The greatest problem with the Right is their entire neglect of evidential reasoning.  Instead, distortion, bald assertion, and slanderous misrepresentation is their stock in trade.  Liberals want to keep the debate focused on facts and arguments, while conservatives persistently shift it to other issues.  Personally, I believe the public will tire of this, just as Republicans like Dole and Michel have.  I think everyone wants political debate on a higher level, and that can only take place when the one side substitutes rational debate for strategic lying.ight that liberals are models of vice and conservatives espouse high moral values.  While not denying that many liberals fail, he demonstrates that if anything more conservatives have been involved in scandals of one sort or another, so that one can only conclude that their poop smells like everyone else's.  To right wing complaints that Democrats are anti-military, he details the vast number of high-ranking Republicans who failed to serve at any level of the military.  My favorite moment had to be when he reported Tom DeLay's excuse for not having served in Vietnam:  he claimed there was no space in the army for him because all the minority youths trying to get out of the ghetto took all the spots.<br />Conason also focuses consistently on some of the worst offenders on the Right, such as Ann Coulter, who never allows facts to get in the way of a good slander (her SLANDER must be the most ironically titled book in publishing history).  He also brings up all the familiar Right Wing \\"news\\" sources who seem more concerned with spin (O'Reilly's \\"No Spin Zone\\" surely has to rival Ann Coulter's title in irony) and slant than on thoughtful analysis.<br />With books by writers like Conason, Paul Krugman, Molly Ivins and Lou Dubose, David Corn, Al Franken, Sidney Blumenthal, and Peter Hart, to go with previous efforts by Conason and Lyons, David Brock, Mark Miller, and Eric Alterman, perhaps sanity in political discourse will be partially restored.  The greatest problem with the Right is their entire neglect of evidential reasoning.  Instead, distortion, bald assertion, and slanderous misrepresentation is their stock in trade.  Liberals want to keep the debate focused on facts and arguments, while conservatives persistently shift it to other issues.  Personally, I believe the public will tire of this, just as Republicans like Dole and Michel have.  I think everyone wants political debate on a higher level, and that can only take place when the one side substitutes rationaldebate for strategic lying.	2003-09-13
977630:US	52048190	RX8OZUIEWWQKS	0742516814	270871597	Fighting the Forces: What's at Stake in Buffy the Vampire Slayer	Books	5	51	54	N	Y	A great collection of academic essays on Buffy	There is no such thing as a perfect anthology, but by any reasonable standards, this one is first rate.  The inherent problem with the anthology is that its contents are comprised by the contributions of a number of individuals.  On the one hand, not every reader will find all the essays in any anthology of equal interest, while on the other, not every essay in a collection is going to be on the par of every other selection.  In FIGHT THE FORCES, this is as true as well.  The volume is edited by Rhonda V. Wilcox and David Lavery, the editors for the online journal SLAYAGE: THE INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF BUFFY STUDIES ([...]<br />As both a lover of Buffy and an academic, I have been somewhat surprised and delighted with the embrasure of Buffy/Angel by academics and intellectuals.  At the moment, there are three academic anthologies on Buffy currently available, and three more that I know of on their way (Christopher Weimer's forthcoming MONSTERS AND METAPHORS:  ESSAYS ON BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER, Lisa Parks's RED NOISE:  TELEVISION STUDIES AND BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER, and Glenn Yeffeth's SEVEN SEASONS OF BUFFY: SCIENCE FICTION AND FANTASY WRITERS DISCUSS THEIR FAVORITE TELEVISION SHOW, which should be out just a few days from the moment I am writing this review).  What is most amazing about all this interest is that none that I have encountered is at all dismissive of television as a medium, as so many who write on TV shows are.  All these writers assume that a truly great television show can warrant as much or more attention that a great movie or the body of work of a great film director.<br />As of this moment, I would rate FIGHTING THE FORCES as one of the two finest academic books available on Buffy, along with Roz Kaveney's READING THE VAMPIRE SLAYER, and above James South's BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER AND PHILOSOPHY.  Most of the essays in this collection are at least interesting, and several are fascinating.  Though at a disadvantage to the South collection by having been written with only knowledge of the fifth season, the essays all have relevance beyond.  My favorite essays tended to be in the first section, entitled &quot;Forces of Society and Culture:  Gender, Generations, Violence, Class, Race, and Religion.&quot;  Many of the essays are exceptional.  Some are less than gripping, and one, a Jungian analysis of the dreams in Buffy, is one of the hardest-to-ingest essays I have ever read (I have decided that I must be completely immune to the purported charms of Jung).<br />For Buffy fans, I would recommend that only those with some academic proclivities give this book a try.  Understanding academic articles doesn't depend on intelligence as much as habit, and if one hasn't worked through a number of academic essays before this, it isn't likely to be much fun or shed any insight on Buffy.  On the other hand, academics who remain disdainful of Buffy probably need to go work through at least the first five seasons of Buffy and the first two of Angel before giving this collection a whirl.ing been written with only knowledge of the fifth season, the essays all have relevance beyond.  My favorite essays tended to be in the first section, entitled &quot;Forces of Society and Culture:  Gender, Generations, Violence, Class, Race, and Religion.&quot;  Many of the essays are exceptional.  Some are less than gripping, and one, a Jungian analysis of the dreams in Buffy, is one of the hardest-to-ingest essays I have ever read (I have decided that I must be completely immune to the purported charms of Jung).<br />For Buffy fans, I would recommend that only those with some academic proclivities give this book a try.  Understanding academic articles doesn't depend on intelligence as much as habit, and if one hasn't worked through a number of academic essays before this, it isn't likely to be much fun or shed any insight on Buffy.  On the other hand, academics who remain disdainful of Buffy probably need to go work through at least the first five seasons of Buffy and the first two of Angel before giving this collection a whirl.	2003-09-13
979019:US	52048190	RT4EEUJ4KILY4	0226013855	362908776	Chicago: City on the Make: 50th Anniversary Edition, Newly Annotated	Books	5	25	26	N	Y	Marvelous prose paean for the city by the lake	Although I have lived in Chicago for many years now, I am not a native Chicagoan, and I have to say that the attitudes and visions of Chicago that one finds in Nelson Algren's are not held by most of the people I have gotten to know well in Chicago.  But, then, most of the people I know are also not native Chicagoans.  The swagger, the love-hate, the cynicism, and the love and civic pride that manage to emerge despite the cynical pessimism are very definitely found in many of those I have come to know who were born and raised in the city.<br />Nelson Algren's Chicago was one that was more strictly American than it is today, less international, more Midwestern, more radical, less conventional.  It is a Chicago that in many ways no longer exists.  This can be felt in the book's narrative voice.  Algren writes in a prose that sounds like Carl Sandburg drenched in Baudelaire, and the various sections of the book sound more than anything like the kind of stuff that Baudelaire would have written had he strolled the streets of Chicago rather than Paris.  The prose is always unique, frequently beautiful, oftentimes stunning.  There are definitely times that it will be all but impenetrable to someone not well schooled in Chicago's geography and its history.  If one really wanted to get all the references and historical citations, one should consider reading Donald Miller's CITY OF THE CENTURY, which will clue one in on most of the 19th century and more obscure references.<br />But in a sense, being able to identify all the names and places isn't all that crucial.  The heart of the book is intelligible regardless.  An essential literary work about one of the world's great cities, by one of its great writers.	2003-09-12
985012:US	52048190	R25E7TX03V7LG7	0393058506	904288157	The Great Unraveling: Losing Our Way in the New Century	Books	5	52	60	N	N	Superb collection by one of the best columnists in America	For the past several years, one of the first things I do upon logging onto the Internet each day has been to check to see if Paul Krugman's latest column has appeared in the New York Times.  Krugman has emerged as one of the very best economic/political commentators in the US.  He has done this by making economics primary in considering the political economy, as opposed to those who have primarily focused on the political utility of a theory.  For instance, as early as the halcyon days of Reagan's adaptation of Laffer's supply-side economics, that updating of the old pre-depression era version of trickle down economics was seen to be devoid of actual content, even by people like Reagan's budget director David Stockman and conservative columnist George Will.  Many conservatives who recognized the conceptual inadequacies of supply side economics nonetheless clung to it because of its political value, i.e., it helped political candidates in elections, although it did nothing to help the economy and pretty obviously did a great deal of harm.<br />Krugman consistently argues that political policies only make sense if they first make economic sense.  Krugman has become progressively political over the years in his writing, but he is first and foremost an economist.  And it is as an economist that he finds the policies of the Bush administration so desperately lacking.<br />The good news and bad news of this book is that it consists primarily of reprintings of Krugman's New York Times columns of the past three years.  It is bad news because for my part I would have valued a cogent discussion of the economic impact of the Bush tax and economic policies.  It is good news because the columns are all utterly outstanding, and although in a somewhat piecemeal fashion, they do get at the very issues I would most like to see covered.  Krugman writes at length about the California energy crisis (which was primarily not the fault of Gray Davis, which his critics allege), the true effects of trickle down economic policies, the nature of Bush's connections with Harken, the absurdities of Bush's claims about his tax policy, and a host of connected issues.  There is considerable new material, especially in the introduction, but the heart of the book consists of his columns.<br />Krugman's virtues as a writer are considerable.  He has a real gift at breaking down complex issues into their constitutive elements, and recasting them in ways that non-economists can grasp.  His writing is idea-driven and informed by a deep understanding of economics, a profound departure from many writers who decide on their conclusions first, and then concoct a theory to try and give it substance.  Krugman has a deep commitment to facts and evidence.  A couple of websites have tried to deconstruct much of what Krugman has said (e.g., about employment and the effects of trickle down), but this has inevitably led to a considerable amount of gentle yet firm butt spanking, brought on by the pseudo-grasp of theory by Krugman's would-be critics.<br />While my first wish would have been for a book of completely new material, I am very happy to have these superb essays available in one volume.  Anyone wanting to gain deeper understanding of the economic policies of the nineties and especially of the past two years needs to read this book.effects of trickle down economic policies, the nature of Bush's connections with Harken, the absurdities of Bush's claims about his tax policy, and a host of connected issues.  There is considerable new material, especially in the introduction, but the heart of the book consists of his columns.<br />Krugman's virtues as a writer are considerable.  He has a real gift at breaking down complex issues into their constitutive elements, and recasting them in ways that non-economists can grasp.  His writing is idea-driven and informed by a deep understanding of economics, a profound departure from many writers who decide on their conclusions first, and then concoct a theory to try and give it substance.  Krugman has a deep commitment to facts and evidence.  A couple of websites have tried to deconstruct much of what Krugman has said (e.g., about employment and the effects of trickle down), but this has inevitably led to a considerable amount of gentle yet firm butt spanking, brought on by the pseudo-grasp of theory by Krugman's would-be critics.<br />While my first wish would have been for a book of completely new material, I am very happy to have these superb essays available in one volume.  Anyone wanting to gain deeper understanding of the economic policies of the nineties and especially of the past two years needs to read this book.	2003-09-07
991496:US	52048190	R3QV10YKZNVIDF	0812931378	896582856	Paris in the Fifties	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	Excellent recounting of France (not just Paris) in the 50s	The title of this excellent book is a misnomer.  Although there is a great deal about Paris, the book as a whole rambles over much of France and even the Mediterranean.  Beginning in the late 1940s when Karnow first went to Paris on the GI Bill to study and through much of the 1950s when he served with TIME in their Paris office Karnow lived in Paris.  This book is a distillation of his memories and notes he kept from that period.  Karnow, however, gives himself free rein to range over a host of topics, sometimes delving into French history, if it helps illuminate his topic.  The result is a very personal view of France in the fifties.  There is a great deal he doesn't discuss, such as French cinema and art in the decade.  He writes of some of the literary figures, but not with any especial emphasis.<br />The range of topics that are covered in the book are not encyclopedic but they are exceptionally varied.  He will write about wine, food, crime, famous politicians, infamous politicians, housing, French manners, Algerian patriots, people he knew, and a host of other subjects.  Some of the chapters could be anticipated, such as a long chapter on French wine and a tour through the French wine districts.  Some are unexpected, like a chapter on a man who was the last in a line of hereditary executioners.  There is a good deal of name dropping (folks like Samuel Beckett pop in for brief cameos), but not too much.  He writes of people whose names remain famous, like Christian Dior, and of many others, especially colleagues, whose names are not so well known.<br />One of the best things about the book is that while it may not give you all the facts about Paris and France in the fifties, it definitely gives you a feel for the time itself.  It is also fascinating for what it reveals about the politics of the time.  Karnow worked for TIME, which espoused a conservative Republican point of view (though more moderate than what would later characterize the late 1950s NATIONAL REVIEW), while Karnow himself was a liberal.  In much of his political writing, therefore, one gets a sense of his take on one things on the one hand and the take of his employers, looking over his shoulder, on the other.  The book therefore indirectly tells the story of how much of America felt about France during the fifties.<br />I can wholeheartedly recommend this book to anyone interested either in the years following the war or in France or Paris in general.  It is entertaining and informative at the same time.<br />I'd like to add that the photograph on the paperback edition of the book (and I supposed on the dust jacket of the hardback) is one of the most remarkable I have ever seen of Paris.  A couple somewhere in Paris (the angles make it look to be somewhere east of Montmartre) looks over Paris with Notre Dame and the Eiffel Tower off in the distance.REVIEW), while Karnow himself was a liberal.  In much of his political writing, therefore, one gets a sense of his take on one things on the one hand and the take of his employers, looking over his shoulder, on the other.  The book therefore indirectly tells the story of how much of America felt about France during the fifties.<br />I can wholeheartedly recommend this book to anyone interested either in the years following the war or in France or Paris in general.  It is entertaining and informative at the same time.<br />I'd like to add that the photograph on the paperback edition of the book (and I supposed on the dust jacket of the hardback) is one of the most remarkable I have ever seen of Paris.  A couple somewhere in Paris (the angles make it look to be somewhere east of Montmartre) looks over Paris with Notre Dame and the Eiffel Tower off in the distance.	2003-09-01
993082:US	52048190	R375UCZ6NTNVHB	0262681072	625891034	Parisian Views	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A fascinating study of 19th century Paris	Shelley Rice's superb PARISIAN VIEWS is a stimulating collection of essays on aspects of 19th century photography in Paris, especially during that period of time in which Baron Haussmann was in charge of gutting medieval Paris and rebuilding it as the city we know today.  Like a flaneur, the essays range almost randomly over a host of subjects, overlapping to a great deal in the end, but not having a particular or central thesis that permeates them all.<br />The photographs themselves are both beautiful and profoundly disconcerting.  I found myself looking at particular photographs for extended periods of time.  One in particular that troubled me was an 1838 photograph by Daguerre of the Boulevard du Temple, one of the first ever made.  Because of the long exposure time, despite the boulevard's being an extremely busy street, only a single individual is visible, and he only because he was standing at a boot black to have his boots polished.  Otherwise, we see an eerily deserted street, devoid of people.  One of the earliest photographic images of a human being in history, if not the earliest, and the man himself was utterly unaware of his historic moment.  Many of the photographs in the book inspire reflections along these lines.<br />Rice's book should be of interest to individuals interested in a variety of subjects:  history, the development of photography, art, city planning, and cultural criticism, to name but a few.  The focus of the book is not narrowly restricted to any one subject, as the wide-ranging bibliography will demonstrate.<br />A book that makes a perfect companion volume is the one that Rice credits with inspiring the initial work on this book:  Marshall Berman's ALL THAT IS SOLID MELTS INTO AIR, which traces developments in modernism in the past two centuries.  All his chapters are exciting and riveting, but one of the finest is the one on Haussmannization, both in Paris and elsewhere, in places like New York with the work of Robert Moses.  In addition to Berman, the ghosts of Baudelaire and Walter Benjamin hover over many of the pages in the book.dition to Berman, the ghosts of Baudelaire and Walter Benjamin hover over many of the pages in the book.	2003-08-31
993148:US	52048190	R3II73RYENNFD1	0879232803	121330410	Magic Lantern of Marcel Proust: A Critical Study of Remembrance of Things Past	Books	5	34	34	N	Y	Probably the finest introduction to Proust in English	Anyone interested in Marcel Proust does indeed enjoy an embarrassment of riches.  We are blessed in English with several superb full-length critical biographies, beginning with George Painter's pioneering work, and more recently by the spectacular biography by the dean of Proust studies, Jean-Yves Tadie, and the almost equally as superb (and perhaps more readable) biography by William C. Carter.  We are also blessed with a plethora of first-rate advanced studies, either written originally in English, or translated from the French or German.<br />Despite this, we have a shortage of introductory works on Proust.  Samuel Beckett wrote a very short and one of the earliest studies of Proust, but despite its excellence, it is not really appropriate as an introduction.  The prose is excruciatingly thick at times, and the argument sometimes completely obscure (Beckett is said years later to have found it impenetrable in many places), not qualities one seeks in an introductory work.<br />Luckily, this clearly conceived and transparently written by Howard Moss, long poetry editor at the NEW YORKER, makes a perfect introduction.  Unluckily, it is currently out of print.  Hopefully, some publisher will rectify this situation by making it available to the reading public.<br />THE MAGIC LANTERN OF MARCEL PROUST is a very short book, and obviously in such a work there can be no attempt at a comprehensive discussion of all the minutiae in the film.  Instead, Moss discusses certain motifs that reveal Proust's overarching concerns in the RECHERCHE.  For instance, \\"The Gardens,\\" the second chapter, focuses on the landscapes and physical locations there, and what they reveal about the structure of his work.  \\"The Parties\\" focuses on Proust's analysis of society and class.  \\"The Way\\" discusses the ideas that provide the central structuring for the work as a whole.<br />What I love most about Moss, in addition to his magnificently clear and unelliptical prose, is his integrity as a reader.  Too many writers about Proust graft onto their discussion their own principal interests.  Moss takes the reader of Proust--whether actual or potential--into the heart of the text itself.  One gains the sense of what is central to Proust, and not merely to the critic writing about Proust.r.  Too many writers about Proust graft onto their discussion their own principal interests.  Moss takes the reader of Proust--whether actual or potential--into the heart of the text itself.  One gains the sense of what is central to Proust, and not merely to the critic writing about Proust.	2003-08-31
996806:US	52048190	R1DL8R4ZYD6CSW	0807611751	459955937	The Affair: The Case of Alfred Dreyfus (English and French Edition)	Books	5	44	44	N	Y	Great book on a defining event in modern French history	At least for the foreseeable future, this superb account of the Dreyfus Affair by Jean-Denis, which appeared first in French in 1983, will almost certainly stand as the best account of what is unquestionably one of the seminal events in France since the French Revolution.  Bredin does a masterful job of assembling all the primary facts of the Affair, introducing and describing all the major actors, and analyzing both the situation that made the Affair possible in the first place and the effects it had on France as a whole.  If in the end the account lacks the small degree of passion and moral vision that could have rendered it a masterpiece of historical writing, the dispassion and deliberateness that he employs in his narrative are perhaps appropriate to a tale full of too much passion and too much irrational activity.<br />One of the most striking features of Bredin's history is the amazingly small role that Captain Alfred Dreyfus himself played in the Affair.  Not only did he not engage in the activities that caused his being tried for treason to begin with, he was not a major actor in the events that unfurled in the four years following his conviction.  Dreyfus, in fact, was almost completely unaware of the Dreyfus Affair as it raged in France, dividing the nation and almost provoking a Civil War and inspiring a military coup d'etat. For most of those in the military who soon realized that Major Walsin-Esterhazy and not  Dreyfus was the person engaged in espionage, and that therefore Dreyfus was innocent, Dreyfus's sufferings were utterly unimportant compared to the honor of the Army.  Dreyfus the person dropped out, and Dreyfus the innocent victim became a potentially more dangerous threat to the Army than Dreyfus the supposed spy would have  been (or Esterhazy the actual spy was).  Ironically, after Zola's famous J'Accuse was published and the Affair gripped all of France,  Dreyfus again was forgotten as a person.  He became, instead, a symbol that the opponents of the Army and the Church could use as a weapon to attack those entrenched institutions.  Indeed, when those who were more concerned with Dreyfus the individual rather than Dreyfus the cause, such as his brother Mathieu and his attorney Edgar Demange, undertook actions that were more beneficial to the individual than the cause, they were roundly criticized.  Both sides seemed willing to make Dreyfus a martyr.<br />The most painful parts of the book are those that reveal the depth and irrationality of the anti-Semitism of the supporters of the Army and the willingness of the Church and masses to espouse the most paranoid fantasies about the Jews during the Affair.  No individual supported Dreyfus's cause on the merits of the case in these person's minds, but only because the Jewish Syndicate had paid them off.  Every piece of evidence either exonerating Dreyfus or incriminating either the Army or anyone else was declaimed to be a Jewish forgery.  The Dreyfus Affair becomes in this way almost a prequel of the events that were to transpire on a few decades later in Nazi Germany.  During Nazi occupation, France would cooperate with the extermination of its Jews to a greater extent than almost any other occupied country.<br />The social effects of the Affair in France are incalculable.  If there had been a struggle since 1871 between Republicans and Monarchists, there never was one again.  France had unquestionably become a Republic for good, and the political power of the entrenched institutions of privilege--the Army, the Church, and the aristocracy--was shattered for good.  Never again would &quot;the saber&quot; truly threaten civilian rule.  On the negative side, the Affair also unleashed all the latent anti-Semitism that lay dormant or inactive in the French populace.  Many writers have noted that Jews enjoyed a higher standing in French society before the Affair than afterwards.  Bredin does an excellent job of noting not merely the main facts and events connected with the Affair, but its aftermath.<br />The book serves also as a cautionary tale.  In a time in the United States (where I live) where Civil liberties are under constant threat from the government that is supposed to be their guardian, the story of the ignoring of the rights of an innocent individual and the willingness to elevate the needs of the military and the state, this bit of history has an astounding relevance. As George Santayana famously said, &quot;Those who do not learn from mistakes of the past are doomed to repeat them.&quot;nnected with the Affair, but its aftermath. <br />The book serves also as a cautionary tale.  In a time in the United States (where I live) where Civil liberties are under constant threat from the government that is supposed to be their guardian, the story of the ignoring of the rights of an innocent individual and the willingness to elevate the needs of the military and the state, this bit of history has an astounding relevance. As George Santayana famously said, &quot;Those who do not learn from mistakes of the past are doomed to repeat them.&quot;	2003-08-28
1001374:US	52048190	R1OO3QRSCGG6U5	1860647626	771821506	Reading the Vampire Slayer: The Unofficial Critical Companion to Buffy and Angel (Tauris Parke Paperbacks)	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	A model of how to write about popular media	Let's face it:  academics are people, too.  And like everyday folk, they enjoy being fans.  Truth be told, the contributors didn't write these essays so much because they had deep insights into the nature of society, but because they, like me and probably you, love BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER and ANGEL.  I don't fault them for this:  I praise them.<br />We are currently seeing a growing number of academic books focusing on Buffy/Angel.  I am completely on the fence as to whether this one or the volume edited by Rhonda V. Wilcox and David Lavery--FIGHTING THE FORCES: WHAT'S AT STAKE IN BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER--is the better.  Both are superior to the more recent BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER AND PHILOSOPHY: FEAR AND TREMBLING IN SUNNYDALE, edited by James B. South.  Interestingly, all the academic studies so far have been anthologies.  It will be curious to see if anyone undertakes a book-length study.<br />For the most part, these essays in this collection are very interesting.  I suspect that each individual will respond more or less strongly to various essays.  I particularly enjoyed the essays in the first half of the volume, especially &quot;Vampire dialectics: Knowledge, institutions and labour&quot; by Brian Wall and Michael Zyrd.  I had a lot less interest in an essay discussing Buffy in terms of East Asian martial arts films.  And I must confess that I am utterly baffled by Slash fiction--i.e., fan fiction depicting major characters from television shows in kinky homosexual relationships, a practice that originated in STAR TREK.  Personally, the appeal of imaging Xander and Spike as lovers utterly escapes me.  The essay dealing with this aspect of Buffy, therefore, failed to engage me.  But I acknowledge another reader might prefer those essays that I found dull to those I found invigorating.<br />What is not debatable is the high quality of the essays as a whole.  All anthologies are uneven, either in the abilities of the individual contributors, or in the intrinsic appeal each essay makes to a particular reader.  No reader is likely to enjoy all of this collection, but I'd bet that any academically oriented fan of BUFFY and ANGEL will find more than a few to their liking.  I heartily recommend this.<br />I should note that there is a second book with nearly the same title edited by Roz Kaveney scheduled for publication in January of 2004.  I am unclear as to whether this will be a reprint or a new, expanded, and updated edition.  The pagination for the new book shows it to be longer.  At any rate, I would heartily recommend anyone interested in this one to also investigate that book, to determine whether it is a second, distinct volume.ic appeal each essay makes to a particular reader.  No reader is likely to enjoy all of this collection, but I'd bet that any academically oriented fan of BUFFY and ANGEL will find more than a few to their liking.  I heartily recommend this.<br />I should note that there is a second book with nearly the same title edited by Roz Kaveney scheduled for publication in January of 2004.  I am unclear as to whether this will be a reprint or a new, expanded, and updated edition.  The pagination for the new book shows it to be longer.  At any rate, I would heartily recommend anyone interested in this one to also investigate that book, to determine whether it is a second, distinct volume.	2003-08-24
1001745:US	52048190	RIDZQNPHD6SLT	0671024337	330666577	Buffy, the Vampire Slayer : the Watcher's Guide	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	One of the few essential Buffy books for the serious fan	Any serious fan of BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER will want this book on their shelf, along with its sequel THE WATCHER'S GUIDE II.  The first volume contains a wealth of information about the first two seasons, while the second does the same for Seasons Three and Four.  Unfortunately, there has not yet appeared a volume for the last three seasons.  Hopefully that will be forthcoming.<br />These volumes are valuable for a variety of reasons.  First, the early sections give a summation of each major character along with a collection of humorous quotations.  It then proceeds to an episode-by-episode summation, which is great because it provides a lot of information that is otherwise not that easy to obtain.  But far and away the best part of the book--for me, anyway--is the final section, which contains a host of great and informative interviews with actors, directors, writers, and technical folk.  This final section is great because while Joss Whedon is widely acknowledged to be the main creative force behind BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER, he has always ruled with a light hand.  BUFFY is clearly a team effort, and it is great to see the roles the various team players play in the construction of the series.<br />Although the final episode of BUFFY has been shot, I hope this won't dissuade the publishers from producing a final WATCHER'S GUIDE to cover the final three seasons.  I ardently believe that BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER is the new STAR TREK.  Just as STAR TREK managed to attract more and more new fans over the decades, I believe that BUFFY will have an ever expanding fan base, as more and more people are persuaded to give it a try.  The shows of the seven seasons will be in syndication for years, each season will be available on DVD within the next year and a half, and spin offs like ANGEL and the other projects that have been mentioned will keep the interest in BUFFY alive for years.	2003-08-23
1001933:US	52048190	R16RCOI7AS30O1	0877798095	163540601	Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary	Books	5	335	361	N	Y	Nice updating for the standard shorter American dictionary	For several decades now, THE MERRIAM-WEBSTER'S COLLEGIATE DICTIONARY has served as the standard American English dictionary.  I have done a good deal of copyediting over the years, and every publisher I have worked with has specified this dictionary (along with the Webster's Unabridged) as the standard governoring the way that American English words are spells and defined.  Although one can feel overwhelmed by the sheer number of dictionaries in the reference section of any good bookstore, this volume is as close to authoritative as we have in the United States.  One might have a preference for another, but this is the only one that enjoys widespread authoritative acceptance.<br />The dust jacket explains the ways that the new 11th edition has been expanded, but personally, while I am quite certain that it has been expanded, I have not noticed a great deal of difference from the 10th edition.  It may be definitive and improved, but most of the improvements will be difficult for anyone to detect.  The new CD-ROM included with it, however, is a vast improvement on the previous software that was developed based on the 10th edition.  When the 10th edition first came out, CD software was not widely available.  A CD version of the dictionary did eventually come out, but it was somewhat rudimentary.  The new CD-ROM, however, is a huge improvement.  For instance, when looking up any word, a column will display a number of words that approximate the word that your are attempting to look up.  If you can merely approximate the spelling, you can frequently find the correct word.  Furthermore, by double clicking on any word in the online dictionary, you will pull up the listing for that word.  The CD-ROM also has a link to the Internet.<br />Let's face it.  Buying dictionaries for most people is about as exciting as having one's oil changed.  But like oil changes, dictionaries are essential.  For the foreseeable future, this one is going to remain the definitive American English dictionary.sh dictionary.	2003-08-23
1001943:US	52048190	R1QC6A6NZCC69N	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A very funny, unabashedly partisan political satire	Thanks to the Fox lawsuit against Franken's use of &quot;Fair and Balanced&quot; in the subtitle (a lawsuit that clearly disturbed the judge who dismissed it, who chided Fox as a news organization for bringing a suit attempting to abridge someone else's speech, pointing out that a new supposed news organization ought to be at the forefront of protecting speech), the publication date of this book was accelerated by a month.  Let me put this in very simple terms:  anyone who is conservative will hate this book, anyone who is a moderate, independent, or leftist will likely love it.  As in RUSH LIMBAUGH IS A BIG FAT IDIOT, Franken has written a political satire in which he combines a variety of techniques to make fun of the Right in the United States.  Sometimes this means using the same negative tactics mastered by the Right.  Frequently this involves adding a few facts some Right wing pundit conveniently left out.  Constantly this involves humor.<br />For a humorous satire, the book contains a great deal of factual content, and should serve a valuable service in getting many American's to question many of the assertions of the Right, whose record in handling facts has been pretty dismal for quite some time (many on the Right complain that those on the Left keep calling them dumb and stupid, but they never seem to grasp that one of the major reasons for this is their persistent inability to \\"get the facts straight\\"-yes, facts do matter, and failing to get them right will result in others thinking you less than brilliant).  Franken wrote this book in the context of teaching a course at Harvard, and he is very clear that he used the fourteen student members of his seminar as research assistants and fact checkers.  In other words, Franken's book will not be guilty of the hundreds (literally) of factual errors of Ann Coulter's books, for instance.  Many who have followed closely political events of the past decade will not be surprised by many of the things in the book, but his presentation is always fresh and full of insight.<br />This is a funny, funny book, though I'm sure fans of his targets won't agree.  Franken has long been one of the funniest men in America.  It certainly wasn't an accident that during all the good years of SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE, Franken was crucially involved as writer.  Not every part of the book succeeds equally for me.  I'm sure some will enjoy the fictional account &quot;Operation Chickenhawk,&quot; in which the host of high profile Right wingers who never served in the military embark on a military mission, but I'm afraid I did not (the similar chapter in RUSH LIMBAUGH IS A BIG FAT IDIOT was my least favorite in that book).  As a Christian, however, I really, really loved the cartoon chapter &quot;The Gospel According to Supply Side Jesus.&quot;  As someone who has been horrified at the gigantic gap between the teachings and example of Jesus in the Gospels (and especially in Luke-Acts), it was great to see a vivid depiction of the kind of Jesus implied by the politics of the Right.<br />Not all parts are funny, nor were meant to be.  Al Franken knew and obviously loved Paul Wellstone, and he is obviously angry for the bizarre way that the Right Wing pundits distorted what actually happened at the now infamous Wellstone memorial, which Franken attended.<br />This is not the best book available on the struggles the Right has with the truth.  That title would go to Eric Alterman's WHAT LIBERAL MEDIA? or Joe Conason's new BIG LIES.  But Franken's book is definitely the funniest political book of recent years.  It makes both a fun and informative read.t his presentation is always fresh and full of insight.<br />This is a funny, funny book, though I'm sure fans of his targets won't agree.  Franken has long been one of the funniest men in America.  It certainly wasn't an accident that during all the good years of SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE, Franken was crucially involved as writer.  Not every part of the book succeeds equally for me.  I'm sure some will enjoy the fictional account &quot;Operation Chickenhawk,&quot; in which the host of high profile Right wingers who never served in the military embark on a military mission, but I'm afraid I did not (the similar chapter in RUSH LIMBAUGH IS A BIG FAT IDIOT was my least favorite in that book).  As a Christian, however, I really, really loved the cartoon chapter &quot;The Gospel According to Supply Side Jesus.&quot;  As someone who has been horrified at the gigantic gap between the teachings and example of Jesus in the Gospels (and especially in Luke-Acts), it was great to see a vivid depiction of the kind of Jesus implied by the politics of the Right.  <br />Not all parts are funny, nor were meant to be.  Al Franken knew and obviously loved Paul Wellstone, and he is obviously angry for the bizarre way that the Right Wing pundits distorted what actually happened at the now infamous Wellstone memorial, which Franken attended.<br />This is not the best book available on the struggles the Right has with the truth.  That title would go to Eric Alterman's WHAT LIBERAL MEDIA? or Joe Conason's new BIG LIES.  But Franken's book is definitely the funniest political book of recent years.  It makes both a fun and informative read.	2003-08-23
1016350:US	52048190	R41B4KGGQ0SZZ	0812695313	862654055	Buffy the Vampire Slayer and Philosophy: Fear and Trembling in Sunnydale (Popular Culture and Philosophy, Vol. 4)	Books	3	81	84	N	N	A very uneven though not without merit academic anthology	This latest volume in Open Court's Popular Culture and Philosophy Series is, like most anthologies, very uneven.  Nearly every collection of essays contains some good, some average, and some disappointing essays.  As a former Ph.D. student in philosophy and a huge fan of Buffy and all things pertaining to the Buffyverse, this seemed to be a book not merely down my alley, but on the street where I live.  Unfortunately, overall, I found this to be a very disappointing collection.<br />There have been two major academic anthologies before this one:  Roz Kaveny's READING THE VAMPIRE SLAYER and Rhonda V. Wilcox and David Lavery's FIGHTING THE FORCES.  Both of these far surpass this newer volume, despite having the disadvantage of having been written at the end of Season Five of Buffy, while some of the essays in BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER AND PHILOSOPHY seem to have some knowledge of the first episode of Season Seven, and most reflect the revelation at the end of Season Six that Spike has gained a soul.<br />One of the reasons these other two anthologies are so much more successful is the fact that most of the writers in those two volumes were cultural critics rather than philosophers.  As enormously witty, intelligent, and deep as the scripts for Buffy were, they were not deeply conversant with Western philosophy.  In fact, philosophically, the Buffyverse essentially embraces a naive Cartesian dualism (a fact curiously unnoted by all the contributors to this volume), or at most a Christian tripartite conception of the person as Mind, Body, and Soul.  Descartes attempted to resurrect Augustinian theology (based on Platonism) in opposition to the thought of Aquinas (based on Aristotelianism), and in doing so posited a radical gap between Mind and Body.  20th century English philosopher Gilbert Ryle would call this the myth of &quot;the ghost in the machine&quot; (a phrase later reappropriated by Arthur Koestler and the Police).  Angel has a body, and a soul that keeps getting detached.  Philosophically, this is both dubious and almost completely unthought out.  In other words, the TV shows BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER and ANGEL are enormously unconversant with philosophy, despite interacting vigorously with modern life and culture.<br />Another major problem here is that the writers fairly consistently seem to be attempting to graft two separate concerns upon one another.  Someone profoundly interested in Kant tries to meld this with Buffy.  Someone working on Aristotle brings his thought on friendship in line with relationships in Buffy (far more successfully than attempts with Kant).  Some of the attempts are painfully strained.  Some are just sad.  Only a few are truly enlightening either of philosophy or Buffy.  One of the more fascinating aspects of the anthology is the enormously varying ways that Buffy is conceived.  One sees the show as liberal, another socialist, another fascist.  In fact, the one great value of the book is that it shows that what Buffy is at heart is a vast mirror:  look into Buffy and you will find your own beliefs and attitudes somehow reflected.<br />My recommendation for any Buffy fan is to read either of the other two anthologies first, then perhaps look at the array of essays available on the [...] website, and then, if not yet sated, turn to this collection.etting detached.  Philosophically, this is both dubious and almost completely unthought out.  In other words, the TV shows BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER and ANGEL are enormously unconversant with philosophy, despite interacting vigorously with modern life and culture.  <br />Another major problem here is that the writers fairly consistently seem to be attempting to graft two separate concerns upon one another.  Someone profoundly interested in Kant tries to meld this with Buffy.  Someone working on Aristotle brings his thought on friendship in line with relationships in Buffy (far more successfully than attempts with Kant).  Some of the attempts are painfully strained.  Some are just sad.  Only a few are truly enlightening either of philosophy or Buffy.  One of the more fascinating aspects of the anthology is the enormously varying ways that Buffy is conceived.  One sees the show as liberal, another socialist, another fascist.  In fact, the one great value of the book is that it shows that what Buffy is at heart is a vast mirror:  look into Buffy and you will find your own beliefs and attitudes somehow reflected.<br />My recommendation for any Buffy fan is to read either of the other two anthologies first, then perhaps look at the array of essays available on the [...] website, and then, if not yet sated, turn to this collection.	2003-08-10
1042402:US	52048190	R6LDZNCVEP6NC	0500202559	424412472	Post-Impressionism (World of Art)	Books	4	10	10	N	Y	A serviceable survey of an era that is difficult to sum up	As Bernard Denvir points out in this excellent survey, there really isn't Post-Impressionism as such.  Denvir explains that only in the English-speaking world does the expression even exist.  Indeed, there clearly is no defined school or movement to which the term Post-Impressionism refers.  Instead, it vaguely points at all the painters and artists--whether individuals or schools--that reacted to the work of the Impressionists.<br />As Denvir points out, there are two broad ways in which the so-called Post-Impressionists could and did react to the Impressionists.  One of these ways is varying with the Impressionists in Form, such as much of the work of painters like Seurat and his followers, C&eacute;zanne, Gaugin, and Van Gogh.  This part of the book is by far the most familiar to the casual art student or museumgoer.  But Denvir also covers those various painters who differed over issues surrounding Content.  Denvir shows how many, many painters were off put by the lack of historical or symbolic content to be found in the work of the Impressionists.<br />In the end, the reader will primarily gain an impression of how enormously diverse and changing the art world was in the wake of Impressionism.  We tend to prefer our histories to be nice and neat and unmessy, but these were messy times, and Denvir does an excellent job of reflecting that disorder.  The book ends with a helpful listing of many of the key figures from the period.  Overall, I would not say this is one of the very best book in the World of Art series, but it is nonetheless a very helpful one.	2003-07-20
1068593:US	52048190	R2FSA6W1PPW1O5	0500203350	48652236	Impressionism: Origins, Practice, Reception (World of Art)	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	Perhaps the best brief introduction to Impressionism	Belinda Thomson's contribution to the Thames &amp; Hudson World of Art series is one of the best that I have encountered yet. One of the things that I most like about this series is the way that they have attempted over time to introduce new volumes are subjects that have more or less been covered before in order to provide a new treatment of the subject in attune with the latest critical scholarship. While some older World of Art titles touching upon the Impressionists preceded the period of influence and work of scholars like T. J. Clark, Robert L. Herbert, Ruth Berson, Patricia Mainardi, and many other contemporary art critics, Thomson carries out a complete reevaluation of the work of the Impressionists by pulling on the work of the recent scholarship. As a result, I believe that this volume is now the finest short introduction to the Impressionists now in print. It doesn't supercede larger, more in depth studies like Herbert's IMPRESSIONISM: ART, LEISURE, AND PARISIAN SOCIETY or John Rewald's older, almost encyclopedic history, but anyone wanting to gain an overview of Impressionism is unlikely to find a better brief study.<br />Although Thomson discusses many of the lesser Impressionists as well, she concentrates on a relatively small number of central figures, some who have only recently begun to receive the degree of attention that they deserve. She deals with Manet (and Bazille) as the crucial precursor and early collaborators, and then focuses on Monet, Degas, Renoir, Morisot, Sisley, Pissaro, Caillebotte, Cassatt, Gaugin, Fatin-Latour, and Guillaumin, and also C&eacute;zanne, whose relationship with the group was less clear. Each chapter tends to deal with most or all of these figures. These chapters she arranges around specific topics and themes. Thus, her study is driven more by ideas and themes than by chronology or biography, though neither of these elements is entirely missing. I found this thematic approach to be extremely effective, and some of the chapters shed a great deal of new light upon the Impressionists for me. For instance, I especially profited from the discussion of what light the marriages of the various Impressionists shed upon their social assumptions and their art. She also does a splendid job throughout of explaining the connection between their audiences, the avenues available to them for displaying their work, and the role of the art dealers in making their works available to the buying public.<br />A book of this size will of necessity have limitations placed upon it. Thomson has chosen to focus more upon the larger context of the work of the Impressionists, and has perhaps less discussion of specific works of art than other books on the subject. Some may find this a weakness, but in my opinion most of the other books have neglected context for discussion of specific paintings. Thus, sometimes a mildly ahistorical (in some cases a profoundly ahistorical) approach is taken. I loved the very concrete picture of the Impressionists' world that Thomson draws.<br />In short, one can hardly hope for a better introduction to the Impressionists than this one. I should mention one further improvement Thames and Hudson has been making in its most recent additions to the series: a greatly increased use of color reproduction. In the past, a few illustrations would be in color, but most would be in black and white. Now, over half of the illustrations are in color.ters shed a great deal of new light upon the Impressionists for me. For instance, I especially profited from the discussion of what light the marriages of the various Impressionists shed upon their social assumptions and their art. She also does a splendid job throughout of explaining the connection between their audiences, the avenues available to them for displaying their work, and the role of the art dealers in making their works available to the buying public. <br />A book of this size will of necessity have limitations placed upon it. Thomson has chosen to focus more upon the larger context of the work of the Impressionists, and has perhaps less discussion of specific works of art than other books on the subject. Some may find this a weakness, but in my opinion most of the other books have neglected context for discussion of specific paintings. Thus, sometimes a mildly ahistorical (in some cases a profoundly ahistorical) approach is taken. I loved the very concrete picture of the Impressionists' world that Thomson draws. <br />In short, one can hardly hope for a better introduction to the Impressionists than this one. I should mention one further improvement Thames and Hudson has been making in its most recent additions to the series: a greatly increased use of color reproduction. In the past, a few illustrations would be in color, but most would be in black and white. Now, over half of the illustrations are in color.	2003-06-29
1069253:US	52048190	R8PXUPA6FSHXW	0393057658	346106080	Moneyball: The Art of Winning an Unfair Game	Books	5	7	11	N	Y	A very interesting book that should lead one to Bill James	This is a very interesting book that will probably come across as more impressive than it should to casual baseball fans.  For those who have been reading, enjoying, and agreeing with Bill James for years, it will largely be old hat.  Basically, the book is about baseball professionals finally taking seriously many of the ideas and concepts that Bill James has been articulating the past quarter century.<br />To Lewis's credit, he is quite up front about the central role that James plays in this book.  Lewis even treats James as something of a genius, both as a baseball theoretician and a prose writer (James is an absolutely riveting writer; anyone doubting this should purchase immediately his THE NEW BILL JAMES HISTORICAL BASEBALL ABSTRACT).  What I find a bit more curious is Michael Lewis's obsession with Billy Beane.  No question, Billy Beane is a great general manager, and there is equally no question that the Oakland A's are a team driven by the front office.  The problem is--and in fact Lewis's book hints at this fact, though he only hints--that the A's are a great organization.  What makes the A's great is not Billy Beane, as good as he is, but the whole group of first rate personnel comprising the Oakland front office.  Most of those people were not hired by Billy Beane.  The overwhelming focus of this book on Billy Beane is more than a little surreal.<br />Although I think this is a great book, I also think that Michael Lewis chose the wrong subject.  The really interesting story here is NOT how Billy Beane has managed to build a winning team on so little money, but rather the impact that a complete reconceptualization of what contributes to winning baseball games could have on the game of baseball.  In that regard, Billy Beane is only a part of the story, and the issues surrounding the Oakland A's budget a bit irrelevant.  If the Bill James's-inspired theories are correct, the size of a team's budget is fairly irrelevant.  If the New York Yankees changed their playing philosophy, they could still use their money to buy the players with the highest on base percentage and the pitchers with the highest strike outs to walks ratios and who give up few home runs.  Budget really is quite irrelevant to all the central points of the book. And to test out the theories about how to win a baseball game requires more test cases than merely the Oakland A's.  Myself, I do believe the theories are sound.  The 2003 Toronto team has built its team around many of the same ideas.  All their hitters work pitchers deep into the count, take a lot of walks, have solid on base percentages, and have some power.  The Boston Red Sox seem to be trying out some of these ideas.  Personally, I think focusing on the Oakland A's is a misleading error.<br />The confusion at the heart of Lewis's book is confusing a strategic approach to baseball with the entirely separate issue of Oakland's tight budget.  The latter merely masks the more important story.  Moreover, budgetary concerns are highly contingent.  If all the teams in baseball were to adopt a team policy of building their teams around players with some power who had high on base percentages, this will in turn effect the pricing of players.  It is a mere coincidence right now that some of the players Beane's regards highly are not desired by others.  Besides, even Beane acknowledges the greatness of players like Giambi and Bonds.<br />Nonetheless, for those unfamiliar with these alternative ways of valuing ballplayers, this is a great introduction.  Just take all the Billy Beane obsessiveness with a container of salt.  And remember that it is just an accident that money is a factor in this story at all.  That will change as soon as the rest of baseball changes its thinking about the nature of the game.their playing philosophy, they could still use their money to buy the players with the highest on base percentage and the pitchers with the highest strike outs to walks ratios and who give up few home runs.  Budget really is quite irrelevant to all the central points of the book. And to test out the theories about how to win a baseball game requires more test cases than merely the Oakland A's.  Myself, I do believe the theories are sound.  The 2003 Toronto team has built its team around many of the same ideas.  All their hitters work pitchers deep into the count, take a lot of walks, have solid on base percentages, and have some power.  The Boston Red Sox seem to be trying out some of these ideas.  Personally, I think focusing on the Oakland A's is a misleading error.  <br />The confusion at the heart of Lewis's book is confusing a strategic approach to baseball with the entirely separate issue of Oakland's tight budget.  The latter merely masks the more important story.  Moreover, budgetary concerns are highly contingent.  If all the teams in baseball were to adopt a team policy of building their teams around players with some power who had high on base percentages, this will in turn effect the pricing of players.  It is a mere coincidence right now that some of the players Beane's regards highly are not desired by others.  Besides, even Beane acknowledges the greatness of players like Giambi and Bonds.  <br />Nonetheless, for those unfamiliar with these alternative ways of valuing ballplayers, this is a great introduction.  Just take all the Billy Beane obsessiveness with a container of salt.  And remember that it is just an accident that money is a factor in this story at all.  That will change as soon as the rest of baseball changes its thinking about the nature of the game.	2003-06-28
1070590:US	52048190	R3NXF2PJ8EWMQW	0679779159	698950156	How Proust Can Change Your Life	Books	5	29	31	N	N	Original effort that is both insightful and entertaining	First, while I really love this little book, it doesn't quite deliver on the title.  Not that the title isn't accurate.  Very few fiction writers can actually change one's life, but Proust is one of a very few that can (reading him has very definitely changed mine), but I'm not quite sure that de Botton gets at the reasons why.  At least, he didn't get to the specific reasons that Proust has had that effect on my life.<br />Nonetheless, this remains an amazingly good introduction to Proust, and is a marvelous first-book for anyone contemplating reading Proust's masterpiece.  Proust is, of course, the author of what is very widely considered to be the great work of literature of the past century and what is increasingly considered one of the great masterpieces in the history of literature:  IN SEARCH OF LOST TIME.  de Botton's volume isn't precisely an introduction to Proust so much as a series of reflections on themes that can be illustrated by aspects of Proust's life or by passages in his great novel.  Many of these are marvelous at assisting even a veteran reader of Proust to gain new insights into his book.<br />Is the book worthwhile for someone who does not plan on reading Proust but just wants to read an enjoyable book?  Certainly.  de Botton is unfailingly witty, almost always interesting, and frequently insightful.  None of this relies either upon having read Proust or intending to.  The book can certainly stand on its own.  Reading this book is fun and easy; reading Proust can be fun at times, but it is also challenging and demanding frequently.  But that may be why de Botton's book is unable to show how Proust truly can change your life.  Proust has a way of sucking you deep into his book, making you so much a part of it that you feel almost that it is you and not the narrator from whom all these feelings and emotions arise.  You almost become a part of the novel, and your life can change because Proust can create a story that becomes a mirror to your own life, instilling a sense of the things we ought to have done but didn't, but providing the revelation that it isn't too late.  Proust can also show how all the failures of the past can become the material for future success and accomplishment.  de Botton hints at some of this, and even quotes some key passages that in the context of the novel most eloquently display this (cf. the Elstir speech on p. 67, which I believe displays the central theme of the entire novel better than any other passage in Proust).<br />I wholeheartedly recommend this book to anyone wishing either a fun read or a light-hearted intro to Proust.  But even more I recommend reading Proust.  Only in doing that can one actually discover how Proust can change one's life.life, instilling a sense of the things we ought to have done but didn't, but providing the revelation that it isn't too late.  Proust can also show how all the failures of the past can become the material for future success and accomplishment.  de Botton hints at some of this, and even quotes some key passages that in the context of the novel most eloquently display this (cf. the Elstir speech on p. 67, which I believe displays the central theme of the entire novel better than any other passage in Proust).  <br />I wholeheartedly recommend this book to anyone wishing either a fun read or a light-hearted intro to Proust.  But even more I recommend reading Proust.  Only in doing that can one actually discover how Proust can change one's life.	2003-06-27
1072055:US	52048190	RYC40YTSUQ439	0140135154	828022040	Ways of Seeing: Based on the BBC Television Series (Penguin Books for Art)	Books	5	34	37	N	N	Remains a classic popular intro to many issues in art	Barely showing its age after thirty years, John Berger's WAYS OF SEEING remains one of the best popular presentations of academic and scholarly thought in recent decades.  There are actually very few original ideas in Berger's book.  Just about the entire content can be found in a variety of thinkers either inspiring, belonging to, or influenced by the Frankfort school, for instance, Meyer Schapiro, Adorno, and especially Walter Benjamin.  None of these thinkers are household names in the English speaking world, even though Schapiro may well be the greatest art critic America has produced, and despite Benjamin's possibly being the greatest cultural critic of the 20th century.  One reason their ideas have not become more widely known is the fact that all of these thinkers were deeply influenced by Marxism, though none of them were Communists.  As a result, while many of the ideas that Berger presents in his work are well known in literary and scholarly circles, they remain unknown to most casual visitors to art museums.<br />Berger is intent to challenge ways of looking at art and other images that ignore the status of works of art as commodities.  We not only live in a capitalistic society, but one in which virtually all its inhabitants are consumers.  Consumers purchase commodities.  Berger wants to raise the consciousness of viewers of these paintings that they are not merely \\"masterpieces,\\" but commodities.  Or, in the case of oil painting, visual representations of commodities.<br />These central assumptions are brought out in a series of essays.  The first is a straightforward presentation of the main ideas in Walter Benjamin's seminal essay \\"The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction,\\" a fact that Berger acknowledges at the end of the essay.  (This essay can be easily obtained in Benjamin's great collection ILLUMINATIONS, which also includes classic essays on Proust, Kafka, and Baudelaire, as well as his astonishing \\"Theses on the Philosophy of History.\\")  He goes on to write about such subjects as the significance of nudity (as opposed to nakedness) in painting and the ideological use to which oil painting has been put.  He ends with a marvelous discussion of the real point in advertising (which inevitably arose with the shift of all European and American nations to consumer societies).<br />The great virtue of this book is that Berger has a positive genius for what many of the most pertinent insights of the Frankfort school has been, and a genuine knack for presenting these ideas in a readily graspable form.  The book still reads marvelously after several decades.  I do think the book would benefit from a second edition with a complete revamping of the photographs.  While the content of the book holds up well, the photographs often smack too much of the sixties, making the book feel more like a fragment from the past than it ought.  Still, WAYS OF SEEING remains one of the finest popularizations of the past few decades, though I would hasten to add that any academic would also enjoy reading it.story.\\")  He goes on to write about such subjects as the significance of nudity (as opposed to nakedness) in painting and the ideological use to which oil painting has been put.  He ends with a marvelous discussion of the real point in advertising (which inevitably arose with the shift of all European and American nations to consumer societies).<br />The great virtue of this book is that Berger has a positive genius for what many of the most pertinent insights of the Frankfort school has been, and a genuine knack for presenting these ideas in a readily graspable form.  The book still reads marvelously after several decades.  I do think the book would benefit from a second edition with a complete revamping of the photographs.  While the content of the book holds up well, the photographs often smack too much of the sixties, making the book feel more like a fragment from the past than it ought.  Still, WAYS OF SEEING remains one of the finest popularizations of the past few decades, though I would hasten to add that any academic would also enjoy reading it.	2003-06-26
1080754:US	52048190	RPZH1TWFNYD2W	0789493896	669537653	Paris (Eyewitness Travel Guides)	Books	5	165	166	N	Y	An almost perfect travel book	There are two kinds of travel books:  those you use to help you plan a trip and those you want to have in your pocket when you make it.  This exceptional book falls into the latter.  Although it features some information on hotels and travel, these aspects of a prospective trip to Paris will be handled much more thoroughly by other volumes.  Where this book excels is in its comprehensive coverage of things that any traveler will want to know, primarily the question:  Where am I, and what do I want to see while in this section of Paris?  Some travel books contain more information, but many of these fail to filter that which is likely to be of interest and that which is not.  What is amazing about this one is the usability and pertinacity of the information presented.<br />The book begins with a brief history of Paris, and then provides an overview of the city as a whole.  Much of the remainder of the volume consists of introductions to specific areas of Paris, letting any traveler know what the immediate highlights in any area are.  The presentation of the information is as attractive as one can imagine, with beautiful graphics, beautiful photographs, and marvelous summations of the various highpoints in the city.  The book ends with a useful index and a collection of high quality maps.  Best of all, the book is amazingly compact and durable given the sheer mass of information it packages.  Unlike its competitors, it will never be an encumbrance because of its size.<br />I have not looked at any of the other DK Eyewitness Travel Guides, but this one is so gorgeous that it is definitely the series that I would look at first in any trip that I was contemplating making.  It is such a marvelous book that one could consult it with profit merely as a way of getting to know a city, even if one is not planning to travel there.	2003-06-20
1082189:US	52048190	R1RV9NHRBO57IM	2080110772	566546381	Paris In 500 Photos	Books	4	43	43	N	Y	Utterly magnificent photos with flawed paper covers	On the inside, this is simply the most beautiful collection of photographs of a major city that I have ever seen.  One would think that Paris would not be a major candidate for a new collection of photographs, but as familiar as it is, Subervie manages to make it look completely fresh and new, much in the same way that AMELIE made Paris look like an unfamiliar and eerily beautiful place.  If you take this book and look through the photographs with a map in hand, you can actually take a remote visual tour of Paris.  I love the way the book is organized, with the various sections of Paris grouped together.  I own several books of photographs of Paris, and this one easily laps the field.  The only problem I have with the contents of the book is the absence of an index.  The book contains a wealth of photographs, and just about every important structure in Paris is covered, but finding one in particular would have been greatly facilitated by an index.<br />I dock the book a star because of the experience I have had with the book's exterior.  It is a paperback, with nice, heavy-stock paper covers.  But they have placed a plastic film around the book's exterior, and for reasons I won't go into, I have found that most of the copies of the volume have problems with the plastic film peeling off.  This does not, of course, effect the contents of the book, but it is a shame that such an extraordinary book should suffer from poor jacket design.  As it stands now, you have this marvelous collection of photographs, with sizable portions of the covering peeling off.  I hope that the book sells out of its first printing and that the publisher will tweak the design to correct this problem.<br />Apart from that caveat, this is one of the most satisfying collections of photographs of a city that one is ever likely to find.	2003-06-19
1104702:US	52048190	R2KDWMT9CZJ2CD	0918684196	661514639	Above Paris: A New Collection of Aerial Photographs of Paris, France	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	A marvelously produced book of Paris from Above	This is a stellar exploration of Paris and its environs via aerial photographs. Armed with a map and this book, you can take a wonderful tour of Paris from a bird's-eye perspective, becoming familiar with the layout of the city, the location of the most famous spots in relation to other structures, and a feel for how the city is built around the various physical landmarks, including hills and the waterways. There is also a wealth of photographs from the surrounding areas of Paris.<br />The photographs are of the greatest imaginable clarity, with a wealth of detail in every picture. Although it is possible to flip through the book, the best approach is to take it and carefully study each picture, teasing out all the details that each one can reveal. I will confess that I have never been to Paris, but thanks to studying this as well as other books enabling one to study the layout of the city, I honestly believe that I could negotiate between the landmarks if I were suddenly plopped down in the center of the city.<br />I have only two complaints with the book. First, the first section of the book features both historical and modern views of the same areas. I would have liked to see a lot more of that. For me, these were by far the most interesting photos in the book, and I wouldn't have minded if this constituted the bulk of the book. Second, while the pictures are of the highest imaginable quality, most were taken from approximately the same elevation. If one compares the photographs here to those in Jan Morris's OVER EUROPE, you will find in the latter a much greater variation in elevation. In the Morris book, they were able to many instances to use a remote control balloon with a camera to get much, much lower than Cameron was in this volume. Pierre Salinger's intro details some of the difficulties they had in getting permission for low-level photographs. Minor quibbles, but I do believe that more variety in the book would have increased its attractiveness and value..	2003-05-31
1104709:US	52048190	R37VF01AKO25BR	3829060122	127402706	The French Millennium: 1000 Remarkable Years of Incident and Achievement	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A magnificent companion to a study of French history	Over the past year or two, one of my great discoveries has been any book produced by Nick Yapp from the Getty Collection.  In particular the two series that I have most enjoyed are the \\"Millennium\\" volumes and the \\"Decades\\" of the 20th century volumes.  These two series are incomparable in quality, interest, production, and, no small accomplishment, affordability.  the \\"Millennium\\"  contain a pictorial chronicle of each decade of the 20th Century, focusing primarily on England, France, Germany, and the United States.  These are the same four countries graced with volumes in the \\"Millennium\\" series.<br />THE FRENCH MILLENNIUM is an illustrated history of France from 1000-2000 A.D.  Usually, dubbing a volume as illustrated means that the extensive text has a number of reproductions of drawings, paintings, and photographs.  In this case, however, it means that the volume is a lavish collection of illustrations, with a small amount of accompanying text.  You would not want to read this volume as a primary resource for French history, but it is an absolutely magnificent companion volume for any study of French history.  Until the mid-19th century, most of the illustrations are etchings, drawings, tapestries, paintings, or engravings, but after that photographs dominate the volume.  Although there are a few photographs of buildings built before the 19th century, the focus seems primarily to stick with the representational media available at the time under discussion.<br />This is one of the better volumes in the \\"Millennium\\" series, certainly much better than the one on America, and marginally better in my opinion than the ones on England and Germany.  The volume on America is harmed by it having less \\"history\\" for the millennium than the other nations (there was Native American culture, but this culture from 1000-1500 has very little to illustrate pictorially).  But all four volumes in this series are extraordinary, and I give them all the strongest possible recommendation.on.	2003-05-31
1115095:US	52048190	R2OVF2Q0CUNFEQ	0375752196	702279087	In Search of Lost Time, Vol. II: Within a Budding Grove (Modern Library Classics) (v. 2)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The second volume in Proust's astonishing masterpiece	Upon finishing WITHIN A BUDDING GROVE, the reader will have been introduced to virtually all the major characters in IN SEARCH OF LOST TIME. Most importantly for later volumes, we meet and get to know Albertine, Robert de Saint-Loup, the painter Elstir, the diplomat Norpois, and Madame de Villeparasis, as well as a deepened acquaintance with such characters as Gilberte Swann, Madame Swann, and the extravagantly bizarre Baron de Charlus.<br />Proust's extraordinary genius is evident on every page of this amazing book. One could point to any of a few dozen moments to illustrate this. What is amazing to me about Proust is how he can take an amazingly everyday event, and build it to proportions as great as any battle scene in WAR AND PEACE. For instance, at the end of \\"Madame Swann at Home,\\" the narrator recounts the times he would wait at the Arc de Triomphe to take a walk with Madame Swann and her entourage. The ensuing eight or nine pages, which merely recount the group walking through Paris, become as majestic and epic as any scene in Homer or Virgil or Tolstoy. No scene would seem to contain less potential for greatness, yet Proust is able to make it something truly unique and beautiful. Or, to take another incident, have there been many incidents in literature as filled with passion and emotion and suspense as the Narrator's first attempt to kiss Albertine? In a mere two pages, Proust is about to pack a surreal amount of dramatic (and comic) action.<br />Although famous for containing at least part of both of the narrator's great love affairs, I find this novel even more fascinating for the extraordinary detailing of the myriad of social and class distinctions to be found in the seemingly infinitely varied French society. The great theme throughout the book, even when not specifically mentioned, is snobbism, and Proust owns the subject of snobbery as Homer owns that of war. Proust reveals snobbery primarily proceeding from those slightly lower on the social ladder. Ironically, he reveals those at the top guilty not of snobbery but of insolence and disdain, while not even his servant Franoise is innocent of being a snob. The tensions in the novel become particularly acute given the changes that were taking place in French society at the time. This theme is not restricted to this novel alone. It featured in SWANN'S WAY, especially in the attitudes of the Verdurin \\"faithful\\" and will be a major theme of ensuing volumes, especially THE GUERMANTES WAY.<br />The section of the novel recounting his getting to know Elstir contains perhaps my favorite passage in all of Proust, where Elstir, upon the narrator's learning something unflattering of Elstir's past, tells him that no one has not done things that they would not love to expunge, but that no one ought to despise this, because this is the only way one can truly become wise. \\"We do not receive wisdom, we must discover it for ourselves, after a journey through the wilderness which no one can else can make for us, which no one can spare, us, for our wisdom is the point of view from which we come at last to regard the world.\\" This is not merely the opinion of Proust's character: it could stand as the central meaning of the novel as a whole.r. Ironically, he reveals those at the top guilty not of snobbery but of insolence and disdain, while not even his servant Franoise is innocent of being a snob. The tensions in the novel become particularly acute given the changes that were taking place in French society at the time. This theme is not restricted to this novel alone. It featured in SWANN'S WAY, especially in the attitudes of the Verdurin \\"faithful\\" and will be a major theme of ensuing volumes, especially THE GUERMANTES WAY. <br />The section of the novel recounting his getting to know Elstir contains perhaps my favorite passage in all of Proust, where Elstir, upon the narrator's learning something unflattering of Elstir's past, tells him that no one has not done things that they would not love to expunge, but that no one ought to despise this, because this is the only way one can truly become wise. \\"We do not receive wisdom, we must discover it for ourselves, after a journey through the wilderness which no one can else can make for us, which no one can spare, us, for our wisdom is the point of view from which we come at last to regard the world.\\" This is not merely the opinion of Proust's character: it could stand as the central meaning of the novel as a whole.	2003-05-22
1117815:US	52048190	R2AOT60S6PO8Y2	0262025329	128350704	The  World of Proust, as seen by Paul Nadar	Books	5	26	26	N	Y	Wonderfully helpful background to reading Proust	This is must reading (or gazing) for any serious student of Proust's IN SEARCH OF LOST TIME.  Photographer Paul Nadar was a photographer for whom at one time or another virtually every member of Proust's social set and family sat for at one point or another.  The value of this volume for someone reading Proust is twofold:  allowing one to see high quality photographic reproductions of many of the actual models for Proust's characters, and providing a vivid picture of the way these people dressed, how they wore their hair, some of their cultural preoccupations, and what their favored accessories were.<br />I am not a fan of any method of reading Proust that degenerates into a study of Proust's life, that is more concerned with figuring out who the &quot;real&quot; Odette or Albertine or Saint-Loup was.  The &quot;real&quot; Odette was a fictional creation by a literary genius of the first rank, and she cannot be found in any of these photographs.  Not even in gazing at a photography of Robert de Montesquiou do we see Baron de Charlus, despite our knowledge that he was Proust's most important model for Charlus.  But looking at these photographs breaks down the distance between Proust's world and our own.  Odette may be based on several real life models, but it is helpful to know what the women that Proust knew looked like in forming our own mental picture of Odette or Gilberte or Oriane or Saint-Loup.  I also find it much easier to imagine visually Proust's world after seeing precisely how those members of his social set dressed.<br />The book also has a great deal to teach about portrait photography in late 19th and early 20th century Paris, at least in an upper class studio.  The range of photographs is fascinating, not merely in the posed photos with the subjects dressed in their finest clothes, but in the ones where various individuals appeared &quot;in costume.&quot;  This includes not merely a series of marvelous photographs of Sarah Bernhardt dressed as various characters, but men and especially women appearing in amateur theatricals.  One section features a many of the more celebrated individuals of the time whom Proust either met or loosely based some of his characters on, such as Bernhardt (La Berma), Anatole France (Bergotte), Faure (Vinteuil, though only musically), and Claude Monet (one of several models for Elstir).<br />Physically, the book resembles a well-produced art book, with a cloth binding, high quality paper, and the highest quality reproductions.  It is easily the most attractive book on Proust I have in my rather large collection of Proust titles.  Not just a great book on Proust, but a beautiful one as well.us characters, but men and especially women appearing in amateur theatricals.  One section features a many of the more celebrated individuals of the time whom Proust either met or loosely based some of his characters on, such as Bernhardt (La Berma), Anatole France (Bergotte), Faure (Vinteuil, though only musically), and Claude Monet (one of several models for Elstir).<br />Physically, the book resembles a well-produced art book, with a cloth binding, high quality paper, and the highest quality reproductions.  It is easily the most attractive book on Proust I have in my rather large collection of Proust titles.  Not just a great book on Proust, but a beautiful one as well.	2003-05-20
1127307:US	52048190	RNE88PJHZGOA2	0393321800	834359031	Proust's Way: A Field Guide to in Search of Lost Time	Books	5	24	25	N	N	One of the very best introductions to Proust available	Although there are several superb biographies to Proust in print, there are comparably few good introductory works. This book by Shattuck is likely the one that most sophisticated readers will profit by the most.<br />The book is rather loosely structured. It is arranged thematically, but there is not a lot of logic to the arrangement of the themes. For instance, there is no obvious reason for why the chapter on \\"Continuing Disputes\\" is placed where it is, or placed in the volume at all. It is one of the more interesting chapters in the book, but it is more a chapter in which a lot of rabbits are chased than any real issues introduced. In the end, the book is a somewhat rambling affair. The upshot in the end, however, is that Shattuck discusses virtually every theme in Proust.<br />There are two aspects of Shattuck's approach to Proust that I thoroughly applaud and that anyone coming to Proust for the first time should heartily embrace. First, he adamantly refuses to take the approach developed by Proust's great English-language biographer George Painter, and imitated by a host of his weaker readers, and treating IN SEARCH OF LOST TIME as material for finding all the real life models for Proust's characters. As one of his French readers has pointed out, one can read much of Proust's life into the SEARCH, but one cannot read much of life out of it. In the end, focusing on what character inspired who tends to take one away from the novel and back to a gossipy preoccupation with Proust's life. Shattuck simply refuses to do this. Secondly, Shattuck, although himself an academic, refuses to acknowledge that Proust is primarily the property of the academics. He eschews editions of Proust's text weighted down by largely unusable critical apparatuses. Likewise, while he writes in a highly literate fashion, he refuses to get bogged down in any of the more arcane literary debates concerning Proust.<br />Speaking of not focusing on Proust's biography in reading Proust, I would like to take issue with the reviewer who found fault with Shattuck's tacit acceptance of the Narrator's affair with Albertine being a heterosexual one, and for three reasons.  First, the reviewer assumes in making that statement that a reading that takes as primary the real-life sources of Proust's characters.  The problem with this approach is that it overlooks the fact that it is a work of literature, and Proust did not leave his real life sources alone, but remolded them into fiction.  Proust composed Albertine as a female, and a quite convincing one at that.  Unless one happens to know that Albertine is modeled on several homosexual relationships, one isn't likely to think of the Albertine affair as a homosexual one.  Second, \\"Albertine\\" is not based on any single, or on just a couple, of primary characters.  For instance, Proust wrote many of the Albertine sections before meeting Alfred Agostinelli (commonly regarded as the most significant model for \\"Albertine\\"), who caused him to expand the character and the plot.  Third, many present day readers don't seem to realize that Proust completely feminized homosexual relationships.  At no place does he conceive homosexual affairs in current terms, as two males engaged in an affectionate relationship.  In all Proust's affairs, one of the two involved took the \\"female\\" role.  Likewise, throughout his work, he views male-female love as basic, with one or other of the male participants in an \\"inverted\\" relationship (his term) substituting for a female.d like to take issue with the reviewer who found fault with Shattuck's tacit acceptance of the Narrator's affair with Albertine being a heterosexual one, and for three reasons.  First, the reviewer assumes in making that statement that a reading that takes as primary the real-life sources of Proust's characters.  The problem with this approach is that it overlooks the fact that it is a work of literature, and Proust did not leave his real life sources alone, but remolded them into fiction.  Proust composed Albertine as a female, and a quite convincing one at that.  Unless one happens to know that Albertine is modeled on several homosexual relationships, one isn't likely to think of the Albertine affair as a homosexual one.  Second, \\"Albertine\\" is not based on any single, or on just a couple, of primary characters.  For instance, Proust wrote many of the Albertine sections before meeting Alfred Agostinelli (commonly regarded as the most significant model for \\"Albertine\\"), who caused him to expand the character and the plot.  Third, many present day readers don't seem to realize that Proust completely feminized homosexual relationships.  At no place does he conceive homosexual affairs in current terms, as two males engaged in an affectionate relationship.  In all Proust's affairs, one of the two involved took the \\"female\\" role.  Likewise, throughout his work, he views male-female love as basic, with one or other of the male participants in an \\"inverted\\" relationship (his term) substituting for a female.	2003-05-12
1129081:US	52048190	R31NPY70LAT5ED	0140440860	249230335	Against Nature: A New Translation of `A Rebours' (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	16	20	N	Y	Despite the absurd central character, essential reading	In the early 21st century, the primary reason for reading this unusual novel is historical:  it exerted a phenomenal influence on the taste of late 19th century France and England.  Although there is good reason to suspect that Huysmans's considered Des Esseintes a rather farcical creature, hordes of young aesthetes took his literary and artistic judgments with the utmost seriousness, apparently not noticing that his \\"experiment in living\\" was an abject failure.<br />One reason for many to read this book is the fact that the primary model for the character of Des Esseintes was the mildly notorious Robert de Montesquiou, who had the distinction of having been the inspiration for two memorable characters in French fiction.  His portrait, in fact, adorns the cover of the Penguin Classics edition.  Comte de Montesquiou also was the model for the memorable Baron de Charlus in Proust's IN SEARCH OF LOST TIME.<br />One of the important cultural functions that A REBOURS played in late 20th century France and Britain (it exerted virtually no influence in Germany or the United States) was to provide a laundry list of what was cool and what was not for the would be effete dandy.  As a result, Baudelaire, Mallarme, Poe, Wagner, Redon, Moreau, Pascal, Schopenhauer, medieval sacred music, exotic flowers, artifice, affectation, and various and sundry similar artists and items made the cut, while Beethoven, Kant, Balzac, natural beauty, the social virtues, love, and a host of other seemingly worthwhile beings and ideas did not.<br />What is astonishing is how many people take Huysmans seriously, while he himself certainly intended this as a bit of a joke.  Des Esseintes is, on any conceivable standard, a bore and a fool.  His pretensions, his self-indulgence, his all-consuming narcissism cannot possibly be used as the basis of a life philosophy, and the vast bulk of his cultural pontifications are borderline absurd.  His misanthropy is so extreme that it is impossible to have the slightest degree of sympathy with him.  The complete revulsion when he sees the face of another human being is obviously intended to be comic in its effect.  When, at the end of the book, his project to live completely apart from all others ends in failure, Huysmans clearly means this as a practical judgment on such foolery.  The effect from beginning to end is meant to be satirical and comical.  That so many took it seriously is nearly as funny.  Huysmans's himself lived a life completely antithetical to that of Des Esseintes's, working his entire adult life in a government ministry, a career bureaucrat.  And there is no indication that he would have liked to trade places with Des Esseintes.<br />The book is, however, quite fascinating.  One would imagine it nearly impossible to write a 200-page novel that dispenses almost entirely with plot and instead details the rather silly and self-indulgent judgments about everything.  It is not an easy read.  I fought hard the temptation to skip three or four pages at a shot.  His long, drawn out discussions of completely forgotten and minor figures lead to unpleasant reading, and even the discussions of famous and well known figures are scarcely better.  Some eccentric details are marvelous, such as Des Esseintes's insistent that his female servant don a nun's costume when she goes to the shed in the back, to preserve the illusion that he is in a monastery, or the ship's dining room that he has built inside his regular dining room.slightest degree of sympathy with him.  The complete revulsion when he sees the face of another human being is obviously intended to be comic in its effect.  When, at the end of the book, his project to live completely apart from all others ends in failure, Huysmans clearly means this as a practical judgment on such foolery.  The effect from beginning to end is meant to be satirical and comical.  That so many took it seriously is nearly as funny.  Huysmans's himself lived a life completely antithetical to that of Des Esseintes's, working his entire adult life in a government ministry, a career bureaucrat.  And there is no indication that he would have liked to trade places with Des Esseintes.<br />The book is, however, quite fascinating.  One would imagine it nearly impossible to write a 200-page novel that dispenses almost entirely with plot and instead details the rather silly and self-indulgent judgments about everything.  It is not an easy read.  I fought hard the temptation to skip three or four pages at a shot.  His long, drawn out discussions of completely forgotten and minor figures lead to unpleasant reading, and even the discussions of famous and well known figures are scarcely better.  Some eccentric details are marvelous, such as Des Esseintes's insistent that his female servant don a nun's costume when she goes to the shed in the back, to preserve the illusion that he is in a monastery, or the ship's dining room that he has built inside his regular dining room.	2003-05-10
1145810:US	52048190	RORM1VHQMYV4H	0500201250	807033433	Symbolist Art (World of Art)	Books	4	18	19	N	Y	Helpful overview to an underrated and neglected movement	This is a highly readable, clearly written, and extremely well illustrated introduction to the Symbolist Art movement that flourished primarily in France and England in the latter half of the 19th century.<br />Edward Lucie-Smith argues the Symbolism is the artistic movement that makes sense of the transition from the Romantics of the early 19th century to the Modernism that arose in the early 20th.  All too often in the retelling of the history of art, the Symbolists get left out entirely, or at least are not considered as a movement, unlike the much better known and more highly celebrated Impressionists.  Yet, there are some very good reasons for anyone interested in late 19th century culture in the wider sense to know more about the Symbolists.  For one thing, the movement produced a number of very interesting painters, including Bourne-Jones, Moreau, Rossetti, and others.  In addition, other artists not primarily considered Symbolists had close ties to them, especially Gaugin.  A number of painters coming after Symbolism were very much influenced by the movement, including Franz Marc, Munch, Klimt, and the young Picasso through the Blue Period.<br />This last alone would be sufficient to reconsider their work, but Symbolism, unlike Impressionism, was a movement that extended well beyond painting and sculpture to include poetry and literature.  In fact, the number of literary artists influenced by Symbolism far outstrips those working in the arts.  Not merely Huysmans, but Yeats, Valery, Joyce, Eliot, Mallarme, and Proust were all indebted to one degree or other to Symbolist themes or concerns.	2003-04-25
1146028:US	52048190	R2O8TKO1P38OKZ	0375751548	674102062	In Search of Lost Time: Swann's Way, Vol. 1	Books	5	102	104	N	N	One of the great masterworks of world literature	We apply &quot;classic&quot; and &quot;masterpiece&quot; too liberally, but regardless of how loosely or strictly we deploy the terms, Marcel's Proust's extraordinary novel belongs to the shortest of short lists deserving such description.  At the risk of hyperbole (though I do not thing it is hyperbolic), Proust is the one writer of the 20th century who perhaps belongs to the ages more than to his own time, who belongs with Shakespeare and Dante and Homer.<br />Many are put off Proust by not understanding the structure of his work and his writing strategy.  The book, to many, seems to have no point and no plot.  The novel actually does have a plot, albeit a simple and not easy to discern one:  Will the narrator (usually termed &quot;Marcel&quot;) become a writer?  Through seven long volumes, we watch Marcel variously resolve to write and then forsake his resolve, we see him even forget for enormous lengths of time his intent to write.  Through love affairs, through events with his friends, through reflections on all matter of subjects and experiences of every kind, Marcel finally comes in the final volume to rediscover his vocation and the subject of his work.<br />This first volume in the series contains many of the most famous episodes in all of Proust.  The famous passage in which the Narrator tells of his not being able to fall asleep as a child is found in the first pages.  The most famous section in all of Proust, that of his eating as an adult a madeleine that first creates an inexplicable sense of joy and then engenders a plethora of involuntary memories of his childhood, is also found in this volume.  The second half is the remarkable story of &quot;Swann in Love,&quot; in which family friend Charles Swann falls in love, much to his surprise, with the courtesan Odette.<br />This first volume glitters for the same reason that subsequent volumes do:  Proust's remarkable sentences, in which he heaps phrase upon apt phrase on top of a carefully concealed central idea; Proust's extraordinarily complex, interesting, believable, and brilliant characters (I personally think he handles character better than any other author); and the wonderful passion and sensibility that permeates every page.<br />I will end with a piece of advice:  Proust, more than any writer I know, gives back as much as you point into him.  If you expend a great deal of effort in working through his masterpiece, you will be comparably rewarded.  If, on the other hand, you pick up SWANN'S WAY casually, expecting a relaxed, entertaining read, you will be profoundly disappointed.  But if you approach him with an open mind, a great deal of patience, and a willingness to work your way carefully through each sentence, you just might believe this to be the most remarkable thing you have ever read.central idea; Proust's extraordinarily complex, interesting, believable, and brilliant characters (I personally think he handles character better than any other author); and the wonderful passion and sensibility that permeates every page.  <br />I will end with a piece of advice:  Proust, more than any writer I know, gives back as much as you point into him.  If you expend a great deal of effort in working through his masterpiece, you will be comparably rewarded.  If, on the other hand, you pick up SWANN'S WAY casually, expecting a relaxed, entertaining read, you will be profoundly disappointed.  But if you approach him with an open mind, a great deal of patience, and a willingness to work your way carefully through each sentence, you just might believe this to be the most remarkable thing you have ever read.	2003-04-25
1146079:US	52048190	R14M2XMCRIO4O	0679722017	242844793	The Selected Poetry of Rainer Maria Rilke: Bilingual Edition (English and German Edition)	Books	5	63	65	N	N	My favorite collection of Rilke's verse in English	Over the years I have owned and read a number of translations of Rilke's verse.  I find this superb volume translated by Stephen Mitchell to be both the best selection of his poetry and the finest translation.  Take nearly any of the poems in this volume and set it beside a competing translation, and the Mitchell version is both more poetic and more in keeping with the spirit of Rilke.<br />This volume collections all of the Duino Elegies, and generous portions of the various collections, including a fair number of the Sonnets to Orpheus.  For most, this will be the only edition of Rilke's verse that they will need.<br />These are some great, great poems.  Apart from the Duino Elegies, I believe my favorites would include the amazing &quot;Archaic Torso of Apollo,&quot; in which the poet becomes so entranced studying the statue that it proclaims to him in closing, &quot;You must change your life.&quot;  &quot;The Panther&quot; is without any question one of the most haunting poems of the twentieth century, with its building sense of some great revelation, only to end with the expected image plunging into the heart and disappearing.  My favorite poem in the collection, however, may be one from the UNCOLLECTED POEMS, the amazing &quot;You Who Never Arrived,&quot; in which the poet muses on all the occasions upon which he and his beloved never met (Rilke's belief was that we are destined never to meet our true love), but nevertheless perhaps came tantalizing close.  For instance, he walks into a shop from which she has just left, where the &quot;mirrors are still dizzy with your presence.&quot;  He ends his musings, &quot;Who knows? perhaps the same/bird echoed through both of us/yesterday, separate, in the evening . . . &quot;<br />This is an essential volume for any lover of great poetry.  I can't recommend this highly enough.	2003-04-25
1168238:US	52048190	R3A2XMD77XJ0RB	B000034DHB	674102062	Swann's Way	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A shockingly good audio version of Proust	I have to admit that I was extremely dubious about how good an audio version of Proust could be.  After all, this is the man who has mastered the full-page sentence, and it didn't seem possible to me that he could be digestible off the printed page.  I was wrong.  In fact, I am now of the opinion that Proust deserves to be read aloud.  I was aware before of Proust's highly developed sense of humor, but I had never before realized how wry and all pervasive it was.  Now, upon returning to the printed version of the novels, I am aware as never before of the humorous and emotional nuances of the book.<br />The novel succeeds as an audio book for a couple of reasons.  For one thing, the editors of the reading script did a masterful job of paring away the longer and more difficult sentences that would have merely confused a listener (not that they are always immediately accessible to a reader).  We are told that approximately half of the complete text of the novel is read aloud.  But the parts that are read do a marvelous job of distilling he content and the spirit of the entire work.  Another reason the work succeeds so well is stellar job that Neville Jason does in rendering the novel orally.  Despite the host of characters, he manages to give each one their own distinct flavor, without engaging in vocal gymnastics.  His reading is as tasteful as one can imagine.<br />I would not recommend this audio version replacing a reading of Proust, but I think it can be of enormous service in two ways.  First, one can listen to the novel as an introduction to Proust.  Second, it can serve as a refresher course for those who have read the novel and would like to reexpose themselves to it, but without taking the considerable time to read the entire work.  I listened to all this on my walk to work for a few weeks, and I'm sure others can find ways to fit such a work into their schedule in interesting ways.<br />There is one other truly useful function this version can perform.  For those of us without French, it is of enormous benefit to hear the various names--both of people and places--read aloud by someone skilled in the pronunciation.  I'm sure my accent would horrify anyone who speaks French, but I at least can hear in my mind how each name should be pronounced, even if I cannot master it aloud.r those of us without French, it is of enormous benefit to hear the various names--both of people and places--read aloud by someone skilled in the pronunciation.  I'm sure my accent would horrify anyone who speaks French, but I at least can hear in my mind how each name should be pronounced, even if I cannot master it aloud.	2003-04-06
1168509:US	52048190	R3G14YQTG7U795	0140244867	55568030	Small World	Books	5	16	18	N	N	A delightful novel on the underwritten subject of academia	SMALL WORLD easily takes its place among the very finest books ever written about academia.  This provokes the question:  Why are there so few novels, good or bad, on the world of higher education?  A huge number of novelists and writers have attended graduate school, many are themselves teachers or professors, and yet the number of first-rate books covering the world of scholars are rare.  Off the top of my head, I can think of Kinsley Amis's LUCKY JIM, A. S. Byatt's POSSESSION, John Barth's GILES GOAT BOY, Robertson Davies CORNISH TRILOGY, and several other novels by David Lodge, including the prequel to SMALL WORLD, CHANGING PLACES.  I should also add Malcolm Bradbury's THE HISTORY MAN and magnificent parody MY STRANGE QUEST FOR MENSONGE.  Many novels have characters attending college or university at some point, but as a whole it is a genre that is underrepresented.<br />Even if novels on academic life were plentiful, this one would stand out.  Lodge has written many superb books, but this one just may be his best.  It was also one of the first to be widely available in the US.  I still remember vividly in the 1980s having to search out Penguin editions published in Canada because he was largely unavailable in the US.<br />The novel features some of the characters we came to know in CHANGING PLACES, including Philip Swallow and Morris Zapp, and takes place to a large extent at a number of academic conferences.  Although a first-hand acquaintance with higher education isn't a prerequisite, anyone who has been to graduate school or taught will find a host of familiar characters and situation.  Lodge magnificently lampoons the intellectual posturing and gamesmanship that fills the small world of the scholar.  The novel manages to be both accurate and quite funny at the same time.<br />At one point in my life, I worked in a number of bookstores.  One of my happier experiences was to have been employed at a campus bookstore in Chicago during Lodge's first reading tour of the United States (I believe this was around 1990).  I was happy to spend some time with him along with other employees before his reading, and I remember his being so surprised that so many in the US had read his work, given the difficulty at the time of getting his novels in the states.  He was an enormously pleasant person, and he gave a fine reading from NICE WORK.  A final word on that:  many speak of NICE WORK as being the final novel in a trilogy.  I have trouble with that.  CHANGING PLACES and SMALL WORLD feature many common characters, none of whom reappear in NICE WORK.  Fans of the first two may be disappointed to find that NICE WORK, as fine as it is, does not continue the story of the other two novels.r of the United States (I believe this was around 1990).  I was happy to spend some time with him along with other employees before his reading, and I remember his being so surprised that so many in the US had read his work, given the difficulty at the time of getting his novels in the states.  He was an enormously pleasant person, and he gave a fine reading from NICE WORK.  A final word on that:  many speak of NICE WORK as being the final novel in a trilogy.  I have trouble with that.  CHANGING PLACES and SMALL WORLD feature many common characters, none of whom reappear in NICE WORK.  Fans of the first two may be disappointed to find that NICE WORK, as fine as it is, does not continue the story of the other two novels.	2003-04-06
1171458:US	52048190	R180GNCSAGWXXG	0312282990	383312801	The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A delightful novel that will appeal to all kinds of readers	When there have been over 350 reviews of a novel, there is going to be very little original that any reviewer can add. Let me focus on just a couple of questions that some prospective readers might have. Before doing that, let me emphasize what a delightful read this novel is! It is a bona fide page-turner, and despite its comparative bulk (over 600 pages), it is a very, very quick read.<br />Despite the fact that the first several people who praised this novel to me were women, I have had some other women who are friends of mine say they wouldn't want to read it because it was about comic books, and comic books are, well . . . a guy thing. I have heard similar comments uttered about the novel I consider the best written in English in the past ten years, Don Delillo's UNDERWORLD, because it is centered on the question of what happened to the most famous baseball in history. In neither case will the superficial subject matter get in the way of the enjoyment of the volume.<br />This novel will especially delight anyone who is a fan of popular culture in the 20th century. The novel simply drips with a host of cultural references, whether it is talking about other comic book artists or cartoonists like George Herriman or Winsor McCay or actors and actresses or radio personalities or athletes. Reading the novel is frequently like entering a time capsule.<br />Luckily, the novel is much more than a collection of cultural artifacts. The central characters are all memorable, and many of the minor characters are superb. The novel's shifting locales are unexpectedly memorable without ringing at all false. If the novel has any flaws (and it is so enjoyable that they are easily forgiven), it is that the central symbolism of escape is all a bit too obvious. But while the many variations of \\"escape\\" are made obvious, as well as the concomitant theme of the difficulty of escaping from oneself, it isn't done in heavy-handed fashion.<br />All in all, a great, fun read. I suspect it was the success of this wonderful novel that led to Michael Chabon's being asked to write the script for SPIDERMAN II. The cartoon stories he writes in this novel are superb, and even though a novelist, he seems to understand the logic of the comics in thoroughly insightful fashion.it was the success of this wonderful novel that led to Michael Chabon's being asked to write the script for SPIDERMAN II. The cartoon stories he writes in this novel are superb, and even though a novelist, he seems to understand the logic of the comics in thoroughly insightful fashion.	2003-04-03
1183508:US	52048190	R2IVBITIQVTH0B	0195144554	599906713	Gabriel Garca Mrquez's One Hundred Years of Solitude: A Casebook (Casebooks in Criticism)	Books	4	22	22	N	N	Helpful, but like so many anthologies, uneven	This book cannot fail to be of use to anyone trying to gain a fuller understanding of Garc&iacute;a M&aacute;rquez's ONE HUNDRED YEARS OF SOLITUDE.  Although not useless to advanced readers, the collection is explicitly targeted at readers approaching the text for the first time.  I imagine they had this in mind as a college text to accompany the novel.<br />Anthologies are almost always uneven, with some essays justifying the cost of the book, and others that seem to either muddy the water or just waste one's time.  This collection is no exception.  Several of the essays are superb.  In general, as the editor acknowledges in the Introduction, the clearest, most helpful essays are those by scholars working in Great Britain.  The least helpful are those scholars--either American or Latin American--in the grips of literary theory.  One of the essays is so densely written that nearly the entire piece consists of buzz words from cultural studies and comparative literature.  I can't imagine many college level readers having the background to penetrate such an essay, while many advanced scholars will recognize that such an essay covers up lack of content by an excess of lingo.<br />Nonetheless, by picking and choosing, one will gain a great deal of help in reading Garc&iacute;a M&aacute;rquez's great novel.  There is a good deal of helpful biographical and historical information, as well as a number of excellent critical pieces analyzing various aspects of the book.  I found the essays in the first two thirds of the book to be more helpful than those in the last third, with some exceptions in each section.<br />And yes, the font is small, but I didn't have the trouble reading the book that the first reviewer had.	2003-03-24
1197420:US	52048190	R1J0MMTG1MS7VG	0060929790	795338322	One Hundred Years of Solitude	Books	5	34	34	N	N	One of the landmark works of literature of the 20th century	This remarkable novel had been on my \\"Must Read Soon\\" list for nearly twenty years, and with some shame I admit that I only recently got around to it.  What a stunning masterpiece this is!  I had read LOVE IN A TIME OF CHOLERA shortly after it appeared in English translation, and enjoyed it immensely, but as excellent as that was, it in no way prepared me for this amazing book.  Garc&iacute;a M&aacute;rquez's virtuosity is apparent on every page, assembling a vast array of improbable and unusual elements and blending them together to produce something utterly unique.  He reminds me of those jugglers in a circus who spin plates on sticks, balancing them on every conceivable part of their body.  Garc&iacute;a M&aacute;rquez brings in such disparate elements that one can't imagine that he will manage to be able to keep all his plates up in the air.  Remarkably, he does.<br />ONE HUNDRED YEARS OF SOLITUDE is the novel we most frequently associate with Magical Realism.  It is impossible to think of this book without referring to \\"magic,\\" but the magic has as much to do with Garc&iacute;a M&aacute;rquez's astonishing mastery of his material as it does with the extraordinary events that occur in the novel.  In the hands of a lesser writer, this could have been a dreadful novel.  Even a very good writer could be given a Cliff Notes summary of the book, and be asked to produce their own version, and produce a literary horror.  The material is difficult, but Garc&iacute;a M&aacute;rquez works it with a phenomenally deft touch, crafting it as superbly as Colonel Aureliano does his tiny gold fish.  What is as unlikely is the way that he continuously introduces one supernatural element-a woman ascending to heaven while folding sheets, four years of rain followed by ten years of drought, a woman so sensual that her lovemaking causes livestock to reproduce at an usually fecund pace, a priest who levitates when drinking hot chocolate-after another without each new miracle seeming stale or losing its effect.<br />The novel differs from most modern novels in that it does not contain in depth analyses of the  characters.  In fact, the characters aren't in general realistic characters at all.  They function more like archetypes, and are sharply divided by gender.  Men tend to act in the public arena, while women are guardians of the home and have it as their realm of influence.  But not even the more fully drawn characters in the novel, such as Colonel Aureliano or his mother Ursula, emerge as full blown characters as in most serious novels in the 20th century.  Nor is there a tightly constructed plot.  Rather, the novel consists of a series of remarkable, fantastical collection of events and characters centered on a particular South American town.  Some readers I know who want in depth, realistic characters have found the novel disappointing.  But I have trouble accepting that a novel can take only one form.<br />One could easily make the case that this is the most influential novel of the past forty years.  It has had a profound influence not only in the Latin American world, but on writers in virtually every culture in the world.  It has achieved a remarkable success in countries as disparate as Japan, Russia, the United States, and the various European nations.  It is widely read in Africa and has been embraced in the Arab world as a modern day version of the Arabian Nights.  The novel enjoys as close as one can find to universal appeal of any work of the past half century.  My belief is that its success is merited and that it is one of the most remarkable novels that one can find.ers from most modern novels in that it does not contain in depth analyses of the  characters.  In fact, the characters aren't in general realistic characters at all.  They function more like archetypes, and are sharply divided by gender.  Men tend to act in the public arena, while women are guardians of the home and have it as their realm of influence.  But not even the more fully drawn characters in the novel, such as Colonel Aureliano or his mother Ursula, emerge as full blown characters as in most serious novels in the 20th century.  Nor is there a tightly constructed plot.  Rather, the novel consists of a series of remarkable, fantastical collection of events and characters centered on a particular South American town.  Some readers I know who want in depth, realistic characters have found the novel disappointing.  But I have trouble accepting that a novel can take only one form.  <br />One could easily make the case that this is the most influential novel of the past forty years.  It has had a profound influence not only in the Latin American world, but on writers in virtually every culture in the world.  It has achieved a remarkable success in countries as disparate as Japan, Russia, the United States, and the various European nations.  It is widely read in Africa and has been embraced in the Arab world as a modern day version of the Arabian Nights.  The novel enjoys as close as one can find to universal appeal of any work of the past half century.  My belief is that its success is merited and that it is one of the most remarkable novels that one can find.	2003-03-12
1234792:US	52048190	RD2HAW6F94HJQ	0465001769	492085239	What Liberal Media?: The Truth About Bias and the News	Books	5	127	182	N	N	Intelligent, insightful, and meticulously researched	No myth in American political life has a more successful and less founded life than what Eric Alterman calls the myth of the So-Call Liberal Media (SCLM). That myth is the subject of this exceptionally researched, well-documented, and articulately written book. Unfortunately--though I hope I am wrong--the myth is so well entrenched at this point that I fear that this book will not get nearly the attention that such wretchedly written screes as Ann Coulter's SLANDER (the most ironically titled book in publishing history, given its rampant disregard of facts) and Goldberg's BIAS (with his bizarre obsession with Dan Rather and scant concrete documentation).<br />Alterman examines charges of liberal bias in the media in two ways. First, he looks at charges of liberal bias in specific media. For instance, he examines television, print journalists, radio and the Internet, and contemporary intellectual life. In all these, with varying degrees, he finds instead of a liberal bias, a very strong conservative bias, especially in newspapers, radio, and television. He then goes on to examine charges of liberal bias in covering a variety of topics. He discusses charges of social and economic bias, before going go to analyze the media's coverage of the Clinton administration, the 2000 election, the Florida recount, and George W. Bush.<br />One of the more surprising things that Alterman shows is the fact that a large number of conservative members of the media understand that the myth of the liberal media is utterly false. He also shows many of the reasons the Right has been so successful in promulgating this myth. One reason is clearly the conservative tilt of many of the media moguls. The hyper conservative Rupert Murdoch, for instance, owns Fox News, the Weekly Standard, and the New York Post, three bastions for an ultra right wing reporting of the news. Given the fact that reporting the news is big business, and big business is almost uniformly conservative, it is not surprising that almost all the broadcast media is not only not willing to report any story from a liberal perspective but also hesitant to run any story the least bit critical of the Right. This was the most depressing part of the book for me, because it engendered in me a fear that his is not a temporary, but a permanent situation. With the reporting of the news more and more in the hands of only a few news moguls, all of them conservative if not reactionary, will we ever see a time where a balanced perspective on current events is the norm?<br />My lone complaint with the book is his failure to provide an historical analysis of the claim of liberal bias. While I completely agree that any claim that the media today is biased towards the left laughably absurd, I would have liked some analysis of whether that was ever a credible charge. The stereotype is that the New York Times and Washington Post are heavily skewed towards a liberal perspective. With supposed liberals like the hawkish Thomas Friedman beating the war drums against Iraq, and the New York Times editorial pages filled with conservatives (the only person I see consistently writing from a liberal perspective there is Paul Krugman, although Maureen Dowd frequently writes from a liberal position), I am not sure how any reasonable person could continue to hold that position. But was it true in 1968? Was it ever true? I would have liked a bit more discussion of this aspect. Apart from that small cavil, this is an absolutely first rate book. Hopefully it will occasion some public outcry about the lack of balance in the media today.sing that almost all the broadcast media is not only not willing to report any story from a liberal perspective but also hesitant to run any story the least bit critical of the Right. This was the most depressing part of the book for me, because it engendered in me a fear that his is not a temporary, but a permanent situation. With the reporting of the news more and more in the hands of only a few news moguls, all of them conservative if not reactionary, will we ever see a time where a balanced perspective on current events is the norm? <br />My lone complaint with the book is his failure to provide an historical analysis of the claim of liberal bias. While I completely agree that any claim that the media today is biased towards the left laughably absurd, I would have liked some analysis of whether that was ever a credible charge. The stereotype is that the New York Times and Washington Post are heavily skewed towards a liberal perspective. With supposed liberals like the hawkish Thomas Friedman beating the war drums against Iraq, and the New York Times editorial pages filled with conservatives (the only person I see consistently writing from a liberal perspective there is Paul Krugman, although Maureen Dowd frequently writes from a liberal position), I am not sure how any reasonable person could continue to hold that position. But was it true in 1968? Was it ever true? I would have liked a bit more discussion of this aspect. Apart from that small cavil, this is an absolutely first rate book. Hopefully it will occasion some public outcry about the lack of balance in the media today.	2003-02-09
1234829:US	52048190	R29AGDGMZ2QH02	0140178244	389297184	Cadillac Desert: The American West and Its Disappearing Water, Revised Edition	Books	5	8	10	N	Y	An essential book for understanding modern American life	The late Marc Reisner's brilliant and epic history of the struggles over water in the American West is an epic tale, and it is replete with heroes, villains, and victims. Unfortunately, most of the heroes appear early in the story, with mainly villains onstage at the end. Reisner begins his book with a recounting of the exploration and study of the West by several pioneers, but especially by John Wesley Powell, who understood the essential and unavoidable problems of the West earlier and better than anyone. Powell understood that the West was arid, most of it receiving far less water than needed to support either agriculture or livestock. His visionary and yet profoundly practical suggestions were largely rejected by the United States, setting the stage for much of the overdevelopment and exploitation in the twentieth century.<br />From Powell, Reisner carries his narrative through such vivid personalities and events as William Mulholland, who pioneered water works to provide Los Angeles with water; Michael Strauss, the head of the Bureau of Reclamation for FDR, during which time the bureau built literally hundreds of dams; and the infamous Floyd Dominy, who manages to be both charismatic and scary at the same time, like a James Bond villain. He also takes the reader through some of the more spectacular water projects in US history, such as the building of the Hoover Dam and the Grand Coulee Dam, in addition to scores of massive water projects for various states in the US. He also devotes a great deal of space to the struggles between the Bureau of Reclamation and the US Army Corps of Engineers, and the resulting economic disaster that resulted.<br />Reisner shows in excruciating detail how America has stretched its use of water in the West to the breaking point. For many in the West, water has been the key to an expanding economy and population, to the point where most of the water states are completely dependent on maintaining or even expanding their current water supply. But, as Reisner shows and Powell anticipated, there are inescapable limits to how much water can be provided to the West. Moreover, much of the water use is resulting in ecological disaster. It isn't just that some of the dams are dangerous (such as the Teton Dam, which ruptured and broke some years ago, and which is not too different from other dams currently in use), or that many of the dams are destined to silt up (in fact, most dams, as Reisner points out, are built with a specific lifespan in mind, which means that thousands of American dams will at some point need replacing), or hundred of wildlife habitats have been destroyed. Most of the dams have led to irrigation farming, which has throughout history led to the destruction of soil, like in Iraq, where nearly all the arable soil has been destroyed through irrigation.<br />This is a sobering, frightening book, and one would hope that it would help lead to a renewed effort to bring Western water policy in line with the facts that John Wesley Powell outlined over a hundred years ago. Eventually, we will have to face these facts. Hopefully we will do so before catastrophe forces it upon us.r supply. But, as Reisner shows and Powell anticipated, there are inescapable limits to how much water can be provided to the West. Moreover, much of the water use is resulting in ecological disaster. It isn't just that some of the dams are dangerous (such as the Teton Dam, which ruptured and broke some years ago, and which is not too different from other dams currently in use), or that many of the dams are destined to silt up (in fact, most dams, as Reisner points out, are built with a specific lifespan in mind, which means that thousands of American dams will at some point need replacing), or hundred of wildlife habitats have been destroyed. Most of the dams have led to irrigation farming, which has throughout history led to the destruction of soil, like in Iraq, where nearly all the arable soil has been destroyed through irrigation. <br />This is a sobering, frightening book, and one would hope that it would help lead to a renewed effort to bring Western water policy in line with the facts that John Wesley Powell outlined over a hundred years ago. Eventually, we will have to face these facts. Hopefully we will do so before catastrophe forces it upon us.	2003-02-09
1238928:US	52048190	RTM6PSMVPQMV0	014044274X	151739643	The Betrothed: I Promessi Sposi (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	186	189	N	N	One of the very greatest historical novels ever written	Allesandro Manzoni's THE BETROTHED is rightfully considered one of the great novels in Italian history, if not the greatest. It is also one of the greatest historical novels ever written. Manzoni magnificently blends together a score of memorable characters with a string of vividly rendered historical events to provide an epic story of frustrated lovers in Italy during the Thirty Years Wars in the early 17th century when the state of Milan was occupied by the Spanish Habsburgs. The result is a great story placed against the background of a turbulent period in Italian history. The choice of that period of time is fascinating in itself. Instead of dealing with one of the more glorious periods of Italian history, such as the 15th or 16th centuries, Manzoni chose the relatively undistinguished 17th, during a time when much of Italy suffered under foreign rule, while many of the other city states were in a period of decline.<br />Few novels that I know deal with historical topics as magnificently as this one. One has to go to a writer like Tolstoy to find scenes as memorable as the tremendous scene in the Lazaretto in which Fra Cristoforo admonishes Renzo for his desire for revenge, with thousands of people dying of the plague surrounding them. Nearly as powerful is Manzoni's masterful depiction of the bread riots in Milan or the way he describes the progress of the German army in its passage through the region on its way to Mantua. Although one hardly reads the novel for the history lessons it provides, one learns an unusually large amount.<br />I am a bit perplexed as the criticism that the novel contains too much in the way of Christian redemption in the latter part of the novel. Of course it does. As much as an historical novel, THE BETROTHED is a religious novel, in which Manzoni in his own way tries to justify the ways of God to men. If one compares the novel to the historical works of someone like Hugo or other French historical novelists, one will be struck by the sharp divergence in the depiction of the Church and the clergy. In France, an anti-clericalism characterizes many or most of the novels. Manzoni is much more balanced. Some of his religious figures, such as the Nun of Moanza or the Lecco parish priest, are either ridiculous or treacherous, but by and large the great heroes in his book are either monks (Fra Cristoforo), clerics (the Cardinal), or converts (the Unnamed). The theme of the novel is a religious one: \\"All things work together for good for those that love God.\\" Given the central theme of the novel, the religious themes are not an unwanted accretion, added on arbitrarily by an author otherwise summoning up a tremendous yarn, but integral to the novel as a whole.  To dampen or eliminate the religious themes would have been to make it into another novel entirely.<br />Most of all, THE BETROTHED is just a flat out great story. Separated lovers, devious villains, mysterious figures: who wouldn't fall for all this? Manzoni is a masterful storyteller, and frequently one is left with a powerful impatience to know what is going to happen next. Anyone looking for a great novel could hardly hope to do better than this great masterpiece.e sharp divergence in the depiction of the Church and the clergy. In France, an anti-clericalism characterizes many or most of the novels. Manzoni is much more balanced. Some of his religious figures, such as the Nun of Moanza or the Lecco parish priest, are either ridiculous or treacherous, but by and large the great heroes in his book are either monks (Fra Cristoforo), clerics (the Cardinal), or converts (the Unnamed). The theme of the novel is a religious one: \\"All things work together for good for those that love God.\\" Given the central theme of the novel, the religious themes are not an unwanted accretion, added on arbitrarily by an author otherwise summoning up a tremendous yarn, but integral to the novel as a whole.  To dampen or eliminate the religious themes would have been to make it into another novel entirely.<br />Most of all, THE BETROTHED is just a flat out great story. Separated lovers, devious villains, mysterious figures: who wouldn't fall for all this? Manzoni is a masterful storyteller, and frequently one is left with a powerful impatience to know what is going to happen next. Anyone looking for a great novel could hardly hope to do better than this great masterpiece.	2003-02-06
1243183:US	52048190	R7M20FAKWBDHG	0671867423	534494015	Lincoln at Gettysburg: The Words That Remade America	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Brings Lincoln's words to life as never before	This marvelous book by Garry Wills's proves that you can know something without really knowing it.  Nearly every American has, at some point, been asked to memorize Lincoln's Gettysburg Address, and those who haven't have at least been exposed to it.  The brilliance of Wills's book is that upon finishing it, you read Lincoln's remarks as if you had only discovered them for the first time.<br />Part of the book is devoted to some mild debunking, for instance, that his remarks were not well received at the time.  But the emphasis of the book is on placing the Address in context, the literary context, the intellectual context, the political context, and the historical context.  He contrasts it with other examples of funeral orations, beginning with the Greeks and the revival of Greek forms in the decades preceding the Civil War but after the founding of the US, at which time Roman forms of learning were paramount.  The intellectual context is that of American Transcendentalism, and Wills shows the degree to which Lincoln was indebted to leading Transcendentalists such as Theodore Parker for many of the ideas in the Address.  The historical context is, of course, a civil war that is being waged over the fate of the nation.  The political context is Lincoln's radical elevation of the notion of equality as not merely a major mark of the American experiment, but the central concept underlying the formation of our nation.<br />The book contains many superb appendices, including a discussion of the various surviving texts, a complete transcript of Edward Everett's speech delivered on the same day, and a discussion of the precise location upon which the address was delivered.<br />As always with Garry Wills, I am struck with the breadth of his learning and his passion for ideas.  Wills never, ever writes as a mere drudge, but always as an enthusiast.  Another great book by a great scholar.	2003-02-02
1252379:US	52048190	R1NS7N8TUXZXZU	0802803172	703200532	Grace and Law: St. Paul, Kant, and the Hebrew Prophets	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Fascinating study of St. Paul versus Kant on the Moral Law	I am saddened to see both that this fascinating little book has gone out of print and that it has been equally ignored by the theological community. Heinz W. Cassirer was the son of one of the most famous Kantian scholars of the 20th century, Ernst Cassirer. Like his father, he was for many decades a dedicated Kantian in his moral philosophy. Briefly, this entailed a belief about the possibility of fulfilling the demands of the moral law. Kant believed that the moral law placed an inescapable demand on every individual to fulfill its demands, and he further believed that the \\"ought\\" of the moral law logically meant that we \\"could\\" keep its demands. In other words, every individual is essentially capacitated to be a moral individual. Kant also felt that it was undeniable that none of us actually was able to keep the demands of the moral law because of our sensual nature. But since the demands of the moral law were inescapable, he believed that the demands of the moral law entailed human immortality, that in an afterlife where we would no longer be enthralled to a sensual nature--i.e., a body--we would be able to fully keep the laws demands. Still, the emphasis is on each individual's innate capacity to fulfill the laws demands, whether in this life or in an afterlife.<br />In middle age, however, Cassirer began to read the New Testament for the first time. In it, he was fascinated by a different account of the moral capacity of human nature. Unlike Kant, St. Paul was struck by the innate incapacity of human beings to do not merely what the moral law demanded, but what they wanted themselves to do. Gradually, and against his own intellectual inclinations, Cassirer came to feel that Paul, and not Kant, provided the more accurate understanding of human nature. This, of course, opens up the possibility greatly at odds with the overly rationalized nonsectarian religion one finds in Kant. In other words, it drives one more to a religion that sees the need for a redeemer as much as a legislator, Paul's own Christian faith.<br />Although Cassirer doesn't seem to be aware to be especially aware of his work, his book points very much in the direction of Kierkegaard's work, in particular PHILOSOPHICAL FRAGMENTS and THE SICKNESS UNTO DEATH. In both books Kierkegaard displays the logic of Christianity, in which people who are incapable of meeting the demands of the moral law are brought into contact with a redeemer who is the only remedy. I would have loved to see Cassirer explore this, but he doesn't seem to be aware of the sharp parallels to his own reading of Kant and St. Paul.much as a legislator, Paul's own Christian faith. <br />Although Cassirer doesn't seem to be aware to be especially aware of his work, his book points very much in the direction of Kierkegaard's work, in particular PHILOSOPHICAL FRAGMENTS and THE SICKNESS UNTO DEATH. In both books Kierkegaard displays the logic of Christianity, in which people who are incapable of meeting the demands of the moral law are brought into contact with a redeemer who is the only remedy. I would have loved to see Cassirer explore this, but he doesn't seem to be aware of the sharp parallels to his own reading of Kant and St. Paul.	2003-01-26
1258409:US	52048190	R1B45MSNXEBGRN	0670880574	193009937	Marcel Proust	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Excellent brief biography  of Proust	Although there is no shortage of books on Proust in English, and no shortage of enormously long biographies, there is a surprising lack of short biographies.  Luckily, this excellent little volume by Edmund White fills a major need.  While we have major long biographies like those of Painter, Tadie, and Carter, these may not be appropriate for someone wanting a brief overview.  The trick with any biography of Proust is striking a balance between writing about Proust's life and Proust's art, not an easy task given the degree with which Proust based his work on events in his own life.  It is virtually impossible to disentangle the two.<br />This is a short book (around 150 pages), but in that brief span, White is able to touch on all the major events of Proust's life, the key relationships of his life, the major themes of his work as an author, and the ways in which Proust's life became the basis for his work.  If one is unfamiliar with Proust before picking up this book, one will gain a first rate overview of him before setting it down.  One thing that tremendously enhances the value of the book is an excellent annotated biography that gives a great overview of work on Proust both in English and French.<br />White, who is a well known gay author, does a superb job writing about the myriad of contradictions in Proust's own work as a lightly closeted gay author.  Although Proust's being gay is the worst kept secret of the century, Proust fought many duels over accusations that he was homosexual (or, an invert, as Proust would have put it).  Proust was the first writer to write extensively about homosexuality, both male and female, but maintained a faade of heterosexuality to those who did not know him well.<br />All in all, this is an excellent brief biography of the man many regard as the great novelist of the 20th century.  I heartily recommend it to anyone wanting to know more about Proust.	2003-01-21
1261116:US	52048190	R2OTIGW3CXN4AF	0807059099	621355794	Gandhi: An Autobiography - The Story of My Experiments With Truth	Books	5	198	203	N	N	A transparent glimpse into the mind of a truly great soul	In many ways, this is a somewhat unusual autobiography.  It is as remarkable for what Gandhi decides to leave out as for what he includes.  He obviously didn't intend to deal with every major event, and delve into every area.  It is less a comprehensive narrative than it is a series of reflections on his life.  Some have criticized the book because he often deals more intensely with questions about what kind of diet he would follow than many of the great historical achievements of his life.  But Gandhi was who he was as an international figure because of who he was as an ethical individual.  The moral seriousness with which he broods over his diet reveals a great deal about who he is as a person.  As a side note, I should add that when I read this book, I had been thinking about becoming a vegetarian, and while I found no new arguments for doing so in this book, his moral example gave me the courage to do so.<br />The greatest quality about this book is one it shares with most of Gandhi's writing:  when he writes you get the sense that he is giving us his unedited thoughts.  During even the greatest crises in his struggle for Indian independence, Gandhi's writings have the quality of a transcription of what he is thinking.  More than any figure I can think of, Gandhi revealed precisely what he was thinking.  The almost complete lack of artifice in his writing is one of the most impressive aspects of his writing as a whole and of his autobiography in particular.  One is struck by his honesty, by his humility, and by his intense, almost overwhelming, moral passion.<br />This is not a literary masterpiece.  If one goes into it expecting it to rival such other autobiographies as Rousseau's CONFESSIONS or Nabokov's SPEAK, MEMORY or even Franklin's AUTOBIOGRAPHY, one will be disappointed.  Although he was a prolific writer, Gandhi was not a great writer.  He was unquestionably one of the towering figures of the 20th century, but it was because of what he did, not because of what he wrote.  But for some of us, encountering so directly on the printed page such a fundamentally great soul can be close to overpowering.e of what he wrote.  But for some of us, encountering so directly on the printed page such a fundamentally great soul can be close to overpowering.	2003-01-19
1269883:US	52048190	RL029ZG0PPPMN	0131833340	791364371	Byzantium From  Antiquity to the Renaissance (Perspectives): First Edition	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	A lovely introduction to Byzantine Art	This inexpensive yet lavishly illustrated volume is an ideal introduction to the history of Byzantine art.  As the previous reviewer has noted, it is arranged thematically.  However, the themes themselves are those that arise more or less chronologically, so one does get a sense of moving from the period of the Late Roman Empire to the fall of Constantinople to the Ottomans in 1453.  The volume as a whole is everything one could hope for in an introductory text; it is concise, extremely accessible, covers all the major issues and ideas of the periods being considered, provides all the essential background, and explains the ongoing significance and influence of the period as a whole.  As Mathews explains early in the book, Byzantine Art is the backbone of Medieval Art, and he does a marvelous job of explaining and detailing that claim.<br />One sense that any reader will come away with from reading this book is associating a specific color with Byzantine Art:  gold.  In photograph after photograph, one will be struck at the amount of gold used in jewelry, sculpture, architecture, iconography, and painting.  One will also gain a solid overview of Byzantine Art, and will definitely have an interest in further study kindled.	2003-01-12
1270009:US	52048190	R3FGNQH1LI61ZJ	0195059514	395414511	John Calvin: A Sixteenth-Century Portrait	Books	5	18	23	N	N	A solid and insightful academic biography	This is one of the finest academic historical biographies to have appeared in the past couple of decades, and will provide nearly anyone with an insightful and in depth introduction to one of the most important figures of the early modern age. It must be stressed, however, that Bouwsma will not please everyone. He is a professional historian, and not a theologian nor an apologist. Many hardcore Calvinists might not enjoy the style with which he deals with his subject matter or his theologically neutral stance in discussing Calvin's work and thought. But most students of theology and all students of history will discover in this a study of Calvin that not only discusses his thought, but relates it to the particular period of history in which it was produced. Too many Calvinist treatments of Calvin discuss him in almost ahistorical fashion, as if his thought were developed in a vacuum. As Bouwsma demonstrates, however, the was very much the product of the Late Renaissance as much as he was the Reformation.<br />One review below states that Bouwsma claims Calvin was a pagan. This is an important misunderstanding, the correction of which will take us to the heart of Bouwsma's central argument. Absolutely nowhere does Bouwsma assert that Calvin was a pagan, but his central argument in the book is that Calvin was deeply entrenched in renaissance humanism. The humanists went back to the pagan writers of Greece and Rome as literary models as well as alternative sources of inspiration to medieval Catholicism. As Bouwsma quite correctly points out, humanism was in no way antithetical to Protestantism. Calvin was absolutely not a pagan, nor does Bouwsma make that claim, but he did study the pagans such as Cicero and Quintillian, and modeled his writing style on them.<br />Many biographers delight in the smashing of myths of their subjects. While Bouwsma might not please hardcore Calvinists, in that he isn't deferential or assuming that Calvin articulated truths nearly as authoritative as those of the New Testament, he also does not try in any sense to defame or criticize Calvin. On the contrary, he goes out of his way to debunk many of the negative myths concerning Calvin. What he does try to do is provide the most accurate portrait he can of a major figure of the 16th century, both his positive and negative traits, and situation him in his time and place. In this he succeeds marvelously. This volume could stand for some time as the premiere biography of one of the two most important figures in the history of Protestantism.oritative as those of the New Testament, he also does not try in any sense to defame or criticize Calvin. On the contrary, he goes out of his way to debunk many of the negative myths concerning Calvin. What he does try to do is provide the most accurate portrait he can of a major figure of the 16th century, both his positive and negative traits, and situation him in his time and place. In this he succeeds marvelously. This volume could stand for some time as the premiere biography of one of the two most important figures in the history of Protestantism.	2003-01-12
1271612:US	52048190	RZ15LWE2WRKF1	3822855499	624458981	Eugene Atget's Paris (Icons Series)	Books	5	61	62	N	Y	A beautiful yet inexpensive introduction to Atget's Paris	This is one of the more unusual books on my shelves, in that physically it is designed to bear a resemblence on its exterior to some travel guides.  The photograph above doesn't do it justice.  The material is kivar-like, and his famous photograph of the entrance to the Moulin Rouge is tinted in red and yellow.  Inside, the photographs are arranged thematically, according such topics as Salesman and Traders on the Streets of Paris, or Trades, Shops, and Window Displays, or interiors of Parisian homes, or, my favorite, Old Paris.<br />As the introduction of the book points out, Atget was the great photographic recorder of Old Paris.  It is to Paris of the turn of the 19th to the 20th century what Weegee was to lower Manhattan.  The pictures in this book are nothing short of remarkable, and to look at them for any length of time helps transport one, to the extent that that is possible, to a world that no longer exists.  This is not beautiful, genteel Paris.  It isn't the Paris of Proust.  It is more the Paris of Baudelaire fifty years down the road, the Paris of Toulouse-Latrec.<br />This without any question the finest inexpensive edition of Atget's photographs currently available, and since Atget is the predominant photographer of the Paris of a hundred years ago, the best inexpensive book of photographs of Old Paris.	2003-01-11
1290840:US	52048190	R3JVT48BU5WOYL	0452283442	53203756	The Darwin Awards: Evolution in Action (Darwin Awards (Plume Books))	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Often funny, but a bit too much padding	A dear friend of mine gave me this book and its sequel as a Christmas gift.  I have to say, the tales are often very, very funny.  Some of the stories are just bizarre beyond imagining, and the depth to which people can stoop is sometimes surreal.<br />There are, however, two complaints I have with the book.  First, there is too much padding.  The intros that philosophically discuss \\"hard cases,\\" instances in which it is debarted whether someone is a candidate for a Darwin Award, such as celibate priests, aren't terribly interesting.  And they are disingenuous, since clearly no one wants to debate the finer points, but just get on to the stories.  Also, the book is padded by the Urban Legends, which are just a waste of space.  We are interested only in the \\"real\\" stories, not the legendary ones.<br />My second and more substantive complaint is that the entire concept of the books borders on callousness.  Good lord, these people died!  These aren't actually jokes, but tragedies.  I would hate to know that my own death managed to serve as entertainment for others.  So, while I found many of the stories funny, a voice kept whispering in my ear that perhaps I oughtn't.	2002-12-28
1292257:US	52048190	R295R07EIG4892	0743226917	302007279	The Emerging Democratic Majority (Lisa Drew Books)	Books	4	23	29	N	N	Thought provoking, intriguing, but not 100%convincing	This is a very interesting and provocative study of the changing demographics in the US, and some of the authors' contentions would seem to be incontestable. For instance, there is no question that shifts in population in several key states definitely favors the Democrats. Changes in minority population in California has already shifted that state solidly into the Democratic column, and the same appears likely with Texas, Arizona, and Florida by the end of the current decade. Although those states remain at the moment in the GOP camp, most signs indicate that things are shifting towards the Democrats.<br />My hesitancy with the book lies with their assumptions that the growing segment of American society that is employed by the technology sector rather than in manufacturing will provide a solid Democratic constituency. As these segment expands, its political allegiance is likely to fragment. Also, the book does not deal with many other real-world factors in the ongoing vitality of the GOP. For instance, the current right wing bias of the news media (despite constant counterfactual talk of the liberal media) has had a disturbing influence on American politics and public opinion. Or, another example, the lack of strong leadership in the Democratic party has been a major factor in the GOP being able to gain control of Congress. I might agree that the demographic make up of the United States populace ought to favor the Democrats, but the ineffectual Democratic leadership coupled with the high effective public relations campaign on the Right has offset many of the Democrats demographic advantages.<br />The Democrats need to do more than rely upon shifts in the American electorate: they need to counter much of the Right's effectiveness in framing the issues being debated. For instance, the media most decidedly is not liberal, but the Democrats have done an abysmal job of combating that widespread assumption. They also need to formulate a definite alternative to the GOP. Potential presidential candidates such as Joseph Lieberman are almost indistinguishable from most Republicans. They also need to motivate their potential voting base. For instance, in the midterm 2002 election, far less of their potential voting base came out to vote. If they do not, they will not be able to take advantage of their demographic edge.<br />One last issue that troubled me in the book was the fact that while the authors clearly support the Democratic party, they support a remarkably conservative, moderate Democratic party. Now, perhaps this is realistic and my own views unrealistic. My own political beliefs are far to the left of the Democratic party (I tend to vote Democratic simply because they are less conservative than the Republicans), which I see as having become as conservative as most moderate Republicans. The authors seem at points to advocate tailoring the Democratic message with the trends of society, based upon polling data. I personally would prefer candidates who, while not unconcerned with the opinions of everyday citizens, nonetheless articulate a vision of where we, as a nation, need to go and how to get there.<br />One simple minded criticism of this book is that its contentions were not born out by the 2002 midterm elections. In fact, their contentions might not be born out in the 2004 elections either. The trends that they are trying to identify are longer term than that, and it could take up to a decade for much of the trend to manifest itself fully.otential presidential candidates such as Joseph Lieberman are almost indistinguishable from most Republicans. They also need to motivate their potential voting base. For instance, in the midterm 2002 election, far less of their potential voting base came out to vote. If they do not, they will not be able to take advantage of their demographic edge.<br />One last issue that troubled me in the book was the fact that while the authors clearly support the Democratic party, they support a remarkably conservative, moderate Democratic party. Now, perhaps this is realistic and my own views unrealistic. My own political beliefs are far to the left of the Democratic party (I tend to vote Democratic simply because they are less conservative than the Republicans), which I see as having become as conservative as most moderate Republicans. The authors seem at points to advocate tailoring the Democratic message with the trends of society, based upon polling data. I personally would prefer candidates who, while not unconcerned with the opinions of everyday citizens, nonetheless articulate a vision of where we, as a nation, need to go and how to get there. <br />One simple minded criticism of this book is that its contentions were not born out by the 2002 midterm elections. In fact, their contentions might not be born out in the 2004 elections either. The trends that they are trying to identify are longer term than that, and it could take up to a decade for much of the trend to manifest itself fully.	2002-12-27
1293121:US	52048190	R2XIV6M8TFVRFH	0140247963	279813729	Wallace Stegner : His Life and Work	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Absolutely first rate literary biography of a great writer	Jackson J. Benson has in this volume produced a superb literary biography of one of America's most underrated writers.  The book in many ways reflects some of Stegner's own qualities as a writer.  Stegner, in his biography of John Wesley Powell, BEYOND THE HUNDREDTH MERIDIAN, emphasized that it was a biography of his professional, not personal, life.  Although Benson does not neglect Stegner's personal life, the stress is very definitely upon his literary, academic, and environmental work.  Benson does let us get to know Stegner the person, with his own quirks (he dislike of the sixties and youth counterculture, his love of Vermont, his avoidance of extremism, his love of community as opposed to rugged individualism), but unlike many modern biographers, he is not intent upon baring Stegner's inner life, warts and all.  Benson, like Stegner, strives towards balance.  In this he succeeds admirably.<br />Stegner vividly emerges in this biography as a profoundly principled, disciplined, committed, and morally courageous individual.  The product of an impoverished childhood, later recounted fictionally in his semi-autobiographical novel THE BIG ROCK CANDY MOUNTAIN, Benson chronicles Stegner's drive to become a writer.  In a sense, the book covers an uneventful life.  Stegner did not do a great deal beyond write, teach, and speak out on a variety of environmental issues.  Benson explores his friendships with mentors such as Bernard DeVoto and Robert Frost, to friends both famous and unknown, to students such as Ernest Gaines, Wendell Berry, and Ken Kesey.<br />Although primarily focused on Stegner's literary output as both a fiction writer and historian, Benson deals extensively with Stegner's work as a conservationist.  Of all the major writers of the past century, Stegner almost certainly was more involved in environmental causes than any other.  He did this not only through his writing, such as in his great biography of John Wesley Powell, but in his activities as part of the Sierra Club and in numerous environmental efforts, including working briefly as an advisor to Secretary of the Interior Stewart Udall.<br />Most of all, this book created a portrait of a writer and human being worthy of respect.  Stegner emerges as a good man, someone the reader would have enjoyed knowing.  At this point in time, I have read only Stegner's book on Powell and ANGLE OF REPOSE, but between those two books and this excellent biography make me want to read a great deal more.of the Sierra Club and in numerous environmental efforts, including working briefly as an advisor to Secretary of the Interior Stewart Udall.<br />Most of all, this book created a portrait of a writer and human being worthy of respect.  Stegner emerges as a good man, someone the reader would have enjoyed knowing.  At this point in time, I have read only Stegner's book on Powell and ANGLE OF REPOSE, but between those two books and this excellent biography make me want to read a great deal more.	2002-12-26
1297939:US	52048190	RRM6Q6RSTR4OZ	1876778695	972715042	Over Europe	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Absolutely spectacular collection of photographs	Most of my several thousand volume library consists of serious books, works of literature, literary criticism, philosophy, history, theology, political science, and so on.  But I also have a shelf or two devoted to &quot;fun&quot; books, books that I pick up and just lose myself in having fun.  This is one of my favorite fun books.  Not a masterpiece.  Probably won't be in print twenty years from now.  But the photographs are spectacular!  And in just under 300 pages, almost every major city and structure of Europe has been photographed from the air.  It is not merely the famous sights and buildings that makes this such a fun book, but some striking photographs of relatively unknown features.  For instance, one of the most stunning photographs for me is what would appear to be a gigantic green field in Denmark that has been punctuated by a series of large housing circles, each cut off from one another, and each surrounded by the same green field.<br />The text has been provided by noted travel writer Jan Morris.  The book is largely structured by starting with Italy and proceeding clockwise through the entire European continent, ending with Greece, Romania, and Turkey.<br />I really can whole heartedly recommend this book to anyone except those who don't like to look at anything.  But if you have any interest in the world, in traveling, in Europe, in history, in photography, or in just having fun looking at awesome photos, this book will prove to be an utter delight.	2002-12-20
1298592:US	52048190	R6DNXQ4VG10O	3829005237	610597095	The 1960s (Decades of the 20th Century)	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	A great visual summary of the Sixties, mainly in Britain	Earlier this year, I read an absolutely spectacular book on the Swinging London in the sixties, READY, STEADY, GO! by Shawn Levy.  THE 1960S could serve as a visual companion volume to that book.  The decade was unquestionably one of the most fascinating of the century, and provided a host of subjects worthy of being recorded visually.  Happily, this book does a great job of capturing the decade, with only one caveat.<br />The caveat.  In many ways, this is my favorite volume in the Decades of the Twentieth Century series edited by Nick Yap, but it is also the volume in which the lone weakness-if it is a weakness-of the series as a whole comes out:  the profoundly Anglo-centric slant of each volume.  Mind you, a lot of very exciting things were happening in Great Britain in the sixties, as noted above, especially in music, fashion, and youth.  But I had a bit of trouble with the Sports section, for instance.  Worldwide, I don't think that many people think back to the sixties and think of English athletes.  There were a host of American athletes who far surpassed anyone in Great Britain.  And no mention of most of the truly famous athletes of the 1960s, such as Jean Claude Killey.  Few of them were represented in this book.  Furthermore, many sports are not mentioned at all, such as baseball and basketball.  This narrow focus on sports of importance to England lends a slightly parochial air to the book.  But it is not merely in sport, but in almost every area of 1960s life that England is emphasized to a degree that distorts the overall balance.  Like it or not, it was a decade that the United States dominated, and yet relatively few photographs of America are contained in its pages.  Politicians and celebrities are represented, but not everyday folk.  One whimsical English slant can be contained in the text of a photo of Elvis, upon being released from the military.  The text says that he has finished his \\"national service,\\" a phrase unheard of in the US.<br />Like the other books in this series, THE 1960S does a great job of presenting a huge number of great photographs.  My favorites tended to be relatively unfamiliar photographs of famous people, though there are also a number of famous photographs as well.  The overall effect at times is of looking at the British equivalent of an old LIFE magazine collection of photographs.  This is an addictive series.  I find myself going back to various volumes, looking at a photo, and then continuing to flip through the pages looking at new photos and reading the accompanying text, suddenly discovering that I have gone through a hundred pages.  Very immersive, and definitely a lot of fun.the other books in this series, THE 1960S does a great job of presenting a huge number of great photographs.  My favorites tended to be relatively unfamiliar photographs of famous people, though there are also a number of famous photographs as well.  The overall effect at times is of looking at the British equivalent of an old LIFE magazine collection of photographs.  This is an addictive series.  I find myself going back to various volumes, looking at a photo, and then continuing to flip through the pages looking at new photos and reading the accompanying text, suddenly discovering that I have gone through a hundred pages.  Very immersive, and definitely a lot of fun.	2002-12-20
1318581:US	52048190	R2W6XBMYYTXZWX	3829005210	553338023	The 1940s (Decades of the 20th Century)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Great collection of relatively unknown photos of the forties	This is one of the better volumes in the marvelous Decades of the 20th Century series edited by Nick Yapp of photographs from the Hutton Getty Picture Collection.  To be honest, this was such a fascinating decade that it would have been extremely difficult to have failed to come up with a great collection.  The decade was, of course, dominated by WW II, but the photographs collected in this volume are for the most part completely unfamiliar.  But because the photographs are absolutely first rate, the reader can feel that he or she is looking at the war with new eyes.  I was particularly interested, for instance, in the photographs of the personal bomb shelters that were used in London during the Blitz.<br />I recently friends and relatives, and had a different volume edited by Nick Yapp from the Hutton Getty Collection.  It was a lot of fun seeing one person, and then another, pick up the book, look at a picture or two, and then go back to the beginning and look page-by-page through the entire collection.  These books are not only extremely informative and illuminating of the decades of the previous century, but enormously entertaining.<br />As I work through each volume in the series, I find the quirks of the series to be increasingly endearing.  Like most Americans, cricket has about as much interest for me as bingo, but it is fun to see each volume celebrate cricketeers who are utterly unknown in the U.S.  I can imagine that the Anglo-European slant of the volumes would be irritating to some.  Few pictures of American everyday life are included.  For the most part, Americans pictured are celebrities, athletes, or political figures.  Nonetheless, I love all the volumes in the series that have been published so far, and am very excited about the forthcoming additional books that will complete the collection.	2002-12-03
1323921:US	52048190	R3D02SC0XOPQIG	0195152050	272714040	The End of Days: Fundamentalism and the Struggle for the Temple Mount	Books	5	21	26	N	N	Essential for understanding passions in the Middle East	I have read a large number of books dealing with the situation in the Middle East, but this fascinating volume is one of the best that I have encountered for understanding precisely why so many individuals feel so passionately about their particular stake in the area. Gorenberg, a journalist and scholar raised in the United States but now living in Jerusalem, does a masterful job of taking the reader into the mental and spiritual lives of fundamentalist Jews, Christians, and Islam as he focuses on their respective beliefs concerning the fate of the Temple Mount in Jerusalem.<br />The specific issue in question is the desire of marginal factions of Jews to rebuild the Temple on the current site of the Dome of the Rock, a Moslem Holy Site, in Jerusalem. In particular, he focuses on the millenarian hopes of extremist Jews who believe that building a Temple will usher in a messianic period of world peace, the dreams of Christian millenarian dispensationalists who believe that these same Jews building a temple is a necessary prelude to the impending return of Jesus, and of the varying reactions of Muslims. Some Muslims, Gorenberg points out, share their own millenarian dreams that are similar to those of fundamentalist Christians, in which a Jewish Antichrist is defeated by a Jesus sent by Allah, who will defeat Jesus and create a one world Islamic society.<br />Most of the book is spent focusing on the Jewish and Christian participants in this story. Gorenberg is especially good in dealing with the myriad of ways in which Christians are profoundly dependent upon and encouraging of Jews performing their roles as actors in a Divine drama. He details the ways in which both Christians and Jews use each other in their attempts to bring the Temple Mount story to a conclusion incompatible to the desires and hopes of the other. He is also superb at showing how horrifically this could end, possibly bringing about World War III, if either Christians or Jews are able to avoid Israeli or Palestinian security and destroy the Dome of the Rock.<br />This book is a powerful antidote to simplistic thinking about the Middle East in general, or the possibility or desirability of rebuilding the Temple in particular. It is not, perhaps, in the end a particular hopeful book. The reader can come away from it with a sense that there is probably no way to bring about a Middle Eastern solution that will satisfy all Jews or Muslims. A solution that satisfies all Jews will certainly lead to a Holy War carried out by Muslims, and one that satisfies all Muslims will certainly not satisfy many Israelis. The value of the book primarily lies in exposing the enormously complex nature of the situation, and explicating how passionately the various parties conceptualize the state of things.<br />Apart from the pedagogical value of the book, this is a flat out fascinating read. The cast of characters is varied and colorful. Gorenberg recounts complicated stories lucidly. My only complaint with the book is that the overall narrative is told somewhat unsystematically. This in part perhaps reflects the complex nature of the story he has to tell. But even so, I feel the chapters could have been arranged a little more clearly.<br />This book will be of enormous interest to anyone interested in the situation in the Middle East, and especially in Jerusalem. I put this book right alongside Fromkin's A PEACE TO END ALL PEACE, which chronicles how the modern Middle East was mindlessly created after WW I by the victors in Europe, as essential to understanding the contemporary situation in Israel.raeli or Palestinian security and destroy the Dome of the Rock. <br />This book is a powerful antidote to simplistic thinking about the Middle East in general, or the possibility or desirability of rebuilding the Temple in particular. It is not, perhaps, in the end a particular hopeful book. The reader can come away from it with a sense that there is probably no way to bring about a Middle Eastern solution that will satisfy all Jews or Muslims. A solution that satisfies all Jews will certainly lead to a Holy War carried out by Muslims, and one that satisfies all Muslims will certainly not satisfy many Israelis. The value of the book primarily lies in exposing the enormously complex nature of the situation, and explicating how passionately the various parties conceptualize the state of things.<br />Apart from the pedagogical value of the book, this is a flat out fascinating read. The cast of characters is varied and colorful. Gorenberg recounts complicated stories lucidly. My only complaint with the book is that the overall narrative is told somewhat unsystematically. This in part perhaps reflects the complex nature of the story he has to tell. But even so, I feel the chapters could have been arranged a little more clearly. <br />This book will be of enormous interest to anyone interested in the situation in the Middle East, and especially in Jerusalem. I put this book right alongside Fromkin's A PEACE TO END ALL PEACE, which chronicles how the modern Middle East was mindlessly created after WW I by the victors in Europe, as essential to understanding the contemporary situation in Israel.	2002-11-29
1335095:US	52048190	R1B9WZHXU0BGGR	3829005245	434340501	The 1970s: The Hulton Getty Picture Collection	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	Another strong book in a great series	Although this is not my favorite book in this absolutely stellar series, it is nonetheless another strong addition.  One of the great virtues of these books is that they allow one to compare one decade of the 20th century with another.  It may be that my failure to enjoy this one as much as ones on other decades might stem from it being an \\"unfun\\" decade.  It was not a joyous, happy decade.  Vietnam was winding down, horrors were being inflicted in Uganda, Cambodia, and in many other spots in the world, and terrorism grew at an alarming rate.  The photographs collected in this collection reflect all of this.<br />My other complaint, however, is that the book failed to register many of the truly major cultural movements of the decade.  Feminism and the Gay Rights movements, more or less created the decade on a massive scale, receive minimal notice.  Disco, which, as anyone alive in the decade vividly recalls, had a powerful and highly visual impact on the latter part of the decade.  The book also promotes some widespread misunderstandings.  For instance, the text shows some pictures of English punk rock fans, and states that punk began in England and later spread to the U.S., while the truth was quite the opposite.  The term \\"punk\\" was invented, as applied to music, by Legs McNeill, and was applied well before the English Punk scene to the New York city music scene, to bands and performers like the New York Dolls, Iggy Pop, the Ramones, and the Dead Boys.<br />The book also brings out the fact that the seventies was one of the less interesting decades of the century, far less exciting in many ways to the twenties, the thirties, or the sixties.  But I think the main reason this book fails to be quite as exciting as other books in the series is the fact that the photos are just not quite as compelling as in other volumes.<br />Still, this remains a great, great series, and I can't recommend strongly enough collecting all the books in the collection.  I remain very excited about the forthcoming titles that will complete the century, and which should be available in the spring of 2003.cited about the forthcoming titles that will complete the century, and which should be available in the spring of 2003.	2002-11-19
1338866:US	52048190	R30O5H8VYUZAFX	0345326490	316822403	Desert Solitaire: A Season in the Wilderness	Books	5	188	199	N	N	A genuine and enduring classic about the American Desert	Edward Abbey's DESERT SOLITAIRE belongs on the shortest of several short lists of 20th century classics, whether we are talking of classic literature of the American West, nature writing, or environmentalism.<br />Why is this such a brilliant book? It isn't the originality of ideas. Other writers-Aldo Leopold, Wallace Stegner, Bernard DeVoto, Mary Austin-had already articulated many of Abbey's central ideas either about nature or about Western policy. Bernard DeVoto was an innovator; Abbey is not. Nor is Abbey's anger and fury at exploiters and defilers unique: DeVoto was just as irate and just as incapable of pulling his punches. Nor is it Abbey's overall vision that makes his book so compelling. Again, both DeVoto and Stegner-and especially DeVoto-evidenced a broader and more systematic understanding of the broader issues confronting the West. None of this is accidental. DeVoto exerted a major influence on Stegner, and Stegner taught Abbey in the Stanford University Creative Writing Program.<br />What makes DESERT SOLITAIRE so marvelous is the almost tactile love and passion Abbey displays for the Desert Southwest. Over and over Abbey summons up specific places, particular mountains, individual landscapes. Although he can write about the desert in general, he more frequently writes about particular spots in Arches National Park and the surrounding environs that help explain his attachment to the West. He is the literary equivalent, in his more somber, reflective moments, of Eliot Porter and Ansel Adams. As a result, what one recalls upon remembering DESERT SOLITAIRE is not words so much as a collection of images.<br />Structurally, the book only resembles a memoir of his time working as a park ranger in the Arches National Park. The book makes it seems as if he worked there only one year, when in fact he worked there two. Furthermore, even what appears as a single year fails to account for all the content of the book. He uses, rather, the fiction of a single season as a framework upon which to hang tales, reflections, and rants. This intermixing of narrative with asides gives the book a richness of texture it might not otherwise possess. The narrative of his time as a ranger gives the book much of it structure, but the rants and sidetracking provides it with much of its content.<br />I hate to write something as trite as this being an absolutely essential book for anyone remotely interested in the subjects it touches upon, but such is the case. Abbey wrote many other nonfiction works and novels. All are interesting, several of them quite good, but DESERT SOLITAIRE is easily his greatest. It truly is a classic.on as a framework upon which to hang tales, reflections, and rants. This intermixing of narrative with asides gives the book a richness of texture it might not otherwise possess. The narrative of his time as a ranger gives the book much of it structure, but the rants and sidetracking provides it with much of its content. <br />I hate to write something as trite as this being an absolutely essential book for anyone remotely interested in the subjects it touches upon, but such is the case. Abbey wrote many other nonfiction works and novels. All are interesting, several of them quite good, but DESERT SOLITAIRE is easily his greatest. It truly is a classic.	2002-11-15
1342637:US	52048190	R2AJPO9ROL6FMD	0060956445	571510645	Monkey Wrench Gang, The	Books	5	3	7	N	N	An utterly first rate environmental comic romp	This extraordinarily fun novel is part farce, part environmentalist fantasy, and part social and political tract about the abuse of nature in the American West.<br />The plot concerns an odd collection of radical environmentalists who band together to blow up the Glen Canyon River Dam. Of all the parts of the West that have been destroyed by the damming of the rivers of the West, nothing comes close to the regret over the loss of Glen Canyon. The extreme beauty of the area now underwater is well documented in Eliot Porter's beautiful book THE PLACE THAT NO ONE KNEW. Environmentalists and lovers of the West have long lamented the loss of these beautiful canyons. Hence the central fantasy of this book. But he loved to contemplate their destruction. I don't think Abbey really wanted to blow up the dam. If the Glen Canyon River dam were to be breached, by whatever means, it could cause a flood that would cause all the dams on the lower part of the Colorado to collapse because of the tremendous volume of water that would be unleashed. Even the Hoover Dam would be breached. Perhaps tens of thousands of people would die. That is why the book is a fantasy. Abbey was a provocateur. He stated things in a way to stir up a controversy, to get people riled up, to make people think. But I find it impossible to believe that he would actually have blown up the dam if it had been within his power.<br />Although an environmentalist message and fantasy is at the heart of the book, the book wears its message lightly. The reason for this is the marvelous collection of absurd characters. The crew that assembles for their errand of mischief makes the novel exquisitely enjoyable. In particular, George Washington Hayduke III. One of the foulest mouthed characters in all of fiction, Hayduke is also one of the funniest, most outrageous, and most enjoyable. To be honest, remove Hayduke from this novel, and you are left with merely a decent rather than very good novel. The novel does carry a serious environmental message, but without Hayduke, it is merely a political tract dressed up as a novel. Hayduke, as the central and dominating character, balances the fun and fantasy with the message.erious environmental message, but without Hayduke, it is merely a political tract dressed up as a novel. Hayduke, as the central and dominating character, balances the fun and fantasy with the message.	2002-11-12
1343409:US	52048190	R3HAYJC9TS6MYL	0879059710	881129454	The Place No One Knew - Glen Canyon on the Colorado	Books	5	21	24	N	N	A heartbreakingly beautiful book	These photographs are just about all that is left of Glen Canyon.  After the Sierra Club and other environmentalists had lost the battle to prevent the Glen Canyon River Dam from being built, Eliot Porter took this extraordinary series of photographs to memorialize the gorgeous area that has been lost forever.  Few people at the time knew much about the Canyon.  It was too remote, too difficult to get to.  Although it was one of the areas that John Wesley Powell found most beautiful in his first expedition down the Green and Colorado Rivers, no access roads or paths were ever built to make it possible for many people to view the areas firsthand.  As a result, very few people knew precisely what we were about to lose.<br />The tragedy is that  these areas are really, truly are gone.  Even if the Glen Canyon River Dam were magically removed, many of the areas viewed in these gorgeous photographs have already been silted up.  The Green and Colorado Rivers carry extreme quantities of minerals, and when the dam stops the flow to form a reservoir, they tend to drop to the bottom.  All dams have a limited life.  They don't last for as long as one might imagine.  Basically, they create a new landmass behind them over the course of a century or so.  Many of the spots photographed in these pictures are now solid earth.<br />One would hope that such beautiful photographs as these, photos that create tremendous longing for what we have already lost, would make us more concerned to preserve what is left.  But with the current presidency even today as I write this review opening the national parks to snowmobiles and with people speculating that there will be new attempts to open arctic areas in Alaska to oil exploration, we can't assume that in the least.  These photographs may end up being emblematic of all endangered areas, of the ongoing fragility of all of nature.	2002-11-12
1345066:US	52048190	R1SRLG3KPBCEDE	0684833395	458864358	Catch-22	Books	5	318	350	N	N	A stunning masterpiece on every level	CATCH-22 is masterful in so many ways.  It begins as comic farce, proceeds to the increasingly surreal, and then transforms into a nightmarish tragedy before ending triumphantly.  No novel that I know so successfully blends all these disparate moods.  I believe it was Hugh Walpole who wrote, \\"Life is a comedy to those who think, and a tragedy to those who feel.\\"  No book illustrates that better than this novel.  This truly is one of the funniest books I have ever read.  It is also one of the most tragic.<br /><br />CATCH-22 also introduces one of the most insane collection of great characters in fiction:  Yossarian, the Chaplain, Orr, ex-P.F.C Wintergreen, Milo Minderbender, Maj. Major Major Major, Nately, Doc Daneeka, Danby, General Dreedle, Nately's girl (not the description in the book, but Amazon's software will bleep it), Cathcart, Nurse Duckett, The Texan, Major ----- de Coverley, The Soldier in White, and a host of other characters.  It is one of the most gloriously populated novels of the past half century.<br /><br />This is a novel I can almost not discuss except through superlatives:  greatest war novel I have read, funniest novel I have ever read, greatest English language novel of the past 60 years.  But the best thing is that it is, on top of being a superb book, an exceedingly fun book to read.  Even at its nightmarish, this is a fun, delightful book.  And few novels contain as many unforgetable moments as this one.	2002-11-10
1345532:US	52048190	RZDLC7U49SAU	0192852116	335459502	Time in History: Views of Time from Prehistory to the Present Day	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Great survey of the way Time is thought of in the West	This is a fascinating history of time and the way we measure it in the West.  Whitrow covers just about every topic one would expect connected to our concepts of time beginning with the evidence of Prehistory and extending to contemporary physics and philosophy.<br />My favorite parts are those dealing with the creation of the calendar and the ways that were developed for dividing up the day in the Hellenistic world.  I had always taken the names of the months and the length of days in each pretty much for granted, but Whitrow goes into detail about how the egos of the Roman Emperors forced a renumbering of the months so that Augustus could have his month on the calendar have as many days as any other.  I had never realized that July was named for Julius and August for Augustus.  Whitrow also covers the development and refinement of the calendar over the centuries, and why their was the need for the Gregorian calendar to replace the Julian, and the former's gradual acceptance by all the world.<br />There is also discussion of the problems of clocks, of the various types, and their development.  And special kinds of clocks are covered as well, such as John Harrison's that was recounted in greater detail in Sobel's LONGITUDE.<br />I strongly recommend this book to anyone with an interest in how the Western world has developed its ways of thinking about time and how to measure it.  Since these concepts undergird virtually everything that happens in our culture, it deals with exceedingly fundamental concepts indeed.	2002-11-10
1345573:US	52048190	R37FW0QH2I9W4C	0618082409	551099036	The Bonehunters' Revenge: Dinosaurs and Fate in the Gilded Age	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Comprehensive history of America's greatest scientific feud	This marvelous volume by David Rains Wallace is a balanced, thorough, and insightful recounting of the greatest, most needless, and most tragic scientific conflict in American history: the Cope-Marsh feud. I say \\"balanced\\" because most writers, especially those with an environmentalist/naturalist bent like Wallace, have tended to side with Othniel C. Marsh over Edward D. Cope. The reason isn't hard to find. Cope's feud with Marsh eventually [pulled] into the controversy John Wesley Powell, a major benefactor to Marsh and impediment to Cope, and occasioned Powell's fall from power. Environmentalists rightly consider this a tragedy, because perhaps no one in American history possessed the depth of understanding about the geological and geographical logic of the entire area west of the hundredth meridian than Powell. Had Powell remained in power longer, perhaps many of the great tragedies associated with the development of the American West could have been avoided. Most other evaluators of the feud tend to be biographers of either Cope or Marsh, and those side with their subject. But Wallace is able to look beyond the effect the Cope-Marsh feud's effect on Powell and beyond partisan loyalty to any single participant to achieve a fair evaluation of each.<br />Wallace begins with a biographical narrative of both Cope and Marsh, from their family origins and early interest in science, to their maturation as paleontologists and their initial encounters with one another, and on to their growing competition with one another and eventual implacable conflicts and feud. Wallace shows how this really was not primarily a scientific controversy, but a conflict between two very different personalities. Both men were exceedingly gifted, both immensely competitive, and both were extremely neurotic. Of the two, Cope emerges as the more sympathetic, if only because he strikes the reader as the more likable of the two. Marsh is less sympathetic because of the ruthless way he attempts to cut Cope off from all governmental support for his research, and the manner in which he attempts to keep Cope, who was probably the more gifted paleontologist, on the scientific periphery. In fact, Marsh comes across as a completely unlikable person; not even his closest acquaintances seem to have liked him. If Cope emerges as more congenial, he also comes across as more manic, more paranoid, and obsessed.<br />In the end, one is left with a feeling of disgust at both Marsh (especially Marsh) and Cope's massive stupidity in the entire conflict. Although they had some scientific disagreements, most of their antagonism was generated by who was able to get the most fossils, and the efforts of Marsh to cut Cope completely out of government funding. One is left with a sense of regret that the two great founders of American paleontology were unable to coordinate their efforts and be collaborators instead of competitors.<br />Anyone enjoying this book might also enjoy Deborah Cadbury's TERRIBLE LIZARD, which tells the story of the birth of paleontology in England at the beginning of the 19th century, a few decades before Cope and Marsh. Sadly, that book also tells the story of a needless feud, with Gideon Mantell taking the Cope role and Richard Owen the Marsh one. The two books make great companion volumes, and jointly make a magnificent introduction to 19th century paleontology.o cut Cope off from all governmental support for his research, and the manner in which he attempts to keep Cope, who was probably the more gifted paleontologist, on the scientific periphery. In fact, Marsh comes across as a completely unlikable person; not even his closest acquaintances seem to have liked him. If Cope emerges as more congenial, he also comes across as more manic, more paranoid, and obsessed. <br />In the end, one is left with a feeling of disgust at both Marsh (especially Marsh) and Cope's massive stupidity in the entire conflict. Although they had some scientific disagreements, most of their antagonism was generated by who was able to get the most fossils, and the efforts of Marsh to cut Cope completely out of government funding. One is left with a sense of regret that the two great founders of American paleontology were unable to coordinate their efforts and be collaborators instead of competitors. <br />Anyone enjoying this book might also enjoy Deborah Cadbury's TERRIBLE LIZARD, which tells the story of the birth of paleontology in England at the beginning of the 19th century, a few decades before Cope and Marsh. Sadly, that book also tells the story of a needless feud, with Gideon Mantell taking the Cope role and Richard Owen the Marsh one. The two books make great companion volumes, and jointly make a magnificent introduction to 19th century paleontology.	2002-11-10
1345656:US	52048190	R12MO4MTZG9YXA	0674037138	14901011	Animal Thinking	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Commonsense challenge to behaviorism in ethology	Donald Griffin wants, in this book, to challenge the behaviorism that has dominated much thinking about animal behavior for the past several decades.  In several books, such as THE QUESTION OF ANIMAL AWARENESS and his later ANIMAL MINDS, Griffin has been intent on challenging assumptions that most or all animal behavior is merely instinctive.<br />Griffin's basic argument is that, counter to what many behaviorists have assumed, the presupposition that animals have the ability to think and undertake much of their actions on the basis of deliberation rather than pure instinct, is actually a simpler thesis than behaviorism.  One example he gives are leaf cutter ants, and shows how a behaviorist model does not explain how they are able to adapt to each leaf they need to cut.  Not having the ability to think on a least a very elementary level, Griffin argues, would require a large cognitive capacity merely to store all the instinctive behavior patterns that not being able to think would require.<br />Griffin also provides many instances from the animal world at large of instances in which the assumption that all animal behavior is instinctive is rendered untenable.  For instance, lions hunting cooperatively, where a group splits up, several members gaining attention of the prey, while another stealthily sneaks up on the prey animals from behind.<br />I am not a trained ethologist, so I have no idea how one of Griffin's colleagues would respond to this book, but I think any reasonably perceptive and intelligent person who has owned pets will find this book to be intuitively correct.  I was left wondering at the end of the book why behaviorism, which originated in human psychology and which has long since been rejected, would continue to hold sway in ethological studies.  I did, however, find this to be a highly illuminating book about animal behavior in general.	2002-11-10
1345941:US	52048190	R1UBIFXN6DFA7U	0684801221	737092002	The Old Man and The Sea	Books	5	86	95	N	N	A remarkable final outburst of genius	When Hemingway wrote THE OLD MAN AND THE SEA, he was no longer the writer he had been twenty years earlier.  His talent was declining, he had over the past ten years written far more bad books than good ones, and was very much the worse for wear from the hard life he had lived.  But somehow, he managed at this late stage in his life to produced one final masterpiece, and one of his very finest novels.  <br />The story is one of Hemingway's simplest.  All of his books are simple on the surface.  THE SUN ALSO RISES is very simply told, but it contains a wealth of psychological and interpersonal complexity beneath the simple narrative.  THE OLD MAN AND THE SEA is truly simple, a story about a simple man, with simple ideas, with a simple life, with a simple, elemental encounter with the natural world:  he catches a massive marlin that he battles unsuccessfully to bring to market.  It is a tale of success in the midst of failure, of quiet stoicism and courage, and refusing to give in to the challenges the world throws at him.  Most of all, it is a story about courage.<br />The tale that is told is so clearly told that a very young child can understand it.  It is so marvelously told that an adult can marvel over it.  When my daughter was six, I read this to her, and he loved it (even developing a child's fascination with Joe DiMaggio).  <br />Although the Nobel Prize is given to a writer for his or her work as a whole, and not just one book, it may well be that without this book Hemingway would not have won the Prize.  His best work had appeared in the 1920s, and much of his work of the 1930s and virtually all of his work in the 1940s had been far, far below the quality of the early short stories, A FAREWELL TO ARMS, and THE SUN ALSO RISES.  THE OLD MAN AND THE SEA was his great comeback, and it is quite likely that it was the book that made the difference in his being chosen as the recipient of the award.	2002-11-10
1349223:US	52048190	R3LCJYKJXW2JNI	0811202151	283617845	Miss Lonelyhearts & the Day of the Locust	Books	5	31	32	N	N	Two nearly perfect short novels	Just before his tragically young death, Nathanael West wrote a friend that he was confident his best work was in front of him.  The genius and brilliance of these two remarkable short novels make that prospect seem unspeakably tragic.  As it is, these two works have been sufficient to cement Wests reputation as one of Americas great literary talents of the 1930s.  MISS LONELYHEARTS is perhaps the more highly acclaimed of the two, though many find THE DAY OF THE LOCUST perhaps even more entertaining.  Either way, this volume contains two of the most remarkable short novels in American literary history.<br />Nathanael West was an exceptionally dense writer, in that his pages contain no wasted words, no needless characters, and no pointless characters.  Every sentence, every word, every comma plays an essential role in his work.  Both works are distilled to their most concentrated form.  As a result, although they are highly readable and brief, they contain far more content than even much longer books.<br />Both of the books are littered with moments of devastating power.  In MISS LONELYHEARTS, these are more intimate, deeply personal, miniature scenes.  The same is true of THE DAY OF THE LOCUST, though it ends with one of the greatest crowd scenes this side of Tolstoys WAR AND PEACE.  The riot scene ending the novel is so vivid, so clearly presented, so terrifying that one might legitimately argue that it is the greatest crowd scene in literature.  On the other extreme, the opening letters at the beginning of MISS LONELYHEARTS are as heartbreaking as anything in literature.  They are worthy of comparison with the most horrific examples of suffering that Ivan in THE BROTHERS KARAMAZOV (a book that Miss Lonelyhearts reads and West loved) comes up with when talking with his brother Alyosha.<br />These are not happy books.  West was one of the foremost spokesmen for pessimism of the early 20th century.  At the time of his death, however, he was working on a novel that, he claimed, was far less negative and dealt with the Milk of Human Kindness.  But in these two, the misery of individual lives and the ultimate meaningless of the lives of all the characters can depress some readers.  There are no admirable characters, no one that we can pull for sympathetically.  There are, however, some astonishingly vivid charactersMiss Lonelyhearts, his editor Shrike, Tod Hackett, Faye Greener, or Homer Simpson (Matt Groening has indicated awareness of that character).  But if one can handle the unrelieved tragedy and the hopelessness that pervade Wests pages, one will find these to be two gloriously original and unique masterpieces.ovel that, he claimed, was far less negative and dealt with the Milk of Human Kindness.  But in these two, the misery of individual lives and the ultimate meaningless of the lives of all the characters can depress some readers.  There are no admirable characters, no one that we can pull for sympathetically.  There are, however, some astonishingly vivid charactersMiss Lonelyhearts, his editor Shrike, Tod Hackett, Faye Greener, or Homer Simpson (Matt Groening has indicated awareness of that character).  But if one can handle the unrelieved tragedy and the hopelessness that pervade Wests pages, one will find these to be two gloriously original and unique masterpieces.	2002-11-07
1352955:US	52048190	R23W76DS7FNVI7	0891077618	34184436	Jack: A Life of C. S. Lewis	Books	4	62	67	N	N	Solid, reliable portrait of an old friend	As large as C. S. Lewis looms in today's intellectual landscape, and for all the different ways he manages to find a readership, whether as a literary critic, a Christian apologist, or fantasy novelist, it is somewhat surprising that we do not yet have a truly first rate biography.  Until that volume comes along, this affectionate biography/memoir by Lewis's student/friend George Sayer is the best that we have.<br />The great problem in C. S. Lewis scholarship at the moment is that the bulk of the books dealing with his life tend to be overwhelmingly pious and respectful (the St. Jack bios) or intent on tearing holes in that portrait (A. N. Wilson).  What we really need is a first rate biography that manages to capture the magic and appeal of Lewis's personality, explains his ongoing intellectual and imaginative appeal, and yet does not willfully overlook the man's flaws.  Sayer captures the personality marvelously, gives some hints as to his intellectual appeal, but presents a fairly sanitized version of Lewis's life.  No doubt this is out of respect and affection, but Lewis doesn't emerge as a warm flesh and blood human being.  For instance, while alluding to his relationship with Mrs. Moore, Sayer assumes a position of agnosticism as to its nature.  It is an important if disturbing chapter in Lewis's life, because it potentially reveals a great deal about his personality.<br />One thing that does emerge in Sayer's biography is the closed reserve that Lewis seems to have carried with him all his life.  On the one hand, Lewis seems to have been a very accomodating, kind, and helpful soul, and yet, he is hard to get to know.  One gets to know his thoughts, and yet never gets to know the man who thinks them.  One can read both SURPRISED BY JOY and A GRIEF OBSERVED, and come away from them not having a strong sense of how Lewis felt about things, about the predomenant emotions in his life.  Sayer doesn't completely dispell this emotional reserve that Lewis projects, but he probably gets as close as anyone has.<br />Still, I don't believe this is the biography we are waiting for.  It will do until the definitive one comes along.  My recommendation for those wanting to know about Lewis's life is to read this one in conjunction with A. N. Wilson's.  In the latter Wilson far too gleefully deconstructs the carefully constructed portrait of Lewis that some of his more somber admirers have constructed.  I value the Wilson as a corrective, but one will not get much of a sense of why Lewis was such an attractive individual for so many, both in his books and in real life.  For that, you will need to look to this excellent book.s, but he probably gets as close as anyone has.  <br />Still, I don't believe this is the biography we are waiting for.  It will do until the definitive one comes along.  My recommendation for those wanting to know about Lewis's life is to read this one in conjunction with A. N. Wilson's.  In the latter Wilson far too gleefully deconstructs the carefully constructed portrait of Lewis that some of his more somber admirers have constructed.  I value the Wilson as a corrective, but one will not get much of a sense of why Lewis was such an attractive individual for so many, both in his books and in real life.  For that, you will need to look to this excellent book.	2002-11-03
1354364:US	52048190	R2HAGHYO71OPEV	0195002660	377727040	Medieval Technology and Social Change	Books	5	46	46	N	N	A great work that connects technological and social history	This is one of the classic works of medieval studies to emerge out of the past half century, and its importance far outstrips whether or not White's famous stirrup thesis is correct or not.  The overwhelming consensus is that it is incorrect.  But only someone who has not read the book could imagine that that thesis was the bulk of the book, or the only idea in it.  In fact, there is an unstated, larger thesis that underlies White's book, and which indicates why it is important:  White implies that we can only understand the medieval period if we also understand its technology.  White virtually ushered in the age of the study of medieval technology and seeing it as intimately connected and underlying the social and even political history.<br />This is a short book, shorter than it initially seems upon holding it because of the vast number of foot and endnotes.  But the number of ideas and insights are completely out of proportion with the book's apparent brevity.  It is absolutely stuffed to overflowing with content.  Miraculously, that doesn't effect its readability.  Even a relative neophyte to historical studies will have little difficulty following White's ideas and arguments, although, obviously, the more one knows, the better the background one will have for understanding his theses.<br />Although his stirrup thesis has largely been rejected, this remains an essential book on any short list of the great works of medieval history.  More than that, it is fun, too.  I strongly recommend it to anyone with the slightest degree of interest in medieval history.	2002-11-02
1354405:US	52048190	R5IFJ9DMXJIMN	0679722645	951875669	The Maltese Falcon	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A classic work by one of America's greatst writers	Dashiell Hammett still hasn't gotten his proper due. Although pretty much universally regarded as the founder of the hardboiled school of detective fiction, and considered--along with Raymond Chandler and Ross MacDonald--to be one of the three classic masters of the genre, he is still somewhat marginalized as being merely a detective writer. In fact, Hammett was much more than that. He was one of the crucial figures in the 1920s in liberating American prose from those writers who were intent upon imitating continental styles, such as Dreiser and Sinclair Lewis, who consciously followed Zola's realism. Hammett was one of the key figures in developing a prose style that was uniquely American. His sentences are tough, terse, and urban.<br />THE MALTESE FALCON is my favorite Hammett novel, though not my favorite work by Hammett. He was a very good novelist, but he was an extraordinary short story writer, and if one wants the very, very best of his work, one should go to the collection of Continental Op stories (the Op was also his primary character) contained in THE CONTINENTAL OP. Still, this novel belongs on the shortest of short lists of the finest hardboiled detective novels ever written. The novel's overall status would be much higher if we didn't feel such a powerful compulsion to pigeonhole our writers. Hammett at his best certainly rivals 1920s contemporaries such as Hemingway and Fitzgerald.<br />The plot is familiar to anyone who has seen the Bogart version of the novel. For a Hays Office era film, it does a great job of presenting most of the details of the novel, although Joel Cairo's homosexuality, blantant in the novel, is muted in the film. The film is a very great film, but what a fan of the film will discover upon coming to the novel is that it is also a very great novel. Some great movies are based upon relatively weak novels (a specialty of Alfred Hitchcock). In this case, both are masterpieces. Any lover of the film will find the same delightful characters, the same riveting dialog, and the same smokey atmosphere. Almost all the great lines of the movie are also in the book. The largest single difference will be the character of Sam Spade. Hammett's Spade is a tad more leering, a bit more self-serving, a little less moral. Bogart's Sam Spade seems to have been filtered through Chandler's knight errant Philip Marlowe.<br />Anyone who is a fan of American literature needs to read this book. It is one of the greatest works by one of the most influential American writers of the first part of the 20th century. What is amazing is how sharp and edgy the prose remains after seventy years. A must read.acters, the same riveting dialog, and the same smokey atmosphere. Almost all the great lines of the movie are also in the book. The largest single difference will be the character of Sam Spade. Hammett's Spade is a tad more leering, a bit more self-serving, a little less moral. Bogart's Sam Spade seems to have been filtered through Chandler's knight errant Philip Marlowe. <br />Anyone who is a fan of American literature needs to read this book. It is one of the greatest works by one of the most influential American writers of the first part of the 20th century. What is amazing is how sharp and edgy the prose remains after seventy years. A must read.	2002-11-02
1356704:US	52048190	R1QTUH63DOZ30C	3829005202	243403890	The 1930s (Decades of the 20th Century)	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	Another stellar volume in the Decades of the 20th Century	THE 1930S is yet another enormously enjoyable volume in what has come to be one of my favorite series of books in American publishing.  Editor Nick Yapp has been plundering the Hutton Getty Picture Collection to produce a visual portrait of each of the decades of the 20th century.  No one country is the exclusive focus of the photographs, though for some reason about 95% of them are from England, Germany, and the United States.  Many of the photos in each collection are by notable photographers, though the bulk in each one is by uncredited photographers.  The photographs are arranged in rough topical categories, focusing both on celebrities and everyday folk.<br />I am currently reading THE DARK VALLEY by Piers Brendon, which is a history of the 1930s.  I am finding this collection of photographs to be a perfect companion to that history.  All the major figures of the decade, and most of the social and political changes, are documented in these photos.<br />The greatest thing about this series is that it is just a whole lot of fun.  I have ended up littering my apartment with various volumes in this series.  I have THE 1920S in the kitchen, the THE 1930S in the living room, THE 1970S on my bedstand, and THE AMERICAN MILLENIUM (a similar volume edited by Nick Yapp from the Hutton Getty Collection) in my bathroom.  I find myself allowing myself to become immersed in the various books each day for ten or fifteen minutes at a time.  What is especially fun is showing one of the books to a friend, and watching them to the same.  Just a great series, and an incredible bargain for the price.	2002-10-31
1357823:US	52048190	R1CS08RE534JNC	3829060106	344911255	American Millennium	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	An absolutely stunning collection of photographs	What a stunning book!  And what an incredible bargain for the price!  This book attempts to provide a visual history of the America (or, that part that comprises the present United States) for the past one thousand years.  The bulk of the book is photographs, but there are a large number of prehistoric and prephotographic drawings.  While this book could never replace a text history of the continent and nation, it provides a stunning supplement.  Very few major events are omitted, and a large number of the photographs are notable for their brilliance.  Most are unfamiliar photographs.  They are not the stock photos that seem to get passed on from collection to collection.  The famous Dorothea Lange photography of an &quot;Okie&quot; is an exception rather than a rule.  No matter what period in American history, this collection never fails to delight and fascinate and educate.<br />I had only a couple of quibbles.  One is that the sports photography, which was considerable, focused almost exclusively on boxing, track, and baseball.  As a result, many of the most dominant athletic figures are omitted.  This would not be a problem except so many lesser figures were included.  A second is that towards the end of the book, the photographs become surprisingly mundane.  For instance, there are several pages where PEOPLE magazine type publicity photos of people like Julia Roberts and Meg Ryan are simply place four to a page.  Surely there were more interesting photos than these.  Most of the book is stunning; it isn't clear why the late 20th century should suddenly become so flat and uninventive.<br />Nonetheless, this book is a delight.  It makes a great history book, art book, photography book, bathroom book, bedside book, or even coffee table book (though in diminutive form).	2002-10-30
1361721:US	52048190	ROEUPMYUFGYYE	0393028135	178267094	C.S. Lewis: A Biography	Books	3	43	50	N	Y	Mainly useful as a corrective to more respectful biographies	Despite a vast amount of literature on C. S. Lewis, there are surprisingly a dearth of good biographies.  In most, Lewis emerges as a bit of a plastic saint, just a little too good to be true, a bit of a high-church protestant saint.  This is especially true in evangelical American circles, where many imagine Lewis to have been a nonsmoking abstainer from alcohol.  Many will react with shock and dismay upon learning that Lewis's smoked so heavily that he was the probable cause of his relatively early death and his drinking was considerable, and may have bordered on the alcoholic.<br />As a corrective to this goody-goody Lewis, Wilson provides us with a warts and all flesh-and-blood corrective.  He gives us the hard drinking, mildly bawdy, addictive smoker who has a relationship with a woman old enough to be his mother and a premarital relationship with a woman he would later marry.<br />There are two questions to ask here.  First, are Wilson's \\"facts\\" accurate?  There doesn't seem to be much reason to doubt many of them.  Second, are these adequate to create a good biography?  No.  Wilson's biography is valuable for one and only one reason:  he delves into the aspects of Lewis's life that the other biographers would prefer to either ignore or pretend didn't exist.  He also gives a slightly different slant on many of Lewis's intellectual and religious interests.  But apart from the book's valuable debunking, it is a fairly lame biography.  Lewis doesn't emerge as a particularly attractive person.  He doesn't, in fact, emerge much as a person at all.  Wilson doesn't doo much of a job of showing what made Lewis click at all.  And while he does do a good job of showing that the St. Jack portraits of Lewis are all mildly bogus, he doesn't really provide us with an alternative.<br />I do recommend that anyone interested in Lewis's life read this book, because Wilson does cover many aspects of Lewis's life the others do not.  But it most definitely needs to be supplemented with other biographies.  Although it has its own problems, probably the best of a bad lot is Sayer's JACK: A LIFE OF C. S. LEWIS.  His is a mildly sanitized biography, but the value of the book is that Lewis does begin to emerge as a three-dimensional person.  Read the Wilson biography, but then read the Sayer as a corrective to Wilson's corrective.with other biographies.  Although it has its own problems, probably the best of a bad lot is Sayer's JACK: A LIFE OF C. S. LEWIS.  His is a mildly sanitized biography, but the value of the book is that Lewis does begin to emerge as a three-dimensional person.  Read the Wilson biography, but then read the Sayer as a corrective to Wilson's corrective.	2002-10-27
1361892:US	52048190	R2CTLEVTHSTHWG	0385093306	738392231	Good-Bye to All That: An Autobiography	Books	5	155	163	N	N	Perhaps still the premiere war memoir in English	GOOD-BYE TO ALL THAT is about considerably more than just Graves's experiences in the trenches in WW I, but it is that section of the book that makes this memoir stand apart from most others. That, and the exceptional honesty of the book, which manages to be tell-all without being gossipy. There is also a sense of renunciation; instead of nostalgic longing to recover the past as one find in other memoirs, Graves is anxious to put the past aside for good, to have done with it entirely.<br />The best parts of the book are those dealing with his dreadful time in school, he time serving in the war, and his various friendships. Some of those friendships sneak up on you. He writes at length of a literature professor at school named George Mallory who profoundly molded his reading and literary sensibilities. He writes for page after page about \\"George,\\" but it isn't until he begin a chapter with the words, \\"George Mallory did something better than lend me books: he too me climbing on Snowdon in the school vacation.\\" It wasn't until that moment that I realized that George Mallory the literature instructor was THAT George Mallory, the famous mountain climber who attempted Everest (and perhaps conquered it) \\"because it is there.\\" George becomes one of Graves's greatest friends, and even serves as best man in his wedding. The other friendship I found fascinating, perhaps because the man himself remains one of the most mystifying characters of the 20th century, was T. E. Lawrence. As Lawrence removed himself from the public eye more and more in the 1920s and 1930s, being in 1920 perhaps one of the most famous individuals in the British Empire, he changed personas from Lawrence of Arabia to Private Shaw, reenlisting in the Army as an auto mechanic. Graves remained a good friend of his throughout the entire period, and wrote one of the first serious biographies of Lawrence. I enjoyed one passage where he is in Lawrence's quarters at (I think) Cambridge, eyeing the manuscript of Lawrence's own war memoirs, what would eventually become THE SEVEN PILLARS OF WISDOM (Graves would be one of a select few to receive a copy of the first privately printed edition, which remains one of the great published books of the 20th century, with expensively reproduced drawings and illustrations--subsequent editions remove most of the illustrations).<br />But the heart of the book is the account of his experiences at the front. Although this war produced a disproportionate amount of great literature, I personally believe that the two greatest literary monuments to the Great War (unless one also includes Lawrence's THE SEVEN PILLARS OF WISDOM) are Graves's memoir and the poetry of Wilfrid Owen. The sections of the book dealing with the war seem to alternate between the startling everyday to the nightmarish. In many sections the mood seems to be straight out of Dante's PURGATORIO, at the worst his INFERNO. But throughout, the story is carried forward by Graves's relentlessly honest pen. Although Graves's wrote an absolutely stunning number of books, in particular the two Claudius novels, this fine volume just might be his greatest work.awrence's own war memoirs, what would eventually become THE SEVEN PILLARS OF WISDOM (Graves would be one of a select few to receive a copy of the first privately printed edition, which remains one of the great published books of the 20th century, with expensively reproduced drawings and illustrations--subsequent editions remove most of the illustrations).<br />But the heart of the book is the account of his experiences at the front. Although this war produced a disproportionate amount of great literature, I personally believe that the two greatest literary monuments to the Great War (unless one also includes Lawrence's THE SEVEN PILLARS OF WISDOM) are Graves's memoir and the poetry of Wilfrid Owen. The sections of the book dealing with the war seem to alternate between the startling everyday to the nightmarish. In many sections the mood seems to be straight out of Dante's PURGATORIO, at the worst his INFERNO. But throughout, the story is carried forward by Graves's relentlessly honest pen. Although Graves's wrote an absolutely stunning number of books, in particular the two Claudius novels, this fine volume just might be his greatest work.	2002-10-27
1362266:US	52048190	R3SXX43QXV84CS	0140183523	256512938	Kim (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	3	5	12	N	Y	Still an important novel on the India of the colonial period	The vast majority of us no longer have much sympathy with ideas legitimizing the &quot;white man's burden&quot; and the necessity for Europeans and Americans to govern and control vast countries and continents around the globe. Most of us are not fans of imperialism. Most of us no longer share Kipling's views about the essential correctness of British occupation and rule of India. And we certainly do not share the almost unbelievably naive biases he expresses about &quot;the Oriental mind&quot; and the nature of typical native of India. As a result, I found it very hard to find much to like or admire in Kim, a Sahib who is good at pretending to be a native. For him, it all seems like a game within the context of The Great Game. At the end of the novel, he sets aside his native costume, and takes him proper place in the world of the rulers, instead of living with and as an Indian.<br /> In a sense, KIM is almost impossible for an educated person to read today as literature. It seems instead to be more historical artifact. We simply are not able to go back and time and read it with the same imperial eyes of just over a century ago. I found it exceedingly difficult to read any passage dealing with Kim and his adventures with any degree of sympathy and I found it impossible to identify with him. Whatever enjoyment I found in the book I discovered in the character of the old lama. Nonetheless, while it is hard today to read this novel as literature, it makes for fascinating reading as a documentary of colonial assumptions and beliefs. In other words, it makes great history.<br /><br /> I would very strongly recommend anyone wanting to read this novel to do so in the Penguin Classics edition. The introduction by Edward Said, author of ORIENTALISM, alone is almost worth the price of the entire book. He does a masterful job in a remarkably brief space of limning the key issues in a post-colonial reading of colonial literature, and applies this brilliantly to the major issues that arise in a reading of KIM.se in a reading of KIM.	2002-10-27
1364160:US	52048190	ROLR8ILZP4R5J	0312265050	814932512	The Naked and the Dead: 50th Anniversary Edition	Books	4	19	22	N	N	The first classic novel of WW II	This is the novel that made Norman Mailer an overnight literary sensation, and was perhaps the first famous literary work dealing with events in WW II. Unlike some of the other great WW II classics like CATCH-22 and GRAVITY'S RAINBOW, it was written immediately following the war.<br />From the comments I read from other reviewers, I seem to like this novel a bit less than others. While it is unquestionably a novel of great scope and seriousness, I found much of it to be stiff and somewhat dated. Many of the characters seemed to me to be stock characters, and almost all of the conversation struck me as stiff and artificial. I should add, however, that I have heard Mailer interviewed on several occasions, and interestingly I find his own conversational style to be somewhat stiff and artificial. So, it might be that the style in THE NAKED AND THE DEAD follows his own inner voice.<br />Nonetheless, even for a relative nonfan of the book, there is much to admire in this book. One scene describing a battle at night possessed a great deal of power. And while I found the conversations awkward, over the course of time you get a sense of the dynamics and personalities of the various platoon members. What especially surprised me about the book was how cynical and disillusioned the novel felt. It was, after all, published in 1948, and the flush and pride of victory already feels stale and faded. This is not the John Wayne in THE SANDS OF IWO JIMA.<br />One disconcerting aspect of the book was the extensive use of pseudo-profanity. Obviously, in 1948 Mailer or his editors either felt or knew that the novel would face censorship charges if the F-word were used. Instead, the word \\"fug\\" is substituted liberally throughout, and the effect for modern reader is jarring and unpleasant, almost as if the men were speaking a different dialect. It may have been one of the factors that made the prose seem somewhat artificial to me. After more than 50 years, it would be nice to see Mailer authorize a new edition with more explicit speech.  This makes the novel sound more dated than it ought.<br />While I found this somewhat disappointing and less moving than I had anticipated, this is nonetheless well worth reading. From a literary standpoint it features one of the most full-blooded tales of combat in WW II and from a historical standpoint it was the first great English-language fictional account of the conflict. Either of those reasons would suffice to make this a worthy read.authorize a new edition with more explicit speech.  This makes the novel sound more dated than it ought.<br />While I found this somewhat disappointing and less moving than I had anticipated, this is nonetheless well worth reading. From a literary standpoint it features one of the most full-blooded tales of combat in WW II and from a historical standpoint it was the first great English-language fictional account of the conflict. Either of those reasons would suffice to make this a worthy read.	2002-10-25
1372975:US	52048190	R222ZEX3FJJUIJ	0394749138	152594585	Civil War Volumes 1-3 Box Set	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The central event in American history magnificently told	Although there are many, many great books on the Civil War, and many who can lay claim to being greater historians of that conflict, Shelby Foote can lay claim to having recounted the greatest single event in American history better than anyone. They key to this work is the subtitle: a NARRATIVE history. While he does engage in insightful analysis of the causes of the war and of the central events and individuals in it, his primary task is to tell the history of the conflict as dramatically and as accurately as possible while remaining responsible as a historian.<br />On one level, Foote might have been somewhat of a surprise to write such a fabulous work. At the time of the writing, he was known primarily as a novelist, not as a historian. In this he resembles Bernard DeVoto, who while primarily a novelist and literary critic, wrote three great historical works to cap his career as a writer. What sets Foote apart from other writers on the Civil War is precisely his gifts as a novelist. THE CIVIL WAR is, as Foote tells it, the Great American Novel. If he was constrained by the events of history as to how the story would unfold, he nonetheless manages to make every scene and character come vividly alive.<br />Although a Southerner with an acute sense of his region's history, Foote provides a tremendously balanced recounting of the conflict. If he is sympathetic and effective in writing about such Southern heroes as Stonewall Jackson, Nathan Bedford Forrest, and Robert E. Lee, he is equally as capable when writing of Lincoln, Sherman, and Grant. While the South had the more interesting set of characters in the War, the North did have the central figure in Lincoln, and there are few better accounts of Lincoln's genius and his importance than Foote's. Indeed, while Lee and Jackson and Forrest may emerge in the books as the great military leaders of the war, Lincoln emerges as the War's greatest genius, the one whose vision and force of will led it to an inevitable conclusion. Throughout the work, Foote excels in writing about the myriad of individuals comprising the cast of characters of the conflict.<br />Foote also excels in writing about the great battles of the war. So often, writers attempt to write about a battle, only to be immersed in the fog of war. Foote dispels the fog, only to reveal the events in marvelous clarity. No one writer writes so well about so many battles. His accounts of Jackson's Shenandoah campaign, Chancellorsville, Chickamauga, Fredricksburg, Antietam, Gettysburg, and a host of other battles are absolutely first rate.<br />Many, many people know the reputation of THE CIVIL WAR, know how highly it is regarded, and yet hesitate to read it because of its length. Yes, it is long. But few long books so completely repay the effort. If you don't understand the Civil War, you don't understand America. As Foote put it so brilliantly on Ken Burns's Civil War series (a series that made Foote known beyond the previous readers of his novels and this set), the Civil War is the central event in American history; it is what made us a country. And no one tells this story so capably and brilliantly as Foote. The story, to be told correctly, requires a work this long to tell it properly. Even as brilliant a one-volume history as James MacPherson's BATTLE CRY OF FREEDOM fails to do as good a job simply because he doesn't have the space to deal as exhaustively with the story as Foote does. If I had to recommend only one work on the Civil War, it would be Foote's magnificent narrative. Read this not merely because it is a crucial story marvelously told, but because it is a story with which all Americans and any non-American wanting to understand America must be familiar.usion. Throughout the work, Foote excels in writing about the myriad of individuals comprising the cast of characters of the conflict.<br />Foote also excels in writing about the great battles of the war. So often, writers attempt to write about a battle, only to be immersed in the fog of war. Foote dispels the fog, only to reveal the events in marvelous clarity. No one writer writes so well about so many battles. His accounts of Jackson's Shenandoah campaign, Chancellorsville, Chickamauga, Fredricksburg, Antietam, Gettysburg, and a host of other battles are absolutely first rate.<br />Many, many people know the reputation of THE CIVIL WAR, know how highly it is regarded, and yet hesitate to read it because of its length. Yes, it is long. But few long books so completely repay the effort. If you don't understand the Civil War, you don't understand America. As Foote put it so brilliantly on Ken Burns's Civil War series (a series that made Foote known beyond the previous readers of his novels and this set), the Civil War is the central event in American history; it is what made us a country. And no one tells this story so capably and brilliantly as Foote. The story, to be told correctly, requires a work this long to tell it properly. Even as brilliant a one-volume history as James MacPherson's BATTLE CRY OF FREEDOM fails to do as good a job simply because he doesn't have the space to deal as exhaustively with the story as Foote does. If I had to recommend only one work on the Civil War, it would be Foote's magnificent narrative. Read this not merely because it is a crucial story marvelously told, but because it is a story with which all Americans and any non-American wanting to understand America must be familiar.	2002-10-17
1374656:US	52048190	R30FVSZ63PKNSR	0140159940	820357524	Beyond the Hundredth Meridian: John Wesley Powell and the Second Opening of the West	Books	5	100	102	N	N	One of the few essential books on the American West	This classic work is a penetrating and insightful study of the public career of Maj. John Wesley Powell, from the beginning of the Powell Survey, which most famously had Powell and his men descend for the first time by anyone the Colorado River, to his eventual ouster from the Geological Survey.  Stegner does a magnificent job of detailing both the myriad accomplishments by Powell in his remarkable career as public servant, but the philosophy and ideas that undergirded his work.  Most readers at the end will conclude that the history of the United States might have proceeded differently had his profound insights into the nature of the American West been heeded.<br />Stegner writes in a lucid, clear, frequently exciting prose style.  Although his history is solid, his writing is somewhat more.  For example, at one point Stegner writes of one person who was more than a little deluded about the nature of the West:  &quot;The yeasty schemes stirring in Adams' head must have generated gases to cloud his eyesight.&quot;  Especially in context a brilliant sentence, and not of the quality one anticipates in a historical work, especially one that deals at length with questions of public policy.  The volume also contains an Introduction by Stegner's mentor and teacher Bernard DeVoto, an essay that contains in a few pages the heart of DeVoto's own understanding of the West, and which alone would be worth the cost of the volume.<br />Stegner does an excellent job of relating Powell's own insights and visions to those of others of the day.  He contrasts Powell's philosophy with the desires and urges of the people who were rushing to obtain land in the West, and the politicians who were trying to lure them there.  He points up similarities and differences in his way of looking at things, from those stoutly opposed to his views, and those in some degree sympathetic to him, like Charles King and the oddly omnipresent Henry Adams.  From the earliest pages of the book to the very end, Stegner brings up Adams again and again, which is somewhat unexpected since Adams is not an essential participant in this story.<br />I have only two complaints with the book, one stylistic and the other substantive.  The book contains a few maps but no photographs, and this book would have profited greatly from a number of illustrations.  He refers to many, many visual things:  vistas, rivers, people, paintings of the West, photographs of the West, maps, Indians, and locales, and at least a few photographs or illustrations would have greatly enhanced the book.<br />The second complaint is more serious.  Stegner is completely unsympathetic to the attacks of Edward D. Cope on Othniel C. Marsh and, primarily by association, Powell.  The Cope-Marsh controversy was, as Stegner quite rightly points out, the most destructive scientific controversy in United States history, and one that does absolutely no credit to either major participant.  My complaint with Stegner's account is that he makes Cope sound more than a little psychotic, and his complaints more symptoms of mental illness and irrational hatred than anything generated by reasonable causes.  Cope's hatred of Marsh was not rational, but neither was it baseless.  Cope had indeed suffered grievously at the hands of Marsh, who had used his own considerable political power to prevent Cope from obtaining additional fossil samples.  In this Powell was not completely innocent.  I believe that anyone studying the Cope-Marsh controversy in greater detail will find Cope and not Marsh to be the more sympathetic figure, and certainly the more likable.  The careers of both Cope and Marsh were destroyed by their controversy, but so also was that that of Powell greatly diminished.  I can understand why Stegner is so unsympathetic to Cope, while at the same time believing that he overlooks the justness of many of Cope's complaints., Stegner brings up Adams again and again, which is somewhat unexpected since Adams is not an essential participant in this story.  <br />I have only two complaints with the book, one stylistic and the other substantive.  The book contains a few maps but no photographs, and this book would have profited greatly from a number of illustrations.  He refers to many, many visual things:  vistas, rivers, people, paintings of the West, photographs of the West, maps, Indians, and locales, and at least a few photographs or illustrations would have greatly enhanced the book.<br />The second complaint is more serious.  Stegner is completely unsympathetic to the attacks of Edward D. Cope on Othniel C. Marsh and, primarily by association, Powell.  The Cope-Marsh controversy was, as Stegner quite rightly points out, the most destructive scientific controversy in United States history, and one that does absolutely no credit to either major participant.  My complaint with Stegner's account is that he makes Cope sound more than a little psychotic, and his complaints more symptoms of mental illness and irrational hatred than anything generated by reasonable causes.  Cope's hatred of Marsh was not rational, but neither was it baseless.  Cope had indeed suffered grievously at the hands of Marsh, who had used his own considerable political power to prevent Cope from obtaining additional fossil samples.  In this Powell was not completely innocent.  I believe that anyone studying the Cope-Marsh controversy in greater detail will find Cope and not Marsh to be the more sympathetic figure, and certainly the more likable.  The careers of both Cope and Marsh were destroyed by their controversy, but so also was that that of Powell greatly diminished.  I can understand why Stegner is so unsympathetic to Cope, while at the same time believing that he overlooks the justness of many of Cope's complaints.	2002-10-16
1377771:US	52048190	R7QPOQT50YF0L	0899683592	114991320	The Space Merchants	Books	5	10	13	N	N	No question, one of the great Sci-fi classics	One of the more frustrating things about Science fiction is the way that many of the premier titles in the genre go out of print and remain unavailable for long periods of time.  It would be really great to see a couple of publishing houses attempt to keep some of the greater Sci-fi novels from the past in print.<br />THE SPACE MERCHANTS is remarkable for the way it combines advertising, corporate culture (especially relevant today with the Enron and Worldcom scandals), and reflections on ways it might be possible to exploit the solar system economically in the future.  Like the best of Sci-fi, it presents a plausible vision of the future that seems equally to life today, while also managing a great plot.  The ending (which, of course, I cannot describe without giving too much away) is one of my favorites in all of Sci-fi.  The book feels like it was written much more recently than 1952.<br />Definitely worth seeking out.	2002-10-13
1378196:US	52048190	R4UBRJRVVJMOQ	0380006359	165007101	Needle (also published as From Outer Space )	Books	5	16	16	N	N	One of my favorite Sci-fi novels	I really, really enjoyed this book, and I am very sad that it is out of print. It is the kind of book that I would like to recommend to others, but can't because of its relatively unavailability.<br />This book was indeed written in 1949, as others have noted, but for me this was a plus and not a minus in reading the book. I love the fact that we now have Sci-fi classics written at different times, and enjoy seeing the way that those writing in the late forties handled situations different than today. Moreover, the book was SET in 1949, and not in the future. This was merely one of the things that made the book interesting to me.<br />There are two major reasons that I enjoyed this book. One is the utterly unique premise. An alien detective on the trail of a malevolent murderer of the same species as himself crashes lands on Earth near an isolated island. These creatures require a host species, not possessing themselves a body to speak of. Our \\"hero\\" manages to find a host, the body of a young boy living on the island. From there the book deals with a variety of problems, such as how the alien lets the boy know he is residing inside him, how to figure out where the criminal alien might be, and once located, how to deal with him. It truly is one of the most unique plots in Sci-fi history.<br />The other reason I love the book is its completely unique setting. One does not normally set Sci-fi tales on an island in 1949. This lends an air to the novel that is quite unlike any other novel I have encountered.<br />I hope this book comes back into print. Until then, it does pop up on the used book market. I have twice found copies in used bookstores, and hopefully a copy will appear here for sale. However, one obtains a copy, I do heartily recommend this to anyone interested in the history of Sci-fi.	2002-10-13
1378292:US	52048190	RFVO17L0EZ58G	0452278368	337716964	Mystery Train: Images of America in Rock 'n' Roll: Fourth Edition	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Still one of the truly great Rock 'n' Roll books	The first edition of MYSTERY TRAIN appeared in 1975, and now appears in its 4th Edition.  That a study of rock 'n' roll should appear in a 4th edition shows the ongoing appeal of this book, which easily makes any short list of the great books or rock criticism ever written.<br />Throughout all his work, Greil Marcus has been concerned not merely with rock 'n' roll on its own, divorced from the greater culture, but with the role it plays in the cultural life of America as a whole.  For many cultural critics, Elvis was a disruption with what came before.  For Marcus, Elvis is a natural outgrowth of primary trends in American life.  No section of the book illustrates this as well as the one on Robert Johnson, in which he emerges as the natural heir to the Puritans, because, like them, Johnson takes the Devil seriously.  No just in writing about Johnson or Elvis, Marcus seems to believe that there is something uniquely American about rock 'n' roll, as if it were an outgrowth of the American spirit and soul.  It is a part of American history in a way that it is not a part of English history, even if many British bands could take up rock 'n' roll and play it as well or better than its American creators.<br />Marcus never fails to write with great intelligence and insight, and if he sometimes seems to make a point go further than it wants to go, it should be viewed as evidence of his trying to make as much sense out of the subject as he can.  Marcus isn't content to write superficial, glib criticism.  He wants to go below surfaces to what lies beneath.  If he tries to make connections that one might not quite agree are there, I find that preferable to a kind of criticisms that isn't capable of seeing larger connections at all.<br />This is also in advertently sad book.  Most of the figures he wrote about in 1975 were all still alive and were most were still active.  Indeed, many of them seemed capable of continuing to produce great music.  But none of the major figures discussed in the book are today alive and active in producing rock 'n' roll.  Elvis would be dead two years after the publication of the first edition.  The Band would disband and key figures in the band would die.  Sly Stone would become embroiled in drugs and then disappear from the public eye entirely.  Randy Newman would produce a few more albums, but would eventually leave rock to write movie soundtracks like his uncles Alfred, Emil, and Lionel.  Marcus wasn't aware that he was writing about the past when he completed the first draft in 1974, but he was.<br />Still, if one wants highly intelligent, literate, sophisticated rock criticism, a kind of incisive writing that cannot today be found in ROLLING STONE or SPIN or anywhere else, this is the place to go.  I actually prefer some of Marcus's other books to this one (in particular, LIPSTICK TRACES), but this remains his best overall book on rock.cussed in the book are today alive and active in producing rock 'n' roll.  Elvis would be dead two years after the publication of the first edition.  The Band would disband and key figures in the band would die.  Sly Stone would become embroiled in drugs and then disappear from the public eye entirely.  Randy Newman would produce a few more albums, but would eventually leave rock to write movie soundtracks like his uncles Alfred, Emil, and Lionel.  Marcus wasn't aware that he was writing about the past when he completed the first draft in 1974, but he was.  <br />Still, if one wants highly intelligent, literate, sophisticated rock criticism, a kind of incisive writing that cannot today be found in ROLLING STONE or SPIN or anywhere else, this is the place to go.  I actually prefer some of Marcus's other books to this one (in particular, LIPSTICK TRACES), but this remains his best overall book on rock.	2002-10-13
1378452:US	52048190	R2J23U417VE6I0	0394759842	364481599	Oscar Wilde	Books	5	45	46	N	N	Likely to stand as the definitive biography of Wilde	If Richard Ellmann had not already written the definitive literary biography (his astonishing JAMES JOYCE), this utterly first-rate biography would be a legitimate candidate for the title.  One might initially think that Wilde would be an easy subject for a biography:  his life was interesting, eventful, literarily significant, triumphant, and tragic.  But the problem is that for many Wilde has become a symbol either of the late 19th century Victorian decadence or the oppressed homosexual.  To treat anyone, and especially Wilde, primarily as a symbol or a representative of anything outside himself, is to distort and misrepresent.  The genius of Ellmann's biography of Wilde is that Wilde never becomes either more or less than the writer and person Oscar Wilde.<br />The portrait that emerges of Wilde is absolutely fascinating.  If Ellmann's JAMES JOYCE is the greater biography, Wilde emerges nonetheless as the more interesting of the two Irish authors, and perhaps the more brilliant, if not the more productive.  Indeed, one of the things that emerges from Ellmann's book is a sense that Wilde might have become a greater writer than he did, and not just if he had not sued the Marquess of Queensbury and had not been sent to prison on sodomy charges.  Wilde emerges as even more brilliant than the work he produced, as if he had produced much of his work with a minimum of reference.<br />Ellmann does a marvelous job of situation Wilde in his time and place, with the cultural and artistic concerns paramount at the time.  He also does a fair and just job of depicting the major involvements in his life, beginning with Whistler and his wife Constance and continuing on with his various involvements, especially with Alfred Lord Douglas.  With the latter, Ellmann certainly does not try to idealize the relationship, but recounts it warts and all.  If there is a villain in the book, it is not, surprisingly, the Marquess of Queensbury, but his son Lord Douglas.<br />The saddest part of the book, by far, is the section recounting Wilde's life after leaving prison, which is one disappointment after another.  He first intended to reunite and reconcile with his wife, but she unexpectedly died, thereby cutting himself off from both a family and his children.  He then reunites uncomfortably with Lord Douglas, but the attempt is a disaster.  He final year or two are recounted as being especially miserable, with an impoverished Wilde reduced to conversing entertainingly with strangers for the benefit of a drink.  It is especially heartbreaking to read how almost all his former friends cut him off, refusing to help him in his time of greatest need.  An encounter with a young man from Arkansas provides perhaps the most apt Wilde quote from his last days.  Upon hearing about Arkansas, Wilde remarked, \\"I would like to flee like a wounded hart into Arkansas.\\"<br />One learns a vast amount of fascinating biographical detail about Wilde's life from this book.  For instance:  Wilde was double-jointed, could speed read and knock off books in scarcely more than a half hour in some instances.  He was acquainted with the Yeats family in Ireland, and spoke with a pronounced Irish accent until he went to Oxford.  He bought Thomas Carlyle's writing desk.  He was a Mason.  Physically he had tiny feet and teeth that were darkened by mercury treatments.  And there is much, much more.<br />On nearly every level, this is a truly great biography.  Even if one is not a fan of Wilde's works, it is definitely worth reading.part of the book, by far, is the section recounting Wilde's life after leaving prison, which is one disappointment after another.  He first intended to reunite and reconcile with his wife, but she unexpectedly died, thereby cutting himself off from both a family and his children.  He then reunites uncomfortably with Lord Douglas, but the attempt is a disaster.  He final year or two are recounted as being especially miserable, with an impoverished Wilde reduced to conversing entertainingly with strangers for the benefit of a drink.  It is especially heartbreaking to read how almost all his former friends cut him off, refusing to help him in his time of greatest need.  An encounter with a young man from Arkansas provides perhaps the most apt Wilde quote from his last days.  Upon hearing about Arkansas, Wilde remarked, \\"I would like to flee like a wounded hart into Arkansas.\\"<br />One learns a vast amount of fascinating biographical detail about Wilde's life from this book.  For instance:  Wilde was double-jointed, could speed read and knock off books in scarcely more than a half hour in some instances.  He was acquainted with the Yeats family in Ireland, and spoke with a pronounced Irish accent until he went to Oxford.  He bought Thomas Carlyle's writing desk.  He was a Mason.  Physically he had tiny feet and teeth that were darkened by mercury treatments.  And there is much, much more.<br />On nearly every level, this is a truly great biography.  Even if one is not a fan of Wilde's works, it is definitely worth reading.	2002-10-13
1378522:US	52048190	R1VX25R22D6E8Y	019283620X	385796084	The Good Soldier: A Tale of Passion (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	131	139	N	N	It truly is one of the saddest stories ever told	I was in a bookstore and picked a copy of this novel up, and from the second I read what I later learned was a famous first sentence (and justifiably so)--\\"This is the saddest story I have ever heard\\"--I knew I had to read it. What is truly sad about the book is that the narrator has no conception of where the tragedy in the book lies. While he is articulate and seemingly insightful in his analysis of others, he remains blissfully unaware of his own enormously failings, both in morals and in character. It is indeed a very sad story, but the narrator leaves out the fact that he is quite possibly one of the most pathetic characters in all fiction.<br />If one prefers one's narrators and ostensible heroes to be truly heroic and sympathetic, then this novel will not please. If one, however, can imagine enjoying a novel written with J. Alfred Prufrock as the narrator and central character, then one is in a position to appreciate THE GOOD SOLDIER.<br />The novel is not a page-turner. If you read this novel quickly, you have read it wrongly. The beauty of the book is the exquisite prose, and should be read slowly, savoring each sentence and each sentiment. There is a dreamlike (one could say nightmarish) quality to the book, and one will most enjoy it by allowing oneself to become entranced by the atmospheres summoned up.<br />If you are willing to take the novel on its own terms, with its unheroic and unadmirable characters, with its pathetic elements and situations, and its subtle psychological observations, then there will be few reading experiences that will match THE GOOD SOLDIER. One of the most remarkable novels of the past century. But if you only like novels where there is a definite hero and admirable characters, you probably wouldn't enjoy this very much.	2002-10-13
1378736:US	52048190	R3QEV6Q8FIY8YM	3829005199	583204150	The 1920s (Decades of the 20th Century)	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	A fabulous book and a great bargain	This book is one in a series of titles being brought out by the Hutton Getty Picture Collection.  Within the next year or so, every decade of the 20th century should have its own volume.  Although widely available as a remaindered title, even full price these books are extraordinary bargains.  Each volume contains over 300 photographs that provide a visual record of each decade.<br />The 1920s is arranged thematically, with brief introductions in English, German, and French to the theme to be covered.  For instance, there are sections devoted to \\"Movers and Shakers,\\" \\"Work,\\" \\"Leisure,\\" \\"Science,\\" and \\"Sport,\\" to mention only a few.  The photographs do a marvelous job of depicting many of the trends and concerns of the time.  Most are striking, and some of the photographs are unforgettable.<br />The first photographs in the book are perhaps the most haunting:  Studio shots from 1925 of a wildly gesticulating Adolf Hitler, standing in front of a phonograph, striking one over-the-top pose after another.  They are chilling partly because they are the very poses he would strike a decade later in front of the multitudes at Nuremberg and elsewhere.  But they are also chilling because one realizes in looking at them that Hitler obviously had practiced these very poses, probably in front of a mirror, and one can easily imagine him alone in his rooms, standing in front of a looking glass, practicing speeches and gestures.  I found myself almost of necessity thinking of Robert DeNiro as Travis Bickle, standing in front of his own mirror.  The photographs bring home Hitler's inherent insanity more powerfully than anything else I have seen.<br />There are many other striking photos.  I was delighted to see a photo of the remarkably handsome Ivor Novello, who is the real life person that Jeremy Northam portrayed in GOSFORD PARK.  The section on celebrities showed a number of actors and actresses in pictures I had never seen before (James Cagney, Buster Keaton, a strange photo of Greta Garbo).  I especially liked a posed photo of Mary Pickford striking one of her classic poses with Anna Pavlova striking a balletic pose with a clownishly made up face (they atone later with a shot of Pavlova in her normal face).  The book manages to summarize all the passions, fads, and trends of the entire decade.<br />I recommend this to anyone with either a passion for collections of photographs or with an interest in early 20th century history.f Greta Garbo).  I especially liked a posed photo of Mary Pickford striking one of her classic poses with Anna Pavlova striking a balletic pose with a clownishly made up face (they atone later with a shot of Pavlova in her normal face).  The book manages to summarize all the passions, fads, and trends of the entire decade.  <br />I recommend this to anyone with either a passion for collections of photographs or with an interest in early 20th century history.	2002-10-13
1388865:US	52048190	R28VS7ABWL0S69	0679748148	942831312	Sanctuary: The Corrected Text	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Not Faulkner at his best, but it's still Faulkner	SANCTUARY is, by all standards, an odd book.  A minor work by a major talent, it blends elements of Greek tragedy and tawdry potboiler to create an unusual amalgam.  Faulkner himself was quite up front about it being his great attempt to write a bestseller, lathing the book with a bevy of cheap effects, yet still to imbuing page after page with one striking phrase after another.<br />Although not major Faulkner, it is still Faulkner, and is definitely worth reading.  It is set in Yoknapatawpha county, and features many characters who either appear in other books or whose relatives appear in other books.  Furthermore, the key female character in the book, Temple Drake, reappears as the major character in REQUIEM FOR A NUN, written twenty years after this one.  While I do not rate this anywhere nearly as highly as many of his other books, being something of an oddity, it is nonetheless absolutely not a waste of time.  While there are many sensationalist elements, there are still many magnificent sentences that read more like poetry than prose, and many of the characters are memorable.<br />If one is wanting to read only one or two books by Faulkner, I would not recommend this one.  I would recommend instead AS I LAY DYING or, if one is feeling more ambitious, ABSALOM, ABSALOM.  But if one is planning on reading all of the major works of Faulkner, then this is a book one should not skip.  Minor Faulkner is better than the major works of many other writers.	2002-10-03
1390633:US	52048190	R1W3Q287S20Y7H	0395924987	852310851	The Course of Empire	Books	5	60	60	N	Y	The culmination of DeVoto's great history trilogy	Occasionally, I discover a book that is so great that I just want to grab my friends by the lapel and shout, \\"You just have to read this!\\"  DeVoto in THE COURSE OF EMPIRES is not only highly informative, he has helped alter the way I view the course of American history and the way I view the geography of the United States.  The book is not only informative and vision-altering:  it is superbly well written.  As a writer, Bernard DeVoto reminds me a great deal of Shelby Foote's historical work on the Civil War.  Both DeVoto and Foote are novelists who brought their formidable literary skills to historical subject matter, and who framed their histories as narratives.  Also like Foote, DeVoto never allows his narrative to overwhelm the history.  At this point, this is my favorite book of all that I have read in 2002.<br />On one level, the content of this book is displayed by the maps that begin each chapter of the book:  a topographical map of North America is shown, with the areas as yet unexplored by Europeans in a gray shade.  With each successive chapter, less and less of the map is shrouded in gray.  But in a way, this is deceptive, because, in fact, the book is less about the history of the exploration of the US than in illustrating the geographical logic of the landmass currently making up the core of the United States.  Or, as DeVoto writes in the Preface, he wants to provide an extended gloss on some paragraphs of Lincoln's Second Address to the Nation (i.e., what today would be called his second State of the Union address).  In that Address, Lincoln argues that the geography of the United States makes it impossible for there to exist more than one nation in the region.  The notion of secession and the formation of a second nation is repudiated by the land itself, not merely the lack of natural barriers of one area from another, but the way in which the entire region was unbreakably linked together by the extensive river system in the American interior.  Lincoln saw that the geography, the river system, made it inevitable that there would be but a single nation.  In this way, Lincoln, like no American president since Polk and Jefferson, understood the logic of the land.  DeVoto's primary task in his book, far more than recounting the history of the exploration of North America, is the elucidation of the fact that the United States was destined to be a single country, and why this was inevitable.<br />THE COURSE OF EMPIRE has the best maps I have ever seen in a history book.  No matter what part of the book I was reading, it was possible to turn only a few pages away to find a map of the area under discussion.  The only exception is near the very end of the book, where a key but cramped map of the Lewis and Clark expedition appears.  It was, however, the only time that I had any trouble following one of the maps.  Unfortunately, it was during the highpoint of the book:  the recounting of Lewis and Clark's discovery of a route from the Missouri to the Columbia River, and the exploration of the region.<br />Although this is the third book in the trilogy of history books DeVoto wrote on the American West, this is the one that should be read first.  Both ACROSS THE WIDE MISSOURI and YEAR OF DECISION: 1846 will be enriched by having read this one first.  I heartily recommend that anyone with any interest in American history read this.  For those especially interested in the American West, it is nothing short of essential.ln saw that the geography, the river system, made it inevitable that there would be but a single nation.  In this way, Lincoln, like no American president since Polk and Jefferson, understood the logic of the land.  DeVoto's primary task in his book, far more than recounting the history of the exploration of North America, is the elucidation of the fact that the United States was destined to be a single country, and why this was inevitable.<br />THE COURSE OF EMPIRE has the best maps I have ever seen in a history book.  No matter what part of the book I was reading, it was possible to turn only a few pages away to find a map of the area under discussion.  The only exception is near the very end of the book, where a key but cramped map of the Lewis and Clark expedition appears.  It was, however, the only time that I had any trouble following one of the maps.  Unfortunately, it was during the highpoint of the book:  the recounting of Lewis and Clark's discovery of a route from the Missouri to the Columbia River, and the exploration of the region.  <br />Although this is the third book in the trilogy of history books DeVoto wrote on the American West, this is the one that should be read first.  Both ACROSS THE WIDE MISSOURI and YEAR OF DECISION: 1846 will be enriched by having read this one first.  I heartily recommend that anyone with any interest in American history read this.  For those especially interested in the American West, it is nothing short of essential.	2002-10-02
1396015:US	52048190	R1L6U02PEZ6IJL	0449909336	378723538	The Fifties	Books	5	267	272	N	N	Stunningly comprehensive portrait of America in the 1950s	This is a delightful and encyclopedic survey of the major events and personalities in the United States in the 1950s.  The title is, therefore, a bit of a misnomer.  The book is not about the decade on a global scale, but merely the fifties in America.  Halberstam writes of the decade in a clear, fast-moving prose, and despite the books enormous bulk, is actually a remarkably fast read.<br />Halberstam offers no explicit themes or theses, but if there is an overarching implicit theme, it is the Fifties not as a time of innocence as frequently assumed, but a time of viciousness, meanness, and loss of whatever remaining innocence American might possess.  Indeed, the book ends with Eisenhower looking at Nixon and Kennedy, and exclaiming that he didn't like either of them.<br />What THE FIFTIES primarily does is hold up a mirror to the fifties, and reflects the major events and especially the major figures of the decade.  In fact, while specific events do receive attention, the book is essentially a succession of character sketches, and even the major events themselves are discussed through focusing on particular individuals.  What is amazing is what a satisfactory job Halberstam does of writing about both unfamiliar and famous individuals.<br />By and large, Halberstam deals with just about every major figure one would expect.  If I had any complaints--and these would be minor--I would argue that some major art forms received almost no attention in the book.  For instance, while he has a full chapter on the bestseller PEYTON PLACE and writes about pulp master Micky Spillane, there is no discussion of any major writers.  Nor does he write about cinema in general (though James Dean, Marlon Brando, and Marilyn Monroe receive attention), or changes in art.  Elvis Presley and Sam Phillips receive a chapter, but surprisingly little about the development of rock and roll is mentioned apart from that.  I think there are two reasons for this.  First, even though the text runs to around 730 excluding notes and index, a book of this scale can't deal with everything.  Second, despite the books enormous scope, Halberstam isn't determined to write about every aspect of the fifties, but only on every aspect that was distinctive of the decade and made it unique in comparison to what came before and that led to what would come after.  Implicit throughout the book is the question, \\"What made this decade unique and different?\\"<br />By the end of the book, the reader will have read about Truman, Ike, Korea, Matt Ridgway, McCarthy, Elia Kazan, Orville Faubus, Holiday Inn, MacDonald's, Little Rock, Rosa Parks and the Montgomery bus boycott, the Kinsey report, the development of the Pill, Tennessee Williams, the Dulles brothers, Robert Taft, Adlai Stevenson, Jack Kerouac and the Beats, Oppenheimer and Teller and the Super, Hoover, MacArthur, Giap, Charles Van Doren and Herb Stempel, the CIA, Levittown, Francis Gary Powers, Werner von Braun, Kelly Johnson, Martin Luther King, Emmitt Till, John Chancellor, Harry Ashmore, Lucy, Milton Berle, and a vast host of other major and minor figures.<br />I recommend this book as strongly as possible both for those who either lived through the decade or through the wake of the decade, or those who no little or nothing about it.  At the end of the book, I was convinced that the Fifties was perhaps one of the two or three key decades of the century, and perhaps the decade in which the world we know now, dominated by TV, mass communication, fast food, sexuality, celebrity, massive military expenditures, computers, advertising, and technology, was born.to around 730 excluding notes and index, a book of this scale can't deal with everything.  Second, despite the books enormous scope, Halberstam isn't determined to write about every aspect of the fifties, but only on every aspect that was distinctive of the decade and made it unique in comparison to what came before and that led to what would come after.  Implicit throughout the book is the question, \\"What made this decade unique and different?\\"<br />By the end of the book, the reader will have read about Truman, Ike, Korea, Matt Ridgway, McCarthy, Elia Kazan, Orville Faubus, Holiday Inn, MacDonald's, Little Rock, Rosa Parks and the Montgomery bus boycott, the Kinsey report, the development of the Pill, Tennessee Williams, the Dulles brothers, Robert Taft, Adlai Stevenson, Jack Kerouac and the Beats, Oppenheimer and Teller and the Super, Hoover, MacArthur, Giap, Charles Van Doren and Herb Stempel, the CIA, Levittown, Francis Gary Powers, Werner von Braun, Kelly Johnson, Martin Luther King, Emmitt Till, John Chancellor, Harry Ashmore, Lucy, Milton Berle, and a vast host of other major and minor figures.  <br />I recommend this book as strongly as possible both for those who either lived through the decade or through the wake of the decade, or those who no little or nothing about it.  At the end of the book, I was convinced that the Fifties was perhaps one of the two or three key decades of the century, and perhaps the decade in which the world we know now, dominated by TV, mass communication, fast food, sexuality, celebrity, massive military expenditures, computers, advertising, and technology, was born.	2002-09-27
1402113:US	52048190	R2LDCO4ACWEKHT	0805035036	692131690	Amnesiascope: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	One of the most inventive novels of the past decade	It is a shame that this book is out of print, because it is one of those books that I would love to recommend to friends to read.  The book is many things at once:  provocative, sexy, imaginative, fun, sad.  The back cover features a blurb comparing him to Pynchon, Nabokov, and DeLillo.  Although I don't see the comparison to Nabokov, I would add my own comparisons:  J. G. Ballard (especially books like CRASH and VERMILLION SANDS), William S. Burroughs, and even Neal Stephenson.  The authors mentioned would prepare a would-be reader for the unexpected and the unusual; it might not prepare the reader for the beauty of his prose.<br />I fully expect this book to be in print again in the near future.  Until then, I would urge any fan of literature to search this book out and read it.  It is often beautiful, frequently haunting, and always original.	2002-09-21
1402231:US	52048190	R1AXSEIJ5OLWWK	0140266909	326584985	Please Kill Me: The Uncensored Oral History of Punk	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Great recounting of the NY underground music scene	I am not sure who invented the oral biography, though I suspect the honors should go to Studs Terkel.  This is one of the best representatives of the genre that I have ever read.  Some have called the book revisionist, in that it asserts the primacy of the New York and American punk movement over that of the English Punk movement.  Properly speaking, it isn't at all revisionist:  it is a corrective.  In fact, the point of the book is that the British Punk Movement, which made more of an impact in the public eye and the mass media, actually hit the scene as punk was more or less dying.  Johnny Rotten and the Clash and all the others didn't come at the beginning of punk, but only after it had been around for years and was actually fading in NY.  In other words, Punk wasn't an English invention, but an American one.<br />The book begins with the Velvet Underground and then proceeds to the founders of Punk, people like Iggy Pop and the MC5 and the New York Dolls.  All the major figures on the New York scene are dealt with in detail, from Patti Smith and the Heartbreakers to the Ramones and, my favorite NYC band, Television (who I discovered after they broke up for the first time, but who I have since seen live twice in Chicago, first in 1993 and then in 2001).  Not merely the great bands and performers are featured, but a lot of the people on the scene that music fans might not have been familiar with.  In fact, so many people are quoted that you begin to get confused, but not to despair:  there is a very helpful Cast of Characters near the end of the book.<br />A great book, and one that will have any fan of the New York underground music scene in the sixties and seventies rushing to pull out their old records, and perhaps to rush out and buy a few new ones.	2002-09-21
1402359:US	52048190	R2FUBYIKE0RNPF	0521369088	609723020	Immanuel Kant's Moral Theory	Books	5	24	24	N	N	My favorite intro to Kant's ethical theory	There are so many books written about Kant that one could almost emend the statement, \\"Of the making of books, there is no end\\" to \\"Of the making of books on Kant, there is no end.\\"  Kant is not merely studied, he is studied in enormous depth and with a passion and meticulousness reserved for few philosophers in history.  When I was working on my Ph.D. in philosophy, even though I had read dozens of books on Kant, and was planning on spending half of my doctoral thesis on aspects of his moral thought, I would never have dreamed, in academic parlance, of describing myself as a Kant \\"specialist.\\"  I remained hesitant to even acknowledge myself as \\"competent\\" in Kant's ethics.<br />Of all the books I read on Kant's ethics, I found this one to be the best at providing an overview of Kant's moral thought and how it related to his work as a whole.  Sullivan resists the widespread tendency to subdivide Kant.  There are Kant scholars who expend all their efforts on one aspect of Kant's philosophy, with little effort to explain the connections with the rest of his work or to show how the two interrelate and, in fact, require one another.  Moreover, even scholars working with Kant's moral theory oftentimes focus on one or two or perhaps three texts to the exclusion of the rest of his work, to the point of ignoring completely what Kant has to say about ethics in some of his works less directly concerned with moral philosophy.  For instance, it is impossible to understand Kant's views about the demands of the moral law if one does not also understand his thinking about immortality.  A larger number of Kant scholars have attempted to understand his ethical thought with no reference to his religious philosophy, but this isn't understanding Kant so much as preparing a fully secularized version of Kant (in fact, Kant is pretty secular even after brining all his religious beliefs to bear, but that is a separate issue).<br />Sullivan is marvelous at taking a particular issue in Kant, and then discussing it across a variety of texts, sometimes texts that even specialists ignore.  His work is primarily integrative and synthetic, although there is also a strong analytical strain.  If I were to teach a course on Kant's ethics, this is the book I would use as a secondary source.  If I were taking a course on Kant's ethics, this is the book I would rely on most, apart from Kant's own writings.  Advanced students and scholars will argue with many aspects of Sullivan's exposition, but no book on Kant enjoys universal approbation.  But I question whether anyone studying Kant's work for the first time or trying to study his moral thought as a whole will find a more helpful book than this.  It is to be recommended for its breadth, its comprehensiveness, and its clarity.and then discussing it across a variety of texts, sometimes texts that even specialists ignore.  His work is primarily integrative and synthetic, although there is also a strong analytical strain.  If I were to teach a course on Kant's ethics, this is the book I would use as a secondary source.  If I were taking a course on Kant's ethics, this is the book I would rely on most, apart from Kant's own writings.  Advanced students and scholars will argue with many aspects of Sullivan's exposition, but no book on Kant enjoys universal approbation.  But I question whether anyone studying Kant's work for the first time or trying to study his moral thought as a whole will find a more helpful book than this.  It is to be recommended for its breadth, its comprehensiveness, and its clarity.	2002-09-21
1402383:US	52048190	R2FNL1LTQD3CZE	0679740678	67210777	The Man in the High Castle	Books	5	14	16	N	N	One of Dick's greatest achievements	Philip K. Dick is my favorite Sci-fi writer despite the fact that he is as easy to criticize, as he is to praise.  He possessed an absolutely astonishing imagination, and created during the course of his writing career novels of ideas that were quite without parallel in the world of Sci-fi.  It would be impossible to imagine current Sci-fi without Dick.  The Cyberpunk movement is based squarely on his work, and his invention of genre's dealing with alternative history or alternative realities permeates contemporary writing.  At the same time, Dick's books are frequently not as good as his initial inspiration.  He was essentially a pulp writer, which meant that he made money for writing quickly, not for writing well.  As a result, many of his characters are not fully realized, his prose is sometimes less than inspired, and some scenes are not fully developed.  At his best, however, he is frequently stunning, and his explorations of how we perceive \\"what is\\" and \\"what might have be\\" are often thrilling.<br />THE MAN IN THE HIGH CASTLE is one of Dick's most highly regarded books.  In it, he gave birth to the alternative history genre.  The story is well known:  In the part of the former United States occupied by Imperial Japan, a number of individuals are struggling with the situation after the end of WW II, in which Japan and Germany split the continent between them.  Many of them are aware of and discuss among each other a banned but nonetheless widely read and distributed book by a man who is said to live in a high castle.  In this book, he writes a historical fiction, imagining the world as it would have been had Franklin Delano Roosevelt had not died before the beginning of WW II, giving the US a strong leader instead of the weak one who took over in his stead.  He imagines that the US would have decisively influenced affairs both in Europe and the Pacific, leading to the defeat of both the Japanese and the Germans.  Many other things happen in the book, but they are neither as key or as provocative as the basic world that Dick describes.  This is the heart of the novel.  After having read this book twice, I can only remotely remember the key characters in the book, and cannot recall with perfect clarity the events contained in it.  But the world itself, and the novel within the novel that creates such a sensation, I recall vividly.<br />This is not merely a novel for Sci-fi fans:  this is a book for anyone who enjoys first-rate imaginative fiction.  It is also a book of great historical importance, in that it was instrumental in creating a new sub genre in Sci-fi.are neither as key or as provocative as the basic world that Dick describes.  This is the heart of the novel.  After having read this book twice, I can only remotely remember the key characters in the book, and cannot recall with perfect clarity the events contained in it.  But the world itself, and the novel within the novel that creates such a sensation, I recall vividly.<br />This is not merely a novel for Sci-fi fans:  this is a book for anyone who enjoys first-rate imaginative fiction.  It is also a book of great historical importance, in that it was instrumental in creating a new sub genre in Sci-fi.	2002-09-21
1403242:US	52048190	R3VGOW6VE2PTU2	0060912510	851336603	Everyday Life in Early America	Books	4	79	80	N	Y	Very good though not quite spectacular social history	The only genuine problem with this excellent book is that it does not compare favorably with some of the other books in this series.  For instance, if one turns to this after reading Schlereth's amazing VICTORIAN AMERICA, one is scaled down the book seems in comparison.  This is not the fault of author David Hawke.  The problem is the paucity of details in everyday life in 17th century America compared to the late 19th.  Unfortunately for Hawke, the life of Americans in the 17th century was rudimentary and, of necessity, simple.  What makes VICTORIAN AMERICA such a delight is the almost overwhelmingly amount of delicious detail.<br />Nonetheless, life in 17th century colonial America is apt to be less familiar to most readers than that of late 19th century America, and this book performs an enormous service in providing a concise, well-written overview of what that life was like.  Hawke is especially good at exploding various myths that have evolved over the years concerning colonial life.  Unlike the later volumes in the series, Hawke deals, by dint of necessity, of the larger historical situation.<br />Some of the topics that Hawke takes up include the structure of towns and villages, the nature of farms and the crops grown, houses and the types of objects found within them, the health of the settlers and treatment of illness, social stratification, indentured servitude and slavery, relations with Native Americans, and various superstitions.  If the book was somewhat less exhilarating than some of the later books in the series, it nonetheless is quite informative.  I highly recommend it to anyone wishing to learn more about the nuts and bolts of colonial life.	2002-09-20
1425826:US	52048190	R8VYQ8RH0FTGF	097063241X	82335701	The Social Life of Small Urban Spaces	Books	5	83	83	N	N	How urban areas work	Years ago I watched an episode of NOVA on PBS on William H. Whyte that explained the background and purpose and accomplishments of his project to study what makes urban spaces in cities work. I sat there riveted, as he methodically and carefully unveiled a vast range of urban phenomena of which I had hitherto been unaware.<br />The background to his study was this: following the enormous success of the plaza of Mies van der Rohe's Seagram Building in New York in the mid-1950s, the city began to give tax breaks to new buildings that included plazas as part of their design. At the Seagram, people found in the heart of the city a marvelous space in which to congregate, to eat lunch, to sit and talk, and just enjoy a few minutes away from the office. While the idea of providing an incentive to new plaza development was unquestionably a great aim, a small problem developed: many of the new plazas were, unlike that of the Seagram, just dreadful. Cold, austere, people unfriendly, unwelcoming, many of them seemed designed more to keep people away than give them a place to enjoy themselves. This is where Whyte comes in. New York City was concerned with codifying what made a successful plaza, and giving tax breaks based more on the kind of plaza being built, rather than any kind of plaza at all. So, Whyte was charged with discovering precisely what goes into a successful urban space. The results of his exhaustive study are summed up in this brilliant monograph.<br />Whyte took cameras and began filming all kinds of urban spots in plazas and parks, and on regular sidewalks. As a result of this study, he was able first to analyze how urban spaces work, and secondly on the basis of this make, to make suggestions as to how to make successful spaces. He discusses the enormous value and utility of using fountains or falling water both to provide aesthetic benefits and to create a barrier of white noise between an urban space and the street. He shows the value of having a variety of steps and levels in providing fun places to sit. He allays the fears of those who are afraid that a plaza will attract undesirables by showing that the homeless tend to go where other people are not. He displays the patterns of traffic on sidewalks and the function that street food can play. Whyte comes across not merely as a sophisticated urban planner and social scientist: he is revealed as a visionary.<br />I think that this ought to be a must-read for anyone with any curiosity about cities and the potential they possess for a vibrant and exciting social life. Here in my own city of Chicago, I constantly lament that Whyte's lessons go unheeded and unlearned. We Chicagoans take pride in how clean our downtown area is, but we possess very, very few plazas, instead having virtually all of our buildings coming all the way to the edge of the sidewalk. I lament that there are so few places in the Loop and the near North to sit at lunch, that so very, very little has been done along the river to make it people friendly, and that there are so few places to congregate. We have a gorgeous, inpirational skyline, but on the sidewalk level, things are different.  I wish our city planners had more of Whyte's view of things.f steps and levels in providing fun places to sit. He allays the fears of those who are afraid that a plaza will attract undesirables by showing that the homeless tend to go where other people are not. He displays the patterns of traffic on sidewalks and the function that street food can play. Whyte comes across not merely as a sophisticated urban planner and social scientist: he is revealed as a visionary.<br />I think that this ought to be a must-read for anyone with any curiosity about cities and the potential they possess for a vibrant and exciting social life. Here in my own city of Chicago, I constantly lament that Whyte's lessons go unheeded and unlearned. We Chicagoans take pride in how clean our downtown area is, but we possess very, very few plazas, instead having virtually all of our buildings coming all the way to the edge of the sidewalk. I lament that there are so few places in the Loop and the near North to sit at lunch, that so very, very little has been done along the river to make it people friendly, and that there are so few places to congregate. We have a gorgeous, inpirational skyline, but on the sidewalk level, things are different.  I wish our city planners had more of Whyte's view of things.	2002-08-29
1426196:US	52048190	R3HPZ1GK8ZI3OZ	0374190666	272916113	Longitudes and Attitudes: Exploring the World After September 11	Books	5	113	131	N	Y	Likely to stand as the great work on post-9/11	This is a collection of the Pulitzer Prize winning columns that Friedman wrote for the New York Times reflecting both on the factors that went into the events of September 11 and the world that it created.  Like all of his work, these essays are marked by phenomenal insight and enormous intelligence.  Most of these are available on Friedman's own website, but they are definitely worth owning in a bound volume.  Over the years, I have found myself going back to his FROM BEIRUT TO JERUSALEM over and over to understand the situation in the Middle East, and many will find the same kind of insight and understanding in this volume.<br />The way that the essays in this book differ from his other work in FROM BEIRUT TO JERUSALEM and THE LEXUS AND THE OLIVE TREE is the intensely personal tone of many of the essays.  Friedman often writes not from an objective point of view, but of how he is feeling, what he is thinking as he reflects on the fallen Towers, and of his own very specific reactions.  In this way, these essays contain strong elements of memoir.  A hundred years from now, they will be read as one very intelligent and perceptive journalist's reactions to one of the most traumatic disasters in American history.  They are valuable as much for emotional reflections as for his objective analyses.  The genius of these essays derives from the fact that he in no way attempts to minimize the tragedy and horror of 9/11, while in no way ignoring his own grief and perplexity or, and this is the tough part, losing his remarkable perspective as a journalist or resorting to trite generalizations to explain and analyze the greater global situation.<br />For fans of Friedman's columns and previous books, this will be an immensely satisfying book.  For those unfamiliar with his other work, they will find here a work of great insight and emotional honesty on perhaps the great horror in American history since Vietnam and perhaps Pearl Harbor.  I recommend this book in the strongest possible terms.possible terms.	2002-08-29
1435376:US	52048190	RHL50I3U3BZ3A	0805069232	830858325	Grover Cleveland (The American Presidents Series)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Extremely solid, but limited by the subject matter	This is the fourth installment of an exciting new series in which major presidential scholars provide brief, critical biographies of all the American presidents.  Arthur Schlesinger, who among many other things is famous for his overseeing the group of presidential scholars who rank all the American presidents, edits the series.  In the most recent version of Schlesinger's list, Grover Cleveland is ranked 12th out of 39 presidents, at the top of the \\"Above Average\\" category and just missing the \\"Near Great\\" presidents.  As Graff, the author of this volume, puts it, \\"Grover Cleveland is the best Unknown President.\\"  And that is the great virtue of this series:  not in providing short biographies of figures like Abraham Lincoln and FDR, but less well known figures like Cleveland, and such future subjects as Martin Van Buren and James Buchanan.<br />While Grover Cleveland emerges in this biography as an admirable, laudable, and highly capable president, he also strikes the reader today, as he did Americans in the late 19th century, as a terribly unexciting person.  Of our better presidents, Cleveland was unquestionably the one with the least outgoing personality.  Being respectful, one might describe him as \\"solid\\" rather than \\"dull.\\"  Although not someone possessed with a great deal of charisma, he was nonetheless impressive by his own great personal honesty and integrity, and the enormous amount of hard work he put into his job.  After a series of presidents whose time in office was marred by corruption, Cleveland did a great deal to restore integrity and respect to the White House.<br />Graff does a fine job within the confines of this biography to detail both the highpoints of Cleveland's relatively (for a president) uneventful life and of detailing many of the issues surrounding both his elections and his terms of office.  Many of these issues will be familiar to students of American history, but when I have read of these before, it has been in the context of the country as a whole, and not from the viewpoint of a particular administration.<br />Despite not being a terribly exciting individual, a number of aspects of Cleveland's life and presidency are of note.  He is the only president to serve two nonconsecutive terms.  He is the only president to be married in the White House.  I found the section dealing with his highly secret surgery for cancer of the mouth to be fascinating.  To keep his political opponents ignorant of his condition, he was transported to New York, placed in a yacht that was anchored near Bellevue Hospital, and operated on while on the boat.  Because the surgery necessitated the removal of much of his jaw, he was fitted with a prosthetic jaw.  Bizarrely, the public did not learn of any of this until a decade after his death.<br />I can strongly recommend this slender volume to anyone who wants to know more about the life of one of our better yet least known presidents, and to get a better grasp of the political life of the United States near the end of the 19th century.e country as a whole, and not from the viewpoint of a particular administration.  <br />Despite not being a terribly exciting individual, a number of aspects of Cleveland's life and presidency are of note.  He is the only president to serve two nonconsecutive terms.  He is the only president to be married in the White House.  I found the section dealing with his highly secret surgery for cancer of the mouth to be fascinating.  To keep his political opponents ignorant of his condition, he was transported to New York, placed in a yacht that was anchored near Bellevue Hospital, and operated on while on the boat.  Because the surgery necessitated the removal of much of his jaw, he was fitted with a prosthetic jaw.  Bizarrely, the public did not learn of any of this until a decade after his death.<br />I can strongly recommend this slender volume to anyone who wants to know more about the life of one of our better yet least known presidents, and to get a better grasp of the political life of the United States near the end of the 19th century.	2002-08-20
1437590:US	52048190	R2LQQ28EHP7990	039575514X	584095688	My Antonia	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A marvelous novel by one of America's great writers	The greatness of this novel lies in its characters. Like in most of her novels, plot plays very little role in Willa Cather's MY ANTONIA. The core of any of her best books is the people who populate them, and this is probably truer in this novel than any of them. Willa Cather delighted in her characters, good and bad. She had little interest in developing a complex, tightly knit story, with surprises and twists and turns. But she was obsessed with the inhabitants of her tales. The particular characters in MY ANTONIA are especially vivid and well-drawn, because they were all, especially the central characters, based almost explicitly on actual people she grew up with in Red Cloud, Nebraska. More than any of her other books, more of this novel was based on real people and real incidents. While the fate of the real life Antonia differed from the one in the novel, the resemblances were sufficient for all the residents of Red Cloud to recognize themselves and their neighbors in the novel.<br />Willa Cather is known primarily in two modes. On the one hand, she is remembered as a novelist of the prairies, though, in fact, she wrote only a few novels and stories about the prairie, as such. Her novels are set in a wide variety of locales, from Nebraska to the Southwest to the South to Quebec. Any understanding of Cather as a regional novelist would be mistaken. Also, one must remember that she herself left Nebraska in her early twenties, and lived the rest of her life in Pittsburgh and New York. Nonetheless, while her novels are set in a variety of locales, the plains of Nebraska remained one of the primary sources for her work as a whole. Even though she lived the bulk of her life in New York City, she nonetheless remained conscious throughout of where she was from.<br />Much of the power of MY ANTONIA derives from the fact that it is her most autobiographical novel. Cather was an intensely private person, giving virtually no interviews in her lifetime. She had several close friends, but they were not many and she did not admit many new individuals into her life. To anyone very familiar with her life, the idea of writing an autobiography is almost inconceivable. But in MY ANTONIA, while she doesn't put a great deal of herself into the book, she does put a great deal of what she remembered of her early life, of the people she knew, and of the town she lived in. She was an acute observer, and as a result this novel has a vividly tactile sense about it. It has a concreteness and reality few novels possess.<br />For anyone enjoying this novel, I would strongly encourage further exploration of Cather's novels. The closest of her other novels to this one is probably O PIONEERS!, since it is also set on the prairie. THE SONG OF THE LARK tells the story of a woman, like Cather herself, who leaves the prairie for the big city. But Cather's greatest novels are not set in the Midwest or the prairie. Her greatest novel, and one of the finest American novels of the 20th century, is the exquisite DEATH COMES FOR THE ARCHBISHOP. Equally as good, though on a much smaller scale, is A LOST LADY. I also strongly recommend THE PROFESSOR'S HOUSE and SHADOWS ON THE ROCK. The former is actually three stories combined to form a single book, while the latter is a fascinating novel about a young girl living in 17th century Quebec. It is probably not a secret, given what I have said about her here, that Willa Cather is one of my favorite novelists.e friends, but they were not many and she did not admit many new individuals into her life. To anyone very familiar with her life, the idea of writing an autobiography is almost inconceivable. But in MY ANTONIA, while she doesn't put a great deal of herself into the book, she does put a great deal of what she remembered of her early life, of the people she knew, and of the town she lived in. She was an acute observer, and as a result this novel has a vividly tactile sense about it. It has a concreteness and reality few novels possess. <br />For anyone enjoying this novel, I would strongly encourage further exploration of Cather's novels. The closest of her other novels to this one is probably O PIONEERS!, since it is also set on the prairie. THE SONG OF THE LARK tells the story of a woman, like Cather herself, who leaves the prairie for the big city. But Cather's greatest novels are not set in the Midwest or the prairie. Her greatest novel, and one of the finest American novels of the 20th century, is the exquisite DEATH COMES FOR THE ARCHBISHOP. Equally as good, though on a much smaller scale, is A LOST LADY. I also strongly recommend THE PROFESSOR'S HOUSE and SHADOWS ON THE ROCK. The former is actually three stories combined to form a single book, while the latter is a fascinating novel about a young girl living in 17th century Quebec. It is probably not a secret, given what I have said about her here, that Willa Cather is one of my favorite novelists.	2002-08-18
1441368:US	52048190	R3TZZ3VH6RRPWY	0375705244	406271874	Founding Brothers: The Revolutionary Generation	Books	5	3	5	N	N	An extraordinarily readable, innovative work	Interest in the Revolutionary generation never fades, and our fascination with Franklin, Washington, Sam and John Adams, Hamilton, Madison, and Jefferson never seems to wane nor does our interest flag.  But it remains an important national task to rediscover the founding fathers anew and in our own way.  FOUNDING BROTHERS achieves a fresh appreciation of the Revolutionary generation by managing to be several things at once.  First, it is popular history in the best possible sense, in that while written to entertain and targeted perhaps even more to nonacademics than professional historians, Joseph Ellis never oversimplifies the issues he takes up.  Second, the book focuses on a number of key moments in early United States history that Ellis employs as heuristic devices for exploring a number of related issues, moments such as the duel between Hamilton and Burr, the circumstances surrounding Washington's Farewell Address, Jefferson's bringing Madison and Hamilton together to broker an understanding on how to handle the national debt, the question of slavery, and the intricacies of the friendship/conflict between Jefferson and John Adams.  Third, the book employs a fascinating structuring device that both provides the framework for the work as a whole, and illumines all of the issues mentioned above.  Ellis emphasizes that there were, in a sense, two Revolutions:  the first in 1776, which stressed the radical freedom of every individual from oppression by any government, whether tyrannical or benevolent, and a second in 1789 with the formation of a constitutional form of representative democracy.<br />Ellis relates all the major figures of the Revolutionary period to this distinction between the two different revolutions.  For Washington, for instance, the second revolution possesses the greater significance, because the government that it authorizes and creates is in his belief essential for the possibility of creating a genuine nation.  Hamilton, Franklin, and Adams also, in Ellis's account, lean towards this view (Hamilton more than anyone).  Madison, on the other hand, although the chief architect of the 1789 revolution, quickly is shown as having a change of heart, and rather quickly distances himself from a view seeing a strong central government as crucial, and begins to work instead for decentralization and an emphasis on local control, i.e., the Revolution of 1776.  Jefferson is appropriately shown as the foremost proponent of the 1776 Revolution, and its greatest apologist.<br />Thesis aside, the greatest value of the book is the brilliant way that Ellis brings the differences between the various founders, and helps us to see how while for us these have been conflicts and controversies that were solved long ago, for them they were burning, open-ended, undecided questions.  For them the outcome was not necessary, but contingent.<br />The book is not without its quirks.  Ellis clearly views Jefferson as, in today's terms, severely neurotic.  He also clearly prefers Adams as a person and as a thinker.  I found all his discussions of Jefferson to be the weakest parts of the book, which I found surprising given the fact that he not too long ago won a National Book Award for a biography of Jefferson.  Nonetheless, even when one would differ with Ellis, he manages to illuminate all he discusses.  And on top of that, he manages to entertain enormously.ms also, in Ellis's account, lean towards this view (Hamilton more than anyone).  Madison, on the other hand, although the chief architect of the 1789 revolution, quickly is shown as having a change of heart, and rather quickly distances himself from a view seeing a strong central government as crucial, and begins to work instead for decentralization and an emphasis on local control, i.e., the Revolution of 1776.  Jefferson is appropriately shown as the foremost proponent of the 1776 Revolution, and its greatest apologist.<br />Thesis aside, the greatest value of the book is the brilliant way that Ellis brings the differences between the various founders, and helps us to see how while for us these have been conflicts and controversies that were solved long ago, for them they were burning, open-ended, undecided questions.  For them the outcome was not necessary, but contingent.<br />The book is not without its quirks.  Ellis clearly views Jefferson as, in today's terms, severely neurotic.  He also clearly prefers Adams as a person and as a thinker.  I found all his discussions of Jefferson to be the weakest parts of the book, which I found surprising given the fact that he not too long ago won a National Book Award for a biography of Jefferson.  Nonetheless, even when one would differ with Ellis, he manages to illuminate all he discusses.  And on top of that, he manages to entertain enormously.	2002-08-14
1443164:US	52048190	R2E92LPNZTBTBK	0691058555	183955095	The Point of View : Kierkegaard's Writings, Vol 22	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Probably the place to start in reading Kierkegaard	The greatest challenge for any newcomer to Kierkegaard is finding the best place to gain an overview. In my opinion, this is the finest place to start. In the main work in this collection, THE POINT OF VIEW (the book also contains some smaller pieces on his Authorship), Kierkegaard sets out to explain his purposes and strategy in writing the books constituting what he calls his Authorship. Students of Kierkegaard generally refer to these books as his Pseudonymous Authorship, because in all of these he writes none of them under his own name, but employs a variety of fictionalized authors, who represent a particular point of view that is not that of Kierkegaard himself. The Pseudonymous works are contrasted with what has become to be known as Kierkegaard's Second Literature (a descriptions attributed to Kierkegaard scholar Robert L. Perkins), which comprises his edifying works and his later religious works, most of which were published under Kierkegaard's own name, though with a couple of his greatest later works published under the pseudonym Anti-Climacus.<br />Some of these works, such as EITHER/OR I, contain writings on a variety of aesthetic topics. Many of the books deal with either ethical or religious topics, though the latter never from within a religious perspective. Kierkegaard's main argument in the POINT OF VIEW is that from first to last he was, even when writing on aesthetic topics, a religious author. The Pseudonymous works all presuppose a theory of stages, which Kierkegaard describes as moving from the aesthetic to the ethical and into the religious (the precise prepositions, according to SK, being of the utmost importance).<br />It is not clear that Kierkegaard had a precise understanding of all this at the moment he was writing the first of his Pseudonymous works, but it is unquestionable that he moved to this point of view fairly early on. This little volume is, therefore, a wonderful introduction to Kierkegaard's most famous works, and remains one of the most fascinating reflections by a great writer on the nature of his own work ever written.e of the most fascinating reflections by a great writer on the nature of his own work ever written.	2002-08-13
1444596:US	52048190	R1ZRLLK4J2EHDR	0679723412	461432736	Pnin	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Not a masterpiece, but immensely pleasant	In many of Nabokov's novels one finds so much human nastiness.  As Nabokov retorted to those who imagined that Humbert Humbert was in some sense autobiographical, &quot;Humbert Humbert is a monster!&quot;  Pnin is not, and while he may have some enemies in this novel, they could never be confused with the spawn of Satan.  And unlike Humbert Humbert, Pnin is in many ways autobiographical.  For one thing, the title character is an academic pretty much along the same lines as Nabokov (though not nearly as successful).  For another, Nabokov, like Pnin, never learned to drive a car.  In his constant trips across the United States in search of butterflies (these trips form much of the material basis of Humbert and Lolita's car treks), his wife would drive, while he would sit in the passenger side writing his novels on 3 x 5 note cards (much like poet John Shade in PALE FIRE).<br />So, if someone who has been stunned by the genius of LOLITA and PALE FIRE and the virtuosity of ADA is coming to this unpretentious volume expecting more of the same, they will find themselves disappointed.  This is Nabokov Lite.  But it is not all the worst for that.	2002-08-11
1444624:US	52048190	RKBBF0J0K4Y27	0030719313	128743099	Willa: The Life of Willa Cather	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Solid, informative, but not terribly exciting	If you are looking for a very solid and informative biography of Willa Cather, you could do much worse than this book.  It is not terribly long, but in its just under 300 pages of text (excluding notes and index) Ms. Robinson manages to cover in decent detail all the main events of Willa Cather's life.  One of the reasons that it is possible to do this in such a short span is that Cather did not lead a terribly eventful life.  Mainly what she did was write.  She did not engage in a string of lurid love affairs, and did not do a great deal to register headlines.  She had a couple of affairs with women, but they were quiet and nonostentatious.  The second she lived with for forty years of her life.<br />I am a huge lover of Willa Cather's books, but for me the disappointment is that in this biography Cather did not emerge as someone who I especially would have liked to know.  She doesn't appear to have been an especially great hearted person, and for someone who was a lesbian, she had disappointingly conservative political opinions in most other ways.  She had little interest in issues concerning women as a whole.  She doesn't seem to have been sensitive to race issues.  In a sense, she seems to have been personally an isolationist in the same sense that the US as a whole was during most of her lifetime.<br />One of the points the biography makes is how terribly private Willa Cather was.  She almost never gave interviews, and it is very hard even after reading this biography to get much of a sense of her as a person.  To be honest, unless someone has an uncontrollable compulsion to know more about Cather, I believe I would recommend instead just rereading one of her books.  There are very few writers of whom I believe I would make that statement.	2002-08-11
1445159:US	52048190	RQ9DICP3AS356	0691020418	908729714	Either/Or, Part I (Kierkegaard's Writings, 3)	Books	5	83	87	N	N	The first book in Kierkegaard's remarkable Authorship	Although Kierkegaard had written other books before this one, mainly some literary critical works as well as his dissertation THE CONCEPT OF IRONY, this is the book that begins what he calls his \\"Authorship.\\"  The works constituting his Authorship have two main things in common:  1) they are all written by Pseudonymous Authors that represent points of view that do not precisely correspond with Kierkegaard's beliefs and 2) they are intent on delineating what Kierkegaard called the three stages of existence:  the aesthetic, the ethical, and religious stages.<br />Of all the great philosophical writers, Kierkegaard was one of the greatest masters of literary form.  In each work, he adapts a style and form that is appropriate to the particular point of view he is attempting to illustrate.  In EITHER/OR I, he is concerned with showing various aspects of the Aesthetic Stage of Existence.  Unlike the later stages of existence, the Aesthetic is extremely diverse, and can take more forms and be expressed in a larger number of shapes.  Kierkegaard therefore writes a series of essays that bring out various aspects of the Aesthetic stage.  Some of these are among his most famous writings.  His essay on Mozart's DON GIOVANNI, \\"The Immediate Erotic Stages or The Musical-Erotic\\" ranks among the most famous pieces of musical criticism ever written.  Perhaps even more famous is \\"The Seducer's Diary,\\" in which an individual records his attempts to snare a young woman, though more in the sense of a Mephistopheles than a Don Juan.  My favorite section, and the one that illustrates an especially developed form of the aesthetic is \\"The Rotation of Crops,\\" in which our anonymous author attempts to deal with the one great difficulty facing the Aesthetic Mode of Existence:  boredom.  As he writes, \\"Boredom is the root of all evil.\\"  Therefore, the challenge to the Aesthetic is to thrust away continually boredom, and in this essay our writer provides a guide to making life as interesting as possible.  We are required to continually find new friends, new jobs, new interests, since all obligations lead to tedium.  Marriage is, of course, to be avoided, since this is boring (the contrary to this will be asserted in EITHER/OR II).  That this task is impossible is taken up in later works by Kierkegaard.<br />EITHER/OR begins in classic Kierkegaardian fashion.  Kierkegaard was probably the greatest master of the Preface in the history of literature.  His Prefaces are such masterpieces that they can profitably be read on their own, and he himself delighted in writing them to such a degree that he wrote one book that consisted in nothing but Prefaces.  In the one to both volumes of EITHER/OR, a gentleman by the name of Victor Eremita explains how he accidentally discovered the papers filling the two volumes that had been hidden in a desk.  He separates them into two groups, \\"A\\" and \\"B\\".  He possesses no great certainty as to the authorship, but believes that one person may have written the first group, and another the second group.  Or, alternately, that the author of the \\"A\\" papers may have written the \\"B\\" papers later in life.  The latter is probably what Kierkegaard wants us to believe, for it is his fundamental belief that the Aesthetic mode of existence is doomed to failure, and that it is possible (though not necessary) that this could lead to a higher level of existence, The Ethical.  This new stage is dealt with in the second volume of EITHER/OR.possible.  We are required to continually find new friends, new jobs, new interests, since all obligations lead to tedium.  Marriage is, of course, to be avoided, since this is boring (the contrary to this will be asserted in EITHER/OR II).  That this task is impossible is taken up in later works by Kierkegaard.<br />EITHER/OR begins in classic Kierkegaardian fashion.  Kierkegaard was probably the greatest master of the Preface in the history of literature.  His Prefaces are such masterpieces that they can profitably be read on their own, and he himself delighted in writing them to such a degree that he wrote one book that consisted in nothing but Prefaces.  In the one to both volumes of EITHER/OR, a gentleman by the name of Victor Eremita explains how he accidentally discovered the papers filling the two volumes that had been hidden in a desk.  He separates them into two groups, \\"A\\" and \\"B\\".  He possesses no great certainty as to the authorship, but believes that one person may have written the first group, and another the second group.  Or, alternately, that the author of the \\"A\\" papers may have written the \\"B\\" papers later in life.  The latter is probably what Kierkegaard wants us to believe, for it is his fundamental belief that the Aesthetic mode of existence is doomed to failure, and that it is possible (though not necessary) that this could lead to a higher level of existence, The Ethical.  This new stage is dealt with in the second volume of EITHER/OR.	2002-08-11
1445437:US	52048190	R209LCQQD2ZPGU	0440153255	934252199	Hollywood Babylon: The Legendary Underground Classic of Hollywood's Darkest and Best Kept Secrets	Books	5	5	8	N	N	The real Hollywood Confidential	Whether one finds this book to be their cup of tea is very much an open question, and I have little to quibble with anyone giving this a low rating because they question its literary quality.  I do, however, have a bone to pick with those who 1) criticize the book for consisting of mere gossip and unsubstantiated rumor and 2) who see this as the work of a failed director.  As to the last first, Anger was a very highly regarded and successful independent filmmaker, decades before Independent was considered a good thing.  Part of the point of this book is that it is the work of a Hollywood outsider.  That is, in a sense.  Anger grew up in Hollywood, leaving it to go to make his films in Europe.  To see him as in any sense a failed filmmaker is a bizarre travesty of the truth.  There was no way for him to succeed in Hollywood simply because Hollywood wasn't doing any of the things he was doing cinematically.<br />As to the gossip and supposed unsubstantiated rumor, I suspect that 100% of the people making that statement have not read this book in particular or books on Hollywood in general.  Is it a rumor that Thelma Todd died and that many have long considered her \\"suicide\\" a murder?  Is the Fatty Arbuckle scandal rumor?  Was Mary Astor's affair with George Kaufmann a matter of public record or mere rumor?  Are Errol Flynn's escapades with underage women unsubstantiated (acquitted does not mean that they were \\"of age\\")?  Once again, it really helps to read a book before reviewing it.<br />Anger himself made violent, raw, edgy films with strong sexual and homosexual themes.  In a sense, what he does with this book is show that the town in many ways is not unlike his films.  Is it the whole story of Hollywood?  Of course not.  But is it a part of Hollywood?  It is hard to contest.<br />Apart from all this, the book is a kitsch lover's delight.  It is richly illustrated, and the photographs alone are worth the cost of the book.  For me, the book also serves a moral purpose.  We sometimes forget that movies are make believe, especially movies from the old Hollywood system.  The studios went out of their way to make the actors and actresses look and appear perfect in their private lives.  They were not.  In fact, in many cases the ambitious egoism that drives one to succeed in film contributes to failure in other regards.  Barbara Stanwyck was an utterly magnificent actress, but she was a dreadful mother.  Spencer Tracy was one of the great actors, but he was a brawling alcoholic (Warner Brothers frequently had to cover up his arrests for public intoxication and fights with various people--he wasn't just a drunk, he was a bad, bad drunk).  One of the things that Anger wants to do is pop our illusions.  Hollywood, he wants to say, isn't perfect.  And he also manages to entertain us while making that point.urpose.  We sometimes forget that movies are make believe, especially movies from the old Hollywood system.  The studios went out of their way to make the actors and actresses look and appear perfect in their private lives.  They were not.  In fact, in many cases the ambitious egoism that drives one to succeed in film contributes to failure in other regards.  Barbara Stanwyck was an utterly magnificent actress, but she was a dreadful mother.  Spencer Tracy was one of the great actors, but he was a brawling alcoholic (Warner Brothers frequently had to cover up his arrests for public intoxication and fights with various people--he wasn't just a drunk, he was a bad, bad drunk).  One of the things that Anger wants to do is pop our illusions.  Hollywood, he wants to say, isn't perfect.  And he also manages to entertain us while making that point.	2002-08-11
1445471:US	52048190	RNFQ8Y8R9JUHL	0691019576	982118535	A Short Life of Kierkegaard	Books	2	29	34	N	N	Marred by an untenable understanding of Kierkegaard's work	Walter Lowrie was one of the two key early figures in Kierkegaard studies in the English-speaking world, along with David Swenson. Swenson, teaching at the University of Minnesota, achieved his influence in three ways: 1) important early essays that introduced many in the English speaking world to the thought of Kierkegaard for the first time (collected in the still interesting volume SOMETHING ABOUT KIERKEGAARD), 2) through his translations of some of Kierkegaard's most important works, notably the PHILOSOPHICAL FRAGMENTS and CONCLUDING UNSCIENTIFIC POSTSCRIPTS, and 3) through two of his students, who have in turn exerted massive influence on Kierkegaard studies, Howard Hong and Paul Holmer. Hong and his wife have retranslated nearly all the works of Kierkegaard in a new edition available through Princeton University Press. Holmer, teaching first at the University of Minnesota and then for most of his career at the Yale University Divinity School, directed vastly more doctoral dissertations on Kierkegaard than anyone else.<br />Lowrie, on the other hand, has exerted his influence on Kierkegaard studies in two ways: his two biographies of Kierkegaard and his translations of most of his works. Swenson was a gifted and careful translator, with a profound knowledge of Danish and an appreciation for its subtleties. Lowrie, on the other hand, learned Danish very late in life. His work on Kierkegaard was, in fact, more or less his retirement project. Lowrie had been the minister of a large and prestigious church, and was quite well off financially through marriage. This is significant in that it allowed him, when he discovered references to Kierkegaard in the work of German theologians in his mid-sixties, to subsidize his own research into Kierkegaard. This meant not only going to Denmark to study Danish, but obtaining all the various editions of Kierkegaard's works in Danish, as well as all relevant contemporary works, many of which were not available in American research libraries. As a result, Lowrie was able to make possible a degree of Kierkegaard research in America that might otherwise have been impossible.<br />Unfortunately, Lowrie remained until the end merely a gifted amateur. He learned Danish, but was never its master, and his translations, as opposed to those of Swenson, were of a much lower quality than one might desire of a figure the stature of Kierkegaard. To be fair, Lowrie felt that the goal of the first generation of Kierkegaard scholars was to get SK's works out in the public as quickly as possible, and then let subsequent generations retranslate them. In effect, because of Swenson's unfortunately early death, this is what happened.<br />All of this is a long intro to say that both Lowrie's full length biography and this shorter version of the biography are well meaning but profoundly flawed books, and are not only unreliable guides to the thought of Kierkegaard but provide misleading ways of looking at Kierkegaard's work as a whole. For instance, Lowrie treats all of Kierkegaard's works as if their primary value is in illuminating the life of Kierkegaard than his thought. This is seen in the almost obsessive manner in which Lowrie continually relates every possible event in Kierkegaard's life to his broken engagement with Regina Olson. In fact, the broken engagement illumines surprisingly little of Kierkegaard's thought.<br />So, while I think that anyone studying Kierkegaard should feel the greatest appreciation of the debt we in the English-speaking world owe to Lowrie's pioneering efforts, both his biographies and his translations should be avoided. Unfortunately, we have yet to see the appearance in English of a truly first rate biography of Kierkegaard. Bruce Kirmmse's books are more narrowly focused but are otherwise superb (perhaps the finest works on Kierkegaard in English). Alastair Hannay has recently published a solid scholarly biography that is marred by a sometimes impenetrable, impossibly dry prose. Nonetheless, it can provide a far more reliable guide to Kierkegaard's life than this biography by Lowrie.prose. Nonetheless, it can provide a far more reliable guide to Kierkegaard's life than this biography by Lowrie.	2002-08-11
1445705:US	52048190	RMG0X0W5AIHOG	1558214348	109818934	The Hidden West: Journey in the American Outback (Wilder Places)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A book that deserves a much wider readership	I first read this book in the mid-1980s, and have been a huge fan of it ever since.  It was out of print from a long time after the original publisher, North Point Press, went out of business.  I am delighted that it is now available once more.  It deserves to be read by anyone interested in the American West.<br />This is a wide-ranging book that deals with many aspect of the American West in general and the desert areas in particular.  Schultheis is a gifted writer, and has a knack not only for telling a good tale but also for turning a wonderful line.  He is highly attuned to the remarkable and the humorous in almost every situation, and the book is a marvelous blend of the unexpected, the reflective, and the funny.<br />My favorite moment might be an occasion he recounts of visiting a store in Navajo territory.  While in the store, an elderly Navajo stumbles up to him and says, apropos of nothing, \\"Hey, I hear that Elvis died,\\" in a tone that almost suggests the Schultheis and The King were lifelong pals.  After replying, that yes, Elvis had died and that he had evidently been pretty sick, the Navajo, ignoring what Schultheis had said, continues, \\"Yeah, Elvis and Hitler, two of your greatest leaders, dead.\\"  (I am quoting this story from memory, so don't call me to task for specific inaccuracies.)<br />This is a book filled with many wonderful and marvelous moments.  I would heartily urge anyone with an interest in literature about the American West or the desert to read it as soon as possible.	2002-08-10
1445968:US	52048190	R3EUQGEDJ2ZCWZ	0374514313	848827429	Encounters with the Archdruid: Narratives About a Conservationist and Three of His Natural Enemies	Books	5	38	39	N	N	Arguably McPhee's finest book	As the other reviewers here have noted, this is John McPhee's superb recounting of three episodes in the life of famous environmental activist David Brower.  The three people he encounters are a geologist, a land developer, and a dam builder.  The structure of the book allows a revealing contrast between one of America's greatest environmental activists on three key issues.  These are:  1) the desirability and advisability of exploring and mining for ore and minerals in protected wilderness areas, 2) whether it is preferable to develop land on the Atlantic Coast or allow it to be developed, and 3) the desirability of damming major rivers in the Southwest.<br />My favorite portion of the book featured Brower's encounter with the fascinating Charles Fraser, one of America's greatest and most gifted land developers.  At debate was whether to develop Cumberland Island as a recreational and residential area, or whether to leave it wild and protect it as a National Seashore.  The editorial reviewer inaccurately stated that Fraser was successful in his goal to develop it.  He was not.  Today Cumberland Island is a designated National Seashore.  Fraser had hoped to develop Cumberland much as he had Hilton Head.  What is compelling about Fraser is his desire to develop land on the one hand, with an intent to respect the physical surroundings to the greatest possible degree.  Brower himself says in the book that while he is opposed to developing Cumberland Island, if anyone were to develop it, he would want Fraser to be that person.<br />The section of the book in which Brower and dam builder Floyd Dominy discuss a wide range of issues is fascinating not just in contrasting two fundamentally opposed viewpoints, but in bringing out both Brower's most conspicuous success and failure.  The success was his leading the Sierra Club in opposing building a dam in the Grand Canyon.  The tragedy was that in focusing on opposing the Grand Canyon, Brower and the Sierra Club were unable to fight the building of the Glen Canyon River Dam, for environmentalists and conservationists perhaps the single greatest tragedy since the building of the Hetch Hetchy Dam early in the 20th century.  In building this dam, the ironically named Lake Powell was created.  Many environmentalists refer to his as Lake Foul.  The irony stems from the fact that it was named in &quot;honor&quot; of John Wesley Powell, who led the first expedition of Europeans to explore the entirety of the Colorado River and the Grand Canyon.  Powell was deeply opposed to the development of the American West beyond the ability of the water supply to support the local population.  He would, therefore, have been horrified to find such an anti-monument as this lake bearing his name.  Edward Abbey's books are filled with vituperative attacks on the devastation wrought by the building of the Glen Canyon River Dam.  There are several organizations that continue calling for the draining of Lake Powell.<br />Why is there so much outrage at this dam?  In creating Lake Powell, the water covered some of the most excruciatingly beautiful landscape not only in the United States but the world.  Just before the dam was completed and the waters filled the area, photographer Eliot Porter took a number of remarkable photographs chronicling the magnificence of what was lost.  Instead of being covered with water, the area should have been declared a national park.  The poignancy of the final section of McPhee's book is the since of the tragedy of the dam, and the two who struggled over its building, meet and talk.o fight the building of the Glen Canyon River Dam, for environmentalists and conservationists perhaps the single greatest tragedy since the building of the Hetch Hetchy Dam early in the 20th century.  In building this dam, the ironically named Lake Powell was created.  Many environmentalists refer to his as Lake Foul.  The irony stems from the fact that it was named in &quot;honor&quot; of John Wesley Powell, who led the first expedition of Europeans to explore the entirety of the Colorado River and the Grand Canyon.  Powell was deeply opposed to the development of the American West beyond the ability of the water supply to support the local population.  He would, therefore, have been horrified to find such an anti-monument as this lake bearing his name.  Edward Abbey's books are filled with vituperative attacks on the devastation wrought by the building of the Glen Canyon River Dam.  There are several organizations that continue calling for the draining of Lake Powell.<br />Why is there so much outrage at this dam?  In creating Lake Powell, the water covered some of the most excruciatingly beautiful landscape not only in the United States but the world.  Just before the dam was completed and the waters filled the area, photographer Eliot Porter took a number of remarkable photographs chronicling the magnificence of what was lost.  Instead of being covered with water, the area should have been declared a national park.  The poignancy of the final section of McPhee's book is the since of the tragedy of the dam, and the two who struggled over its building, meet and talk.	2002-08-10
1448412:US	52048190	R3S5W1X5QP10VQ	0805069399	603366254	John Quincy Adams (The American Presidents Series)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A superb short biography of the "other" President Adams	I am really excited about this new series of books edited by Arthur Schlesinger. Many are aware of the scholars' poll that Schlesinger has overseen since 1948, in which many leading American scholars rate the overall success or failure of all the presidents. This series of books sets out to provide a short biography of each American president, almost always by a major presidential scholar or historian. The first volume in the series, for instance, was on James Madison by Garry Wills, and the second on Theodore Roosevelt by Louis Auchincloss. What excites me most about this series is the fact that many of the less well known presidents, like James Tyler and Benjamin Harrison and Zachary Taylor, will all get their own biographies.<br />JOHN QUINCY ADAMS is the second volume in the series, and is written by distinguished antebellum historian Robert V. Remini, famous for his biography of Andrew Jackson among other works. There is no question that this book, while not terribly long, is a very high quality, surprisingly in depth study of the life of John Quincy Adams, the sixth president of the United States. More than most presidents, the story of JQA (as Adams referred to himself), is an especially sad one. The child of two famous parents, John Adams and Abigail Adams, Adams was from a child sensitive to the fact that great things were expected of him, a fact continually reinforced by his overbearing mother. He quickly showed himself to be a gifted and brilliant child, as well as intensely self-critical and perfectionistic. He was a gifted scholar, and actually became a professor at Harvard before embarking on a life of public service.<br />Although remembered today as one of our less successful presidents, JQA was for the most part an astonishingly successful public servant. Few Americans can match JQA for his overall contribution to American life. As a very young man, after serving a term in the U.S. Senate, he served as an ambassador to various European countries, and eventually became ambassador to Prussia. He was one of the individuals responsible for negotiating the treaty with England ending the War of 1812. After a series of diplomatic successes, Adams became the Secretary of State under Monroe. Remini states that JQA was arguably the finest Secretary of State the United States has ever had. Among other things, he was the primary architect of what became known as the Monroe Doctrine, which more accurately could be called the John Quincy Adams Doctrine. Furthermore, after leaving the presidency, he spent the remainder of his life serving in the House of Representatives in a highly distinguished fashion. It was only as a president that he was a disappointment.<br />His presidency began with one of the least admirable elections in US history. Although Jackson won both the popular vote and electoral vote, he didn't gain a plurality, which threw the election into the House of Representatives. There Henry Clay machinated an Adams victory. Jackson's supporters forgave neither Clay nor Adams, and before it began, Adams presidency was doomed. He exacerbated matters with a series of political blunders. The tragedy is that Adams entered the presidency with one of the most ambitious visions of the role of government in the lives of individuals. Today, his vision would not be considered at all extreme, but at the time few were willing to accept government's playing the kind of role he imagined.<br />All in all, this is a moving portrait of a marvelous public servant whose presidency failed to match his many other successes. I strongly recommend it to all interested in either American history or the lives of the presidents. I look forward to additional volumes in this series.nd eventually became ambassador to Prussia. He was one of the individuals responsible for negotiating the treaty with England ending the War of 1812. After a series of diplomatic successes, Adams became the Secretary of State under Monroe. Remini states that JQA was arguably the finest Secretary of State the United States has ever had. Among other things, he was the primary architect of what became known as the Monroe Doctrine, which more accurately could be called the John Quincy Adams Doctrine. Furthermore, after leaving the presidency, he spent the remainder of his life serving in the House of Representatives in a highly distinguished fashion. It was only as a president that he was a disappointment.<br />His presidency began with one of the least admirable elections in US history. Although Jackson won both the popular vote and electoral vote, he didn't gain a plurality, which threw the election into the House of Representatives. There Henry Clay machinated an Adams victory. Jackson's supporters forgave neither Clay nor Adams, and before it began, Adams presidency was doomed. He exacerbated matters with a series of political blunders. The tragedy is that Adams entered the presidency with one of the most ambitious visions of the role of government in the lives of individuals. Today, his vision would not be considered at all extreme, but at the time few were willing to accept government's playing the kind of role he imagined.<br />All in all, this is a moving portrait of a marvelous public servant whose presidency failed to match his many other successes. I strongly recommend it to all interested in either American history or the lives of the presidents. I look forward to additional volumes in this series.	2002-08-08
1452818:US	52048190	RPDNNF337MADH	0385495404	556829614	The First American: The Life and Times of Benjamin Franklin	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Sterling biography of one of the essential Americans	During the Revolutionary Era, George Washington was refered to as \\"The Essential Man.\\" While this is true, it is also correct that Benjamin Franklin was the other essential man, and Brands's does a superb job in this biography of showing precisely why this was the case.<br />Benjamin Franklin was the first individual from the American colonies to achieve international acclaim, and to this day he remains one of the most remarkable--if not the most remarkable--individuals in American history. The range and variety of his achievements is nothing short of astonishing, and Brands does a magnificent job of illustrating this.<br />He also helps to break down some of the stereotypes foisted on Franklin. We frequently think of Franklin a plump, elderly, bespectacled, bald grandfather type, and have no conceptions of how he might have looked or appeared at a younger age. Brands writes about Franklin's extreme prowess as a swimmer, and talks of his tremendous physical strength as a young man, when he was able to carry a tray of lead type in each hand when others would carry only one tray with both arms. And while many portray Franklin as the archetype of the American capitalist and businessman, Brands's shows that Franklin in fact abhorred making money merely for the sake of making money, and himself retired at the age of 42 in order to follow his scientific and philosophical interests. Moreover, if he was, as some suppose, an ambitious businessman, one wonders at such behavior as refusing a proffered patent for his Pennsylvania Stove (a.k.a. the Franklin Stove), which he wanted to keep as inexpensive possible so that as many people as possible could obtain one in order to stay warm. As Brands shows, this incident was not unique in Franklin's life.<br />The first hundred pages of the biography are so heavily reliant on Franklin's AUTOBIOGRAPHY that they almost amount to a mere recapitulation. But in the remainder of the biography, Brands's fills in all the gaps that a reader of Franklin wishes he had been able to write about. Brands's writes at length about his time in England and France (which was, in fact, most of his life after his retirement). He also does a marvelous job of giving the reader a sense of the social setting of Franklin's life. Franklin enjoyed an immensely rich social life, and his many friendships are brought vividly to light in this book.<br />I should, however, register a tiny bit of unease about the accuracy of Brands's historical research. No one can expect an author to be master of every detail, but his account of the battle between the Bonhomme Richard and the Serapis was incorrect at several points. For instance, he writes that the two ships fought bow-to-bow and stern-to-stern. But John Paul Jones reported that they fought bow-to-stern, lashed together, but pointed in opposite directions. All the major paintings of the battle reflect Jones's account. While this doesn't mean that the rest of the book contains similar errors, it does slightly lessen one's confidence in the author's facts.of Franklin wishes he had been able to write about. Brands's writes at length about his time in England and France (which was, in fact, most of his life after his retirement). He also does a marvelous job of giving the reader a sense of the social setting of Franklin's life. Franklin enjoyed an immensely rich social life, and his many friendships are brought vividly to light in this book. <br />I should, however, register a tiny bit of unease about the accuracy of Brands's historical research. No one can expect an author to be master of every detail, but his account of the battle between the Bonhomme Richard and the Serapis was incorrect at several points. For instance, he writes that the two ships fought bow-to-bow and stern-to-stern. But John Paul Jones reported that they fought bow-to-stern, lashed together, but pointed in opposite directions. All the major paintings of the battle reflect Jones's account. While this doesn't mean that the rest of the book contains similar errors, it does slightly lessen one's confidence in the author's facts.	2002-08-04
1457645:US	52048190	REKTWIMZHNP1U	0385498578	30095709	Ready, Steady, Go!: The Smashing Rise and Giddy Fall of Swinging London	Books	5	16	17	N	N	A Time and Place the Likes of Which We'll Not See Again	This is a fun, fascinating, engrossing portrait of one of the most exciting moments of the past several decades:  London in the sixties.  I think of the sixties, especially the sixties of London, as a kaleidoscope, a never ending swirl of colors and images.  And just as it is impossible to capture a kaleidoscope in a single image, so it is impossible to express fully in one book the Swinging London of the sixties.  READY, STEADY, GO! is a series of snapshots rather than a precise replication, but while it fails, of course, to do the period full justice, neither are the images in any sense not accurate reflections of what happened.<br />Shawn Levy's skills and orientation are primarily those of the biographer, and READY, STEADY, GO! is largely a series of mini-biographies that taken together contain the gist of his story.  Most of the story that Levy is intent to tell is found in his recounting of the lives and careers in that decade of a few key individuals:  photographer David Bailey and his superstar model Jean Shrimpton; fashion innovator Mary Quant and hair styling revolutionary Vidal Sassoon; actor Terence Stamp; Brian Epstein and the group he pushed to fame, the Beatles; Andrew Loog Oldham and the Stones, especially Mick Jagger; art dealer and promoter Robert Fraser; the unlikely superstar model Twiggy; the person who is one of the great symbols, victims, and survivors of the sixties, Mariane Faithful (read her marvelous autobiography FAITHFULL); and a supporting cast of dozens.  While most of the emphasis of the book is on personalities, there is also a strong emphasis on the places they went.  Levy does a marvelous job of highlighting the places all these souls went to mingle, to party, to have fun, and to be seen.  The nightclubs, the restaurants, the sometimes bizarre clothing stores, all receive their fair share of attention.<br />While Levy mainly focuses on telling the stories of the main personalities of the period, he doesn't neglect completely the larger scene.  He begins the book by describing how one thing that made the sixties possible was the fact that the youth of the time were beneficiaries of the first economic boom to follow WW II, and for the first time in decades, people had money to spend on more than merely life's necessities.  He also discusses how the fashions and styles developed by what was a cultural elite sifted down to the masses, and how the ideas and trends were transformed in the migration.  I have to say, however, that I found this aspect of the book to be somewhat lean.  I would have liked to know a great deal more about how the sixties influenced and impacted kids as a whole.  Instead of delving into this aspect in any depth, he instead continually skirts back to his core characters.<br />The first half of the book, about the \\"smashing rise\\" of Swinging London is, as might be expected, for more interesting and enjoyable than the second half, which chronicles first the mass popularization and more-or-less institutionalization of the trends, and then the gradual dissolution of the entire scene.  The \\"giddy fall\\" derives from a number of factors, though an unhealthy number of them would seem to be drug-related.  Tara Browne's death in a single car crash (immortalized in the Beatles' \\"A Day in the Life\\"); the bust of Mick Jagger, Keith Richards, and Robert Fraser for drug possession and use; the decline and deaths of Brian Epstein and Brian Jones; the shattering of relationships as people become more and more involved in drugs; and the death of Jimi Hendrix were all more or less brought about by the increasingly large role that drugs came to play in the scene.  In particular, Levy emphasizes the way in which the extensive use of LSD began to put a damper on things, as it drove people more and more into themselves and away from others.<br />I would have like to seen greater detail on the legacy of Swinging London.  In a very real sense, it is still very much with us.  Many of the clothes wewear, much of the music we listen to, the way we wear our hair.  We owe much of the fabric of ours lives to London of the sixties.  Still, this is a marvelous visit back to the most exciting time and place of the past half decade.es we wear, much of the music we listen to, the way we wear our hair.  We owe much of the fabric of ours lives to London of the sixties.  Still, this is a marvelous visit back to the most exciting time and place of the past half decade.	2002-07-30
1469056:US	52048190	R1THUJXRE52R4X	0393002551	377238786	The Spanish Inquisition	Books	4	50	57	N	N	Solid if unspectacular history of the Spanish Inquistion	If one is looking for a solid history of the Spanish Inquisition that will introduce the reader with the main events and features of that peculiar institution, one could do worse than read this book. One could also do better, by looking instead at Peters INQUISITION or Henry Kammen's THE SPANISH INQUISITION. But since neither of those books is perfect (Peters covers the Inquisition in all its forms, and as a result the Spanish Inquisition in less detail, while Kammen tends to minimize some of the atrocities), Roth remains an extremely viable alternative.<br />The strongpoint of Roth's account is the clarity with which he tells the story, in particular highlighting some of the consequences that ought to have been anticipated from the manner in which the Inquisition was constructed. For instance, the Inquisition acquired the financial holdings of those whom it convicted of heresy. This, of course, provided the Inquisitors with powerful financial motivation to either find the accused guilty or to extort money from them.<br />The weakness of Roth's book is that while he hints at other views about events of the Inquisition, he never explains what these other views are, or what the underlying issues are.<br />I am utterly mystified by one reviewer who seems to criticize this book because it accuses the Church of anti-Semitism. Is this news? The entire initial point of the Spanish Inquisition was to ferret out Jews who had forcibly been converted to Catholicism and still retained their Jewish beliefs and ceremonies.  I am not sure how this cannot be interpreted anti-Semitism, unless one is using some very unusual criteria.  Morever, scholars working in a number of areas have detected a fair degree of anti-Semitism in the history of Roman Catholicism.  Does this mean that all Roman Catholics in history have been anti-Semites?  Absolutely not. But it does mean that it is a phenomenon that has reappeared over and over throughout European history. What possible reason would anyone have for denying that the Spanish Inquisition was not profoundly anti-Semitic? That it was would seem to undeniable to anyone with even the most cursory acquaintance with Spanish history.<br />Other reviewers have felt that Roth is merely out to criticize the Catholic Church. Simply because he critiques one aspect of the Catholic Church doesn't mean that he would find nothing of value within Catholicism. Roth was himself Jewish, so he was not writing from within the Catholic tradition. But I can't understand why someone writing from within the tradition couldn't arrive at an assessment very close to that of Roth's.<br />So, while this isn't the best book on the Spanish Inquisition (indeed, no clearly best book would seem to exist currently), this is a very adequate survey of the subject.nyone have for denying that the Spanish Inquisition was not profoundly anti-Semitic? That it was would seem to undeniable to anyone with even the most cursory acquaintance with Spanish history. <br />Other reviewers have felt that Roth is merely out to criticize the Catholic Church. Simply because he critiques one aspect of the Catholic Church doesn't mean that he would find nothing of value within Catholicism. Roth was himself Jewish, so he was not writing from within the Catholic tradition. But I can't understand why someone writing from within the tradition couldn't arrive at an assessment very close to that of Roth's.<br />So, while this isn't the best book on the Spanish Inquisition (indeed, no clearly best book would seem to exist currently), this is a very adequate survey of the subject.	2002-07-20
1473006:US	52048190	RSNNSGLDLP11Q	0300091222	673481359	Wilderness and the American Mind	Books	5	75	81	N	N	Still the best introduction to American ideas about nature	For a few decades now, Roderick Nash's WILDERNESS AND THE AMERICAN MIND in its various editions has been perhaps the best all around introduction to the history of American attitudes towards nature and about what makes these attitudes unique in world culture. All editions have covered the greater story, beginning with the early attitudes towards wilderness in colonial times, in which nature was viewed primarily in terms of the use to which it could be put and a sense of human responsibility to transform it for human use. Nash then shows how American ideas towards nature gradually altered through the thought of individuals inspired by Romanticism, in particular Emerson and Thoreau. He then describes how Americans moved from a view of nature as possessing value only to the degree to which it can be put to use, to a view of wilderness having intrinsic value entirely on its own. All the major events in American environmental history are covered, from the popularization of wilderness through painters such as Cole, Bierstadt, and Moran, to the work and influence of John Muir, through the creation of the national park and forest system, to the work of 20th century figures such as Aldo Leopold. The book makes all-in-all a fascinating read, and anyone wanting to learn about<br />In particular, Nash shows how the view of undeveloped wilderness as something possessing intrinsic value worth preserving in an undeveloped state is a uniquely American idea, and one of the great intellectual contributions to world thought. Today, a large number of countries have followed America's lead in establishing national parks and wildlife preserves. All over the world, the notion of wilderness and nature possessing value apart from what human activity imparts to it is commonplace.<br />For anyone wanting to go beyond Nash's book to read more deeply on the various topics covered will find Nash's Bibliographic Essay to be almost as valuable as the book itself. Nash is an obvious bibliophile, and he provides a rich and varied introduction to every aspect of his subject. After reading this book for the first time, I read a large number of books suggested by Nash in his essay. I later offered some continuing education classes at the University of Chicago on environmental ethics, a subject about which I learned primarily by working from Nash's bibliography. The ongoing value of this book has been enhanced by the recent fourth edition, which has not only added a new preface but has extensively updated the bibliography. I cannot recommend this book highly enough for anyone even remotely interested in American or environmental history.<br />Best of all, this book, while impeccable in its academic credentials, is never less than utterly fun and delightfully readable.  Definitely not for scholars and students alone.and he provides a rich and varied introduction to every aspect of his subject. After reading this book for the first time, I read a large number of books suggested by Nash in his essay. I later offered some continuing education classes at the University of Chicago on environmental ethics, a subject about which I learned primarily by working from Nash's bibliography. The ongoing value of this book has been enhanced by the recent fourth edition, which has not only added a new preface but has extensively updated the bibliography. I cannot recommend this book highly enough for anyone even remotely interested in American or environmental history.<br />Best of all, this book, while impeccable in its academic credentials, is never less than utterly fun and delightfully readable.  Definitely not for scholars and students alone.	2002-07-16
1474153:US	52048190	RB1EDUBLE9T77	0425019802	53480161	Vermilion Sands	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Beautiful, brilliant, and inspired fantasy of the future	This magnificent collection of stories was first published in 1971.  Although this book frequently shows up on lists of the greatest books of all time in that genre, it is not science fiction so much as a vision of possible forms that the arts could take in the future.  It is more futuristic fantasy than science fiction.  This volume marked J. G. Ballard's maturation as an author.  Before this work, much of his work had been highly inventive but more mainstream science fiction.  More specifically, he specialized in novels along the theme \\"this is the way the world ends.\\"  For instance, THE DROWNED WORLD concerns the fate of individuals living in tropical London after the polar ice caps have melted, leaving much of the world underwater.  In THE WIND FROM NOWHERE a never-ceasing wind destroys the planet by blowing away all the soil and making agriculture and most other forms of human endeavor impossible.<br />What makes VERMILLION SANDS is the sheer inventiveness of the world he imagines.  It is a cheap, tacky world, not unlike a tawdry Las Vegas or Palm Springs, populated by futuristic artists and cultural has-beens.  The art forms that Ballard imagines are brilliant, and feel far more familiar thirty years later than they must have felt to those in the early 1970s.  After all, computers and the Internet and digitalization has constantly forced us to rethink the possibilities and forms of art.  Ballard describes architecture that responds to the emotional experiences of its inhabitants and imparts some of that feeling back to those entering it.  He imagines machines rather than people producing poetry, on long ticker tape like rolls of paper.  Plants that sing.  Sculptors who work with clouds as their preferred medium.  And Ballard manages to meld these strange new arts perfectly into the lives of a rich and fascinating, if also rather sad and tragic, group of characters.<br />This book is, at the time that I am writing this, out of print.  But it has over the years come back in print on a few occasions.  I am certain that it will again.  It is without question a much more interesting book than many of his that are currently in print, and if there is any justice it will once again be made available.  Until then, it is well worth searching out.s come back in print on a few occasions.  I am certain that it will again.  It is without question a much more interesting book than many of his that are currently in print, and if there is any justice it will once again be made available.  Until then, it is well worth searching out.	2002-07-16
1476871:US	52048190	RTXMF923ZSXXA	0698113942	923322089	Grandfather Twilight (Paperstar Book)	Books	5	33	33	N	N	One of the two greatest "Night Night " books ever	The other great goodnight book is, of course, GOODNIGHT MOON.  But this is every bit as good as that classic, although much less known.  It is also one of the most extraordinarily illustrated children's books of any type.<br />This is also one of the very best books I know for children who have a bit of trouble going to sleep at night.  It is masterful at presenting calming, peaceful, positive images of going to bed.  The story is so simple that even a two-year-old can completely grasp it.  Grandfather Twilight each night, accompanied by his German Shepherd, takes a single pearl out of his chest, walks to the shore, and places the pearl, which becomes the moon, in the sky.  He then returns to his bed, with twilight descending upon the world, and goes to bed.<br />The details in the illustrations are exquisite.  My daughter loved, for instance, finding the dog and the cat on each page.  This remained one of our nonoptional nighttime books for at least two years.  I think it will be among the favorites of any preschooler, as well as their parents.  I do believe that this is among the best-illustrated books for young children ever produced.	2002-07-13
1477353:US	52048190	R38JXTLDUMUWPQ	0064430782	800213686	Mama Don't Allow	Books	5	19	19	N	N	An irresistible tale for young children	Every parent knows that children depend on certain books being read to them ritualistically nearly every evening at bedtime. This was for a very long time one of those books for my daughter and me. The story is delightful. Miles lives in a swamp and loves to play music. But his mother hates his music, and chases him away from the house whenever he plays. Going further into the swamp, he finds a number of others who also can't play their music at home, and they form a swamp band. As they are playing, they are overheard by an alligator, who instead of eating them, invites them all onto a riverboat to play for the alligator ball! They go, they play, are a bit hit, and are about to become a bigger hit, because the main item on the menu that night is Swamp Band Soup! The band escapes.<br />The illustrations are just extraordinary. My daughter's favorite were the two pages that showed first all the alligators going onto the riverboat, and then the two pages that showed them all dancing at the alligator ball to the Swamp Band singing their song \\"Mama Don't Allow Any Music Playing in Here.\\"<br />I have recommended this book to other parents, and they all report that their kids loved it just as much as mine did. This book is best suited for children between the ages of two and six. Good story, great illustrations, and it helps if you can come up with a nifty little tune to go with the lyrics of the song.	2002-07-13
1480330:US	52048190	R3RSONI02UNDZR	0140390529	119696620	Benjamin Franklin: The Autobiography and Other Writings (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	124	129	N	N	Franklin's informal account of his remarkable life	In many ways, this is, to someone coming to it for the first time, a very surprising book. For one thing, it is amazingly incomplete. Franklin is, of course, one of the most famous Americans who ever lived, and his accomplishments in a wide array of endeavors are a part of American lore and popular history. A great deal of this lore and many of his accomplishments are missing from this account of his life. He never finished the autobiography, earlier in his life because he was too busy with what he terms public \\"employments,\\" and later in life because the opium he was taking for kidney stones left him unable to concentrate sufficiently. Had Franklin been able to write about every period of his life and all of his achievements, his AUTOBIOGRAPHY would have been one of the most remarkable documents every produced. It is amazingly compelling in its incomplete state.<br />As a serious reader, I was delighted in the way that Franklin is obsessed with the reading habits of other people. Over and over in the course of his memoir, he remarks that such and such a person was fond of reading, or owned a large number of books, or was a poet or author. Clearly, it is one of the qualities he most admires in others, and one of the qualities in a person that makes him want to know a person. He finds other readers to be kindred souls.<br />If one is familiar with the Pragmatists, one finds many pragmatist tendencies in Franklin's thought. He is concerned less with ideals than with ideas that work and are functional. For instance, at one point he implies that while his own beliefs lean more towards the deistical, he sees formal religion as playing an important role in life and society, and he goes out of his way to never criticize the faith of another person. His pragmatism comes out also in list of the virtues, which is one of the more famous and striking parts of his book. As is well known, he compiled a list of 13 virtues, which he felt summed up all the virtues taught by all philosophers and religions. But they are practical, not abstract virtues. He states that he wanted to articulate virtues that possessed simple and not complex ideas. Why? The simpler the idea, the easier to apply. And in formulating his list of virtues, he is more concerned with the manner in which these virtues can be actualized in one's life. Franklin has utterly no interest in abstract morality.<br />One of Franklin's virtues is humility, and his humility comes out in the form of his book. His narrative is exceedingly informal, not merely in the first part, which was ostensibly addressed to his son, but in the later sections (the autobiography was composed upon four separate occasions). The informal nature of the book displays Franklin's intended humility, and for Franklin, seeming to be so is nearly as important as actually being so. For part of the function of the virtues in an individual is not merely to make that particular person virtuous, but to function as an example to others. This notion of his being an example to other people is one of the major themes in his book. His life, he believes, is an exemplary one. And he believes that by sharing the details of his own life, he can serves as a template for other lives.<br />One striking aspect of his book is what one could almost call Secular Puritanism. Although Franklin was hardly a prude, he was nonetheless very much a child of the Puritans. This is not displayed merely in his promotion of the virtues, but in his abstaining from excessiveness in eating, drinking, conversation, or whatever. Franklin is intensely concerned with self-governance.<br />I think anyone not having read this before will be surprised at how readable and enjoyable this is. I think also one can only regret that Franklin was not able to write about the entirety of his life. He was a remarkable man with a remarkable story to tell.losophers and religions. But they are practical, not abstract virtues. He states that he wanted to articulate virtues that possessed simple and not complex ideas. Why? The simpler the idea, the easier to apply. And in formulating his list of virtues, he is more concerned with the manner in which these virtues can be actualized in one's life. Franklin has utterly no interest in abstract morality.<br />One of Franklin's virtues is humility, and his humility comes out in the form of his book. His narrative is exceedingly informal, not merely in the first part, which was ostensibly addressed to his son, but in the later sections (the autobiography was composed upon four separate occasions). The informal nature of the book displays Franklin's intended humility, and for Franklin, seeming to be so is nearly as important as actually being so. For part of the function of the virtues in an individual is not merely to make that particular person virtuous, but to function as an example to others. This notion of his being an example to other people is one of the major themes in his book. His life, he believes, is an exemplary one. And he believes that by sharing the details of his own life, he can serves as a template for other lives.<br />One striking aspect of his book is what one could almost call Secular Puritanism. Although Franklin was hardly a prude, he was nonetheless very much a child of the Puritans. This is not displayed merely in his promotion of the virtues, but in his abstaining from excessiveness in eating, drinking, conversation, or whatever. Franklin is intensely concerned with self-governance. <br />I think anyone not having read this before will be surprised at how readable and enjoyable this is. I think also one can only regret that Franklin was not able to write about the entirety of his life. He was a remarkable man with a remarkable story to tell.	2002-07-10
1489356:US	52048190	R14QDTN7I0YR2U	0521669618	207108014	The Cambridge Companion to Proust (Cambridge Companions to Literature)	Books	4	93	94	N	Y	Slightly uneven, but overall a solid introduction to Proust	This is an excellent and helpful introductory set of essays by leading Anglo-American Proust scholars that will prepare any beginner for working his or her way through Proust's masterpiece.  As in any anthology, some of the essays are more rewarding than others.  Many of the pieces provide a stellar introduction to Proust and Proust's world, while some (especially some of the later essays in the volume) are as impenetrable as some of Proust's own longer and unfathomable sentences.  Nonetheless, anyone unfamiliar with Proust will come away well prepared to read and study Proust's masterpiece.  A word of warning:  if it is important to you not to know plot details (though Proust is hardly about plot; it isn't the destination in Proust, it is the getting there that counts) before reading a book, then you might want to consider skipping this.  Personally, I believe that Proust is one of those rare authors about whose tale one needs to know as much as possible before reading.<br />The volume is apt to be of less value to Proust scholars, or even serious readers who have read the biographies by either Carter or Tadie, or the critical works of Roger Shattuck, or others (both Carter and Shattuck have essays in this volume).  The best essays in the collection tend to be those that are more introductory in nature.  The weaker essays tend to be those that are more specialized and focused on specific issues in Proust.<br />Overall, however, I encourage anyone needing an introductory work on Proust to consider spending some time working through the essays in this book.	2002-07-02
1494972:US	52048190	R36MXYNZBZ3CZI	0393322963	967454060	The Bush Dyslexicon: Observations on a National Disorder	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Probably the best book written so far about Bush	This is, in my opinion, easily the best book on George Bush, especially in its new expanded paperback form.  The subtitle of this is especially interesting:  OBSERVATIONS ON A NATIONAL DISORDER.  Why a national disorder?  The disorder that Miller is concerned to analyze is how it was possible for a man who was revealed over and over during the past several years to be has revealed himself to be overwhelming unqualified to be president of the US, to actually become president.  Miller covers all the bases here.  He shows Bush as unqualified by personal disposition, by moral character, and by social and economic elitism.  He points out what ought to be obvious to anyone who spends much time either listening to Bush or reading about his life:  he is almost without possible debate simultaneously the most ignorant president we have ever had, the least intelligent, and most illiterate (three separate things).  Whether calling Greeks Grecians, or assuming that Puerto Rico is a foreign country, or asking someone what state Wales was in, or not knowing that social security was a federal program, or knowing the names of heads of states, or, really, showing even an elementary understanding of the United States government, one comes away with a sense of horror that such a person could have become president.  Bush is revealed by Miller to be a person whose ignorance has limitless depth.<br />So, why is Bush's becoming president a national disorder?  Because of a variety of factors:  a national corporate news media that engages in virtually no investigative reporting, and, despite Right wing insistence of its liberalism, falls on bended knee before all conservative political figures.  In particular, TV simultaneously reveals Bush to be spectacularly unqualified and undeserving of the high office he holds, and makes him seem less absurd by rendering him \\"likable.\\"  By failing as a nation to deal with anything resembling a real political issue, and being willing to buy almost any lie that we are handed (such as the lie that anyone but the very, very rich received a tax cut in 2001, when in fact the vast majority received only what was called a \\"rebate\\" but which was in fact an advance out of the taxes we will owe for 2002, meaning that if we got a $600 check in 2001, we will have to pay that back in 2003).  No single entity is shown to be the ultimate cause of our national condition.  The pliant news media, the energy and oil companies, everyday citizens who ought to demand more but have come to expect less out of their politicians, a Democratic party that fails to engage in genuine political debate, a Republican party that has become absolute masters of Orwellian doublespeak, everything has blended together to make a phenomenon such as Bush possible.  Make no mistake about it:  this is not a funny book.  It is not a collection of \\"funny\\" errors by Bush.  While it is funny that he says things like \\"Is our children learning?\\" or \\"Will the highways on the Internet become more few?\\" it actually is tragic, because these kinds of utterances are disturbingly commonplace with Bush.<br />There is a significant difference between the new paperback edition and the original hardback.  For one thing, the paperback has been expanded with around 70 pages of new text.  For another, this new material focuses on Bush after 9-11.  This is essential to the value of the book, for Miller does a brilliant job of showing why Bush has apparently grown as a leader.  Miller points out that it would be highly unusual for anyone to show significant personal development at age 55, but especially so for someone who has a history of being intractable and mentally inflexible as Bush.<br />So, why does Bush appear better after 9-11 than before?  Miller points out that Bush has always been either trivial or close to incoherent except when talking on a the few subjects about which he has genuine interest:  his ranch, baseball, football, political dirty tricks, revenge, and putting people to death via capital punishment.  On all other subjects, Bush engages in the kind of verbal bumbling that we frequently associate with him.  As Miller writes, \\"Bush is almost always clear when he's speaking cruelly.\\"  After 9-11, as Miller so ably demonstrates, Bush frequently incoherent when he talked about such subtleties as \\"why they hate us,\\" but his overpowering self-confidence and (for him) eloquence in talking about how America will exact revenge on terrorism is generated by a central, core mean spiritedness.tting people to death via capital punishment.  On all other subjects, Bush engages in the kind of verbal bumbling that we frequently associate with him.  As Miller writes, \\"Bush is almost always clear when he's speaking cruelly.\\"  After 9-11, as Miller so ably demonstrates, Bush frequently incoherent when he talked about such subtleties as \\"why they hate us,\\" but his overpowering self-confidence and (for him) eloquence in talking about how America will exact revenge on terrorism is generated by a central, core mean spiritedness.	2002-06-28
1524913:US	52048190	R2YNGRBUVIIIRP	0521669928	298142692	The Cambridge Illustrated History of France (Cambridge Illustrated Histories)	Books	5	113	116	N	Y	An outstanding overview of French history	This is an outstanding introduction to French history and yet another excellent volume in the Cambridge Illustrated Histories series.  I must admit to being somewhat confused by the two-star review it received, and especially confused by the grounds upon which it was granted only two stars.  The book on the one hand is working with a preordained format, so that it will be consistent with other books in the series.  On the other hand, the book is an introductory work, and excessive detail should not be expected in any introductory work.  The book contains an exhaustive bibliography, and if greater detail is needed on any of the subjects discussed, one is pointed in the right direction.  But as someone who has read the book from cover to cover and who did not see the need for returning it, let me firmly assert that this is a flat out magnificent introductory work.<br />Colin Jones does a marvelous job of balancing several aspects of history narrative in this volume.  On the one hand, he does not neglect the &quot;great men&quot;, covering all the primary and familiar figures in French history, from Charlemagne to Henry IV to Richelieu to Louis XIV to Napoleon to the present.  But neither does he neglect the lives of everyday folk.  He does an especially good job of discussing the status of women through France's history, a subject left out of too many general surveys.  Jones also does a good job of balancing a discussion of military, economic, religious, and cultural factors from generation to generation in France.  By the end of the volume, the reader will have been exposed to virtually every aspect of French history.<br />This is an extraordinarily handsome and well-made, large-format paperback.  There are numerous full color illustrations, marvelously chosen, many with detailed asides on the subject illustrated.<br />In short, if you are looking for a superb introduction to French history, you will be hard pressed to do better than this volume.	2002-05-31
1526189:US	52048190	R3TKVCAT5ABVXR	0670302813	971662927	Exterminator !	Books	5	16	16	N	N	My favorite Burroughs volume	EXTERMINATOR! A NOVEL is without any question my favorite William S. Burroughs book. The \\"A Novel\\" of the title must surely be ironic, because the book is not in any recognizable sense a novel. It is a collection of largely unconnected sketches and scenes. Not every section is a masterpiece, but several are among the most surreal and brilliant things that Burroughs ever wrote. And for anyone who has not previously read any Burroughs, it is a brilliant introduction.  I personally find it far more accessible and enjoyable than NAKED LUNCH, which, while it has many fine passages, nonetheless can at times become tedious.<br />Although by and large the various parts are unconnected, several are focused on the 1968 Democratic convention in Chicago. In particular, the amazingly creative and hysterically funny \\"The Coming of the Purple Better One\\" takes that as its locale. The \\"Purple Better One\\" of the title refers to a baboon that is placed upon the convention podium, and upon whose face is superimposed the face of a white Southern, racist politician, whose recorded speech is then played. It is one of the more bizarre, brilliant, and absurd scenes in recent American literature. Another favorite is \\"The Discipline of DE,\\" the DE standing for \\"Do Easy.\\" The story is a strange blend of Zen Buddhist tract and self-help manifestation. Other favorites include the title story, with the narrator/exterminator repeating ominously \\"You want the service?\\" and a supposed film treatment \\"Twilight's Last Gleamings.\\"<br />The collection features many of the themes usually associated with Burroughs: Sci-fi, fantasy, drugs, usual medical practices and phenomena, governmental nefariousness, and the corruption of capitalistic life.	2002-05-30
1531487:US	52048190	R23FRR3BWCMTFZ	0806132388	864891379	Will Rogers: A Biography	Books	4	28	29	N	N	The best book on Will Rogers currently available	This is probably the best biography of Will Rogers currently available.  It is comprehensive, insightful, well researched, and balanced.  My only complaint with it is that it ends somewhat abruptly.  Yagoda touches briefly on the legacy of Will Rogers after his death, but he could have said a great deal more.  Rogers's death evoked profound mourning across the US and the rest of the world, and it would have been nice if he had focused a bit more on that.  His analysis, however, of why Rogers gradually ceased to be what he was in his own time--arguably the most popular American who ever lived--is very helpful.  I had always found his comparative demise to be quite perplexing, and Yagoda does a superb job of explaining this phenomenon.<br />One of the greatest virtues of the book is that it does not, like many books on Rogers, engage in hagiography.  Will Rogers was a very good, compassionate, honest man.  Any book on his will show that.  He had his faults, but as presented by Yagoda, they do not diminish the man, whatever it may do to the myth.  For instance, Yagoda insightfully points out that while Rogers was rightfully lauded for his wisdom and insight, his thought was marred by an inability to comprehend genuine evil.  One is left wondering what Rogers's response to Hitler's behavior in the years just after Rogers's death, and what he would have been able to say about the moral complexities of the Second World War.  On the other hand, I would very much have welcomed Rogers as a voice of reason during the days of the Communist Witch Hunts.<br />Anyone interested in Rogers is strongly encouraged to read this book.  I would also like to recommend the first chapter in Lary May's THE BIG TOMORROW.  This book is a study of the social dimensions of American cinema from the thirties through the fifties.  The first and best chapter is about Will Rogers, and remains the best thing that I have read about Will Rogers.  I strongly recommend both books.	2002-05-25
1531592:US	52048190	R1J3562MUJWKHY	0393003183	312919082	The Whig Interpretation of History	Books	4	20	29	N	N	Highly enjoyable, sane, if a bit dated	I am not a historian, nor am I especially familiar with historiography.  The remarks here will, therefore, be those of a well read neophyte.  But since that will probably describe many readers coming to this book for the first time, perhaps that will not be too much of a disadvantage.<br />The greatest flaw in the book at this stage in its career is the lack of a historical introduction.  It is no longer a contemporary book, the better part of a century old.  If I were an editor at Norton, I would give serious consideration to reissuing this book with a new introductory essay.  To be perfectly honest, I am not sure who the Whig historians were, and am not quite certain what the relations between being a Whig historian and being a Whig politically is.  The only Whig historian Butterfield mentions by name, Lord Acton, was, as Butterfield points out, a Tory.  I think I would have profited far more from this book if I had not had to spend all my time wondering precisely who Butterfield's targets were.<br />Essentially, this book is a critique of imposing moral judgments in historical research.  It is a defense of taking each historical epoch on its own terms, and not imposing one's own moral and cultural standards on figures and situations that existed with, perhaps, a different set of moral and cultural concerns.  To this degree, the book is commonsensical and noncontroversial, and can be read with a great deal of profit.<br />The structural problem of the book is that the entire discussion is framed in extremely polemical terms.  Perhaps Butterfield was a Whig Catholic, but given the examples he constantly brings up, and the barely disguised passion he brings to the debate, one wonders if he were not a Tory Catholic.  Perhaps not, but one cannot help but wonder why he is so polemical.  The same points--none of them especially controversial today, however they may have been in 1932--could have been expressed far more effectively in a nonpolemical fashion.  But, again, perhaps an introductory essay by a contemporary historian could explain just why Butterfield chose such an inflammatory mode.<br />Nonetheless, any nonhistorian can read this book with great profit, even if they, like me, wonder about the context in which he wrote and who the Whig historians were., perhaps an introductory essay by a contemporary historian could explain just why Butterfield chose such an inflammatory mode.<br />Nonetheless, any nonhistorian can read this book with great profit, even if they, like me, wonder about the context in which he wrote and who the Whig historians were.	2002-05-25
1531829:US	52048190	R8QNCW78T63IN	0385506198	869666762	The Natural: The Misunderstood Presidency of Bill Clinton	Books	4	20	20	N	N	Insightful, balanced, unflattering but disorganized	This book isn't likely to please either Clinton's critics or defenders.<br />Joe Klein essentially argues that Bill Clinton was a man both of many virtues and many flaws, and I think that is a fair assessment of this book as well. On the one hand, this is perhaps the first attempt at a fair and reasoned understanding of who President Bill Clinton was. Most books on Clinton have either been poorly documented and badly researched attacks on him, or well documented and better researched books explaining how poorly documented and badly researched that first wave of books was. In other words, books like Conason and Lyons superb THE HUNTING OF THE PRESIDENT, provided a massive amount of documentation correctly the scurrilous attacks of Clinton's previous critics. These books, however, primarily say much, much more about Clinton's attackers and the attackers of the attackers rather than about Clinton himself. The great virtue of THE NATURAL is that Klein attempts to focus primarily on Clinton himself.<br />Bill Clinton disappointed Joe Klein. Clinton was, in Klein's estimation, enormously knowledgeable, intelligent, well intentioned, and insightful. Why, then, was Clinton not a great president? Klein has several answers to this. First, Clinton was never really tested as president. There was never a serious crisis facing the US during his eight years in the White House, nothing comparable to 9-11 or Pearl Harbor or the Cuban Missile Crisis. Therefore, there was a sense in which he was never tested. Klein does, however, point out that Clinton does not, perhaps, get the credit he deserves for his role in providing the US with eight of the most peaceful years in US history. Second, Klein shows a number reasons that Clinton was ineffective as president, Monica Lewinsky aside. For instance, his ability to see both sides of issue frequently made it difficult for him to decide which side he was going to come down on. Other problems include his love of meetings and intellectual jam sessions rather than making decisions; his inability to work well with the press; poor decisions regarding the make up of the White House Staff; his constant attention to polls and aligning his policies with them in mind.<br />On the other hand, Klein also wants to give Clinton his due. His two terms were eight years of unhindered economic growth, which Klein in part credits Clinton for because some key decisions he made. For instance, lowering the national debt and engendering surpluses, which made possible lower interest rates. He also praises him for the earned income credit, which was for all practical purposes a lower class tax cut for the working poor. In this instance, money was given to those in the greatest need, but to take advantage of it, one had to be working. Klein points to many other similar achievements that had a substantive effect on the US economy; not terribly sexy accomplishments, but having a very definite effect on the US economy nevertheless.<br />Some of the best sections of the book are Klein's discussions of and interviews with previous Senate and House Leaders from both sides of the aisle, who lament the decay of bipartisanship that was brought about by the Gingrich revolution. The criticism in this book is not partisan. In fact, there seems to be more regret on the part of the Republicans interviewed, like former GOP House Leader Bob Michel and Bob Dole, than by Democrats. I also found his reflections on why the Baby Boomers have yet to produce a truly great political leader comparable to leaders of previous generations.<br />The book, however, has some very serious organizational problems. In fact, it isn't clear that the book has any organization at all. There are chapter markings, but it isn't clear why. The topics and events covered flow into each other, and there is not clear demarcation of subjects. In short, the book seems to ramble from one topic to another, sometimes leaving a subject for good, sometimes returning to it at a later date. Nonetheless, this is a very interesting book that both Clinton's detractors and his defenders can read with profit. And the probably effect on any open-minded individual will be to make his critics a little more appreciative of his positive contributions, and his defenders a bit more critical of his presidency.later date. Nonetheless, this is a very interesting book that both Clinton's detractors and his defenders can read with profit. And the probably effect on any open-minded individual will be to make his critics a little more appreciative of his positive contributions, and his defenders a bit more critical of his presidency.	2002-05-25
1540339:US	52048190	R2S1F5N9US8GEQ	1583224890	746847725	9-11	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Provocative and fascinating but also uneven and repetitive	This may sound like a bizarre statement to make about a book that runs slightly over a hundred pages in length, but the main problem with Noam Chomsky's 9-11 is that it is too long. Because this slender volume is a compilation of interviews that Chomsky gave shortly after 9-11-2001 with various North American and European media outlets, it has the unfortunate flaw of being repetitive. As a result, many of his points are made, to the reader, over and over, and then, over again. Furthermore, some of the interviews provide no new information, and appear to have been included primarily for padding in an attempt to lengthen the book slightly.<br /><br />Nonetheless, the book is otherwise utterly fascinating. Chomsky is a polarizing writer. Few people are going to be lukewarm about his ideas. Either you will, like me, find them fascinating, provocative, and dead-on, or you will be horrified, outraged, and defensive. But even someone who does not care for Chomsky will inescapably be impressed with his breadth of knowledge of foreign affairs and the local political situation throughout the world. For someone who is primarily known for his pioneering work in linguistics, Chomsky possesses a stunning knowledge of, apparently, every corner of the globe. I, for one, stand in awe of how much knowledge he has been able to assimilate in his two fields of endeavor.<br /><br />In a way, this book is an extended footnote to his book THE FATEFUL TRIANGLE, about the political situation in the Middle East. While Chomsky thoroughly condemns terrorism in every form (including state terrorism, which he views the United States, Israel, and many European nations as engaged in), he feels it is crucial for Westerners to understand the real reasons that many Muslims in the Middle East do not like the United States. These reasons, he repeatedly points out in these interviews, have nothing to do with a supposed hatred of the material success of the US, or the expansion of globalism, or modernity. Rather, their anger is over very specific complaints about the suppression of Palestinians by Israel, US military presence in Saudi Arabia, European and American intrusion into the political life of Islamic nations, and similar causes.<br /><br />The part of the book that many readers will feel less comfortable with are those parts where he equates many US actions overseas with state terrorism. I personally found these parts of the book both very depressing and very compellingly discussed. But even if one disagrees with Chomsky's assessments, it is important even for his critics to realize that many of those who hate us in other parts of the world view the US in ways similar to the picture that Chomsky draws of US foreign involvement.nger is over very specific complaints about the suppression of Palestinians by Israel, US military presence in Saudi Arabia, European and American intrusion into the political life of Islamic nations, and similar causes.     The part of the book that many readers will feel less comfortable with are those parts where he equates many US actions overseas with state terrorism. I personally found these parts of the book both very depressing and very compellingly discussed. But even if one disagrees with Chomsky's assessments, it is important even for his critics to realize that many of those who hate us in other parts of the world view the US in ways similar to the picture that Chomsky draws of US foreign involvement.	2002-05-17
1542630:US	52048190	R7YVZDL2GMA68	0399115846	304789014	T. E. Lawrence	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A solid overview of one of the century's great enigmas	We are still awaiting a truly great biography of T. E. Lawrence. Easily one of the most fascinating and complex individuals of the past century, Lawrence remains in many ways a cipher and an enigma. I found Peter Brent's volume in a used bookstore, and bought it for the superb illustrations as much as for the text. Luckily, the text provides a solid and useful treatment. Brent doesn't dissipate the mystery of Lawrence so much as introduce the reader to it. For instance, he juxtaposes Lawrence's apparent asexuality and revolt at physical contact with others with his pleasure in physical masochism, without a serious attempt to provide a solution to this mystery. He makes several suggestions that many of Lawrence's difficulties in life may have been related to a sense of being an illegitimate child and a consciousness of being rejected by his father's family, but he is not able to systematically relate this to specific instances of his life.  At the same time, the book doesn't degenerate into psychobiography, something that could happen all too easily with someone as complex as Lawrence.<br />The bulk of the book deals with the Arab Revolt against Turkey, and Lawrence's role in it. The discussion is solid without being outstanding. Brent does a fine job of outlining the major issues in the conflict, describing the major figures in the conflict, and depicting the difficulties in any happy resolution. He treats Lawrence fairly, not minimizing his role, but not buying uncritically into the Lawrence legend. He neither tries to erect an idol nor destroy an icon. He also deals with Lawrence's life before WW I, and to a much lesser extent, his life after it. I wish the latter part of the book had been a bit fuller. I found the final years of Lawrence's life to be dealt with far too brusquely.<br />The illustrations make the book. There are photographs of nearly all the key figures, color reproductions of many of the illustrations from the original private edition of THE SEVEN PILLARS OF WISDOM (including a number of cartoonish depictions of Lawrence), and fascinating photographs of Lawrence from all stages of his life. Even if one did not wish to read the text, I could recommend this volume as a great visual companion volume to anyone reading THE SEVEN PILLARS OF WISDOM.PILLARS OF WISDOM (including a number of cartoonish depictions of Lawrence), and fascinating photographs of Lawrence from all stages of his life. Even if one did not wish to read the text, I could recommend this volume as a great visual companion volume to anyone reading THE SEVEN PILLARS OF WISDOM.	2002-05-15
1547548:US	52048190	R2BKGVE2DKCKUT	0425179613	495393406	It's Not About the Bike: My Journey Back to Life	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Not a book I would have expected to read a month ago	I write this in early May 2002.  About a month ago, I was diagnosed with cancer, and since then I have had surgery to remove the tumor and begun a series of radiation treatments to make sure that I have no remaining cancer cells.  To be honest, this is not a book that I would have ever thought about reading.  My reading is primarily literary and academic, and I just don't read many books about popular entertainment figures.  But a friend who I thought was merely a pediatrician but who turned out to be a pediatric oncologist strongly suggested that I read this book, and I am very glad that I did.<br />This is not primarily a book about bike racing; this is primarily a book about cancer, facts that are captured beautifully in the title.  My cancer is not nearly as serious as Armstrong's was, but nonetheless so many of the emotions and feelings that he describes struck familiar chords (mine was caught very early, whereas his was discovered quite late and had spread to a number of areas of his body).  I can't imagine anyone reading this book who has or is suffering from cancer and not deriving a good deal of benefit.  It is comforting to know that someone else has experienced many of the same things that you have.  And it is inspiring to see how at least in one case someone has come back successfully from it.<br />Lance's story is especially valuable for men.  If you look through a health section of a bookstore, you can find many, many books about women cancer survivors, but very few books by men.  Let's face it:  guys who are struggling with cancer are going to feel more kinship with someone suffering from a particularly male form of cancer than a woman writing about breast or uterine cancer.<br />This book is a very interesting and easy read, which is a very good thing.  If someone happens to be reading it in a situation such as mine right now, these are tremendous virtues.<br />One of the things that struck me while reading the book was the depth of Lance Armstrong's attachment to his family and friends.  In particular, his attachment to his mother and his obvious love for her is especially impressive.  And unless it is merely a literary conceit, he seems to have a great deal of gratitude and affection for a very large number of people.  Much of this hints of a very strong social group that helped get him through an excruciatingly difficult time.<br />The sections dealing with bicycle racing are fine, also.  But it is the sections dealing with cancer and his efforts to survive it and then recuperate from it that are the most moving, by far.<br />I suppose that for those who want just to read an inspirational story, or for fans of competitive bicycle racing, this is a book they will thoroughly enjoy reading.  But for anyone who is actually experiencing cancer first hand, this book will be invaluable.ng's attachment to his family and friends.  In particular, his attachment to his mother and his obvious love for her is especially impressive.  And unless it is merely a literary conceit, he seems to have a great deal of gratitude and affection for a very large number of people.  Much of this hints of a very strong social group that helped get him through an excruciatingly difficult time.<br />The sections dealing with bicycle racing are fine, also.  But it is the sections dealing with cancer and his efforts to survive it and then recuperate from it that are the most moving, by far.<br />I suppose that for those who want just to read an inspirational story, or for fans of competitive bicycle racing, this is a book they will thoroughly enjoy reading.  But for anyone who is actually experiencing cancer first hand, this book will be invaluable.	2002-05-11
1556158:US	52048190	RFCHC6ZEKPI1E	0140112456	640424062	Forty Stories (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Marvelous collection by one of America's most unique writers	Donald Barthelme is one of the very few masters of the short short story. The only others that come to mind are Saki, Borges, and Franz Kakfa. Few of the stories in this collection extend past three pages. All are marked by the same virtues evident throughout the collection: surreality, inventiveness, enormous humor, a sensitivity to our collective culture. Some have commented on the collection being uneven. Perhaps. But the stories are quite diverse, and I suspect that what some find uneven is actually their diversity, some of them appealing more to one's particular bias more than others.<br />This is a great collection for shaking up your perception, for making you reconceptualize the short story form. Anyone liking these stories should go on to try some Saki (the author, not the beverage). Although not as surreal as Barthelme, his stories are just as short, just as funny, and just as delightful.	2002-05-04
1559945:US	52048190	R1A7IZWQTIF2IG	0195154355	511670641	Unholy War: Terror in the Name of Islam	Books	4	64	80	N	N	Excellent academic overview of terrorism in Islam	John Esposito is the author of one of the very best introductions to Islam currently available, ISLAM:  THE STRAIGHT PATH, and is one of the most respected Islamic scholars currently working in the US.  It was with enormous excitement that I discovered that Esposito had written a book that addresses the concerns that most Americans and Europeans have in the wake of 9-11.<br />This book is invaluable for understanding both the variety of traditions in Islam concerning Jihad, a term which means, simply, \\"struggle\\", and not, as many in the US imagine, something akin to \\"war\\".  This \\"struggle\\" is most often, as Esposito explains, spiritual than military, and he is outstanding at showing the wide variety of views concerning the forms \\"jihad\\" can take.  Even for those who believe in a military \\"jihad\\" Esposito demonstrates that there are many viewpoints.  He is also superb at integrating these varying understandings with the origins of Islam.  One of his great achievements is in showing that just as there is enormous diversity in Christianity (just compare the beliefs of Anglicans, Southern Baptists, Mormons, Seventh Day Adventists, Roman Catholics, Russian Orthodoxy, Pentecostals, Unitarians, Jehovah Witnesses, and Presbyterians, to take merely a few Christian traditions, and the point is grasped), so also there is a vast amount of diversity in Islamic belief.  He points out that the vast majority of Muslims do not countenance violence against innocent civilians.  The focus, however, of this book is on that minority that embraces violence.<br />Esposito discusses not only traditional Islamic teachings on Jihad and the relations of Islam with non-Islamic individuals and countries, but also 20th century thinkers and activists.  This was the part of the book I found most helpful.  Esposito shows how the terrorists are frequently driven by a set of ideas derived from specific writers or schools of thought.  The have been inculcated in specific ways of conceiving the state of Islam's relation with the rest.  These thinkers have argued for a purer form of Islam, for the establishment of genuine Islamic governments in primarily Islamic countries, for the severing of cultural and economic ties with the West (even to the extent of ceasing to export oil), for the elimination of an American and European presence and influence in these countries, and for the establishment of a homeland for the Palestinian people.  And, unfortunately, many--though by no means all--of these thinkers conceive it as legitimate to employ terrorist acts of violence to achieve these goals.<br />While UNHOLY WAR has many virtues, it does have couple of weaknesses.  The weaknesses consist in the fact that for most of us, the situation with terrorism is an immensely practical issue:  we want to know what can be done, what solutions exist for resolving this situation, how Muslims and Westerners can peacefully coexist on this planet.  Esposito does offer a final chapter that addresses some causes for hope, primarily in the shape of paradigms within Islam itself that offer alternatives to those espoused by Osama bin Laden and his cohorts.  This was the weakest part of the book, by far.  The individuals that Esposito mentions have not, unfortunately, captured the imaginations of many Muslims who are engaged in the struggle to right what they see to be the wrongs inflicted on Islam by the US and European civilization.  I would love for Americans and Middle Eastern Muslims to understand each other; for now, I would be content with extremists ceasing acts of terrorism and for Americans to begin addressing in concrete the Muslims very real complaints about US military presence in Saudi Arabia and the failure to respond to needs for a Palestinian homeland.<br />Stylistically, the book is not as well written as one might hope.  The first chapter especially is sometimes a bit flat.  Perhaps the desire to get this book published quickly is partly at fault for that.  Nonetheless, this is a book that can be read with enormous profit.  Like me, perhaps a reader will be left feeling actually less hopeful afterwards, especially after learning how widespread ultraconservative Hammadi Islam has become.  But anyone reading this will definitely have a greater understanding of the intellectual underpinnings of the more radical elements of contemporary Islam.s, this is a book that can be read with enormous profit.  Like me, perhaps a reader will be left feeling actually less hopeful afterwards, especially after learning how widespread ultraconservative Hammadi Islam has become.  But anyone reading this will definitely have a greater understanding of the intellectual underpinnings of the more radical elements of contemporary Islam.	2002-05-01
1566461:US	52048190	R3CGQFG7N4IV96	0374199639	64824201	The Metaphysical Club : A Story of Ideas in America	Books	5	63	65	N	N	Brilliant Introduction to Post Civil War American Thought	Both the editorial review and many of the individual reviews have mentioned that this is a study of four principal figures of pragmatism:  Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr., William James, Charles Sanders Peirce, and John Dewey.  That depiction is, however, incomplete and misleading.  THE METAPHYSICAL CLUB is, as the subtitle proclaims, a study of ideas in America.  While it is true that these four individuals are the lynchpins around which much of the story revolves, Menand keeps in mind one of the main doctrines held by all these thinkers, that the social is more primary than the individual.  This book is a study of the intellectual life of late nineteenth century America as a whole, and while Holmes, James, Sanders, and Dewey provide much of the focus, their individual stories do not exhaust the tale that Menand is trying to tell.<br />Menand provides a brilliant portrait of the intellectual life of America in the post-Civil War era.  The story is told from a generalist and not a specialist point of view.  If one is interested in pragmatism, this provides the background and an outline of an introduction to the subject.  As historical background, this book is unsurpassed.  But it is crucial to keep in mind that it is background, not foreground.  It does not begin to rival, for instance, such studies as Murry Murphy's tragically out of print study of Peirce's thought, or Gerald Myer's biography of James, or Bruce Kuklick's study of the development of American Philosophy.  Apart from the works of the figures themselves, these are the secondary works to which one would go for greater depth on the subject.  But none of these works provides Menand's delicious breadth.<br />The number of subjects that Menand takes up is stunning.  In some 440 pages he deals with such a variety of topics as abolitionism, slavery, Daniel Webster, Oliver Wendell Holmes Sr., Emerson, the American reception of and reaction to Darwin, Louis Agassiz, Jane Addams, the Pullman Strike, W.E.B. DuBois, Alain Locke, Franz Boas, Benjamin Peirce, Chauncey Wright, theories of race, Boston societal structure, the development of the American university, several key decisions by the Supreme Court, Swendenborg, 19th Century conceptions of laissez-faire, the development of probability, the rise of statistical thinking, and a host of other issues.  But what is striking is how well Menand integrates each new individual or idea with the rest of the work.  He never introduces anyone just in order to chat about them; in each instance the introduction deepens and enhances the issue at hand.  Each new idea helps take the story to the next stage.<br />Finally, I want to point out just how marvelously well written this book is.  The prose is never less than utterly clear; it frequently rises to the level of exhilarating.  It is not just that the book tells a story that deserves telling.  The book is so well written that it is flat out fun.  It is the nearest thing to an intellectual page turner as one is likely to find.  The book is also enhanced by a number of superb photographs of all the principal characters.in Locke, Franz Boas, Benjamin Peirce, Chauncey Wright, theories of race, Boston societal structure, the development of the American university, several key decisions by the Supreme Court, Swendenborg, 19th Century conceptions of laissez-faire, the development of probability, the rise of statistical thinking, and a host of other issues.  But what is striking is how well Menand integrates each new individual or idea with the rest of the work.  He never introduces anyone just in order to chat about them; in each instance the introduction deepens and enhances the issue at hand.  Each new idea helps take the story to the next stage.  <br />Finally, I want to point out just how marvelously well written this book is.  The prose is never less than utterly clear; it frequently rises to the level of exhilarating.  It is not just that the book tells a story that deserves telling.  The book is so well written that it is flat out fun.  It is the nearest thing to an intellectual page turner as one is likely to find.  The book is also enhanced by a number of superb photographs of all the principal characters.	2002-04-25
1617332:US	52048190	RR5TV9G1MM3D4	0380768089	76753079	Never Met a Man I Didn't Like: The Life and Writings of Will Rogers	Books	4	41	42	N	Y	A solid introduction to a fascinating human being	Although this book neither as a biography nor as an anthology of the sayings and writings of Will Rogers explores its subject in any depth, this is a very solid introduction to one of the most fascinating individuals in American history.  As a biography, Joseph Carter manages to give an excellent, if brief, summation of the major events in Rogers's life.  The last part of the book collects a number of Rogers's better-known sayings.  This section is a bit more disappointing, since most of the excerpts are presented somewhat out of the larger context.  Sometimes, this doesn't matter.  But having read some longer pieces by Rogers's, I find that it doesn't enable the reader to get an adequate feel for the kinds of concerns that Rogers had as a political and social thinker.<br />Rogers was a humorist, but concerns with political and social issues permeate his work.  He was also an enormously complex thinker.  Although there was a quaint simplicity and humility to the way Rogers expressed himself, he actually worked out a political position that wasn't entirely at home on either the Right or the Left side of the political spectrum.  Although he was in most respects of liberal sympathies, he was almost libertarian in the way he yearned for a small central government that didn't intrude into the lives of everyday individuals.  He was profoundly suspicious of big government.  At the same, time, he was profoundly non-libertarian in being even more suspicious of big business and capitalism.  His sympathies, however, were definitely populist.<br />Rogers was simultaneously one of the most popular stage performers, movie performers, radio personalities, and political writers of his day, and arguably one of the, if not THE, most popular Americans ever to have lived.  This excellent volume will provide the neophyte with a good introduction to all these aspects of Rogers's life and career.<br />I do believe, however, that we desperately need a good, in-depth anthology of the writings of Will Rogers.  I would love to see the Library of America bring out a volume dedicated to Will Rogers.  Until they or someone else does this, I am afraid that Rogers will be remembered more as the author of pithy one-liners than as what he was:  the most influential political commentator of his day.gs of Will Rogers.  I would love to see the Library of America bring out a volume dedicated to Will Rogers.  Until they or someone else does this, I am afraid that Rogers will be remembered more as the author of pithy one-liners than as what he was:  the most influential political commentator of his day.	2002-03-16
1618069:US	52048190	R36ARW1IU8ZN2	0520206894	969453681	Emerson: The Mind on Fire (Centennial Books)	Books	5	48	49	N	N	Outstanding biography of America's first literary giant	I must confess that I don't understand the reader review below who found this biography of Emerson to be a difficult read.  Although not quite a page-turner, I managed to read this in very little time at all.  I must also confess that I do find Emerson himself incredibly difficult to read.  But what I find to be the case in Emerson himself, I did not find to be true in Richardson's biography.  While I find that Emerson constructed one stunning sentence and aphorism after another, I generally find his essays to be slow going.  Nonetheless, while I am not his biggest fan, he is unquestionably one of the four or five greatest figures in American intellectual history, and Richardson's biography does him great justice.<br />The great merit of this biography is that at the end of it, you feel that you have gained considerable insight both into Emerson and New England intellectual life in the 19th century.  I was especially intrigued with Richardson detailing of Emerson's reading.  Emerson was, without any question, a great reader.  Great readers rarely read books from cover to cover.  Samuel Johnson, who was himself one of the most accomplished readers in the history of civilization, once said that we have more of a need to reread than to read.  But he also once quipped, &quot;What, you read books all the way to the end?&quot;  Emerson did not read books all the way to the end.  But like Johnson and other great readers, he had a genius for picking out the most important points.  What Boswell wrote of Johnson is true also of Emerson:  &quot;He had a peculiar facility in seizing at once what was valuable in any book, without submitting to the labour of perusing it from beginning to end.&quot;<br />One comes away from the book also enormously impressed with Emerson's character.  He seems by any standard to have been a remarkably good human being.  He was both a man of high principle, and a man of powerful attachments to other human beings.  I found the accounting of his various friendships, many to equally famous individuals, to be of the utmost interest.  Also, he seems to have met virtually every important thinker and writer in the English-speaking world, from Coleridge to Carlyle to Melville.<br />I heartily recommend this book to anyone who wants to gain a deeper knowledge of Emerson's life and work.  By any standard, Emerson is one of the giants in American life.  His influence on American thought is incalculable.  Consider:  not only was he the major influence on such American literary figures the magnitude of Thoreau and Whitman; he was a profound influence on artists such as Thomas Cole, Moran, and Bierstadt.  America's deep-rooted environmentalism is steeped in Emersonian Transcendentalism.  John Muir was a devoted reader of Emerson.  One could make a case for Emerson having had perhaps more influence in the shaping of American thought than any other individual.  This biography is an outstanding introduction to that person.ous friendships, many to equally famous individuals, to be of the utmost interest.  Also, he seems to have met virtually every important thinker and writer in the English-speaking world, from Coleridge to Carlyle to Melville.<br />I heartily recommend this book to anyone who wants to gain a deeper knowledge of Emerson's life and work.  By any standard, Emerson is one of the giants in American life.  His influence on American thought is incalculable.  Consider:  not only was he the major influence on such American literary figures the magnitude of Thoreau and Whitman; he was a profound influence on artists such as Thomas Cole, Moran, and Bierstadt.  America's deep-rooted environmentalism is steeped in Emersonian Transcendentalism.  John Muir was a devoted reader of Emerson.  One could make a case for Emerson having had perhaps more influence in the shaping of American thought than any other individual.  This biography is an outstanding introduction to that person.	2002-03-16
1618372:US	52048190	R1JPMDR6TTBTSR	0140189300	964793034	Been Down So Long It Looks Like Up to Me (Penguin Twentieth-century Classics)	Books	2	60	85	N	N	A severe disappointment - here are the reasons why	I was really was expecting to like this novel.  I am a huge fan of Kerouac, John Clellon Holmes, Burroughs, Pynchon, and a slew of other similar and related writers, so I anticipated that this would run along those grooves.  Unfortunately, I found very, very little to like in the novel.  I would love to have a dialog with the people who have been giving it such high ratings.  I haven't seen very many specifics as to why it is supposed to be good.  Let me give some reasons why I was so disappointed:<br />First, I just didn't like any of the characters.  In particular, I didn't like Gnossos.  It isn't just that he isn't a very nice person, or that he is a total jerk to so many people:  he is boring.  He was supposed to be cool, but he didn't say cool things, have cool ideas, or engage in cool actions.  Most of the other characters were just as uninteresting, and to make things worse, were given some of the most unpalatable names that I have encountered in a novel.  Oeup?  Heffalump?  Aquavitus?  Fitzgore?  Gnossus?<br />Second, the prose lacked both beauty and rhythm.  The sentences lurch and lunge like a driver alternately pressing and releasing the gas pedal.  At best, it is unbeautiful.  At worst, it is frequently impenetrable and opaque.  It isn't just that it is often unintelligible; it is that one gets the sense that figuring it out wouldn't be worth the effort.  Reading ULYSSES, one has the conviction that even at Joyce's most difficult, puzzling out his meaning repays the effort.  Not so with Farina.  And I couldn't agree more with the previous reviewer who says that the novel reminds him very much of the liner notes to an early Bob Dylan album.  Except, they lack the humor one often finds in the Dylan liner notes.<br />Third, the novel just doesn't tell a very interesting story.  In truth, the story is about an intensely self-absorbed bore who takes too many drugs to no good purpose.  Contrast this to ON THE ROAD, where dissipation is connected with a joyous passion for life.<br />All in all, I have to say, this was one of the most disappointing reads that I have had in quite a while.  I wonder if Farina hadn't also been a recording artist, Mimi Farina's husband, and Joan Baez's brother-in-law, if this book would even be in print.  I suspect that its reputation is based more on the need we sometimes feel (and to which I have sometimes succumbed) to like what is perceived to be importantly counter cultural rather than truly excellent.passion for life.  <br />All in all, I have to say, this was one of the most disappointing reads that I have had in quite a while.  I wonder if Farina hadn't also been a recording artist, Mimi Farina's husband, and Joan Baez's brother-in-law, if this book would even be in print.  I suspect that its reputation is based more on the need we sometimes feel (and to which I have sometimes succumbed) to like what is perceived to be importantly counter cultural rather than truly excellent.	2002-03-15
1626071:US	52048190	R2FP3B0FETLH5C	0812930991	150767402	Blinded by the Right: The Conscience of an Ex-Conservative	Books	5	82	91	N	N	A disturbing portrayal of the moral life of the Right	In one way, this book does not break much new ground. Much of what Brock has to share has been presented to the public before by a number of investigative reporters, though it should be added that for many of them, Brock was an important source of information. Indeed, I learned many of the details in this book from reading Conason and Lyon's THE BETRAYAL OF THE PRESIDENT, which mentioned Brock's experiences on several occasions. What is new is the insider's perspective the book offers. The many books on the Clinton years and the shenanigans of the Right in trying to destroy Clinton are mainly written from the viewpoint of the Left. Although a convert, Brock gives some insight from within his old position.<br />In many ways this book is much better than I had anticipated, though in a couple of ways the book bothers much like his book on Anita Hill did. The book does seem more honest and truthful than I had expected. He seems to have matured a lot over the past few years. The genre to which the book belongs is largely that of conversion narrative, which he rightly acknowledges in the Preface. Conversion narratives-both in books and films-were extremely common in the 1940s and 1950s, during the days of the Red Menace, and in the 1970s and 1980s, as former radicals moved to the mainstream. The book is unique in chronicling one person moving from the Right to the Left, instead of the opposite, more common direction in such narratives. But the book is also in part personal confession, as well as an indictment of his former friends.<br />It is the indictment aspect of the book by which I am most bothered. Brock rightly is disturbed by much that he discovered on the Right: cultural and social intolerance; the unconcern for the truth and obsession with harming their enemies, even if it meant telling lies or half lies; the lack of ideas apart from attacking their opponents; their demonization of those on the Left; and the enormous hypocrisy on the part of many of those who were morally intolerant of Clinton. The problem is that in proving their hypocrisy, he deals a bit more than I like with the adulteries and other sins of those on the Right. The book is already getting some press because near the end he suggests that Matt Drudge, of The Drudge Report, pretty transparently made explicit homosexual overtures to him. I am always uncomfortable when anyone \\"outs\\" someone who is not already \\"out.\\"  Also, Brock also uses a lot of negative physical imagery in discussing his former colleagues. He has a genius for describing people in profoundly unflattering ways. I can understand pointing out someone committing adultery while at the same time condemning Clinton. But what is the point of talking of how unattractive someone is?<br />The crucial event in Brock's beginning to move from the Right to the Left was, he recounts, the publication of STRANGE JUSTICE: THE SELLING OF CLARENCE THOMAS by Jane Mayer and Jill Abramson. The book was in many ways a refutation of Brock's own book on Anita Hill. In it, the authors uncovered significant evidence that Justice Thomas had an ongoing interest in kinds of subject matter of a kind that would have bolstered Anita Hill's claims, even video stores where he rented certain kinds of videos. In attempting to disprove this, Brock discovered that although he had not previously known that Thomas was involved with naughty subject matter, many of Thomas's friends and colleagues, who were Brock's friends also, already knew of his interest. In other words, although a knowledge of Thomas's involvement with these things offered a powerful corroboration of Anita Hill's testimony, many on the Right kept it secret and damned Hill when they knew she was probably being completely honest. Although he defended his book at this occasion, his confidence in both himself as a journalist and the Right as a moral force were both seriously undermined.<br />One telling anecdote comes relatively late in the book, after Brock has left the Right and the American Spectator and is doing some freelance writing. A woman calls him to ask questions about an article he has written for the New Yorker, asking him for notes and additional information about some of the things he has written. The woman was someone that he had never talked to in all his years working in Right wing journalism: a fact checker. While writing for the Washington Times and the American Spectator, he had never talked with one. He earlier in the book related that at neither publication did anyone require the standard two sources that all reputable newspapers and magazines employ. One disreputable and biased source that was not checked for believability was a more than adequate basis for running a story, as long as it was damaging or embarrassing for the opposite side.<br />The book is yet more evidence that the confirmation of Clarence Thomas to the US Supreme Court is one of the most shameful incidents in recent American history. Ted Olson, the current solicitor general, who was narrowly and controversially confirmed just before Jeffords leaving the GOP and giving the Democrats a majority in the Senate, also comes across very, very badly in this book. And as in all books on the Right's political activity in the past twenty years, the presence of Richard Mellon Scaife is felt everywhere. The more I read about Scaife and the enormous fortune he has expended in bankrolling some of the more nefarious activities by the Far Right in the past few decades, the more I wish that someone would write an exhaustive biography about him. No one should wield that much influence on the American political process without being very well known by the public at large. The book also provides yet more confirmation of something that has by this point been proven pretty much beyond question, that there was indeed a conspiracy on the Right to undermine the presidency and the Clintons. Brock's only quibble is with using the word \\"vast\\" to qualify it.the Right and the American Spectator and is doing some freelance writing. A woman calls him to ask questions about an article he has written for the New Yorker, asking him for notes and additional information about some of the things he has written. The woman was someone that he had never talked to in all his years working in Right wing journalism: a fact checker. While writing for the Washington Times and the American Spectator, he had never talked with one. He earlier in the book related that at neither publication did anyone require the standard two sources that all reputable newspapers and magazines employ. One disreputable and biased source that was not checked for believability was a more than adequate basis for running a story, as long as it was damaging or embarrassing for the opposite side.<br />The book is yet more evidence that the confirmation of Clarence Thomas to the US Supreme Court is one of the most shameful incidents in recent American history. Ted Olson, the current solicitor general, who was narrowly and controversially confirmed just before Jeffords leaving the GOP and giving the Democrats a majority in the Senate, also comes across very, very badly in this book. And as in all books on the Right's political activity in the past twenty years, the presence of Richard Mellon Scaife is felt everywhere. The more I read about Scaife and the enormous fortune he has expended in bankrolling some of the more nefarious activities by the Far Right in the past few decades, the more I wish that someone would write an exhaustive biography about him. No one should wield that much influence on the American political process without being very well known by the public at large. The book also provides yet more confirmation of something that has by this point been proven pretty much beyond question, that there was indeed a conspiracy on the Right to undermine the presidency and the Clintons. Brock's only quibble is with using the word \\"vast\\" to qualify it.	2002-03-09
1626131:US	52048190	R1SIZOLFFAJEIT	0192880330	827391917	Three Men in a Boat / Three Men on the Bummel (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	An enduring comic masterpieces	There are very, very few laugh-out-loud literary classics, but this is one of them.  I speak of THREE MEN IN A BOAT.  The sequel is not unreadable, but it is a considerable disappointment after the glorious earlier novel.<br />The great thing about THREE MEN IN A BOAT is that after you have read it, you can go back to your favorite parts and reread them whenever you feel like it.  Or read any part at all.  The plot really isn't very important.  The narrative voice is all.  And everyone is going to have their favorite lines.  Mine could well be when the narrator remarks, &quot;I am fascinated by work.  I could sit and watch it all day.&quot;  But the narrative tone is so perfect, that one derives enormous entertainment from the book even when nothing especially funny is being said at all.<br />So, read this volume for the earlier novel, but if you enjoy the second, all the better.	2002-03-09
1628237:US	52048190	R23IMASPWU2F9K	0140423486	974358264	Complete English Poems, The (Herbert, George) (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	47	50	N	N	Among the greatest religious poetry ever penned	Over the centuries, there has been a great deal of Christian poetry written by a broad range of poets, but only a tiny handful of that can stand comparison with the very best nonreligious poetry.  The later poetry of John Donne, Milton, Dante, some of the early American Puritan poets, and the poems of Gerard Manley Hopkins does not quite exhaust the list, but it consumes most of it.  And, of course, George Herbert stands at the head of any such list.  Of all these poets, Herbert is probably my favorite as a religious poet.  By that, I mean someone who is religiously satisfying while at the same time writing exquisite poetry.  There is simplicity of expression in Herbert that is missing in Donne, and a personal piety that I do not find in Milton, whose poetry, while unquestionably religious in spirit, is somewhat spiritually dry.  One wouldn't read Milton to inspire piety.  Hopkins is brilliant, but I find myself focusing on his over alliteration.<br />George Herbert was one of those either fortunate or unfortunate younger sons of a landed family who was forced to enter the Church because the family title passed onto his older brother.  That brother, very nearly as well known as his younger brother for his own writings, Lord Herbert of Cherbury, was the author of several books, including what could be regarded as the first history of comparative religion written in England.  The religions compared were not, however, Christianity, Judaism, Islam with Buddhism and Hinduism or with so-called primitive religion, but with Greek, Roman, Jewish, and Christian religions.<br />This is an excellent edition of Herbert's poetry, but one should note the title carefully.  Herbert, in fact, wrote a fair amount of poetry in Latin.  That unfortunately, is not included either in original form or in English translation.	2002-03-07
1633397:US	52048190	R3FH3I78JYTB1T	0060915412	167897159	Teaching a Stone to Talk: Expeditions and Encounters	Books	5	121	124	N	N	Contains some of her finest essays	I remember a paradoxical statement about the Bible that I heard attributed to Karl Barth:  &quot;The Bible is not the word of God, but it contains the word of God.&quot;  Well, TEACHING A STONE TO TALK is not Annie Dillard's finest book (that distinction belongs to either PILGRIM AT TINKERS CREEK or AN AMERICAN CHILDHOOD), but it contains her best work, i.e., some essays that are as good as anything that she has ever written.  Almost inevitably, as in most collections, some of the essays aren't nearly as strong as the best, but the good ones make this slender volume essential reading for any fan of Ms. Dillard.<br />My personal favorite among the fourteen comprising this book is also the longest, &quot;An Expedition to the Pole.&quot;  I consider myself to be a deeply religious person, but I also find church services to be almost unbearable (much like one of my literary heroes, Samuel Johnson).  In this essay, Dillard contrasts her experiences in an utterly dreadful church service with many of the attempts in the nineteenth century to mount expeditions to reach the North Pole.  The attempts of those adventurers are simultaneously tragic and laughable, in that their goal was so vastly beyond their means.  The implication is that the same is true in worship:  we attempt to worship god, but our efforts are clumsy and fall far short of the mark.  There is nobility in both, and certainly Dillard doesn't want to imply that worship is futile.  But the parallels are there.  It is a brilliant essay.	2002-03-04
1634266:US	52048190	R2IL67FTD1TPT1	0061090670	766481210	Stanwyck: A Biography	Books	3	72	78	N	N	Neither a very good nor a very bad book	People are reacting pretty strongly in their reviews of this book, I suspect primarily because of the claims that Madsen makes about Stanwyck's sexuality.  But the fact is that while this isn't a terribly good book, it is also not a truly horrible one, either.  If one wants a basic, serviceable biography of Stanwyck, which lays out the main facts and events in her life, this one will do.<br />The virtue of the book is that is it fairly thorough and comprehensive.  One gets a feel for her life, for the way she viewed both herself and the world, and for some of the dynamics in her relationships.  A portrait emerges of a woman who was both very admirable and quite disappointing.  One admires her drive and enormous professionalism as an actress, and is impressed by how giving and helpful she was to her fellow professionals.  Away from her vocation as an actress, however, Stanwyck emerges as someone less than admirable.  Other accounts of her life have emphasized her difficulty with intimate relationships, her failure as a mother (not quite \\"Mommie Dearest\\" but definitely not a role model), and her lamentable political commitments.  Although not the political activist that her husband Robert Taylor or his friends John Wayne and Ronald Reagan were, she nonetheless was pretty much part and parcel of the Hollywood Anticommunist movement that ruined so many people's lives in the 1940s and 1950s.<br />On the negative side, Madsen's prose is drab at best.  Madsen seems to be the essence of the \\"professional\\" writer, who lives by writing a certain number of pages in a certain amount of time.  There is a workmanlike dullness to his pages, and multiple signs of minimal rewriting, such as almost verbatim repetition of passages and restatement of quotes.  Constant repetition is a prime mark of sloppy writing and inattention in the final editing.<br />But I suspect that most people will hate or love this book based on its portrayal of sexuality.  I am an utterly nonhomophobic, and really couldn't care less what someone's sexuality is.  Some of my greatest personal heroes were gay, such as Ludwig Wittgenstein, Marcel Proust, and Cole Porter, and some of my favorite Hollywood actors and directors were gay or bi.  I have three general statements to make about this issue in regard to this book.<br />First, I speculate that Mr. Madsen is himself gay and sees it as his job as a gay writer to \\"out\\" a famous individual who was gay but is not popularly perceived as being gay.  I assume he is gay partly because of his constant reference to individuals as being gay when the issue of their sexuality is utterly irrelevant.  Thus, he might mention that Barbara knew a certain individual, a \\"gay\\" producer.  Not a \\"producer,\\" but a \\"gay producer,\\" though his being homo, bi, pan, or asexual is without the tiniest bit of relevance.  But part of the assumption of the outing movement is that if all of us--straight and gay--realize how many people are gay, our attitudes towards homosexuality will change.  I can't argue this point at length, but I find \\"outing\\" to be reprehensible, especially when evidence is minimal.  I also assume that he is gay because bi sexuality has featured as a dominant issue in some of his other books.  It is unquestionably an issue that preoccupies him.<br />Second, though Madsen alludes to Stanwyck's bisexuality, he doesn't really adduce any actual evidence of this.  Much of his \\"evidence\\" seems to be based on the perception by many lesbians that she was \\"one of us.\\"  There are also multiple references to a possible lesbian relationship with her publicist, but when looks closely, this appears to be more speculation than fact.  Although it has long been held that Robert Taylor, Barbara's husband, was at least bi and perhaps gay, the evidence for Barbara seems to be pretty weak, at least as presented by Madsen.  And glancing through the pages of Madsen's THE SEWING CIRCLE, which discusses love relationships among women in the thirties and forties, I didn't find anything much more convincing that was contained in these pages.<br />Third, to those who are so terribly offended by suggestions that Barbara Stanwyck might have been a lesbian or bisexual, I have to say:  haven't we gotten past stuff like this yet?  To be blunt, who cares if someone is gay or bi?  Is THE ADVENTURES OF ROBIN HOOD less enjoyable because Errol Flynn was unquestionably bisexual?  Although Madsen's evidence isn't very convincing or substantial, if it were, it wouldn't really matter all that much.<br />In the end, Madsen's biography is disappointing as much because it is flatly written than because he successfully or unsuccessfully uncovers Stanwyck's sexual secrets.  But the book also fails because he is never able to help us get a sense of the immense excitement that Barbara Stanwyck generated in dozens of films in a long film career.  Dislike this book if you must, but please dislike it for the correct reasons.nd forties, I didn't find anything much more convincing that was contained in these pages.<br />Third, to those who are so terribly offended by suggestions that Barbara Stanwyck might have been a lesbian or bisexual, I have to say:  haven't we gotten past stuff like this yet?  To be blunt, who cares if someone is gay or bi?  Is THE ADVENTURES OF ROBIN HOOD less enjoyable because Errol Flynn was unquestionably bisexual?  Although Madsen's evidence isn't very convincing or substantial, if it were, it wouldn't really matter all that much.<br />In the end, Madsen's biography is disappointing as much because it is flatly written than because he successfully or unsuccessfully uncovers Stanwyck's sexual secrets.  But the book also fails because he is never able to help us get a sense of the immense excitement that Barbara Stanwyck generated in dozens of films in a long film career.  Dislike this book if you must, but please dislike it for the correct reasons.	2002-03-03
1634729:US	52048190	R3NR6NRJA5O427	0374515883	841928199	Lamy of Santa Fe	Books	5	37	38	N	N	A classic biography from the American West	Apart from Paul Horgan fans, probably most people coming to this book will be doing so to learn more about the real life archbishop who inspired Willa Cather's great novel DEATH COMES FOR THE ARCHBISHOP.  And just as Cather's novel concerns the friendship and work of two major characters--Archbishop Jean Latour and his vicar Father Joseph Vaillant--so Horgan's biography necessarily tells the story not only of Juan Bautista Lamy but also Joseph Machebeuf.<br />Horgan's biography succeeds magnificently in two ways.  First, for those who will be coming to the book from reading Cather, one will find vastly greater depth and detail than was possible in that novel.  So, the book is a boon for Cather fans.  Second, even if one has not read Cather, the book tells a magnificent story of a truly heroic man and his closest friend.  Their story is also the story of the West as a whole, and Santa Fe in particular.<br />There are biographies that record the rote facts about an individual, and unfortunately most fall into this category.  And the there are biographies that almost manage to bring you into contact and introduce you to someone you have never met.  Lamy emerges almost as someone you know, instead of someone you merely know things about.<br />I heartily recommend this book to anyone interested in either history of the American West or in Willa Cather's great novel.  Although I am not myself Roman Catholic, it would probably also be enjoyed by those whose main interest is in Church History.  It is a tragedy that this book is not currently in print.  With so many much weaker and less interesting biographies available, it is unfortunate that many of the truly excellent ones are not.	2002-03-02
1634926:US	52048190	R1Y8VIX5PIY17L	0226511626	526274501	The Big Tomorrow: Hollywood and the Politics of the American Way	Books	5	10	11	N	N	One of the finest film studies of recent years	This is one of those books that is difficult to over praise.  Over and over while reading this book, May helped me gain new insight into aspects of Hollywood cinema from the thirties, forties, and fifties, and continually suggested to me new areas of research to undertake.  In the long run, I believe that his book is going to have a profound effect on the way that I view movies from those decades.<br />Before I move on to the considerable praise I want to heap on this book, let me dwell briefly on a couple of negatives.  I think this book has a much broader appeal than the author might believe.  The book takes an essentially popular subject, and couches it in an overly academic style.  As someone with a strong graduate school background (albeit in philosopher rather than cultural studies), I managed to always make sense of his argument, but sometimes only with difficulty.  There was also a too-heavy reliance on statistical data for my taste.  Clearly he feels that the data gives greater force to and to a degree validates many of his arguments.  But I feel that it also caused the book to drag at points.<br />But overall, this book is a stunner.  The thesis of the book is a complex one, and any attempt to state it briefly will distort it to a degree.  I will try to minimize my distortion.  May begins by arguing that there was a radical shift in social and political outlook in Hollywood in the 1940s.  The effort in Hollywood to eliminate political dissent and to promulgate a monolithic vision of America is well known.  May argues that this was a break with the legacy of the thirties, in which the Hollywood talking film had developed as a mode of expressing an egalitarian, anticapitalist, and multicultural affirmation of the New Deal.  Thirties films were highly critical of big business, with representatives of big business frequently appearing as villains in films.  As America entered WW II, however, and began to unify in order to oppose first Hitler and Japan and then the Red Menace, movies reflected a different order, which was nonegalitarian, pro-big business (with big business disappearing as a villain in films), and nondissenting.<br />May attempts to tell this story in several ways.  His brilliant first chapter dwells at length on the movie career of Will Rogers, who articulated a vision of America that varied greatly from the Anglo-Saxon dream that looked to Europe for models of success and social ordering.  As May quotes on several occasions, in response to the New England social elite, Rogers, who identified with his Cherokee heritage, wrote, \\"My ancestors didn't come over on the Mayflower--they met the boat.\\"  The second chapter of the book continues this to display many example of multicultural republicanism that permeated 1930s filmmaking.  He then proceeds, in perhaps my favorite chapter in the book, to demonstrate how this egalitarian vision of America profoundly influenced American movie theater design.  Rejecting the theater palaces that dominated 1920s theater design and which represented an affirmation of the social layering of the European model--with different prices of admission for various areas and separate entrances--American designers moved to a conception where all viewers paid a uniform price and seating was not restricted, with all viewers entering through the same entrance.<br />The second half of the book deals with the undermining of the egalitarianism of the thirties by a new vision of Americanism in the forties.  The first of two chapters devoted to this displays this by articulating the vision of a white consumer culture, where individuals look for freedom in a private realm emphasizing family and material comfort.  The second chapter deals with the politics in Hollywood to help eliminate all those who dissented from this vision or who had a political history that did not conform to this vision.  These were painful chapters to read, with the ruthless suppression of political dissent.  May deals in some degree with the history of the Screen Actors Guild (SAG), which in the 1930s strongly affirmed the ideals of the New Deal and egalitarian ideals.  In particular, the career of the first appointed president of the SAG (in the 1930s, the president of the SAG was elected by the membership), Ronald Reagan (i.e., he was not elected by the membership at all) is dealt with at length.  May ends his book with a discussion of film noir and its attempt to express dissent from the accepted and sanctioned cultural norm.<br />Anyone interested in cultural studies, the political climate and culture of the US in the thirties and forties, or the history of Hollywood should read this book.  Easily one of the more compelling books I have read on film in the past two or three years.eals in some degree with the history of the Screen Actors Guild (SAG), which in the 1930s strongly affirmed the ideals of the New Deal and egalitarian ideals.  In particular, the career of the first appointed president of the SAG (in the 1930s, the president of the SAG was elected by the membership), Ronald Reagan (i.e., he was not elected by the membership at all) is dealt with at length.  May ends his book with a discussion of film noir and its attempt to express dissent from the accepted and sanctioned cultural norm.<br />Anyone interested in cultural studies, the political climate and culture of the US in the thirties and forties, or the history of Hollywood should read this book.  Easily one of the more compelling books I have read on film in the past two or three years.	2002-03-02
1643164:US	52048190	R3OTVMNONJT0YI	055321263X	115882645	The Woman in White (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Great novel, and great, great villain	THE WOMAN IN WHITE is one of those books that wants to make a deal with you. If you can, as Coleridge put it, temporarily suspend your disbelief about the difficulty of such elements as two women who are virtually identical to one another in appearance, on the astonishing proliferation of sheer coincidence, and the improbability that someone could not prove to others that they are who they say that they are, this book will provide you with some of the most exciting moments in all of literature. Yeah, much of it is absurdly farfetched. But I know of very, very few novels that have left me as breathless as this one. There were several moments that left me entirely unable to put it down.<br />The novel also contains one of the greatest villains in the history of literature. In fact, I cannot think of a more delightful villain in English literature than the outrageous Count Fosco. There are very, very many reasons to read this novel, but even if all the others were not to exist, this novel would bear reading just to become acquainted with Count Fosco. Brilliant, obese, larger-than-life, sentimental, eloquent, arrogant, conceited, eloquent, and heartless, Count Fosco is grand in the way that a James Bond villain is grand. Interestingly, as I read the novel for the first time, Fosco kept putting me in mind of another great fat villain in literature and movies: Kasper Gutman of THE MALTESE FALCON. Imagine my delight when I learned that there was a 1948 film version of THE WOMAN IN WHITE, and that Sydney Greenstreet, the same person who portrayed Kasper Gutman in THE MALTESE FALCON, played the role of Count Fosco. I'm not sure he possesses the physical grace attributed to Fosco, but he definitely has the eloquence and charisma.<br />If you haven't read this book, please do yourself a favor and do so. Only . . . make sure you have plenty of time and that you don't have to be interrupted. There are times when you won't want to stop.	2002-02-24
1645454:US	52048190	R3RI4MA01CQO7D	0192834770	283328506	The Secret Agent: A Simple Tale (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Powerful and despairing	I must admit to having a love-hate relationship with Conrad. His novels possess an undeniable power, and I have read each of his novels with the utmost fascination. Yet, I can't say that actually reading a Conrad novel is an enjoyable experience. His vision of the world is a tad too bleak, his confidence in human nature way too despairing, and the overall atmosphere way too gloomy for me to derive pleasure from reading Conrad.<br />Although not set in one of the exotic locales which we associate with Conrad, THE SECRET AGENT is both one of his finest and one of his most typical novel, with one exception. In most of his books, the plot revolves around situations which inevitably lead to tragedy and disaster, but in which a central character is often able to somewhat redeem his life by an act or acts of personal heroism. The feel is usually quite similar to that of Norse mythology, in which Gods and men will struggle at the end of the world against the forces of evil, but will lose. The challenge is to oppose the evil heroically. But in THE SECRET AGENT, the central character is anything but heroic, and is in no truly important way opposed to the powers of evil.<br />I have to admit to being perplexed by claims that Conrad was a great prose stylist. I will confess that I find that with his prose, the sum is greater than its parts. If you examine his sentences, he is without question, along with Theodore Dreiser, perhaps the worst constructor of sentences in the English language. Perhaps having learned English only after reaching adulthood is to blame. Many of his sentences are grammatically opaque. Frequently his sentences are incomplete or badly constructed. Almost never does Conrad seem to sense the rhythm of the language. Perhaps this lack of rhythm is what many mistake for a great prose style. I have spent a fair amount of time in the secondary literature on Conrad, and so far I have yet to find a single Conrad scholar who felt that he possessed a command of the English language. The consensus seems to be that he is a great writer despite his struggle with the English language, not because of any mastery he possesses over it.<br />Overall, I hold this to be one of Conrad's most important novels, on a par with UNDER WESTERN EYES, HEART OF DARKNESS, VICTORY, and NOSTROMO.<br />Ironically, Alfred Hitchcock filmed a version of THE SECRET AGENT, but it was not the movie with the same name. Hitchcock's THE SECRET AGENT was actually based on Maugham's Ashenden stories (which Maugham says were based upon his own experiences as a secret agent; he claims to have been one of the more inept agents in history). Hitchcock's version of the Conrad novel was SABOTAGE.  Hitchcock changed many of the details, and his religious beliefs never allowed him to engage in the despair one finds in Conrad (Hitchcock was a devout Catholic).  Although his version resembles Conrad, it isn't a very faithful adaptation either in plot or in spirit.nglish language. The consensus seems to be that he is a great writer despite his struggle with the English language, not because of any mastery he possesses over it.<br />Overall, I hold this to be one of Conrad's most important novels, on a par with UNDER WESTERN EYES, HEART OF DARKNESS, VICTORY, and NOSTROMO.<br />Ironically, Alfred Hitchcock filmed a version of THE SECRET AGENT, but it was not the movie with the same name. Hitchcock's THE SECRET AGENT was actually based on Maugham's Ashenden stories (which Maugham says were based upon his own experiences as a secret agent; he claims to have been one of the more inept agents in history). Hitchcock's version of the Conrad novel was SABOTAGE.  Hitchcock changed many of the details, and his religious beliefs never allowed him to engage in the despair one finds in Conrad (Hitchcock was a devout Catholic).  Although his version resembles Conrad, it isn't a very faithful adaptation either in plot or in spirit.	2002-02-22
1673188:US	52048190	R22HA37LTQLC50	0156091801	985474284	ASPECTS OF THE NOVEL	Books	5	86	87	N	N	Marvelous thugh loosely structured reflections on the novel	Though Forster structures his essays around such fundamental novelistic elements as plot, character, and language, this is a rather loosely constructed and free ranging discussion of the literary form that has come in the past two hundred years to dominate the Western world's literary preoccupations.  It is not systematic, nor is it comprehensive.  Its tone is more personal and impressionistic.  Fortunately, Forster has a large number of tremendously perceptions about the novel and novelists, and because he couches these reflections in frequently brilliant sentences, this book makes for reading that is both insightful and delightful.  It is also an intensely personal book, so that we gain a great deal of insight into Forster's tastes and quirks.<br />Nearly every chapter in this book has something to offer the reader, but I have found his discussion of the difference between flat and round characters to be especially useful in reading other novels.  In Forster's view, a round character is one that can develop and change over the course of a novel's story.  They adjust, grow, and react to events and people around them.  They are fuller, and therefore more lifelike.  A flat character, on the other hand, is essentially the same character at the end of the tale as at the beginning.  They do not grow, do not alter with time, do no admit of development.  Flat characters are not necessarily bad characters.  As Forster points out, correctly, I think, nearly all of Charles Dickens's characters are flat characters.  Not even major characters such as David Copperfield change during the course of their history.<br />I have found this distinction to be quite helpful in reading the work of various novelists.  Some authors have almost nothing but round characters.  Anthony Trollope is a premier example of this.  All of his characters develop and change and are effected by events around them.  Some authors have a mix of flat and round characters, like Jane Austen.  As Forster points out, she is even capable of taking a flat character like Mrs. Bennet, expand her suddenly into a round character, and then collapse her back into a round one.  And her round characters are very, very round indeed.  Compare Elizabeth Bennet or Emma Woodhouse with any character in Dickens, and the difference is obvious.  On the other hand, someone like Hemingway tends to have round male characters and flat female characters, or Iris Murdoch, who has round female characters but flat male characters.<br />The book is filled with marvelous, frequently funny sentences.  &quot;Books have to be read . . . it is the only way of discovering what they contain.&quot;  &quot;Neither of them has much taste:  the world of beauty was largely closed to Dickens, and is entirely closed to Wells.&quot;  &quot;The intensely, stifling human quality of the novel is not to be avoided; the novel is sogged with humanity.&quot;  &quot;The human mind is not a dignified organ, and I do not see how we can exercise it sincerely except through eclecticism.&quot;  And one could go on and on.<br />If one wants a systematic and exhaustive history and discussion of the novel, one ought to turn, perhaps, to another book.  But if one finds a pithy, impressionistic reaction to the form by one of its better 20th century practitioners, one could not do better than this find book.s out, she is even capable of taking a flat character like Mrs. Bennet, expand her suddenly into a round character, and then collapse her back into a round one.  And her round characters are very, very round indeed.  Compare Elizabeth Bennet or Emma Woodhouse with any character in Dickens, and the difference is obvious.  On the other hand, someone like Hemingway tends to have round male characters and flat female characters, or Iris Murdoch, who has round female characters but flat male characters.<br />The book is filled with marvelous, frequently funny sentences.  &quot;Books have to be read . . . it is the only way of discovering what they contain.&quot;  &quot;Neither of them has much taste:  the world of beauty was largely closed to Dickens, and is entirely closed to Wells.&quot;  &quot;The intensely, stifling human quality of the novel is not to be avoided; the novel is sogged with humanity.&quot;  &quot;The human mind is not a dignified organ, and I do not see how we can exercise it sincerely except through eclecticism.&quot;  And one could go on and on.<br />If one wants a systematic and exhaustive history and discussion of the novel, one ought to turn, perhaps, to another book.  But if one finds a pithy, impressionistic reaction to the form by one of its better 20th century practitioners, one could not do better than this find book.	2002-01-30
1676983:US	52048190	R26104XTE86NUJ	0192838458	674232604	An Autobiography of Anthony Trollope Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	32	32	N	N	Precisely the autobiography you would have expected	If one has read a number of Trollope's novels, one would expect that Trollope would have written precisely this sort of autobiography. In fact, it is almost impossible to imagine it having taken any other form.<br />Trollope writes not so much of his life (though he does touch upon the major events), as of his occupation. Although employed most of his adult life by the postal service, Trollope decided to engage in a second and parallel career as a writer. He is forthright about his motives: the satisfaction of writing, but also fame, financial reward, and social standing. Looking back on his career, Trollope is proud of a job well done. The oddity is that he seems quite as happy telling us about how much he sold each work for, and the financial dealings with his publishers, as he does about his books and characters. In fact, near the end of the book he gives a complete list of his novels and how much he managed to sell each one for (with very few exceptions, he preferred to sell the rights to a novel, rather than getting a percentage of sales). What emerges is a portrait of the novelist not as an artist so much as a dedicated, disciplined craftsman. He explicitly denigrates the value of genius and creativity in a novelist in favor of hard work and keeping to a schedule of writing.<br />The early sections of the book dealing with his childhood are fascinating. By all measures, Trollope had a bad childhood. His discussions of his father are full of pathos and sadness. What is especially shocking is the lack of credit he gives to his mother, who, in early middle age, realizing that her husband was a perpetual financial failure, decided to salvage the family's fortunes by becoming a novelist. He notes that while nursing several children dying from consumption, she wrote a huge succession of books, enabling the family to live a greatly improved mode of existence. Her achievement must strike an outside observer as an incredibly heroic undertaking. Trollope seems scarcely impressed.<br />Some of the more interesting parts of the book are his evaluation of the work of many of his contemporaries. History has not agreed completely with all of his assessments. For instance, he rates Thackery as the greatest novelist of his generation, and HENRY ESMOND as the greatest novel in the language. HENRY ESMOND is still somewhat read, but it hardly receives the kind of regard that Trollope heaped on it, and it is certainly not as highly regarded as VANITY FAIR. Trollope's remarks on George Eliot are, however, far closer to general opinion. His remarks concerning Dickens, are, however, bizarre. It is obvious that Trollope really dislikes him, even while grudgingly offering some compliments. Quite perceptively, Trollope remarks that Dickens's famous characters are not lifelike or human (anticipating E. M. Forster's assessment that Dickens's characters are \\"flat\\" rather than \\"round\\" like those of Tolstoy or Austen) and that Dickens's famous pathos is artificial and inhuman (anticipating Oscar Wilde's wonderful witticism that \\"It would take a man with a heart of stone to cry at the death of Little Nell\\"). Even the most avid fan of Dickens would admit that his characters, while enormously vivid and well drawn, are nonetheless a bit cartoonish, and that much of the pathos is a tad over the top. But Trollope goes on to attack Dickens's prose: \\"Of Dickens's style it is impossible to speak in praise. It is jerky, ungrammatical, and created by himself in defiance of rules . . . . To readers who have taught themselves to regard language, it must therefore be unpleasant.\\" If one had not read Dickens, after reading Trollope on Dickens, one would wonder why anyone bothered to read him at all.  One wonders if some of Trollope's problems with Dickens was professional jealousy.  For whatever reason, he clearly believes that Dickens receives far more than his due.<br />Favorite moment: Trollope recounts being in a club working on the novel that turned into THE LAST CHRONICLE OF BARSET, when he overheard two clergymen discussing his novels, unaware that he was sitting near them. One of them complained of the continual reappearance of several characters in the Barsetshire series, in particular Mrs. Proudie. Trollope then introduces himself, apologizes for the reappearing Mrs. Proudie, and promises, \\"I will go home and kill her before the week is over.\\" Which, he says, he proceeded to do.T CHRONICLE OF BARSET, when he overheard two clergymen discussing his novels, unaware that he was sitting near them. One of them complained of the continual reappearance of several characters in the Barsetshire series, in particular Mrs. Proudie. Trollope then introduces himself, apologizes for the reappearing Mrs. Proudie, and promises, \\"I will go home and kill her before the week is over.\\" Which, he says, he proceeded to do.	2002-01-28
1689330:US	52048190	R1ETJLD4FX3F71	0024288101	230395908	Philosophical Investigations (3rd Edition)	Books	5	114	131	N	N	One of the two great philosophical works of the 20th century	The two greatest works of philosophy of the 20th century are, I believe, Wittgenstein's PHILOSOPHICAL INVESTIGATIONS and Heidegger's BEING AND TIME.  The famous distinction between Analytical or Anglo-American Philosophy on the one hand, and European or Continental Philosophy is symbolized by these two books.  I have to confess that I found the Wittgenstein absolutely fascinating, and has become one of the most important books in my life and library.  I have studied the Heidegger, but perhaps because of the extraordinary moral failings in his life (he was a member of the Nazi party from 1933 to 1945, though he apparently was more of a fan of Nazism than Hitler, his great break with Hitler being that he saw the Jewish problem as being an intellectual problem, and not a biological one, i.e., he felt like traditional anti-Semites that Jews need only change their beliefs to be reintegrated into society, while Hitler felt the problem was in their blood, and the only solution was isolation of the Jews or their destruction), or perhaps because of the tortured and obscure mode of writing that he felt he had to use to express his thought, I found the Heidegger to be remote, uninteresting, and inaccessible.  Ultimately, not worth the effort.  But BEING AND TIMES's status as a classic is incontestable.<br />As a grad student in philosophy at Yale and the University of Chicago, I was subject to a growing conviction that most university professors teaching Wittgenstein should, perhaps, not.  The problem is that most American professors teaching Wittgenstein teach him as an extension of Russell, Tarski, and Carnap.  Their background is logic, philosophy of mathematics, and philosophy of science, and their philosophy of language is rooted in logical and scientific issues.  Although Wittgenstein was interested in these issues, there is a definitive amount of information that indicates that while he possessed a knowledge of mathematics, logic, and philosophy of language, his own philosophical background was much, much broader.  His own cultural concerns ran much more broadly than most of these professors.  It is not merely that they have not read Kierkegaard, Tolstoy, Lichtenberg, Karl Kraus, Goethe, or the prayers of Samuel Johnson:  they have no interest in doing so, and little sympathy for these writers, whom Wittgenstein himself found congenial.<br />One is, therefore, in a dilemma with Wittgenstein.  Unless you have taken several courses in philosophy, taking up the PHILOSOPHICAL INVESTIGATIONS can be an almost overwhelming challenge.  Most of the books on Wittgenstein are either weak or very misleading because of a lack of sympathy with his wider interests.<br />For an ordinary individual, perhaps well read, but not especially knowledgeable of the work of philosophers like Russell and Frege and against whom he developed much of his thought, my first recommendation would be not to read the PHILOSOPHICAL INVESTIGATIONS, but to read instead Ray Monk's biography of Wittgenstein.  This is a excellent biography, and does a very good job of acquainting the casual reader with the highlights of both Wittgenstein's thought and life (and his life was a very interesting one indeed, in contrast to Heidegger, whose life, apart from his involvement with Nazism, was pretty uneventful).  I would then recommend that one try reading one of Wittgenstein's other books first.  I believe that either ON CERTAINTY or ZETTEL or CULTURE AND VALUE would be a much easier way into Wittgenstein's work than reading the INVESTIGATIONS.losophical background was much, much broader.  His own cultural concerns ran much more broadly than most of these professors.  It is not merely that they have not read Kierkegaard, Tolstoy, Lichtenberg, Karl Kraus, Goethe, or the prayers of Samuel Johnson:  they have no interest in doing so, and little sympathy for these writers, whom Wittgenstein himself found congenial.<br />One is, therefore, in a dilemma with Wittgenstein.  Unless you have taken several courses in philosophy, taking up the PHILOSOPHICAL INVESTIGATIONS can be an almost overwhelming challenge.  Most of the books on Wittgenstein are either weak or very misleading because of a lack of sympathy with his wider interests.  <br />For an ordinary individual, perhaps well read, but not especially knowledgeable of the work of philosophers like Russell and Frege and against whom he developed much of his thought, my first recommendation would be not to read the PHILOSOPHICAL INVESTIGATIONS, but to read instead Ray Monk's biography of Wittgenstein.  This is a excellent biography, and does a very good job of acquainting the casual reader with the highlights of both Wittgenstein's thought and life (and his life was a very interesting one indeed, in contrast to Heidegger, whose life, apart from his involvement with Nazism, was pretty uneventful).  I would then recommend that one try reading one of Wittgenstein's other books first.  I believe that either ON CERTAINTY or ZETTEL or CULTURE AND VALUE would be a much easier way into Wittgenstein's work than reading the INVESTIGATIONS.	2002-01-18
1704491:US	52048190	R3NL239FNZ8SMM	0195208986	258130216	Phineas Redux (The Palliser Novels)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Extremely satisfactory sequel to PHINEAS FINN	Combined, PHINEAS FINN and PHINEAS REDUX constitute one of the great yarns in Anthony Trollope's large catalog of novels.  As art, they are not masterpieces and do not quite match up against his very best books, but as entertainment, they are unsurpassed.  Together, they are easily as enjoyable as any that Trollope wrote.  All of the major characters of the former novel are back with a vengeance, and a far more satisfying end to the Phineas Finn saga is provided than that provided by the first novel.<br />By all estimations, PHINEAS FINN, while a thoroughly enjoyable novel, ended badly.  So badly, that Trollope felt compelled essentially to delete the ending of the former novel, and provide a new ending in the form of a novel to correct the error of his ways.  In his AUTOBIOGRAPHY, Trollope expresses his extreme dissatisfaction with the ending of that novel.  Happily, he more than atones for his literary sins with the sequel.<br />This novel, like its predecessor, is set against the background of a great political reform.  In the former, it was suffrage (i.e., how many people would be given the right to vote), in this one, the disestablishment of the Church of England (i.e., breaking the tie of mandatory local taxes to support the Anglican Church).  Perhaps for this reason, Phineas Finn's Catholicism, which was not alluded to in the former novel, is made much of.  The same cast of parliamentary characters are brought back for this new controversy.  One curiosity is that sometimes Trollope refers by name to the achievements of members of parliament such as Gladstone, Disraeli, or John Bright.  What is odd about this is the fact that Gresham is pretty transparently based on Gladstone, Daubeny on Disraeli, and Trumbull on John Bright.<br />Far more than the Barsetshire novels, a large number of increasingly familiar characters flit in and out of the various political novels.  The major characters of one novels are found as minor characters in another.  As one works through the novels in the political series, one sees such characters as Glencora Palliser, Joshua Monk, Mr. Rattler, Lord Fawn, Lord and Lady Cantrip, Lizzie Eustace, and a myriad of other characters.  One of my favorite Trollope characters is prominent in PHINEAS REDUX, Madame Max Goesler.  Dark in her features, thin, beautiful, extremely wealthy, widowed, extremely self-possessed, sharply intelligent, efficient, and very much a woman of action, she seems very much to be a woman before her time.  One of the most remarkable things about Trollope, who was in many ways the epitome of the Victorian world, was his obvious love for strong, intelligent, exceptional women.  Although there are many such women in Trollope's novels, Madame Goesler is easily the one I find most compelling.hrough the novels in the political series, one sees such characters as Glencora Palliser, Joshua Monk, Mr. Rattler, Lord Fawn, Lord and Lady Cantrip, Lizzie Eustace, and a myriad of other characters.  One of my favorite Trollope characters is prominent in PHINEAS REDUX, Madame Max Goesler.  Dark in her features, thin, beautiful, extremely wealthy, widowed, extremely self-possessed, sharply intelligent, efficient, and very much a woman of action, she seems very much to be a woman before her time.  One of the most remarkable things about Trollope, who was in many ways the epitome of the Victorian world, was his obvious love for strong, intelligent, exceptional women.  Although there are many such women in Trollope's novels, Madame Goesler is easily the one I find most compelling.	2002-01-07
1732352:US	52048190	RBHOWQIL6CJLX	0140182764	91974521	Father and Son: A Study of Two Temperaments (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	25	26	N	N	A justly celebrated memoir of the Victorian age	Edmund Gosse's FATHER AND SON is legitimately considered one of the highpoints of Victorian autobiography.  As has been noted by others, the book recounts the relationship between Edmund Gosse and his father, a member of the Christian sect generally known as Plymouth Brethren, but who was also a member of the Royal Society and one of the foremost marine biologists of his time.  The narrative tends to break down into a number of definite segments:  the author's birth until the death of his mother; life with his father until the time of the publishing of Darwin's THE ORIGIN OF SPECIES; the move of the Gosses to the coast of England; and young Gosse's schooling and gradual growth away from the religious teachings and expectations he had received from his parents.<br />A number of powerful impressions evolve over the course of the telling.  First and foremost, one is left with an impression of how overwhelmingly Gosse's childhood was stripped of nearly all fun by his parents' puritanical and stern religion.  Gosse's father is presented not as a cruel, vicious, and hypocritical.  Instead, he is shown as a caring parent, a completely earnest practitioner of his religion, but fanatically concerned to eliminate all activities that do not lead to increased religious devotion and moral seriousness.  Unfortunately, this resulted for Gosse in a childhood from which all possibility of play and fun and delight had been eliminated.  Near the end of the book, I was left wondering if Gosse would have been inclined to leave Christianity if he had just had more fun as a kid.<br />The section of the book dealing with his father's reaction to Darwin's ORIGIN OF SPECIES was for me the most interesting part of the book.  His father's scientific standing was such that Darwin actually contacted him before the publication of his theories, and asked his response.  Gosse notes that his father instantly understood that the scientific evidence clearly supported Darwin's theory.  His reading of Genesis, however, indicated to him that the world was created in six days, which precluded the scenario articulated by Darwin.  He therefore concluded that god created the earth in six days, but in so doing implanted fossils and geologic strata into the earth.  In this way, his father was able to explain both the apparent evidence for eons long development of the earth and homo sapiens and yet retain his belief in the belief that Genesis taught a six day literal creation.<br />There are any of a number of reasons to read this work.  It is a classic autobiography, an important source for one response to the reception of Darwin, and a magnificent evocation of puritanical religious life during the Victorian age.  Most of all, it is a disturbing account of the distortive effect that intolerant and narrow-minded religious upbringing can have on an individual.enesis, however, indicated to him that the world was created in six days, which precluded the scenario articulated by Darwin.  He therefore concluded that god created the earth in six days, but in so doing implanted fossils and geologic strata into the earth.  In this way, his father was able to explain both the apparent evidence for eons long development of the earth and homo sapiens and yet retain his belief in the belief that Genesis taught a six day literal creation.<br />There are any of a number of reasons to read this work.  It is a classic autobiography, an important source for one response to the reception of Darwin, and a magnificent evocation of puritanical religious life during the Victorian age.  Most of all, it is a disturbing account of the distortive effect that intolerant and narrow-minded religious upbringing can have on an individual.	2001-12-14
1734380:US	52048190	R19GGCO0YHKJ06	0192834320	602714996	Barchester Towers (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	230	238	N	Y	A great volume in a great series of novels	This is the second of the six Barsetshire novels, and the first great novel in that series.  THE WARDEN, while pleasant, primarily serves as a prequel to this novel.  To be honest, if Trollope had not gone on to write BARCHESTER TOWERS, there would not be any real reason to read THE WARDEN.  But because it introduces us to characters and situations that are crucial to BARCHESTER TOWERS, one really ought to have read THE WARDEN before reading this novel.<br />Trollope presents a dilemma for most readers.  On the one hand, he wrote an enormous number of very good novels.  On the other hand, he wrote no masterpieces.  None of Trollope's books can stand comparison with the best work of Jane Austen, Flaubert, Dickens, George Eliot, Tolstoy, or Dostoevsky.  On the other hand, none of those writers wrote anywhere near as many excellent as Trollope did. He may not have been a very great writer, but he was a very good one, and perhaps the most prolific good novelist who ever lived.  Conservatively assessing his output, Trollope wrote at least 20 good novels.  Trollope may not have been a genius, but he did possess a genius for consistency.<br />So, what to read?  Trollope's wrote two very good series, two other novels that could be considered minor classics, and several other first rate novels.  I recommend to friends that they try the Barsetshire novels, and then, if they find themselves hooked, to go on to read the Political series of novels (sometimes called the Palliser novels, which I feel uncomfortable with, since it exaggerates the role of that family in most of the novels).  The two &quot;minor classics&quot; are THE WAY WE LIVE NOW and HE KNEW HE WAS RIGHT.  The former is a marvelous portrait of Victorian social life, and the latter is perhaps the finest study of human jealousy since Shakespeare's OTHELLO.  BARSETSHIRE TOWERS is, therefore, coupled with THE WARDEN, a magnificent place, and perhaps the best place to enter Trollope's world.<br />There are many, many reasons to read Trollope.  He probably is the great spokesperson for the Victorian Mind.  Like most Victorians, he is a bit parochial, with no interest in Europe, and very little interest in the rest of the world.  Despite THE AMERICAN SENATOR, he has few American's or colonials in his novels, and close to no foreigners of any type.  He is politically liberal in a conservative way, and is focussed almost exclusively on the upper middle class and gentry.  He writes a good deal about young men and women needing and hoping to marry, but with a far more complex approach than we find in Jane Austen.  His characters are often compelling, with very human problems, subject to morally complex situations that we would not find unfamiliar.  Trollope is especially good with female characters, and in his sympathy for and liking of very independent, strong females he is somewhat an exception of the Victorian stereotype.<br />Anyone wanting to read Trollope, and I heartily believe that anyone who loves Dickens, Austen, Eliot, Hardy, and Thackery will want to, could find no better place to start than with reading the first two books in the Barsetshire Chronicles, beginning first with the rather short THE WARDEN and then progressing to this very, very fun and enjoyable novel.reasons to read Trollope.  He probably is the great spokesperson for the Victorian Mind.  Like most Victorians, he is a bit parochial, with no interest in Europe, and very little interest in the rest of the world.  Despite THE AMERICAN SENATOR, he has few American's or colonials in his novels, and close to no foreigners of any type.  He is politically liberal in a conservative way, and is focussed almost exclusively on the upper middle class and gentry.  He writes a good deal about young men and women needing and hoping to marry, but with a far more complex approach than we find in Jane Austen.  His characters are often compelling, with very human problems, subject to morally complex situations that we would not find unfamiliar.  Trollope is especially good with female characters, and in his sympathy for and liking of very independent, strong females he is somewhat an exception of the Victorian stereotype.<br />Anyone wanting to read Trollope, and I heartily believe that anyone who loves Dickens, Austen, Eliot, Hardy, and Thackery will want to, could find no better place to start than with reading the first two books in the Barsetshire Chronicles, beginning first with the rather short THE WARDEN and then progressing to this very, very fun and enjoyable novel.	2001-12-13
1737202:US	52048190	R38JVG0LGCLPAL	0192815873	258130216	Phineas Finn: The Irish Member	Books	5	38	39	N	N	More great stuff by an underrated Victorian novelist	PHINEAS FINN is a book of many virtues and one unfortunate flaw.  The flaw lies in the ending, of which I can say nothing here without giving away a bit of the plot.  Let me just say that the ending is a bit of a &quot;tack on.&quot;  Trollope himself confessed in his AUTOBIOGRAPHY that he botched the ending, and explains that when he decided to write a second novel starring Phineas Finn, he awkwardly had to correct the mistakes he made in the ending of the previous book.<br />The virtues of the book lie in part in its presentation of the social complexities of the British upper class in 1860s.  While a political history of the period could explain the various ins and outs of the major pieces of legislation dealt with at the time, Trollope shows us how many individuals at the time actually felt about these issues from the inside.  In this way, Trollope performs a service that no historian ever could.  Virtually all the major political figures of the time, from Gladstone to Disraeli appear under thinly veiled aliases.<br />But the true heart of the book is Trollope's great characters.  I absolutely love Jane Austen.  She is one of my two or three favorite writers.  But sometimes I find the enormous propriety of her characters to be a tad tiring.  In these way her characters, as magnificent as they otherwise might be, sometimes seem a little less than fully human.  Trollope's characters, on the other hand, often fail to act with complete propriety.  They do improper things, and feel improper emotions.  Our hero falls in love with one woman, then another, feels attraction to another, and falls in love with yet another, and in general fails in his role as a great romantic hero.  A woman marries someone she doesn't love, yet retains feelings for another, and suffers from the threat of a bad marriage.  Another woman is attracted to two men, and must decide which.  Two close friends love the same woman.  I find all this emotional complexity to be extremely compelling.<br />Trollope's most compelling and interesting characters are nearly all female.  In the book, Lord Chiltern seems cardboardish and unbelievable, the title character likable but not terribly vivid.  But whenever Lady Laura, or Madame Goesler, or Violet Effingham take the stage, the novel comes to life.  This is not unique to this novel.  In nearly all his books, Trollope's most compelling characters are female.<br />If we could give half stars, I would give this one four and a half stars because of the weak ending.  But I will stick with five rather than four, partly because the rest of the book easily makes up for the weakish ending, and one can view the excellent PHINEAS REDUX as the real ending of the novel.  Either way, I heartily recommend the novel.br />Trollope's most compelling and interesting characters are nearly all female.  In the book, Lord Chiltern seems cardboardish and unbelievable, the title character likable but not terribly vivid.  But whenever Lady Laura, or Madame Goesler, or Violet Effingham take the stage, the novel comes to life.  This is not unique to this novel.  In nearly all his books, Trollope's most compelling characters are female. <br />If we could give half stars, I would give this one four and a half stars because of the weak ending.  But I will stick with five rather than four, partly because the rest of the book easily makes up for the weakish ending, and one can view the excellent PHINEAS REDUX as the real ending of the novel.  Either way, I heartily recommend the novel.	2001-12-11
1775086:US	52048190	R3O72480UG0OEH	0553572997	501395694	The Alienist	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Just a great historical crime novel	Although I am a huge fan of The Big Three of American hardboiled detective fiction (Hammett, Chandler, and Ross MacDonald),  I am not an avid fan of detective fiction as a whole, I found this to be an utterly first rate book on several levels.<br />On one level, it is a just a very fine crime novel. The crimes are disturbing and vivid, their investigation and resolution plausible and engaging, and the impediments put in the way of the solving of the mystery completely satisfying.<br />On another level, this is a very fine historical novel. Carr has a keen sense of the New York in the 1890s, and does a magnificent job of bringing the reader into a world that really no longer exists. The buildings, the restaurants, personalities, and the city itself are rendered vividly and convincingly. Although I enjoyed the mystery, I believe that I enjoyed the historical aspects of the book even more.	2001-11-11
1775396:US	52048190	R395WMC70OYE9G	0312852533	422936499	The Humanoids: A Novel	Books	4	21	26	N	N	Phenomenal premise marred by somewhat weak ending	THE HUMANOIDS is one of the unquestionable classics of the science fiction genre, and arguably the most important novel ever written about robots.  The core idea of ultra sleek robots who arrive on a planet &quot;to serve and protect&quot; the planets inhabitants to the most logical extreme of that directive was brilliant and extraordinarily innovative when the book was published in the late 1940s.  As such, absolutely no one even remotely interested in science fiction can afford not to read this great novel.<br />Unfortunately, aside from the core concept and several excellent characters, including the marvelously conceived humanoids themselves, I found a few elements in this story to be somewhat disagreeable.  Others may not find them so, but I did, and they somewhat marred my enjoyment of the novel.  First, the main character of the novel was, to me, was an unpleasant individual.  Now, it is entirely correct that it is important to the novel's plot that he not be especially likable.  Nonetheless, he was a somewhat unpleasant character, and spending time with him even on a fictional level was not as much fun as one might like.  I also was unhappy with the way the romantic elements in the novel developed.  They struck me as quite implausible.  Finally, I very much did not like the ending of the novel.  Unfortunately, I cannot here go into my reasons without giving away too much of the plot.  Suffice it to say that I am not certain that I would want to live in the world that the novel apparently endorses in its ending.<br />I will add that one character is one of my favorites in all of sci-fi, the wonderfully eccentric, amazing enigmatic Underhill.  Williamson does a great job in Underhill of producing a character who is simultaneously marvelously innocent and suspiciously sinister at the same time.  After I finished the book, his character remained far more vivid in my memory than any of the others.	2001-11-11
1775556:US	52048190	R395TKLUAG9378	0316776963	491689172	Me Talk Pretty One Day	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Hysterical AND My First Experience with an Audiobook!	This is a review of the CD audio book version of ME TALK PRETTY ONE DAY. I want to say from the start that if you have the choice of reading the printed book or listening to a recording of it, I would strongly recommend the audio book version. I know hundreds of thousands of people have listened to books on tape or CD, but this was a first for me. And I can't imagine a better book to start off with. While I enjoy reading Sedaris on page, he is the perfect reader of his own stories. I wouldn't want to listen to him read Jane Austen or Tolstoy, but I also wouldn't want to hear anyone else read these stories.<br />Sound wise, the recordings are overall good. Several of the recordings are of live performances in front of crowds, and in many ways, these are the more enjoyable. I found myself getting more involved in the stories as the crowds did. However, in reading live, Sedaris sometimes sounds a bit strained and thin in his voice. Several of the stories were recorded in studios, and while his voice is much lower and less strained, the performances don't have quite the same degree of vitality as the live performances. I also found the music that accompanied some of the studio recordings to be a bit distracting.<br />As far as the stories themselves go, while a few of the stories come from the periods of his life that his readers have come to know from previous books, most of them come from adulthood, and even from his period of success as an author. Probably half of the stories come from the time he has spent living in France, apparently struggling against the limits of his own French (the title comes from a literal English translation of a statement he makes in a French class about his goals with that language). Whether one prefers this book to NAKED hangs upon nothing but one's own personality. I prefer NAKED, but prefer hearing Sedaris reading his work to reading it myself. I think the main thing is that the work is consistently good through all the books.<br />So, whether you read this yourself or listen to David read it to you, I heartily recommend this book.whether you read this yourself or listen to David read it to you, I heartily recommend this book.	2001-11-11
1775568:US	52048190	RIFJAGVDAW8ZX	1573227331	602052020	About a Boy	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Extremely delightful mind candy	OK, if I were grading this against Kafka or Dostoevsky, it probably wouldn't get that good of a grade.  But it is light fiction, and as such, it is a delightful and fun book.  I had previously read HIGH FIDELITY, which I like a great deal more, but I enjoyed this one enough to guarantee that I will read other Hornby books in the future.<br />The plot was surprising.  From reading the cover, one might expect a comedy of misadventures among single mothers, and while in a way that does indeed transpire, that is definitely not the focus of the book.  The book is, literally, about a boy, and his interesting and moving friendship with a previously superficial adult male.  Much of the interest in the book lies in the fact that it ends up being about friendship and relationships, and not especially about sexual relationships.  Although the adult of the book does indeed engage in sexual relationships, the most interesting ones in the book are those that are decidedly not.<br />I definitely recommend this book.  It is not great literature.  But it is a fun read.<br />By the way, I noticed on IMDB that there is a forthcoming movie version of the book.  Hugh Grant will play the adult lead.  Rachel Weisz is in the cast, though I suspect she will play Will's love interest near the end of the book, and not Marcus's mother.  Grant is a tad too old for the part (early forties, while Will is 36), but he should bring the right touch to the role.	2001-11-11
1776072:US	52048190	R98HVPE9HTJSD	0316777730	1192464	Naked	Books	4	2	2	N	N	America's greatest living humorist?	Now that Woody Allen has more or less quit writing comedy for print, I wonder if David Sedaris isn't the finest writer of pure comedy that we have today.  He is certainly the most widely read.  I read most of this on the El commuting into downtown Chicago, and I was amazed while reading it how many other people were reading it as well, as well as Sedaris's other books.<br />On one level, Sedaris employs an exceedingly simple formula:  he take events and people in his own life, and in makes us laugh at the people he has known, but even more at himself.  I can imagine that Sedaris did indeed suffer from an obsessive-compulsive disorder, but I very much doubt that it was as extreme as it portrays it to be in &quot;A Plague of Tics.&quot;  But that imaginative exaggeration is what makes him an artist instead of a mere autobiographer.  He also succeeds because he writes with enormous wit.  I like the fact that he is hard to anticipate.  Where a story starts off is not where it will end up.  You imagine you know what a particular story is about, only to find it galloping off in another direction.<br />I went on from this one to read (well, listen--my friend lent me a CD copy of it) ME TALK PRETTY ONE DAY.  I actually prefer the stories in NAKED, which are set in Sedaris's childhood and youth, to the more recent book, which mainly features stories from his adulthood and residence in France.  But I can strongly recommend both.	2001-11-11
1791633:US	52048190	R3HW68CTNBFH0E	0716733870	702232531	Why People Believe Weird Things: Pseudoscience, Superstition, and Other Confusions of Our Time	Books	3	28	33	N	N	Unfortunately, a bit of a disappointment	I originally learned of this book from reading a review of it on the Excite home page by Penn Gillette of Penn and Teller, where the highest praises were heaped upon it.  Although not a bad book, and despite containing several good articles, I was disappointed with the book as a whole.  The reasons for this are various:  occasional lapses in factual accuracy, a little too much self-promotion, poor writing, more intolerance of religion than I am comfortable with, and an overall distrust of the author.  On the latter point, I do not mean to say that I never have confidence in the accuracy of what he asserts, but that there were a couple of instances in which he made assertions that undermined my complete faith in what he was saying.<br />Where did Shermer lose my confidence?  There were several instances, but I will mention two.  My favorite book of 1997 was Keith Thomas's RELIGION AND THE DECLINE OF MAGIC.  Shermer mentions this book in his article &quot;Epidemics of Accusations:  Medieval and Modern Witch Crazes.&quot;  He writes:  &quot;In one of the best books on the period [i.e., the witch craze in England in the 16th and 17th centuries], Keith Thomas argues that the craze was caused by the decline of magic and the rise of large-scale, formalized religion&quot; [103].  This is an utterly baffling statement.  Thomas at no point makes any point even remotely resembling this.  It is possible to deduce such a position if one looks merely at the title of the book, but not from the text of the book itself.  Thomas claims that the witch craze and witch accusations were caused by the erosion of traditional systems of benevolence and the decline of traditional forms of religion in which benevolence was central.  In most instances of witchcraft accusation, the accusers claimed the &quot;witches&quot; had practiced witchcraft on them after they [i.e., the accusers] had refused to respond to a request for help.  For instance, an individual would come to them for help--perhaps asking for bread or a mug of beer [the main source of calories during the period]--and be refused.  Later, those who had declined to help might suffer nightmares or find a farm animal afflicted, and deduce that this was a result of their refusal to help.  As Thomas points out, a large number of witchcraft accusations resulted from what we in the 20th century would recognize as feelings of guilt.  Nowhere does Thomas suggest that the witchcraft accusations resulted from the rise of large-scale, formalized religion.  My conclusion when I read this in Shermer was that he perhaps had read the title of Thomas's book, but nothing else.  Or at best, that he had read it, but did not understand it.  In either case, it caused me to wonder how well he had understood the hundreds of other books and individuals he discusses of whom I know less than Thomas.<br />The second instance that caused me to lose some confidence in Shermer concerned a statement he makes about David Hume:  &quot;The work [A TREATISE OF HUMAN NATURE] still garnered no recognition, so in 1758 he brought out the final version, under the title AN ENQUIRY CONCERNING HUMAN UNDERSTANDING, which today we regard as his greatest philosophical work&quot; [45].  Who is &quot;we&quot;?  It is certainly not Barry Stroud, J. L. Mackie, Pall S. Ardal, Annette Baier, or Norman Kemp Smith, who are the premiere Hume scholars of the past century.  In fact, I know of only one writer who argues that the ENQUIRY CONCERNING HUMAN UNDERSTANDING is his most important work, and that is Antony Flew, and his view in widely recognized as a minority, somewhat aberrant, opinion.  (In fact, Flew argues not that the one ENQUIRY is his most important work, but both the ENQUIRIES, both AN ENQUIRY CONCERNING HUMAN UNDERSTANDING and AN ENQUIRY CONCERNING THE PRINCIPLES OF MORALS.  Shermer does not mention the existence of this latter work, which is the necessary complement of the other ENQUIRY.  In other words, Shermer really just does not know what he is talking about here.<br />None of this means that Shermer cannot be trusted in the majority of his writing, but it nonetheless undercut my trust in his judgment.  Having said that, many of the individual articles were quite enjoyable, and many were quite informative.  A more serious criticism is that the book's content does not reflect its title.  Shermer does not explain why people believe weird things so much as he catalogs weird beliefs.  Admittedly, many of these beliefs are exceedingly weird.  Still and all, I cannot recommend this book as highly as I can those of fellow sceptic and debunker Martin Gardner (whom Shermer mentions with great respect) or James Randi, both of whom I find to be a much more balanced and better-informed writers.ot know what he is talking about here.<br />None of this means that Shermer cannot be trusted in the majority of his writing, but it nonetheless undercut my trust in his judgment.  Having said that, many of the individual articles were quite enjoyable, and many were quite informative.  A more serious criticism is that the book's content does not reflect its title.  Shermer does not explain why people believe weird things so much as he catalogs weird beliefs.   Admittedly, many of these beliefs are exceedingly weird.  Still and all, I cannot recommend this book as highly as I can those of fellow sceptic and debunker Martin Gardner (whom Shermer mentions with great respect) or James Randi, both of whom I find to be a much more balanced and better-informed writers.	2001-10-29
1791708:US	52048190	R1RJDMDI68XR93	050027407X	387315195	The Wars of the Roses: A Concise History	Books	5	41	47	N	N	A superb introductory survey	I am a reasonably intelligent person, was a theater major in college, and have read more than my share of the tragedies and comedies of Shakespeare.  I was, however, quite at a loss upon completing the first Act of RICHARD III.  I was completely lost.  The endless queue of corpses, pretenders to the throne, and partisans of one competing group or another left me completely bewildered and confused.  I knew that Richard was unscrupulous and evil, and that he had managed the deaths of many of his relatives, but by and large I was unclear on all of the details.<br />The fault lay not with Shakespeare but with my knowledge of English history.  The depth of my ignorance about several periods of history is unfathomable.  Among those areas of ignorance are several of the military conflicts in European history.  I know that there was a Hundred Years War (that lasted considerably more than a hundred years), a Thirty Years War (that I believe was fought in the early 17th century for God knows what reason), and the Wars of the Roses.  To be perfectly honest, until recently I had no idea when the Wars of the Roses were fought, between whom, nor why.  Imagine my delight when I discovered that this was precisely the conflict with which most of Shakespeare's historical plays dealt.  Learn about this period of English history, and I have the background I need to read RICHARD III and the other historical plays.  After some brief research, this volume appeared to be one that would give me what I needed to know about the conflict.<br />I have to admit that it did the trick.  I have now restarted reading RICHARD III, and I not only understand Shakespeare's narrative, I know his account of things is extraordinarily wrong!  Primarily he changes chronology to suit his purposes, and recreates historical scenes that could not have happened.  There is no evidence according to Ross that Richard in any way plotted against either his brother Edward IV (he in fact seems to have been his staunchest supporter) nor that he machinated his brother Clarence's imprisonment (Clarence was the tool of Warwick, who pushed him forward as a pretender to the throne).  Nor was there ever a time when Margaret could have made her long, impassioned speech.  Actual historical chronology would have precluded it.  In short, Shakespeare recreated history for dramatic effect, and painted Richard far, far blacker than he in fact deserved.  He was not, however, a nice guy.  Most historians agree that he probably did have his nephews murdered, and there is some evidence that he killed his wife Anne (daughter of Warwick) with the idea of marrying his niece Elizabeth (who in fact married Henry Tudor, later Henry VII).  Shakespeare more or less gave the Tudor party line, and then some.  Had Richard III won the Battle of Bosworth, he undoubtedly would have painted Richard as a great hero, and Henry Tudor as a black hearted villain.<br />For those who like the books to be pleasant to look upon, I am happy to report that  THE WARS OF THE ROSES is a beautifully produced paperback book, sewn in signature, printed on high quality paper, with a huge number of well-reproduced photographs.  In short, quite apart from the content--which was excellent--it was a complete pleasure to hold and look at this book.  It certainly enhanced the reading experience.st supporter) nor that he machinated his brother Clarence's imprisonment (Clarence was the tool of Warwick, who pushed him forward as a pretender to the throne).  Nor was there ever a time when Margaret could have made her long, impassioned speech.  Actual historical chronology would have precluded it.   In short, Shakespeare recreated history for dramatic effect, and painted Richard far, far blacker than he in fact deserved.  He was not, however, a nice guy.  Most historians agree that he probably did have his nephews murdered, and there is some evidence that he killed his wife Anne (daughter of Warwick) with the idea of marrying his niece Elizabeth (who in fact married Henry Tudor, later Henry VII).  Shakespeare more or less gave the Tudor party line, and then some.  Had Richard III won the Battle of Bosworth, he undoubtedly would have painted Richard as a great hero, and Henry Tudor as a black hearted villain.<br />For those who like the books to be pleasant to look upon, I am happy to report that  THE WARS OF THE ROSES is a beautifully produced paperback book, sewn in signature, printed on high quality paper, with a huge number of well-reproduced photographs.  In short, quite apart from the content--which was excellent--it was a complete pleasure to hold and look at this book.  It certainly enhanced the reading experience.	2001-10-29
1791810:US	52048190	R1043RWLXR24S7	0140298150	546056497	Nuremberg (movie tie-in)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Further evidence of the banality of evil	For me this volume functioned as a sequel to William L. Shirer's THE RISE AND FALL OF THE THIRD REICH. As much as I learned from that volume, in the end I found myself wondering about what happened next. I had already known, even before Shirer (where I learned this I cannot say-it was one of those things that I just managed to know somehow) that near the end of the Third Reich G&ouml;bbels and Himmler had both committed suicide, that G&ouml;ring had been hung by the Allies, that Speer escaped with a prison term, and that Hess had been incarcerated for life. But I found that I wanted to know more, not just about the details of the more prominent Nazis, but of the whole Nuremberg trial process.<br />At the very least Persico's NUREMBERG did that. I am not sufficiently versed in the history of the period to make any valid judgment on this book as a work of history. I can, however, say that it is enormously interesting and quite enjoyable. It contains a wealth of fascinating material, and presents it clearly. Persico neither attempts to overpraise or criticize unnecessarily those who conducted the trial. All the major participants on all sides of the trial are presented in a completely fleshed out manner. Although the work is one of history, the key figures appear as well developed as characters in the novel. This is as true of the defendants as the prosecutors, so that by the end, when the sentences are passed out, I as a reader found that I had developed a measure of compassion for the Nazis that was completely out of keeping with the crimes they had committed. In a couple of cases this was because some of the Nazis had clearly become aware of the enormity of their crimes (like Hans Frank), or because I came to see that for these individuals, they were merely functioning within a society in which unquestioned obedience was a given (such as the military figures such as Keitel and Jodl). Even G&ouml;ring becomes an object of some compassion. Not that I would have commuted his sentence of those of most who were hung.<br />Unlike Shirer's book, this volume did a marvelous job of clothing the Nazis in the garb of humanity, which makes their crimes seem all that more horrible. It would be much easier to think of most of the Nazis as bizarre monsters, but studies such as this give the lie to that picture. These men were recognizably human. Yet they performed acts of unspeakable evil. They were not aliens. They are examples of what human beings are capable of when their thought becomes diseased and their ability to conceive of the extent of the human family becomes corrupted.<br /><br />Still, despite the horrible things they managed to achieve, both the Shirer and Persico volumes drive home a point that neither elaborates but which is latent in each, namely, the Nazis were almost to a man horrible bores. Hitler might be interesting inasmuch as he is an example of just how degraded a human being can become in moral character, or one might find the events in which he was the prime shaper interesting, but this does not obscure the fact that he was a person with whom you would not really want to spend ten minutes talking. He does not seem to have been especially intelligent (apart from a practical ability in power politics), or an interesting conversationalist, or at all well rounded. I mean, what would you talk to Hitler about? The same holds true of most of the other Nazis, with only a couple of exceptions. Albert Speer does not seem to have been a complete dunderhead. And then, of course, there was G&ouml;ring.<br />Easily the most interesting individual in Persico's account is Hermann G&ouml;ring. I in fact felt a bit guilty in finding him to be such an interesting individual. I mean, after all, he was one of the worst of the Nazis. Possibly not quite the embodiment of evil that you find in Hitler, Himmler, Heydrich, or Eichmann, but still not a very nice guy. I felt better about this when I realized that he reminded me of nothing so much as one of the villains in a James Bond movie. Granted, his crimes were real and not restricted to celluloid, but like a James Bond villain, you have to acknowledge his very real charms along with his evil.<br />I can qualifiedly recommend this book. If you have any degree of interest in the World War II and its major participants, then one could do worse than reading this book.ins in a James Bond movie. Granted, his crimes were real and not restricted to celluloid, but like a James Bond villain, you have to acknowledge his very real charms along with his evil. <br />I can qualifiedly recommend this book. If you have any degree of interest in the World War II and its major participants, then one could do worse than reading this book.	2001-10-29
1792221:US	52048190	R34F2OR9C2JT4K	0141301074	496532448	The Twits	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great, mischievous fun for kids young and old	I actually read this one out loud to my daughter not once but twice, first in 1993 when she was living with me in Chicago, and then again in 1994 over the phone when she was living in Massachusetts with her mother.  If I had not heard from other sources that Roald Dahl was not an especially pleasant person, I believe that I could have guessed this from his books.  There is a bit of inspired nastiness in all of them, but this one might be the nastiest of the bunch.  THE TWITS is the story of a married couple who brood on new ways to make the life of their spouse as miserable as possible.  Dahl's genius is to create utterly unique ways for two people to play bizarrely original and extravagant dirty tricks on one another.  My daughter loved this both times I read it to her (after she learned to read on her own, she reread it on her own), and I have to admit that I enjoyed reading it to her.<br />This might not be good for all parents, though it is certainly great for nearly all kids.  If you are the kind of parent who believes Bart Simpson inspires kids to be bad, skip this one.  But if you want to have a really great time with your kid, read them this one.  Even now, as I remember my daughter's reaction to hearing Mr. Twit convince his wife that she had the shrinks, I get a little twitter (no pun intended) inside.	2001-10-29
1792493:US	52048190	R3PBGKKWSPEI4H	019282144X	606502932	Painting and Experience in Fifteenth-Century Italy: A Primer in the Social History of Pictorial Style (Oxford Paperbacks)	Books	5	125	129	N	N	A classic study of the vocabulary of Renaissance painting	I find it strange that many people find it strange that one might read a book like this one for fun.  Twice in one day I had people approach me and ask me for what class I was reading this, as if there are books one reads only in school and books one reads in real life.<br />I did read this in real life, and I read it for three reasons:  1) I knew this is a highly regarded book in art criticism, 2) it deals with a period of art history about which I wanted to know more, and 3) it looked like it would be a fun read.<br />My primary reaction to the book upon reading it was:  how did the author fit such a huge book into so few pages?  There are books that cannot be measured by page count.  PAINTING AND EXPERIENCE IN FIFTEENTH-CENTURY ITALY  contains 153 pages of text, with illustrations taking up around a third of those.  Despite that, Baxandall is able to pack an amazing amount of information in a very small number of pages.  Yet, as dense as this book is, it never becomes anything less than completely readable.  It is a very fast read, and not merely because of the small number of pages.  Baxandall's contention is that the visual experience of a Quattrocento person (or what he eventually comes to self-mockingly comes to call &quot;a church-going business man, with a taste for dancing&quot;) is not one to which we any longer have conceptual access.  He laments that we too often approach these paintings with our own conceptual categories in the forefront, and impose these upon the paintings, instead of judging them and perceiving them, as a contemporary would have. His goal in this slender volume is to attempt to reestablish some sense of the pictorial concepts with which a Quattrocento person approaches a painting.  In this I believe he succeeds admirably.  While visiting one of my local book superstores, I spent some time glancing through a number of books on Renaissance art, especially Hartt's well-known tome.  I found that I was indeed responding differently to the paintings than I had before I read Baxandall.  This is a book that capacitates its reader to enjoy a fuller participation in the appreciation of the visual world.<br />On a completely nonliterary note, I want to add that this is an extraordinarily attractive book.  I am sure that no publisher ever decides to make an ugly, unpleasant book, but Oxford University Press with this one certainly managed to make a gorgeous one.  The book is far more attractive than the price of the book would seem to support (good paper, pseudo-signature binding, high-quality four-color cover), which leads me to believe that this must get a great deal of adoption as a college text.o the paintings than I had before I read Baxandall.  This is a book that capacitates its reader to enjoy a fuller participation in the appreciation of the visual world.<br />On a completely nonliterary note, I want to add that this is an extraordinarily attractive book.  I am sure that no publisher ever decides to make an ugly, unpleasant book, but Oxford University Press with this one certainly managed to make a gorgeous one.  The book is far more attractive than the price of the book would seem to support (good paper, pseudo-signature binding, high-quality four-color cover), which leads me to believe that this must get a great deal of adoption as a college text.	2001-10-29
1792569:US	52048190	R3NN42PVI4M7W1	0140430350	463707544	Vanity Fair	Books	5	13	15	N	N	One of the great anti-heroines in fiction	While there are many lovely and funny things in this book, the degree to which one is likely to enjoy this novel depends upon how one responds to Becky Sharp.  Thackeray does a marvelous job of setting forth both her very considerable charms and her undeniable flaws.  On the one hand she is irresistibly charming, lovable, vivacious, beautiful, a brilliant conversationalist, charismatic, delightfully flirtatious, and immensely talented.  On the other hand, she is deceitful, unfaithful, untruthful, grasping, and manipulative.  Myself, I loved Becky, and consider her to be one of the most thrilling anti-heroines in English literature.<br />This novel is simply a great read.  Like any good Victorian classic, there is an amazing array of wonderful characters.  Unlike many similar novels, where you always know that all of the main characters are going to end up married--the only impediments being how the lovers will be united (the great exception being Trollope, where everyone might end up married, or everyone might end up not; he is a very difficult to anticipate storyteller)--I found it difficult to anticipate who would end up with whom.<br />The historical period is the same as for PRIDE AND PREJUDICE, but while in that awesome novel the Napoleonic Wars merely provided a pretext for having soldiers present in towns for balls, in this novel the War is very, very much a War, and as such exerts a strong influence on the plot.  In PRIDE AND PREJUDICE there is no hint that soldiers might actually have to fight and perhaps die.	2001-10-29
1792770:US	52048190	R2MO0DCHZQR6XE	0374480095	551852778	Tuck Everlasting (A Sunburst book)	Books	4	7	12	N	N	'Tis better to have read it late, than not at all	One of the great things about being a father has been reading to my daughter all those books that I had most regretted not having read when a child. One of the children's books that I most desired to read was TUCK EVERLASTING.<br />Unfortunately, I did not enjoy this as much as I had hoped. Primarily this was because I felt so little sympathy for the title characters. The plot is simple: a frontier family in early nineteenth century America accidentally drinks from a fountain of eternal life, and are cursed with living forever. Or, at least, it is explained in the story that it is a curse. The difficulty I felt with the plot was with the family. For these people, since they really didn't seem to have much in the way of lives to begin with, eternal life really would be a curse. (...)As the novel stands, my only reaction is: Lord, I wouldn't want to live their life for even ten years, let alone an eternity.	2001-10-29
1792778:US	52048190	RKMOBSS5V6NVY	0679781269	852728584	Kafka Was the Rage: A Greenwich Village Memoir	Books	5	22	23	N	N	A delightful memoir of post-war Greenwich Village	One brilliantly sunny day in July, I decided to head out to the lake to bask in the sun and read.  Unforuntately, I realized halfway there that I hadn't bought anything to read.  So, I trotted over to my local used bookstore and began browsing their recent acquisition table.  This little volume immediately gained my attention.  It looked like fun, it looked like it would be a quick read, and it was short enough that it wouldn't keep me from continuing in any of the other books that I was already reading.  So, off to the lake with this book in hand I went.<br />KAFKA WAS THE RAGE was quite a nifty little read.  I had read a fair amount about the Beats at one point, so this had some of the same post-WW II Manhattan atmosphere, but that was set more in the area of Columbia University, so this shifted the scene further south.  There is no real story to tell here.  Broyard merely recounts in a more or less anecdotal form a number of events and individuals from a particular moment in time.  He has a gift for summoning up particular moments in vivid detail, and a talent for the brilliant line.  An example of the former is his recounting of an adventure in which he took Delmore Schwartz, Clement Greenberg, and Dwight MacDonald to a Spanish Harlem nightclub.  Another is his description of his art professor Meyer Schapiro.<br />Some great lines:<br />&quot;I thought that being a Communist was a penalty you had to pay for being interested in politics.&quot;<br />[on Dylan Thomas] &quot;To him, an American party was like being in a bad pub with the wrong people.&quot;<br />[on Delmore Schwartz] &quot;Like Samuel Johnson, whom he resembled in many ways, Delmore was not interested in prospects, views, or landscape.  He had looked at the city when he was young, and saw no need to do it again.&quot;<br />[on a painter friend] &quot;His voice was soft, deep, and cultivated and his manners were a history of civilization.&quot;<br />As one might expect (and hope for) in a memoir set in such a vibrant era, the book is marvelous for its incessant name-dropping of famous individuals who pop up briefly as characters:  figures as diverse as Erich Fromm, Maya Deren, Anais Nin, Caitlin and Dylan Thomas, W. H. Auden, Gregory Bateson, as well as the previously mentioned Schwartz, Greenberg, MacDonald, and Shapiro.in such a vibrant era, the book is marvelous for its incessant name-dropping of famous individuals who pop up briefly as characters:  figures as diverse as Erich Fromm, Maya Deren, Anais Nin, Caitlin and Dylan Thomas, W. H. Auden, Gregory Bateson, as well as the previously mentioned Schwartz, Greenberg, MacDonald, and Shapiro.	2001-10-29
1792815:US	52048190	R15DK5XUXP0P8S	0679722610	645212410	Red Harvest	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Yet another Hammett masterpiece	This is not my favorite Dashiell Hammett book, but there is no such thing . . . well, I was going to say that there was no such thing as a bad Dashiell Hammett book, but then I remembered that the last couple of things he wrote, when he was trying to write \\"literature\\" instead of extraordinary hardboiled stories.  There is, however, no such animal as a bad Continental Op story, and this is one of the Op's adventures.  One of the most lamentable situations in contemporary publishing is the rather small number of Op stories in print.  It is occasionally possible to turn up one of the old anthology of Op stories that Hammett published in BLACK MASK, but these are getting harder and harder to find (though several of them recently appeared in the new Library of America edition of Hammett's stories).  BLACK MASK itself put out in the late forties, I believe, several issues collecting the otherwise uncollected stories.  My understanding is that Lillian Hellman, who held the copyright on Hammett's books until her death, would not allow these stories to be reprinted.  The copyright must be getting close to expiration, so perhaps all of Hammett's stories will once again be available.<br />I was fortunate enough to read all the stories that Black Mask collected in their special issues.  My access was through the marvelous holdings of the Beinecke Rare Book Library at Yale University.  I sat in the reading room where others were undoubtedly reading manuscripts of Boswell or Ezra Pound or Yeats, while I sat engrossed in Continental Op detective yarns.  My best guess is that there may have been enough stories to produce one or two more collections to supplement the two collections we already possess, THE CONTINENTAL OP and THE BIG KNOCKOVER.  I must admit that the quality of these stories were not overall up to the quality of those in the latter volume, which are in turn not quite up to the quality of the stories in the former volume.  That volume is in my humble but most accurate opinion, the finest detective short stories ever written, along with \\"Red Wind\\" by Raymond Chandler.  I feel that of the two founding fathers of the hardboiled detective genre, Hammett wrote better stories and Chandler wrote better novels.<br /><br />RED HARVEST is very good Hammett, but is not quite up to the level of his very best work in THE CONTINENTAL OP and THE MALTESE FALCON.  The story has been widely imitated in film.  Akira Kurosawa borrowed heavily from it in making the movie YOJIMBO, which was in turn used by Sergio Leone in making A FISTFUL OF DOLLARS.  More recently the story was mined for the semi-awful Bruce Willis vehicle LAST MAN STANDING--which had tons of wonderful period atmosphere to go along with tons of stupidity, and which provoked for the three thousandth time the perennial question of why bad guys are such dreadful shots while the good guys never miss.<br />I must further add that the Vintage covers of all the Hammett books are both attractive and wonderfully evocative of the era.  I don't know about others, but I always have a more satisfying reading experience if the books look inviting.te opinion, the finest detective short stories ever written, along with \\"Red Wind\\" by Raymond Chandler.  I feel that of the two founding fathers of the hardboiled detective genre, Hammett wrote better stories and Chandler wrote better novels. <BR> <BR>RED HARVEST is very good Hammett, but is not quite up to the level of his very best work in THE CONTINENTAL OP and THE MALTESE FALCON.  The story has been widely imitated in film.  Akira Kurosawa borrowed heavily from it in making the movie YOJIMBO, which was in turn used by Sergio Leone in making A FISTFUL OF DOLLARS.   More recently the story was mined for the semi-awful Bruce Willis vehicle LAST MAN STANDING--which had tons of wonderful period atmosphere to go along with tons of stupidity, and which provoked for the three thousandth time the perennial question of why bad guys are such dreadful shots while the good guys never miss.<br />I must further add that the Vintage covers of all the Hammett books are both attractive and wonderfully evocative of the era.  I don't know about others, but I always have a more satisfying reading experience if the books look inviting.	2001-10-29
1843476:US	52048190	RQWQQODEAZMYG	0877845387	412359325	Escape From Reason: A Penetrating Analysis Of Trends In Modern Thought	Books	1	226	291	N	N	Schaeffer evidently didn't read primary sources	First, I have to express appreciation for Schaeffer. When I was in high school, I read through all of his books with great interest and avidity. He (along with C. S. Lewis) was a great example to me that you could be a Christian and still have a brain. I thought. Unfortunately, his books led to actually read the individuals he discussed. I went on to attend Yale University and the University of Chicago, studying theology and philosophy at both places. At Yale I met several Christian grad students who, like me, initially became interested in philosophy through reading Schaeffer. Every single one of us was grateful to Schaeffer. Every single one of us agreed: Schaeffer probably never read any of the people he discusses.<br />If you have just a little background in philosophy or the history of theology, and you look carefully through the footnotes of any of Schaeffer's books, it becomes fairly obvious that his reading was restricted almost entirely to secondary sources. He didn't read Aquinas so much as books about Aquinas. He seems to have been especially indebted to books by Dutch Reformed scholars. Most of his discussions of the great figures in the history of the church are travesties of their actual thought.<br />An example: Kierkegaard. Most of my graduate work both at Yale and Chicago was on Kierkegaard. Kierkegaard is a widely misunderstood scholar, but virtually everyone who has studied his work at any length will acknowledge that he was not a theological innovator, that he in no sense was trying to undermine Christian faith, and that he was utterly orthodox in his thought. It is impossible to find a single orthodox Christian doctrine that Kierkegaard attacks. In no sense is Kierkegaard an opponent of Christianity. Being as generous as possible, I think the most I can say is that Kierkegaard was a puzzlement to Schaeffer. The tragedy is that there are a very large number of excellent scholars, even Dutch Reformed scholars, who could have helped Schaeffer in his misunderstandings.<br />We can contrast this with C. S. Lewis.  Lewis was not perfect as a thinker, but Lewis at least read the people he discusses.  Had Lewis ever read Schaeffer, he would have been angered and disgusted at Schaeffer persistent misreadings of people like Aquinas (who I would also disagree with, but for very, very different reasons).  Lewis was a perceptive and penetrating reader, and to discuss at length anyone without having studied their work at length would have been anathema to him.<br />Folks, Schaeffer's understanding of philosophy is not even up to the level of a good undergraduate. I am grateful to Schaeffer for having introduced me to the world of philosophical thought. Hopefully others go on to read the figures he discusses. If so, they also will see that Schaeffer is guilty of profoundly misrepresenting their thought. But I profoundly regret that others do not go to read any of the figures that he critiques. I regret this. I regret it as a Christian, and I regret it as a philosophy.<br />I especially regret it as a Christian because Christ and the Christian faith is not served by the distortion of the truth.s misunderstandings.<br />We can contrast this with C. S. Lewis.  Lewis was not perfect as a thinker, but Lewis at least read the people he discusses.  Had Lewis ever read Schaeffer, he would have been angered and disgusted at Schaeffer persistent misreadings of people like Aquinas (who I would also disagree with, but for very, very different reasons).  Lewis was a perceptive and penetrating reader, and to discuss at length anyone without having studied their work at length would have been anathema to him.<br />Folks, Schaeffer's understanding of philosophy is not even up to the level of a good undergraduate. I am grateful to Schaeffer for having introduced me to the world of philosophical thought. Hopefully others go on to read the figures he discusses. If so, they also will see that Schaeffer is guilty of profoundly misrepresenting their thought. But I profoundly regret that others do not go to read any of the figures that he critiques. I regret this. I regret it as a Christian, and I regret it as a philosophy.<br />I especially regret it as a Christian because Christ and the Christian faith is not served by the distortion of the truth.	2001-09-10
1844904:US	52048190	R3NBTM58WOPQBU	0140268863	627065254	The Odyssey	Books	5	287	301	N	N	A nearly perfect conjunction of elements	Fagle's translation of THE ODYSSEY in the Penguin edition is an almost perfect act of publishing.  The translation itself manages to be enormously readable, highly poetic, and extremely accurate, all at the same time.  The Introduction by Bernard Knox should serve as a model for all scholars who are called upon to write critical introductions for classic works of literature.  And the book design is is extraordinary; this edition of Homer's classic is easily one of the most attractive paperback books in my library.  I had read this once before in translation (in the old Rieu version), and then later translated much of it in a second year Greek class.  But in neither instance did I enjoy it as much as reading the Fagles's translation.<br />Aristotle did not think that people should study philosophy too early in life, and perhaps that is also true of reading Homer.  Part of me feels that we make a mistake in our education systems by making students read THE ODYSSEY before they are in a position to appreciate it.  If one looks through the reviews here, a very large number of very negative reviews by a lot of high school students can be found.  I find this unfortunate.  In part I regret that we are forcing younger readers to read this book before they have fully matured as readers.  Perhaps the book and the students themselves would be better served if we allowed them time to grow a bit more as readers before asking them to tackle Homer.<br />THE ODYSSEY is so enormously enjoyable (at least for this adult reader) that it is easy to forget just how very old it is.  What impresses me is how readable it is, despite its age.  There are very, very few widely read works older than THE ILIAD and THE ODYSSEY.  And the gap between how entertaining these works are and those that come before them is gigantic.  Try reading THE EPIC OF GILGAMESH or even THE HESIOD and then turning to THE ODYSSEY, and one can grasp my point.  This is a very, very old work of literature, but it wears its age lightly.  In the end, the greatest praise one can pay THE ODYSSEY is the fact that it can be read for fun, and not just because it is a classic.its age lightly.  In the end, the greatest praise one can pay THE ODYSSEY is the fact that it can be read for fun, and not just because it is a classic.	2001-09-09
1865386:US	52048190	R358ONUDE0HTIB	0679720227	169376079	The Fall	Books	5	9	10	N	N	One of my ten favorite novels	When Albert Camus died in 1960 in a car accident, he was only 46 years old.  Of all the great writers of the 20th century, his death may have been the most tragic simply because he died at the height of his powers as a writer and as a thinker.  Every indication we have is that his work was growing in complexity and depth.  There is no way to guage what what he might have achieved had he lived longer.<br />Many reviewing here have called THE FALL the great existential novel.  In part because I have never really understood what &quot;existentialism&quot; was (despite doing my doctoral work on Kierkegaard, the so-called &quot;father of existentialism&quot; and having actually taught a course on existentialism [while a grad student--I needed the money]), the term has never really signified much for me.  In part this is because every so-called existentialist can be better characterized in other philosophical terms.  For instance, Jean-Paul Sartre is more fruitfully understood as a phenomenologist or a late Marxist than as an existentialist.<br />But even if &quot;existentialist&quot; communicated more than it does, I would not describe THE FALL as an existentialist novel, say, in the way that THE STRANGER is.  The latter fully communicates the meaningless of human existence and moral vacuity of individual life that we associate with existentialism.  In THE FALL, however, while the pretensions and hypocrisies of one individual life are unmasked, Camus strives to go beyond utter despair to find a more authenticate and--even--hopeful mode of living.  THE STRANGER was ultimately destructive in its message.  THE FALL is an act of demolition, but only so that something better can be erected in its place.  Camus doesn't really communicated what will take its place, but it will clearly be based upon an empathetic concern for our neighbor and a passionate concern for others.<br />The novel, as has been noted, is presented as a conversation between a Parisian lawyer and an unnamed and unspeaking patron of an Amsterdam bar.  It is written in such a way that the reader seems to be that patron.  The lawyer tells a tale of his own career and moral hypocrisy in such a way, he tells us, that at a certain point it ceases to be a portrait and becomes a mirror, which he holds up and shows the other his own life.  The point?  During the tale he tells, he mentions a man who insisted on sleeping on the floor of his abode in order not to enjoy a luxury which a friend of his who is in prison has been denied.  The lawyer confesses that perhaps his purpose is to get others to sleep on the floor for him.and unspeaking patron of an Amsterdam bar.  It is written in such a way that the reader seems to be that patron.  The lawyer tells a tale of his own career and moral hypocrisy in such a way, he tells us, that at a certain point it ceases to be a portrait and becomes a mirror, which he holds up and shows the other his own life.  The point?  During the tale he tells, he mentions a man who insisted on sleeping on the floor of his abode in order not to enjoy a luxury which a friend of his who is in prison has been denied.  The lawyer confesses that perhaps his purpose is to get others to sleep on the floor for him.	2001-08-23
1865518:US	52048190	R7MV4X4S215VQ	0375701230	91189139	A Death in the Family	Books	4	23	29	N	N	Contains the extraordinary &quot;Knoxville:  Summer of 1915&quot;	I came to this novel after reading extensively in the film criticism of James Agee, who was easily one of the great reviewers the genre has seen.  As one critic pointed out, in his criticism, Agee takes the reader into the film, and not to concerns extraneous to the film, like so many reviewers (such as Pauline Kael, who writes beautifully, but whose comments sometimes seem to have very little to do with the film in question).<br />After reading his film criticism, I have to confess that I was somewhat disappointed by this novel.  It was good, but it did not stand out in any way.  So, if all this volume had to offer was the novel itself, I would be able to recommend it, but without too much enthusiasm.<br />But thankfully, that is not the case.  In addition to the text of the novel A DEATH IN THE FAMILY, the volume contains as a sort of preface one of the most extraordinary short pieces in 20th century American fiction, the amazing &quot;Knoxville:  Summer of 1915.&quot;  This piece was not written as part of the novel, but the editors of the volume wisely included it because both dealt with Knoxville.  Also, the piece is so amazing that I am certain that they also wanted to include it so that it would not so easily get lost.<br />I read A DEATH IN THE FAMILY once.  I have probably read &quot;Knoxville:  Summer of 1915&quot; a good dozen times.  So, if the idea of purchasing a book for the sake of a mere five pages seems extravagant, ask yourself, how many books do we reread bits of even a couple of times?<br />The piece, which was turned into a marvelous composition for voice by Samuel Barber, records the impressions of a typical summer evening, with the narrator a young child.  The descriptions are so precise and tactile, that the reader almost feels as if his or her own impressions are being recorded.  And despite being merely the record of an average evening moving from late afternoon to dusk to evening, Agee is able to make of it something universal and sad and metaphysical.  There are many, many fine moments in this piece, from the first paragraph {beginning &quot;We are talking now of summer evenings in Knoxville, Tennessee, in the time that I lived there so successfully disguised to myself as a child&quot;) to the absolutely amazing final paragraph (ending:  &quot;Those receive me, who quietly treat me, as one familiar and well-beloved in that home:  but will not, oh, will not, not now, not ever; but will not ever tell me who I am&quot;).<br />I am not sure how strongly I would recommend this volume if it were for the novel alone, but anyone who loves great writing needs to own this volume so as to own one of the great short pieces in American literature.and metaphysical.  There are many, many fine moments in this piece, from the first paragraph {beginning &quot;We are talking now of summer evenings in Knoxville, Tennessee, in the time that I lived there so successfully disguised to myself as a child&quot;) to the absolutely amazing final paragraph (ending:  &quot;Those receive me, who quietly treat me, as one familiar and well-beloved in that home:  but will not, oh, will not, not now, not ever; but will not ever tell me who I am&quot;).<br />I am not sure how strongly I would recommend this volume if it were for the novel alone, but anyone who loves great writing needs to own this volume so as to own one of the great short pieces in American literature.	2001-08-23
1903569:US	52048190	RDIJIDZ83LJ7M	0679443665	955046980	The Last Chronicle of Barset (Everyman's Library, 208)	Books	5	57	58	N	N	An Unjustly Neglected English Language Classic	THE LAST CHRONICLE OF BARSET is one of the great novels in the English language, and yet it is not widely read.  The reason for this is obvious:  it is the LAST novel in the Barsetshire series of novels, and a relatively small number make it all the way through the previous five volumes.  This is a shame, because while all the previous novels are quite excellent and thoroughly entertaining, the final novel in the series is a work of an entirely different level of magnitude.<br />This novel is also one of the darkest that Trollope wrote.  The moral dilemma in which Crawley finds himself would seem to belong more readily to the world of Dostoevsky than Victorian England.<br />Can this novel be read on its own, without reading the novels that precede it?  Yes, but I do feel that it is best read after working through the other books in the series first.  This is hardly an unfortunate situation, since all the books in the series are superb (with the exception of the first novel, THE WARDEN, which, while nice, is merely a prelude to the far superior five novels that came after it).  Many of the characters in THE LAST CHRONICLE appeared first as characters in the other novels, and the central character of the book, Crawley, himself appeared earlier.<br />Trollope is...one of the most entertaining writers the English language has produced.  At this point I have read around 20 of his novels, and fully intend to read more.  But of all his books, this one might be his finest.  The only two that I feel are close to the same level are his incredible books THE WAY WE LIVE NOW and HE KNEW HE WAS RIGHT (possibly the finest work on excessive jealousy since OTHELLO).  Anyone who loves the English novel owes it to him or herself to read as many of these volumes as possible.  My recommendation would be to read first the six novels in the Barsetshire Chronicles, and then to move on to the other two novels I mentioned.  If still hooked, then try his other major series of novels, variously known as the Political novels or the Palliser novels or the Parliamentary novels, which begin with CAN YOU FORGIVE HER?ously known as the Political novels or the Palliser novels or the Parliamentary novels, which begin with CAN YOU FORGIVE HER?	2001-07-26
1907725:US	52048190	R1DTZ027ML7KYE	0805067728	412942228	Terrible Lizard: The First Dinosaur Hunters and the Birth of a New Science	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Utterly first rate adventure story	TERRIBLE LIZARD is a first rate history of the period in the early 19th century when a group of individuals began, for the first time, to understand the fossils that had been known for some time as the remains of giant reptiles who lived in a time that predated human history.  But it is also very much an adventure story, and like all good adventure stories, it has a hero, a heroine, an excellent set of supporting characters, and, of course, a dastardly villain.  In a word, the story told is how Gideon Mantell undertook much of the work in formulating the earliest conception of giant reptiles who lived eons before humans but had his achievement appropriated by the gifted but ambitious and devious Richard Owen.<br />The heroine of the story is Mary Anning, who sparked the interest of the early geologists by her uncanning ability to unearth fossils and near complete skeletons from the area around Lyme Regis in southern England.  Hers is a somewhat sad story, for while she repeatedly spurs science on by her remarkable discoveries, she lives her life in a perpetual struggle against poverty.  Nevertheless, the way her contributions, despite her being merely the daughter of a carpenter who died while she was a child, gain her the respect and esteem of some of the leading scientists in England, is inspiring.<br />The hero of the story, and the individual around whom much of the book revolves, is Gideon Mantell.  Despite working as a physician with a brutally demanding schedule, Mantell managed to build up a first rate collection of fossil remains, and became the first person to identify and describe most of the first dinosaurs to be discovered.  Ignored at first because of his social and amateur status, Mantell gradually gained the respect of his peers and gained admittance to the Royal Society.  Despite this, he was never able to obtain patronage or a scientific position that would have allowed him to pursue his studies full time.  His plight is the source of much of the pathos of the book.<br />The villain of the story is the overly ambitious and somewhat sadistic Richard Owen, who provided us with the word &quot;dinosaur&quot; but who also attempted to claim as his own much of the work done by Mantell and others.  In contrast to Mantell, Owen early in his life obtains positions that allow him to study anatomy full time, and enjoys the patronage of the nation as he gains more and more power.  His arrogance, dishonesty, lust for power, and his unremitting attempt to coopt the credit rightfully belonging to others, made me wonder if the title of the book in part refers to him.<br />Along the way, we encounter a number of other extraordinary characters, from the famed French anatomist Georges Cuvier to William Buckland--who with Mantell was the first to describe the dinosaurs--to the great geologist Charles Lyell to Charles Darwin.<br />A thoroughly enjoyable history that I can heartily recommend to anyone interested in intellectual history, paleontology, or just a flat out adventure tale.athos of the book.<br />The villain of the story is the overly ambitious and somewhat sadistic Richard Owen, who provided us with the word &quot;dinosaur&quot; but who also attempted to claim as his own much of the work done by Mantell and others.  In contrast to Mantell, Owen early in his life obtains positions that allow him to study anatomy full time, and enjoys the patronage of the nation as he gains more and more power.  His arrogance, dishonesty, lust for power, and his unremitting attempt to coopt the credit rightfully belonging to others, made me wonder if the title of the book in part refers to him.<br />Along the way, we encounter a number of other extraordinary characters, from the famed French anatomist Georges Cuvier to William Buckland--who with Mantell was the first to describe the dinosaurs--to the great geologist Charles Lyell to Charles Darwin.<br />A thoroughly enjoyable history that I can heartily recommend to anyone interested in intellectual history, paleontology, or just a flat out adventure tale.	2001-07-23
1925807:US	52048190	R1MYJSXPEVT6VK	0375757147	196227364	Shrub : The Short but Happy Political Life of George W. Bush	Books	5	21	26	N	N	Is it still relevant?  Yes, without a doubt	Molly Ivins (and Lou Dubose) wrote the bulk of this book after George W. Bush had won the GOP nomination but before the final outcome of the election (there is a Post Election Afterward).  Essentially, the book is an examination of Bush's career both as a businessman and governor of Texas.  Is the book, therefore, still relevant?<br />Yes.  Why?  Because as Ivins demonstrates, from the very beginning of his political career, Bush has changed very, very little in his ideas and way of thinking.  In fact, after reading this book, I feel I understand our current president with far greater insight than I did before.<br />Ivins identifies a few key issues--and, really, only a few issues--as being of paramount concern to Bush.<br />First and foremost, George W. Bush is concerned with a healthy climate for big business.  This comes out over and over and over in his career both as governor and as president.  He is a passionate advocate of major Tort Reform.  Basically, this means he would like to change our legal system so that it is close to impossible for individuals or groups of individuals to sue large corporations.  Ivins points out repeated instances of this in his terms as governor.  We can see it today in both his announced desire to initiate Tort Reform as president, and in his opposition to the Patients' Bill of Rights, which he opposes because it makes provisions for patients to sue HMOs.  Despite his claims of being concerned about the environment, both in Texas and in his current energy plan, Bush is concerned with easing environmental restrictions to give a boost to business.  This comes out in a number of ways.  In his recent energy plan (the public reaction to which has caused much of his recent downward spiral in opinion polls), he was clearly concerned with giving energy companies as many places to search for oil and minerals as possible, even if it was protected land.  Less publicized, but even closer to his heart, is his desire to move from governmental regulation of energy violations to &quot;self-monitoring.&quot;  In other words, the companies themselves ought, in Bush's view, to watchdog themselves.  This happened in Texas, and as Ivins shows, during his terms there, the levels of pollution in Texas rose dramatically.  She also reveals that during his terms as governor, federally mandated &quot;surprise&quot; environmental inspections of factories and corporations were announced ahead of time.<br />Second, Ivins shows Bush to be an avid opponent of finance reform.  Well, some qualification.  Bush is an advocate of changing the system of contributions, but he wants to see all limits to what individuals can give to candidates removed.  This is, of course, completely contrary to the point of what we mean when we talk about campaign finance reform.  It is the opposite of what people like John McCain is talking about.<br />Third, Ivins shows that Bush is a strong supporter of school vouchers (along with the teaching of phonics--a good system, but one which he would push to the exclusion of all others) and testing (though in Texas he pushed through a single test as the ONLY means of graduating from one school grade to another, so that even if you made straight A's, if you failed the test, you would not graduate).<br />Fourth, Ivins shows Bush to be profoundly involved with the religious Right.  Unlike some former presidents like Reagan, who was completely unreligious himself and had absolutely no record of being personally religious but who pretended to be in order to court the religious conservatives (I vividly remember a tape of Reagan at a fundamentalist conference while he was president, in which he led a group prayer in which he prayed like a Holy Roller preacher--scenes like this were carefully orchestrated by his press corps so that they never turned up on Dan Rather), Bush is genuinely committed to the values of the religious right.<br />Most disturbingly, Ivins shows Bush to be the master of doublespeak.  Hetalks of being concerned with the environment when nothing in his record supports this, when everything in his record shows him to be utterly opposed to all environmentalism.  He talks of compassionate conservatism, when utterly nothing in his record points to any concrete concern about the plight of people anywhere.  In fact, he only concerns seem to be the concerns of business.  But over and over, the gap between what he says he believes and what he record shows, is enormous.<br />As I write this, both a majority of Americans and many within his own party are coming to realize that George Bush is not a moderate Republican and are starting to distance themselves from him.  I would heartily urge anyone who wants to understand our president and his agenda more fully, to read this book.<br />Oh yeah, Molly Ivins is frequently as funny a political writer as one will find these days.  Not just informative; it is fun.e talks of being concerned with the environment when nothing in his record supports this, when everything in his record shows him to be utterly opposed to all environmentalism.  He talks of compassionate conservatism, when utterly nothing in his record points to any concrete concern about the plight of people anywhere.  In fact, he only concerns seem to be the concerns of business.  But over and over, the gap between what he says he believes and what he record shows, is enormous.<br />As I write this, both a majority of Americans and many within his own party are coming to realize that George Bush is not a moderate Republican and are starting to distance themselves from him.  I would heartily urge anyone who wants to understand our president and his agenda more fully, to read this book.<br />Oh yeah, Molly Ivins is frequently as funny a political writer as one will find these days.  Not just informative; it is fun.	2001-07-10
2004673:US	52048190	R2K8WFRKQQZI20	0312273193	442933144	The Hunting of the President: The Ten-Year Campaign to Destroy Bill and Hillary Clinton	Books	5	26	32	N	N	Be careful not to become your enemy	....<br />Let me make one thing as clear as possible:  YOU CAN HATE BILL CLINTON AND STILL THINK THIS BOOK IS ACCURATE!!!  A person could give this book a five star review and still think that Bill Clinton should have been removed from office.  This book critiques Clinton's opponents as being unfair, devious, and corrupt, but that does not automatically mean that Clinton is the second coming of Gandhi.<br />....  Conason and Lyons meticulously explain how a group of people who detested Bill Clinton set out to destroy the Clinton presidency.  Some of these individuals did this because they viewed Clinton as the embodiment of evil....<br />What results from Conason and Lyons's investigation is a portrait of mass delusion....<br />What I found depressing in the book was the extent to which supposedly moral individuals ...and many leading Republicans were willing to knowingly lie and mislead the press and the public about Clinton, for the sole purpose of trying to destroy him.... What Conason and Lyons show is that there was indeed a massive amount of lying, plotting, deception, exploitation, subterfuge, illegality, pandering, colluding, and manipulation, but virtually none of it by Clinton.  Instead, Clinton's rabid opponents came to embody all the qualities that they were convinced were true of Clinton.<br />In one way, the most depressing part of the book was the way the press itself was duped by Clinton's critics, but completely failed to cover these stories in accurate fashion.  ...it is astonishing in reading this book to see how frequently journalists for major newspapers and magazines simply got it all wrong.<br />Despite being depressing, this is a fascinating read.  Some of the stories would have been funny divorced from the total context....<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in recent American politics.  And it is of equal value to both those who liked Clinton and those who hated him.  I have no beef with anyone who hates Clinton.  But I think it is important that he be hated for real, and not illusory, reasons.  More importantly, I think the book is important as a reflection on where politics has gone in America.  ...<br />One complaint about the book.  While the authors certainly do not portray Clinton as a saint, and very definitely indicate errors that he made while in office, I wish that they had dealt a little more fully with the question of whether ANY of the claims made about Clinton both in his years in Arkansas or Washington.  Unquestionably, his moral flaws were bizarrely distorted by his critics.  But to what extent did he have a problem involving himself with women.  Perhaps the authors felt that this was not a proper question to deal with.  But it is a natural question that will arise on the part of anyone reading this book.t I think it is important that he be hated for real, and not illusory, reasons.  More importantly, I think the book is important as a reflection on where politics has gone in America.  ...<br />One complaint about the book.  While the authors certainly do not portray Clinton as a saint, and very definitely indicate errors that he made while in office, I wish that they had dealt a little more fully with the question of whether ANY of the claims made about Clinton both in his years in Arkansas or Washington.  Unquestionably, his moral flaws were bizarrely distorted by his critics.  But to what extent did he have a problem involving himself with women.  Perhaps the authors felt that this was not a proper question to deal with.  But it is a natural question that will arise on the part of anyone reading this book.	2001-05-10
2009364:US	52048190	R2APRPP4FSOW1J	0782125921	827248248	Ccna Jumpstart	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Disagreeing with my fellow reviewers on this one	This very nice book is getting some undeserving reviews here for the simple reason that I believe the others are wanting it to be something that it was not intended to be.<br />WHAT IT IS NOT is a preparatory book for the CCNA exam.  And if one reads the cover carefully, no such claims for it are made.<br />WHAT IT IS is an introduction to networking and internetworking for those who are planning to go on and study for the CCNA exam.  In other words, the book is intended to provide a broad grasp of networking for those who have not already been working in a network.  For instance, perhaps someone has been working primarily in desktop support, but wants to move into networking.  This book will provide an overview for them of what is involved in a WAN.<br />On these grounds, the book is a great success.  In the past year I have had numerous occasions to try to bring individuals who were not familiar with internetworking (specifically, managers and sales staff) up to speed.  I would have loved to have had this book available at that time.<br />I do think that the publishers have perhaps limited the market for this book by emphasizing the CCNA connection.  While it is a good introduction to networking for less experienced individuals planning to go for their CCNA, the book is one of the very best introductions to networking that I have seen, and is of great value to a wide range of potential users, most of whom would never go on to become a CCNA.	2001-05-06
2010252:US	52048190	R2B7A0GP1U042C	0141000198	738261988	Bridget Jones's Diary	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A Highly Qualified Review	OK, I have to confess that I saw the movie first, and then read the book.  So, my reaction is very, very much effected by the flick.  But since a fair number of people are going to be in the same position that I was, I thought lovers of the movie who want to know if they should pick up the novel might profit from someone else who had been in the same position.<br />First, I utterly adored the movie, and was genuinely stunned at Renee Zellweger's performance.  I have always been a fan of hers, but she is so thoroughly American that it was very, very hard to imagine her playing a Brit.  I will confess that for the first 15 minutes of the movie that her accent really bothered me.  No, she didn't botch it.  She sounded quite acceptably English.  It was simply that all these scenes from JERRY MAGUIRE and DAZED AND CONFUSED and ME, MYSELF, AND IRENE and NURSE BETTY kept playing in my mind, and in all those she spoke very, very differently.  But once I adjusted, I loved her, her performance, and the movie as a whole.  So much so that I wanted to read the book.<br />Coming to the book after the movie is a mild disappointment.  The primary reason is that Renee Zellweger was so utterly delightful, that the novel suffers somewhat by comparison.  Nonetheless, the book itself has sufficient wit, personality, and diversity to delight someone who has seen the movie first.  There are the usual variances between the events in the novel and those in the book, but a surprisingly large number of events were common to both.<br />I found one thing utterly amazing in the novel:  both of the male leads of the movie are mentioned explicitly in the book.  At one point in the book Bridget decides to watch the BBC production of PRIDE AND PREJUDICE.  She starts comparing her Mark Darcy with the Mr. Darcy of the TV series.  The part of Mr. Darcy in the BBC series was played by Colin Firth, who also played Mark Darcy in the movie.  Furthermore, on her job she suggests that her TV show do a segment on the real life romance between the actors who played Darcy and Elizabeth:  Colin Firth and Elizabeth.<br />The other actor mentioned was Hugh Grant, and his mention was not at all flattering.  In fact, I am somewhat surprised that Hugh Grant agreed to be in the movie given his appearance in the novel.  The novel has a couple of characters debating why Elizabeth Hurley stays with Hugh Grant after his high publicized encounter with a prostitute.  Now, it surprises me that Grant took the role because he surely knew that the flick would increase the number of readers of the book.  On the other hand, perhaps he (probably correctly) assumes that everyone already knows about that incident.  And I have to admit that I do admire the fact that his willingness to be so public after an admittedly embarrassing incident like that does increase my admiration of him.  Not that the incident took place, but that he is determined to get on with his life despite a mistake in judgment.<br />So, I do think that someone who has seen the movie first, will definitely enjoy this book.  And I will add to what has been said by other reviewers:  this book is a very, very fast read.  But also a very, very fun read.t on the real life romance between the actors who played Darcy and Elizabeth:  Colin Firth and Elizabeth.  <br />The other actor mentioned was Hugh Grant, and his mention was not at all flattering.  In fact, I am somewhat surprised that Hugh Grant agreed to be in the movie given his appearance in the novel.  The novel has a couple of characters debating why Elizabeth Hurley stays with Hugh Grant after his high publicized encounter with a prostitute.  Now, it surprises me that Grant took the role because he surely knew that the flick would increase the number of readers of the book.  On the other hand, perhaps he (probably correctly) assumes that everyone already knows about that incident.  And I have to admit that I do admire the fact that his willingness to be so public after an admittedly embarrassing incident like that does increase my admiration of him.  Not that the incident took place, but that he is determined to get on with his life despite a mistake in judgment.<br />So, I do think that someone who has seen the movie first, will definitely enjoy this book.  And I will add to what has been said by other reviewers:  this book is a very, very fast read.  But also a very, very fun read.	2001-05-04
2313912:US	52048190	R1G4UP5228ADFM	0152938230	646521590	A Visit to William Blake's Inn: Poems for Innocent and Experienced Travelers	Books	5	49	51	N	N	Astonishing children's poetry	As a book fiend, I have tried to afflict my daughter with as any books as possible growing up.  I bought her novels, picture books, pop up books, classics, contemporary award winners, and every other kind of book as can  be imagined.  But of all the books of poetry that I bought her, this  extraordinary volume was my personal favorite.  I loved reading it so much  to her that I bought a copy for myself, and it now rests on my bookshelf  between Whitman and William Carlos Williams (and just before that marvelous  lover of Blake, William Butler Yeats). These are not just fine children's  poems, they are fine poems.  I have sent copies of this to friends with  children, and close friends who are widely published poets themselves.  All  reacted with as much joy as I did.<br />(Must add that I find the 2 star  review below to be bizarre and incomprehensible.  This is not intended to  be William Blake, but poems written in homage to and in the spirit of the  SONGS OF INNOCENCE AND EXPERIENCE.  And in this the author succeeded  superbly.)	2000-08-21
2534751:US	52048190	R1ZHHFB5FKTP73	0671877283	3234287	Silverlight: The Arcana, Book II (Arcana/Morgan Llywelyn, Bk 2)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Great!	I loved the first one and the second one was great, but I can't believe they aren't going to do a third one. I loved the book, but am really angry at the authors.	2000-04-13
2718455:US	52048190	R13HGZOZU1U2IN	0060921609	850363835	Victorian America: Transformations in Everyday Life, 1876-1915 (The Everyday Life in America Series, Vol. 4)	Books	5	84	85	N	Y	Superb despite its encyclopedic nature	Make no mistake about it:  this book is less a history of everyday life in the United States in the Gilded Age than it is an encyclopedia of an astonishing range of facts about life in that period arranged around a  series of very general themes.  In a lesser book, this could be accounted a  flaw, but in Schlereth's case it is a virtue because of the quality and  pertinence of the particular bits of information that Schlereth pulls  together.  I felt I came away from the book not merely with a deeper  knowledge of what life was like in America around the beginning of the 20th  century, but a deeper appreciation for and sense of what life was like at  the time.  This was especially brought home to me upon reading SISTER  CARRIE by Theodore Dreiser shortly upon finishing Schlereth's book.  On  almost every page I remembered something from his book that illumined in  some way or other the events in that novel (which was published in 1900,  but set in around 1890).<br />What I most appreciate about the book is the  sense that it was during this period that a way of life that most people  living today would recognize and feel at home with developed.  Most of the  conveniences that we take for granted--grocery and department stores,  electricity, the telephone, our particular forms of housing, indoor  plumbing, and a host of other services and products, all became prevalent  during the period covered in this book.  I urge anyone with an interest in  the deep background of life in this century a century ago to look closely  at this volume	1999-12-15
2718870:US	52048190	RX92G6GCQZCK7	0851152554	639084827	A History of Western Astrology	Books	5	23	25	N	N	The best history of astrology in English	I give this book a mildly enthusiastic 5 stars.  My passion for the book is somewhat diminished in that his history is rather insular:  one learns a great deals about the thought of some of the central figures in the history  of astrology, but almost nothing about the historical or social setting of  that discipline.  For instance, a general knowledge of Greek science is  utterly essential in understanding the manner in which astology first  developed in the West.  Tester seems to assume a mastery of this  background.<br />Despite this, Tester discusses all the key figures in the  history of Western astrology from the Hellenistic period through the  Renaissance, and does so with depth and subtlety.<br />It should be added that  this is a very scholarly treatment of the subject.  Anyone seeking a  popular history of the subject or anyone who actually believes in the  validity of astrology is likely not to find this volume to their liking.  But those who enjoy the works of authors like Frances Yates and Keith  Thomas, this volume will prove to be of great interest.	1999-12-15
2719259:US	52048190	R3SC9Z2HLVMBVM	0782126545	265867642	Asheron's Call Official Strategies & Secrets	Books	3	44	44	N	Y	Could have been a lot more useful	This game companion certainly contains a great deal of useful information, and I would not dispense with my copy for anything.  But any AC player should be aware of its shortcomings before purchasing.<br />First, the book  has no index, and that seriously lessens the value the book might have had  otherwise.  There are very, very many questions that I have had that could  have been answered much more quickly if there had only been an index.  Because this is an online game, if one is actually playing the game it is  rather difficult to take the time to flip through the pages of the book to  come up with the answer to a question.<br />Second, it would have been helpful  to have more maps.  Maps of regions showing dungeons, life stones, portals,  points of interest would all have been of the greatest use.<br />Third, some  guide providing a better idea of how to navigate Negreth would have been  especially valuable.  A drawing akin to a subway map might have been easily  accomplished.  As it is, if you have to get from one town to another,  especially one that you have not been to before, it can be frustrating and  irritating to figure out to get from point A to point B.<br />Still, the book  does contain a great deal of helpful information.  I have found the section  on monsters and their strengths and weaknesses to be valuable.  At one  point I realized that I was achieving no damage at all with my fire sword  on lime golems, opened the book, and saw that they recommended acid attacks  instead.  I switched, and went immediately from inflictng 2 or 3 points of  damage to inflicting 15-25.	1999-12-15
2719471:US	52048190	R2VO4C55SJ3D24	0140187766	879200271	Exile's Return: A Literary Odyssey of the 1920s (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	45	46	N	N	A book that defied yet exceeded my expectations	I had expected EXILE'S return to be more of a straightforward history of the Lost Generation, and was somewhat surprised to find instead a profoundly insightful, exceedingly well-written reflection on Malcolm  Cowley's literary generation.  As a result, many writers that we associate  with that decade, e.g., Ernst Hemingway, receive almost no mention, whereas  others, e.g., Hart Crane, get a considerable amount.  The highest praise  that I can bestow on this book is that in looking now at the poetry and  literature of that period, I feel much more at home in their world than I  did before reading Cowley.  A marvelous book in man, many ways.	1999-12-15
2737463:US	52048190	RIL9E64GWX27Z	1569800863	26812800	The Turner Diaries: A Novel	Books	1	112	200	N	N	Fourth Rate Fantasy	I first learned about this book through various studies of cult and extremist political groups.  Because of its prominence, I decided that I would read it.  I was prepared to encounter a book with rather flaky social  and political underpinings that nonetheless might be a little fun, just as  RAMBO or RED DAWN can be fun apart from a great deal of silliness.<br />I was  wrong.<br />The only thing this book offers is a fictional embodiment of  inconceivably naive and intellectually empty beliefs and fears.  The  writing style is inconceivably wretched, the characters unbelievable and  cardboardish, and the plot boring and without suspense.<br />Apart from  members of the extremist right, it is inconceivable that anyone deriving  any pleasure or enlightenment from this book.	1999-12-02
2764742:US	52048190	R2TTZAPGWULQI7	0060675365	693359168	Why Christianity Must Change or Die: A Bishop Speaks to Believers In Exile	Books	1	15	33	N	N	Inadvertant argument for dismantling Christianity	If Spong is right, then one would be much better off staying in bed on Sunday. Why waste your time going to church? He performs a masterful job of making Christianity look inconceivably silly. That is, if he is right. Essentially, he wants to remove every indispensable element of Christianity and substitute something that is uninteresting and bland in its place. Will we ever some to the end of silly books like this one?	1999-10-27
2770617:US	52048190	R2R7OJ2ULI5E31	0805419659	691977835	End-Time Visions: The Doomsday Obsession	Books	5	29	30	N	N	A good but depressing catalog of late 20th century silliness	Contrary to the first reviewer, this is an extremely fair-minded account of doomsday groups and movements (I wonder what he or she would consider fair-minded or impartial).  The inescapable fact is that all of the groups  and movements covered in this book base their beliefs on a weird,  indefensible blend of speculation and misreading of the past.  The onus is  on these groups to prove that they deserve to be taken seriously and not  merely clumped together with the others.<br />Over the past few years I have  found myself increasingly interested in what might be called (borrowing a  phrase from Isaiah Berlin) &quot;the counter enlightenment,&quot; which in  my opinion embraces a wide variety of attempts to escape the demands placed  by rationality and human reason on claims to knowledge.  This does not mean  that only what is completely rational is meaningful (at the end of the  TRACTATUS and in his NOTEBOOKS 1914-1916 Wittgenstein insisted that the  more important components of life cannot be encapsulated by that which is  rationally demonstrable).  But it does point to the fact that an enormous  number of people since the 18th century have attempted to escape the demand  that our beliefs be grounded upon something solid and demonstrable.  New  Age religion, esoteric religions, Christian fundamentalism (especially in  its more apocalyptic forms), modern astrology (ancient and renaissance  astrology in the West, while not in my opinion valid, was based entirely on  Greek scientific theories--when those were proven wrong in the early 17th  century, astrology collapsed as a belief system, only to be resurrected in  its current irrational form in the 19th century), theosophy, psychics, the  Christian Identity movement, and all of the myriad of groups discussed by  Abanes in this book are by their very nature unassociated with anything  that could be described as rational or supported by demonstrable proof of  any sort whatsoever (the fact that virtually none of these groups  predictions ever come to pass and yet many people continue to adhere to  them indicates that proof and disproof are not very important elements in  their make up).<br />I found this book to be fascinating and depressing at the  same time.  Many of the instances of apocalyptic nuttiness detailed in this  book I had heard of before, from Edgar Cayce to the Christian Identity  movement to the Heaven's Gate outfit.  Too many others I had not, like the  Great White Brotherhood in Russia.  It is important that we keep abreast of  the outer fringe of society.  It is depressing to realize that it is so  large and varied.<br />One more word about the previous review.  There are no  impartial positions on the groups mentioned in this book (the complete lack  of specific instances leads me to suspect that he or she did not read the  book at all, but merely reacted to what they thought the book was about).  You are either a member of the suicidally inclined Great White Brotherhood  or you consider it a form of insantiy.  You are either a member of one of  the Christian Identity factions, or you consider it a silly, irrational,  and sad form of organized racism.  But don't take my word for it.  Read the  book.se groups  predictions ever come to pass and yet many people continue to adhere to  them indicates that proof and disproof are not very important elements in  their make up).<br />I found this book to be fascinating and depressing at the  same time.  Many of the instances of apocalyptic nuttiness detailed in this  book I had heard of before, from Edgar Cayce to the Christian Identity  movement to the Heaven's Gate outfit.  Too many others I had not, like the  Great White Brotherhood in Russia.  It is important that we keep abreast of  the outer fringe of society.  It is depressing to realize that it is so  large and varied.<br />One more word about the previous review.  There are no  impartial positions on the groups mentioned in this book (the complete lack  of specific instances leads me to suspect that he or she did not read the  book at all, but merely reacted to what they thought the book was about).   You are either a member of the suicidally inclined Great White Brotherhood  or you consider it a form of insantiy.  You are either a member of one of  the Christian Identity factions, or you consider it a silly, irrational,  and sad form of organized racism.  But don't take my word for it.  Read the  book.	1999-10-18
2779317:US	52048190	R3COWOHYWXNI0H	0060641665	160769686	The Real Jesus: The Misguided Quest for the Historical Jesus and the Truth of the Traditional Go	Books	5	147	161	N	Y	A marvelous review of the current state of NT studies	As a former Biblical studies student (M. Div. from Yale Divinity School) turned philosopher, I read this book with the greatest of interest.  The primary reason I forsook my OT and NT studies was a despair at how  irrelevant and superficial and sceptical the entire discipline had become.  Despite the constant hawking of new discoveries and new breakthroughs in  Biblical studies, I felt myself as both a human being and a Christian  completely alienated from the vast majority of scholars working on the  Biblical materials.  (I should add that I gave up Biblical studies before  arriving at Yale, but I do believe that Brevard Childs is an exception to  all of this.  Had I not already been burned out, I would have profitted  from having studied with him.)<br />Timothy Luke Johnson does an absolutely  marvelous job of analyzing how and where things went wrong in NT studies.  Had he just set out to criticize the Jesus Seminar (and easy  undertaking--the vast majority of important NT scholars on both the left  and right of the theological spectrum look askance at their efforts), it  would have been an entertaining exercise in debunking.  But what I didn't  expect was a balanced and incisive analysis of where things went wrong in  Biblical scholarship.<br />I do recommend this book as an important  corrective to the misguided and rather silly efforts of Robert Funk and his  cohorts, but even more I recommend it as an analysis of where things went  wrong and as a guide to how we might get ourselves back on track.  After  having plowed through tedious and uninsightful works by Funk, Crossan, and  Pagels in recent months, I found this book to be a complete breath of fresh  air.	1999-10-04
2786047:US	52048190	R29AXIO8J9R1X4	0553212338	900054889	The Call of the Wild and White Fang	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Good, but marred somewhat by London's Social Darwinism	I had mixed reactions to this book. I missed it as a kid, and as an adult I have read too many other books to miss its shortcomings. Now, reading it as an adult, I find I have two major objections to the book, difficulties with central elements that impede my enjoyment of it.  First, there is the book's personification of animals.  I don't enjoy books where the author projects human emotions and instincts into nonhuman animals. Too many of Buck's actions were inexplicable as as a dog but explicable as a human.<br />The second difficulty lies the poor understanding of animal behavior that the book projects. London didn't have the benefit of the work of ethologists like Konrad Lorenz and David Mech, but as readers we do, and their work makes much of the behavior of Buck unfathomable.<br />Finally, like the vast majority of people, I find Social Darwinism to be both unpalatable and outmoded. Philosophically, this book harkened from a completely different generation.  Today we have trouble accepting survival of the fittest modes of thought.<br />On the other hand, despite these shortcomings and the naive philosophy, London does manage to tell a nice story, and I did find myself caring about what happened to Buck.	1999-09-22
2786354:US	52048190	R2Z4TGAM1UKTTJ	0140231730	660889022	The White Hotel	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A stunning experience	Others have written enough that I need not add much.  This book is best read knowing as little about it as possible.<br />I will merely add that over the years I have recommended it to five or six friends, all of whom  found it as impressive as I did.  Simply one of the finest novels of the  past twenty years.	1999-09-22
2787557:US	52048190	R20RD50XP1VVBB	0679722580	262981597	The Continental Op	Books	5	81	86	N	N	The best that Hammett ever wrote	While in graduate school at Yale, I actually went to the Beinecke Rare Book Library and read several special issues of BLACK MASK MAGAZINE published in the late 1940s that collected all of the Continental Op  stories not included in THE CONTINENTAL OP or THE BIG KNOCKOVER.  Most  readers of Hammett are unaware that over the course of his career he wrote  a vast number of stories featuring the overweight, verging on middle age  detective who stars in this collection.  One of the great tragedies in  American literary history has been the failure to publish all of these  stories.  Having read all of them, I can attest that while on the whole not  all of the out-of-print stories are as good as the ones in THE CONTINENTAL  OP and THE BIG KNOCKOVER, several of them are quite excellent.  My  understanding is that after Hammett's death, Lilian Hellman, who had a low  opinion of Hammett's detective fiction (jealousy?  spite?) and held the  copyright to his works, would not allow any of the works not already  well-established in publishing to be published.  I am not certain who holds  the copyright now, but fairly soon it should be all in the public domain,  and hopefully then these important stories will all be reprinted.<br />The  Continental Op is Hammett's main detective, not the more famous Sam Spade  (who appears in only one novel and a couple of short stories, as opposed to  the two novels and seventy some odd short stories of the Continental OP).  The stories in THE CONTINENTAL OP are the best featuring his main  characters.  It is impossible to stress precisely how good these stories  are.  The finest stories in this collection are the best things that  Hammett ever wrote.  Better than the two novels that Hammett wrote  featuring to Op--RED HARVEST (which inspired Akira Kurosawa's YOJIMBO,  which in turn inspired A FISTFUL OF DOLLARS; the wretched LAST MAN STANDING  was a more straightforward remake) and THE DAIN CURSE, better than THE  GLASS KEY and THE THIN MAN, and perhaps even better than THE MALTESE  FALCON.<br />I would urge anyone interested in 20th century American  Literature to read this book.  Anyone who is genuinely interested in  hardboiled detective fiction already has.nd perhaps even better than THE MALTESE  FALCON.<br />I would urge anyone interested in 20th century American  Literature to read this book.  Anyone who is genuinely interested in  hardboiled detective fiction already has.	1999-09-20
2798381:US	52048190	R2UF1E3M8A47AF	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	5	41	68	N	N	Awesome for adults, but we shouldn't force kids to read this	Anyone remember a skit that Andy Kaufmann did on Saturday Night Live? He came out on stage holding a copy of THE GREAT GATSBY, sat down on a stool, and told the audience that he had never really understood the book when reading it in school, and proposed that he and the audience read it aloud and discuss it, so that he could understand what it was all about. Maybe that is needed here.<br />I am not anti-kids or anti-teens. But high school students need constantly to remind themselves that they are not experienced readers, and that their opinions on books should be proffered with a necessary dose of humility--humility that they might not yet have learned to be a first rate reader.<br />To pass a judgment on THE GREAT GATSBY like \\"it isn't so great\\" or \\"this is a bad book\\" or \\"this is boring\\" says absolutely nothing about the novel but a great deal about the presumptuous oaf uttering the statement.<br />THE GREAT GATSBY--like ULYSSES, THE BROTHERS KARAMAZOV, LOLITA, MOBY DICK, MIDDLEMARCH, or Proust--provides the measure of what a great novel can achieve.  But one isn't born able to read and appreciate great books; it is a skill achieved over the course of time.<br />My advice to all the high schoolers who want to trash this book out of revenge for having been forced to read it: wait a few years, learn to read novels, gain a little more understanding of history, grow up a little, and then go back to it. The book will have remained the same, but you will have grown up sufficiently to get the point. Hopefully.	1999-09-01
2806514:US	52048190	RFXFJDSQ6V7CG	0553562614	445913	Snow Crash	Books	3	21	37	N	N	Awesome book -- awful book	Three stars doesn't quite sum up how I feel about this book.  I do consider it essential reading for anyone interested in Sci-fi or Cyberpunk, but that doesn't undo the fact that there are some utterly absurd elements  that undercut the aesthetic value of the book.<br />First, the good.  I have  never read some a convincing picture of the future as world-gone-bad.  Though Stephenson doesn't spend any time really explaining how society got  the way it has, the way it has become is quite powerfully presented.  His  understanding of the way in which the Internet might develop reflects a  sense of vision and insight that would have done Jules Verne proud.  On so  many things--future weapons, potential subcultural groups, lingo and slang,  technology--Stephenson hits precisely the right note.  On top of all this,  he has a wonderful assemblage of characters.  For all of this, Stephenson  unquestionably deserves 5 stars.<br />But SNOW CRASH also is one more example  of how things go wrong in sci-fi when there is any attempt to deal with  religion.  There have been, of course, many fine sci-fi novels in which  religion has served as an element.  The great classic A CANTICLE FOR  LEIBOWITZ springs to mind.  But when sci-fi attempts explain religious  phenomena or to bring it within the contenxt of imaginative analysis, it  invariably fails.  The extended and tedious discussions of Sumerian culture  and the highly speculative discussions of the history of religions were not  merely unconvincing and poorly founded on any of the historical record.  They were boring.  For this, SNOW CRASH deserves 1 star.<br />So, I recommend  this book very highly.  But I do warn any potential reader that there are  several passages and chapters that mar an otherwise masterful work.	1999-08-19
2811881:US	52048190	R10NKO7A4P4I50	0553213415	73897934	Madame Bovary (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	11	13	N	Y	Arguably the most influential novel ever written	This is not among my few favorite novels, but no one who is sensitive to great literature can fail to see the brilliance of this work.  In doing a bit of background work, I made the following discoveries:<br />Virtually every  French writer of the late 19th acknowledged Flaubert as their model.  In  England, Thomas Hardy essentially tried to write Flaubertian novels in an  English rural context.  Later in England, D. H. Lawrence explicitly wrote  novels that were polemical to Flaubert, so that he wrote in reaction  against MADAME BOVARY.  In Russia, Tolstoy decided to write his own version  of the story of Emma Bovary, ANNA KARENINA.  In the 20th century, James  Joyce--who was proud of how few writers he had studied--confessed that he  had read virtually every line of Flaubert and himself tried to carry to the  furthest extreme the Flaubertian dictum of art for arts sake.  And this is  merely the tip of the proverbial iceberg.<br />Is this the most influential  novel ever written?  I honestly don't know, but if one wanted to construct  a case for that assertion, a very, very powerful one could be made.	1999-08-10
2812202:US	52048190	R3EJ71HLNIFWN1	0674535812	545373507	Lipstick Traces: A Secret History of the Twentieth Century	Books	5	56	62	N	N	A tremendous catalyst for intellectual growth	LIPSTICK TRACES is a tremendous brain expander.  We talk sometimes of &quot;expanding one's consciousness,&quot; and of no book is that more appropriate than this one.  Marcus is not merely brilliant in what he  writes; he is brilliant in the artists and writers and works of art he  points you towards.  You will find yourself scurrying off to buy copies of  THE SOCIETY OF THE SPECTACLE, bootleg CDs of the Sex Pistols, and  hard-to-find copies of movies like 20 MILLION YEARS TO EARTH, and will find  yourself enriched by the process.<br />But the main reason to get this book is  that it is a lot of fun.  Maybe I am weird, but I had none of the sense  that some of the other readers had:  that it is hard, that it bogs down,  that it is a slow read.  Maybe its all the Wittgenstein, Hegel, and  Kierkegaard I read in grad school, but I found this book to be an absolute  page turner.  I give it my highest recommendation.	1999-08-10
2812408:US	52048190	R1NODAFQ1AUWQ3	0226677184	448679289	A Dance to the Music of Time: Fourth Movement	Books	5	17	18	N	Y	The worst thing about it is that it came to an end	C. S. Lewis once wrote that one of the greatest services that literature offers is the opportunity to experience worlds and lives not our own.  This is rarely more true than with Powell's magnificent series.  I had come to  feel that Nicholas Jenkins's friends were my friends, and by the end I felt  almost as if I had experienced another life.<br />If one is willing to make  the commitment of time, I wholeheartedly recommend this superb series.  In  a hundred years time, it might be the single work that I would recommend to  anyone wanting to know what life in the 20th century was like.	1999-08-10
2818782:US	52048190	RNBEN0EZKV82J	0306807289	13314756	The American Cinema: Directors And Directions 1929-1968	Books	4	14	19	N	N	Good even if you dislike auteur criticism	Auteur criticism is, in my opinion, a profoundly flawed theory of cinema that nonetheless was instrumental in emphasising the important role the director.  Anyone not in the grip of a theory and aware of the myriad of  factors that goes into the making of a good film has to realize that a vast  array of factors goes into the final product.  Only in rare instances can a  film be said to be the expression of the will of the director and treated  as such.  Frequently a film can be carried not by the director, but by the  cinematographer, the editor, the actors, or the screenwriter (anyone who  has read the original screenplay of CITIZEN KANE can enjoy a graphic  instance of the role a good screenplay can play in the production of a  masterpiece).<br />Having pointed that out, Sarris did help America take  directors more seriously than they had ever been taken before, and for that  he must be applauded.  That took many took the director to be the only game  in town doesn't undercut the value of this book<br />Stepping off my soapbox,  let me just say how much fun this book is.  It is great fun to argue with  Sarris about which directors he places in the Pantheon (the best of the  best of the directors to have worked in the U.S.) and which he leaves out.  It would be wonderful if he were to turn his attention to producing an  updated version of the book, extending into the current decade.  I would be  interested to see to what extent he revised the Pantheon, to see where he  placed Coppola, Scorsese, Sayles, and Spielberg.<br />Recommended to anyone  with a more-than-casual interest in American cinema.	1999-07-30
2819572:US	52048190	R144UYU3U1LAA	0842362207	376521582	Spirit-Controlled Temperament	Books	1	22	35	N	N	Intensely weird reappropriation of discredited pagan science	The thing that disturbs me most about this book's popularity is the fact that it ironically tries to get Christians to revert to a way of conceiving human personality that was 100% derived from Classic pagan thought. Unfortunately, most Christians do not know the historical background of the ideas LaHaye tries to resurrect, and therefore usually just assume that LaHaye knows what he is talking about. LaHaye's complete lack of knowledge therefore does great harm.<br />Inspired initially by C. S. Lewis (another Christian writer) and Keith Thomas, I have over the past few years been reading a great deal about the world view that held sway from the time of the Greeks until the early 17th century, a worldview formed profoundly by Aristotelian science and Platonic philosophy. One of the core aspects of this rightfully rejected worldview was the notion of the four elements--air, fire, water, and earth--which undergirded all the scientific, magical, and astrological beliefs of the period. The psychological theories--in particular the theory of the four humours--was based entirely on this notion of four consitutive elements. The theory was abandoned in the 17th century after the work of scientists (especially the Christian chemist Robert Boyle) showed that the Aristotelian basis for a belief in the four elements was incorrect.<br />One of the main things to remember is that the belief in the four elements (and hence the four humours) was in the strictest sense a heritage of paganism. LaHaye's book, of course, is a study of the Christian personality by constant referral to this classically pagan world view. It is important to stress that this world view, while adopted later by many Christian thinkers, was not at all developed by Christian thinkers and theologians.<br />Given all of this, it was extraordinarily surreal to find a fundamentalist Christian attempt to resurrect a completely discredited pagan conception of human personality.<br />I can understand why many late-20th century and early 21st century Christians can find this book compelling. LaHaye appears to be going back to a mode of those thought that predates Freud. But the problem is not that he goes back before Freud, but that the theses of the book are absurd. He does not harken back to a prior \\"Christian\\" way of thinking, but a way of thinking that was completely and irrefutably discarded by Christian scientists in the 17th century. But someone with a strong sense of history might find this rather bizarre book rather entertaining.h century and early 21st century Christians can find this book compelling. LaHaye appears to be going back to a mode of those thought that predates Freud. But the problem is not that he goes back before Freud, but that the theses of the book are absurd. He does not harken back to a prior \\"Christian\\" way of thinking, but a way of thinking that was completely and irrefutably discarded by Christian scientists in the 17th century. But someone with a strong sense of history might find this rather bizarre book rather entertaining.	1999-07-29
2843290:US	52048190	R3G5DT2M999WE9	0810923130	245193225	Krazy Kat: The Comic Art of George Herriman	Books	5	11	12	N	N	The Kraziest love triangle ever	This is a wonderful introduction to George Herriman's great comic strip Krazy Kat that ran for several decades in the early twentieth century. This introduction provides biographical background to Herriman's art, a survey of some of his influences, and a very healthy dose of Krazy Kat panels, both color and black & white. It also discusses the way that Krazy Kat became a cultural phenomenon, easily one of the most highly regarded comics of the century, and permeating many other arts as well.<br /><br />The Krazy Kat strip is utterly insane, surreal stuff. Here is the premise: Krazy Kat (who is usually female but is sometimes apparently male) is in love with Ignatz Mouse. Ignatz loathes Krazy, and to prove it konstantly kreases that kat's krown with a brick. Incredibly, Krazy sees this as proof of Ignatz's affection, and falls even more deeply in love (many panels show hearts rising from Krazy's heart when she is hit by one of Ignatz's bricks). Officer Pup, the town constable, is in love with Krazy and frequently throws Ignatz into jail for hitting Krazy, which causes Krazy to pine for her would-be lover. This is merely the barest sketch of this weird and wild world. The town of Concocino is populated by a host of equally outrageous characters, though the focus continually comes back to the three principals.<br /><br />Though even the most recent of these strips are over sixty years old, Krazy Kat has stood up magnificently over the years. Part of the reason surely lies with Herriman's enormous gifts as an illustrator. The Sunday strips in particular are things of great beauty, with the frames arcing around the page in spectacular designs of considerable innovation and complexity. The content of the comics reflects a genuine wit and substantial intelligence, while the bizarre love triangle possesses endless possibilities for both humor and pathos. This truly is one of the most unique comics in the history of the medium, and even those who do not usually respond to the genre are apt to find this enormously entertaining.t to find this enormously entertaining.	1999-06-23
2849417:US	52048190	R1NNXX1OBMX1KA	0140159959	628844704	Ludwig Wittgenstein: The Duty of Genius	Books	5	70	70	N	N	A superb biography of a philosophical genius	Everything Wittgenstein scholars had been hoping that Brian McGuinness's biography was going to be but wasn't.  Valuable both for the philosopher and for the layperson who would perhaps like a better understanding of one  of the century's most important philosophers.<br />Contrary to the one  reviewer below, the Bartley biography is one of the most notorious and  irresponsible biographies of any philosopher of the 20th century.  It is a  travesty of scholarship, and an embarrassment to anyone with an critical  eye.  It is no secret that Wittgenstein was gay, but Bartley tries to prove  (with no proof existing to this effect) that Wittgenstein engaged in a kind  of sexual activity of the most promiscuous kind.  His proof is of the sort:  some guy I ran into in a gay bar in Manchester said he knew a guy who  looked like Wittgenstein who liked to take rough boys out for a bit of fun.  In short, we are not told who these sources were, which means that they  cannot be further assessed as to reliability and veracity, not to mention  the fact that his depiction of Wittgenstein contrasts markedly with what we  know of Wittgenstein from well-documented sources.  Not exactly the kind of  evidence that scholars like to utilize in making their assertions.  The  Bartley biography suffers in equal parts from a lack of philosophical  understanding on the part of Bartley and a willingness to credit the  flimsiest sort of hearsay.<br />The Toulmin and Janik book is much better  than the Bartley (I am somewhat biased as I took two seminars with  Toulmin), but it is an attempt to articulate Wittgenstein's intellectual  and cultural background, and is more of a supplement to a biography rather  than actually being a biography.<br />The Monk biography is wonderfully human  biography, which makes Wittgenstein come alive as a flesh and bone  individual.  I highly recommend it to anyone interested in Wittgenstein or  in 20th century philosophy.	1999-06-14
2863953:US	52048190	ROLOAGA6UVAK0	0679731369	62087535	Flaubert's Parrot	Books	5	3	6	N	N	An unexpected little masterpiece	This is one of my favorite novels of the past twenty-five years.  It is also one that will delight you even before you realize what is really going on in it.<br /><br />The novel starts off more as a quirky biography of the novelist Gustave Flaubert.  The narrator appears as a scholar concerned to find the original parrot that Flaubert used in writing his masterpiece \\"A Simple Heart,\\" a story in which a peasant woman believes that the Holy Spirit should be imagined not as a dove but as a parrot, since parrots possess the gift of speech.  The story ends as beautifully as any ever written, with the woman on her death bed sensing the presence of the God in the form of a giant parrot hovering over her.<br /><br />As I indicated, much of the novel functions as a wonderful introduction to Flaubert, both his wonderfully quirky life and his equally inventive literature.  In fact, for my friends who have read or are reading MADAME BOVARY, I always recommend this to them in the strongest possible terms.  More than any other book I know in English, this will make you want to read Flaubert if you haven't already and if you have it will make you want to read him again.  The specific task the narrator has set himself, however, is to find which of the stuffed parrots in the museum near where Flaubert lived was the actual one that Flaubert borrowed while writing his short story.  The novel becomes a bit of a mystery novel as he attempts to deal with the contradictory claims made for various birds and the many assurances amid so much confusion.<br /><br />But in the end this isn't what the novel is really about.  I don't want to spoil the novel's great twist by explaining what it really is about, but I will say that it is similar to the twist near the end of D. M. Thomas's wonderful THE WHITE HOTEL:  what you think the novel is about turns out to be something else instead.<br /><br />I cannot recommend this novel strongly enough.  It is a brilliantly conceived book and entertaining on several levels.  And on top of everything else you'll get a nice introduction to Flaubert, if not his parrot.top of everything else you'll get a nice introduction to Flaubert, if not his parrot.	1999-05-21
2873226:US	52048190	R2X6QI76U28MI1	0140156046	937703555	Libra (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	5	7	10	N	N	There is a world inside the world	I put off reading this novel for years despite rave reviews from several literarily astute friends.  I simply did not want to read a novel about Lee Harvey Oswald.  But last fall I read UNDERWORLD, which I consider one of  the 4 or 5 greatest American novels of the past 50 years.  As a result, I  decided finally to give LIBRA a chance.<br />The bad news is that it doesn't  come anywhere near the level of UNDERWORLD, which is an astonishing tour de  force.  Fortunately, it is still better than the vast majority of English  languague novels of the past couple of decades.  Any serious reader will be  doing him or herself a favor by picking up this novel.	1999-05-05
2905966:US	52048190	RSASVC82T5U1Y	0140431357	590612959	Tess of the D'Urbervilles: A Pure Woman (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Officially tied as my all time favorite novel	In case you are wondering, the novel it tied with is Dostoevsky's THE BROTHERS KARAMAZOV.<br />I have read this three times in three sittings. In case that is not clear, I mean to say that I have sat down to read TESS OF  THE DURBERVILLES on three separate occasions, and did not get up until I  had finished it. I once stayed up all night long to finish it.<br />Just one  of the great, irrestible book in the English language.	1999-03-09
2906253:US	52048190	RU4XAXSCV9XMA	0679764046	215482713	Shadows on the Rock (Vintage Classics)	Books	5	59	60	N	N	A magical excursion into a long lost world	Willa Cather was a lapsed Protestant who wrote two of the greatest novels of the twentieth century dealing with Roman Catholic characters:  this novel and the even greater DEATH COMES FOR THE ARCHBISHOP.  This book is  many things at once:  a magnificent historical novel, a wonderful depiction  of an adolescent growing up, and a wonderful evocation of a world that none  of us can visit any longer.  I do not know what possessed this midwesterner  to write a novel about 17th century Quebec, but I am delighted that she  did.  I cannot recommend this novel highly enough.	1999-03-08
2906272:US	52048190	RL5GYQP1PC4T7	0679728899	28667543	Death Comes for the Archbishop (Vintage Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A great American classic	I have to admit that I enjoy the novels of Willa Cather more than those of many of her American contemporaries, like Heminingway and Fitzgerald.  Perhaps because she primarily wrote books that were somewhat historical in  nature she isn't perceived as relevant as them.  For whatever reason, I  find her to be a marvelous writer, and although I have read almost a dozen  of her books, I haven't found anything that wasn't completely enchanting.  If you like this one, follow it up with the almost equally marvelous  SHADOWS ON THE ROCK.	1999-03-08
2906327:US	52048190	R2LFATXQETGICM	0679731806	19728425	The Professor's House (Vintage Classics)	Books	5	17	18	N	N	One of my favorite books by Cather	Objectively speaking, this book as a whole is perhaps not quite as excellent as some of her other books like DEATH COMES FOR THE ARCHBISHOP, but this nonetheless is one of my three favorites of her novels.  The book  consists of three parts, not all of them of equal strength (the only real  criticism of the book in the end is that the sections are not sufficiently  integrated with one another and that they do not quite balance one  another), but a couple of them containing some of her most powerful  writing.  A very, very good book.  Anyone who enjoyed DEATH COMES FOR THE  ARCHBISHOP would in particular like it.	1999-03-08
2906375:US	52048190	R3CWSGV4E2VLEI	0393312801	163144266	The Acid House	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Good book by a great comic writer	I have very mixed reactions to the writing of Irvine Welsh.  On the one hand, his use of Scottish dialect is astonishing and delightful, and his humor is unsurpassed.  He is also remarkable for bringing to literary light  a section of modern society (Scottish disaffected youth) that has been  largely neglected.  On the other hand, while he obviously realizes that his  characters are pathetic in the extreme, he work doesn't seem to be informed  by any essentially superior point of view.  He tags these folks as pathetic  losers, but doesn't seem to have any clue as to what they should be doing  instead.  And perhaps that is the point.  The best illustration of the  vacuous nature of these people's lives comes from the narrator of the  longest (and best) piece in the book (&quot;A Smart C*nt&quot;).  He is  obviously a person for whom the phrase &quot;Get a Life&quot; was coined,  and he does:  he is addicted to reading biographies.  He does get a life,  in fact, many lives via his reading.  He just doesn't have one of his  own.<br />A fun collection.  Obviously, in a work like this some pieces are  better than others.  But it is definitely worth taking a shot at.  I have  been inspired to go on to read TRAINSPOTTING (which I now am, and which I  am loving also).	1999-03-08
2906429:US	52048190	R348W0YUWISIYF	0679737448	895038209	One of Ours (Vintage Classics)	Books	3	22	24	N	N	Worth reading, but not Cather at her best	I am not certain that Willa Cather wrote anything that was not worth reading, but I do think this is the weakest of the ten or so of her works that I have read.  If you have read and enjoyed her other books, by all  means read it.  If you haven't read her at all, I would recommend instead  DEATH COMES FOR THE ARCHBISHOP, THE PROFESSOR'S HOUSE, or SHADOWS ON THE  ROCK, or her prairie books MY ANTONIA or O PIONEERS.  This book is a decent  book by a great writer.	1999-03-08
2921130:US	52048190	RRE6CVBEP8GO	0192816977	513722041	Almayer's Folly: A Story of an Eastern River (The World's Classics)	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	An astonishing first novel	Although not to be compared with his major works, this is nonetheless a most impressive first novel.  Perhaps because he was already well into his thirties when he wrote and published it, the book contains all the major  themes that one associates with Conrad.  If one has not read any Conrad at  all, I would recommend going to his great masterpieces first (VICTORY,  NOSTROMO, THE SECRET AGENT, UNDER WESTERN EYES, HEART OF DARKNESS, THE  NIGGER OF THE 'NARCISSUS', or LORD JIM).  But for anyone who enjoys the  work of Joseph Conrad, this book can hardly fail to fascinate.	1999-02-09
2923346:US	52048190	R2M2T15PFUFR2Z	0140237135	157039436	Living in Little Rock with Miss Little Rock	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wild, engaging, outrageous, compelling	As a native of Little Rock, Arkansas I am always alert to novels set in my home state and especially my home town.  This is easily one of the finest novels ever set or written in the state and easily the finest set in Little Rock.<br /><br />The historical context for this novel is important.  It was published at a time when Bill Clinton was entering the White House, but the setting for the novel was over a decade earlier, during the two year period when Clinton had been defeated in the governor's race by the widely ridiculed Frank White.  The latter became governor largely because Clinton had raised the fees for license plates and because the state had some difficulty dealing with his then-feminist wife Hillary (she was still progressive politically back then, instead of the right-leaning senator she is today--and anyone who thinks Hillary is a liberal is focusing on the right-wing hype and ignoring the realities of her actual positions on the issues).  White achieved eternal notoriety in the state when he blithely signed into the law allowing the teaching of creationism in public schools, which resulted in the most famous trial since Scopes regarding evolution and the Bible.  (A popular item in the state at the time was a Frank White doll holding a banana.)  It was an interesting period.  Pulaski County sheriff Tommy Robinson was outraging many citizens and delighting others with his \\"Walking Tall\\" antics, such as chaining prisoners to trees when the jails got overcrowded.  Robinson, who is pilloried in this novel by another county sheriff, went on to become a profoundly undistinguished one-term congressman who got caught up in the House post office scandal.  Arkansas guard U. S. Reed really did hit a half court shot as time expired to fuel a victory for the Razorbacks.  And there was a very famous murder and investigation of a Little Rock millionaire who was charged with murdering his wife.  Charles Morrison, the protagonist of this novel, is loosely based on that incident (a murder that has been covered in several of the television tabloid series).  What emerges is a highly evocative and compelling portrait of the city immediately before it began to emerge into the national spotlight.<br /><br />I love the narrative device that holds the novel together.  Many novels, of course, feature omniscient narrators, though rarely is the legitimacy of this technique established.  Here, however, Butler lays claim to the ultimate omniscient narrator, for the story is told by none other than the Holy Ghost.  This is typical of the way loves to play with one's expectations throughout the novel.<br /><br />Like a lot of Arkansas novelists (I think of Charles Portis here as well), Butler is a subtly funny writer.  Maybe living in the reason necessitates a sense of humor.  The book is filled with wonderfully grotesque characters and utterly unexpected twists.  It is just an enormously entertaining book.  I must confess to owning four copies of the book--a galley proof that I read before it was originally published, a pristine hardback first edition, a second hardback first edition that I lend to friends, and a curious British paperback edition that features a rather surreal cover.  On the latter there are cactuses in the background of the cover painting, leading me to wonder if the British book designer somehow or other confused Arkansas and Arizona.  I can state with no fear of contradiction that cacti form no part of the flora of Arkansas.  As for my lender copy, I've allowed a number of my friends to read the book, and all have responded with great delight.<br /><br />However, as a longtime Cub fan, I do have a minor bone to pick.  In the spring of 1981 (the time when the novel was set) Harry Caray was not the announcer for the Cubs: he was still with the White Sox. The Cubs were sold to the Trib and in the fall of 1981 Harry was hired as the voice of the Cubs. The rest is, as they say, history.<br /><br />It is truly awful that this novel is out of print.  It is definitely worth searching out.  Unless some publisher has the good sense to reprint it, I think this is going to be one of those novels that generates its own little fan club, whose members pass on the knowledge of the book to other deserving souls.  I confess that I find it painful that a fine book like this is allowed to go out of print while a neverending stream of junk novels stay in print.  Please do yourself a favor and pick this one up and read it.  You will be glad that you did.ely worth searching out.  Unless some publisher has the good sense to reprint it, I think this is going to be one of those novels that generates its own little fan club, whose members pass on the knowledge of the book to other deserving souls.  I confess that I find it painful that a fine book like this is allowed to go out of print while a neverending stream of junk novels stay in print.  Please do yourself a favor and pick this one up and read it.  You will be glad that you did.	1999-02-05
2927708:US	52048190	R3CPNWZIKJ1XWG	0192828193	30707208	An Outcast of the Islands (The World's Classics)	Books	4	28	28	N	N	A powerful tale of greed and passion	AN OUTCAST OF THE ISLANDS was both Conrad's second novel and the second novel in a trilogy of books featuring Almayer (the first book being ALMAYER'S FOLLY and the third Conrad's final novel, THE RESCUE), who is a  major minor character in this one after being the major character in his  first novel.  This novel is not as strong an effort as the novels from his  major phase, but it is nonetheless a book of great power and wonderfully  illustrates most of the great themes that run through all of his books.  I  have a love-hate relationship with Conrad, because while I respond to the  marvelously depicted male characters in his books (his women are usually  implausibly stupid and cardboardish) and their conflicts with the universe  and each other, I find the world he describes as being a little too bleak  and the cosmos far too impersonal.  All of his characters are doomed to  ineffecual action, and their fates are determined by forces and factors  outside of themselves, or perhaps to some degree by motives within  themselves over which they have no power.  I do not like Conrad's universe,  but I admit the power of his creation.<br />This is not one of Conrad's  greatest works.  It belongs in a tier immediately below his very greatest  works like NOSTROMO, THE SECRET AGENT, UNDER WESTERN EYES, HEART OF  DARKNESS, LORD JIM, and VICTORY.  Nonetheless, slightly lesser Conrad is  more rewarding than major works of other writers, and I heartily recommend  this novel (as well as his other books) to any serious reader.	1999-01-28
2927761:US	52048190	R3VDBLIB1NBB8G	0385240880	539488056	The Sot-Weed Factor	Books	5	12	13	N	N	An indisputable comic masterpiece	I have an official list of &quot;The Three Funniest Novels That I Have Ever Read.&quot;  The three books are, in no particular order, Stanislaw Lem's THE FUTUROLOGICAL CONGRESS, Joseph Heller's CATCH-22, and John  Barth's THE SOTWEED FACTOR.  There were times in the latter, especially  near the end, where I had to pause repeatedly in my reading to laugh out  loud.<br />But this book has much more to offer than just humor.  Barth, who  in his novels clearly reveals himself to be a student of the genre, strives  to write an 18th century novel in the 20th century, and succeeds  magnificently.  I believe that this novel couldn't help but delight any  serious reader whose possesses even the slightest sense of humor.	1999-01-28
2927825:US	52048190	R3CF3RZHCDJFSZ	0226677141	78919434	A Dance to the Music of Time: First Movement	Books	5	115	125	N	N	The richest social world I know of in fiction	First, although I adore this series, I would like to demur from the description of this series as a comedy.  Certainly there are many comic situations and laughable characters, but Powell's (pronounced POE-UHL, not  POW-UHL) comedy is intended less to make uslaugh than to make ussmile.  I  know many novels that are far funnier than this one, and if that were the  book's only virtue, it would not enjoy the status that it does.<br />Above  all, this is a work that limns in almost tedious detail the interrelations  and interworkings of a segment of English society in the 20th century.  These first three books take you from the early twenties into the early  thirties.  Despite the series great length, there is nothing epic about the  scale of the novels except for the overall length of of the series as a  whole.  The scenes are all horribly mundane.  A party here, a dinner there,  a chance meeting in a bar, more parties, more dinners.  But as the parties  and dinners multiply, and as one social encounter builds upon another, the  series does indeed take on an epic quality.<br />This new edition is far more  attractive than the old mass market edition of the series, but I do wish  that someone would have taken the effort to supply an appendix (perhaps to  the final volume) that would (as in some editions of Trollope and Proust)  explain who all the characters are and to whom they are related.  By the  sixth volume in the series, I began to find it extremely difficult to  remember precisely where each character fit in the social world as a  whole.<br />The greatest virtues of Powell's series are his richly delineated  characters (of which there are at least fifty to a hundred who are to some  degree significant) and his marvelously elegant prose.  I believe that  anyone who loves novels would love this series, in particular those who  have enjoyed Proust.	1999-01-28
2939789:US	52048190	R2F1ACXAU40P3T	0140186913	630320957	Loving; Living; Party Going (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	5	30	32	N	N	LOVING is one of the best novels I have read	I have read both of the three-novel volumes published by Penguin, and while I think even the worst of these is at least good, LOVING shines out as one of the best novels that I have ever read.  Set in Ireland during WW  II and consisting almost entirely of dialogue (no narrative voice worth  noting), it tells a poignant yet hopeful story of love in the upper and  servant classes of a country castle and estate.  The ending is one of the  very best that I have encountered, rivaling my other favorite endings  (BROTHERS KARAMOZOV, THE WHITE HOTEL, and POSSESSION).<br />I had serious  reservations about the Modern Library list of the 100 Greatest English  Novels of the 20th century, but I was delighted to see that they included  LOVING.<br />LIVING is not as strong as the other two books, but PARTY GOING,  while not the masterpiece that LOVING is, is nonetheless a very, very fine  book indeed.	1999-01-06
2997614:US	52048190	R2TEPKPBM6SNY1	1556521103	598883383	The Death Ship	Books	5	23	26	N	N	One of the great forgotten classics of the century	B. Traven is unquestionably one of the most fascinating writers of the  20th century.  For decades nothing was known about him except rumor, and  his exact identity was shrouded in confusion and mystery.  It was not even  known for certain what language he wrote in (it turned out to be German).  When John Huston was making the film version of Traven's THE TREASURE OF  THE SIERRA MADRE, Traven declined to visit the set, sending a friend  instead.  After Traven's death the first known photos of Traven were made  public, and Huston recognized Traven as the so-called friend, who was using  yet another of his many aliases (of which B. Traven was but one).  Anyone  interested in learning more about the man who was the most mysterious  author of the century should consult Wyatt's THE SECRET OF SIERRA MADRE:  THE MAN WHO WAS B. TRAVEN.<br />THE TREASURE OF SIERRA MADRE is a classic, but  this novel may be even better.  A man without a passport, a crime in post  WW I Europe, is forced to take a job on an ancient steamer (the narrator  suggests it was old when the Greeks and Romans ruled the Mediterranean).  The result is a nightmarish descent into hell and one of the most  unforgetable masterpieces of the century.	1998-08-23
3006251:US	52048190	R2XV7GMIRFGQBN	0679446656	567866585	Dreamer : A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A marvelous shocking of the imagination	In DREAMER a hermit tells clinical dream researcher Jody Nightwood that she should consult a shaman about dreams, because the encounter with completely alternative views about her field of study could shake up her way of thinking and provoke new insight.  I think that is more or less what Jack Butler is trying to do with his readers.  This is a novel of juxtapositions:  of the mundane and ordinary with the occult and concealed.  Nightwood believes her world is common enough, but even as she gains new insight into the complexity of her own life, she has no conception of the complex drama unfolding around her.<br />This is a novel of many virtues.  Butler is a master of evoking a sense of place.  I have never been to Santa Fe (where the novel takes place) or even seen photographs of it, but from reading the novel I have an idea of what the city must look and feel like (it may be a wrong idea, but at least it is a very definite impression).  The city and its locale became much more concrete for me than the other great novel that I have read about Santa Fe (DEATH COMES FOR THE ARCHBISHOP).  And for all the fantastical elements in the book--CIA operatives, shamans, vivid dreams, vampires--he is at his very best at describing the most ordinary of events.  Sitting at home making dinner, going out with friends to dinner, meetings with relatives, meeting new people:  these were my favorite moments in the book.<br />Anyone interested in contemporary fiction owes it to themselves to read this book.  A marvelous read.	1998-07-31
3028966:US	52048190	R1XVQ0VIFARZLG	0802130127	177081917	The 120 Days of Sodom and Other Writings	Books	1	10	25	N	N	Among the worst books in the history of Western Civilization	Sade is one of those authors that I believe many decide to like for reasons that have nothing to do with his actual work.  He is an author it is easier to have opinions about than he is to read.  If one, however, takes the time actually to read his books with any degree of critical assessment, he comes across as one of the least literally satisfying authors.  Sade did write about a plethora of taboos, but I think his interest is exclusively historical in nature.  I can't imagine that anyone truly would enjoy his books as literature, and I would be concerned by anyone who embraced its ideas.<br />What are the impediments to enjoying Sade as an author?  First, he is not a memorable writer.  The English translations are amazingly lackluster, and my understanding is that the translations, if anything, mask the weakness of the French originals.  The translators actually produce better literature than existed in the original.  Second, his characters are, at best, cartoonish and are, in fact, utterly cardboardish.  They lack motivation, except in the most primal, biological senses.  They lack depth, complexity, and charisma.  More disastrously, the supposedly most sympathetic characters are impossible to sympathize with.  For instance, in his novel JUSTINE, the heroine is raped repeatedly.  The plot could be reduced to the words:  \\"Justine gets raped a few hundred times.\\"  But no matter how frequently she is raped, Justine is perpetually stunned, never becomes sufficiently defensive, never learns anything about human nature.  E. M. Foster distinguishes between flat and round characters, but Sade's characters don't even come up to the level of flat.  Instead, they seem more like paper cut outs.  Third, the plot is nonexistent, and the action uninteresting.  This is especially true in 120 DAYS OF SODOM, in which the point is merely as many forms of sexual and physical torture as possible.  It might be mildly titillating for a few pages, but it very quickly becomes boring and ends by being impossibly tedious.  I doubt if one in one thousand readers makes it all the way through the book.<br />The release of the movie QUILLS might direct far more attention to de Sade than might normally be the case. One interesting thing in that film is that while de Sade is presented as a character with a passion for writing, no one at any point hints that he is in any sense a good writer. Outrageous, perhaps, but not good. I think that is a fair summary of de Sade.  He did break taboos, but he didn't thereby manage to be in any identifiable sense an interesting or good writer.  And that is, after all, the point of writing.  The social context and his place in society, as well as some of the intellectual pretences underlying his work, are the only things that kept him from being a mere and second-rate pornographer.ends by being impossibly tedious.  I doubt if one in one thousand readers makes it all the way through the book.<br />The release of the movie QUILLS might direct far more attention to de Sade than might normally be the case. One interesting thing in that film is that while de Sade is presented as a character with a passion for writing, no one at any point hints that he is in any sense a good writer. Outrageous, perhaps, but not good. I think that is a fair summary of de Sade.  He did break taboos, but he didn't thereby manage to be in any identifiable sense an interesting or good writer.  And that is, after all, the point of writing.  The social context and his place in society, as well as some of the intellectual pretences underlying his work, are the only things that kept him from being a mere and second-rate pornographer.	1998-06-03
3035074:US	52048190	RTCJXU0AX1CY	0192817191	338071498	Casting the Runes and Other Ghost Stories (The World's Classics)	Books	5	63	63	N	N	The best ghost stories that I have read	For several years my daughter and I have made a habit of from time to time gathering all the candles we can muster, lighting them, turn off the electrical lights and reading one of the stories in this collection.<br /> What Conan Doyle is to the detective story, James is to the ghost story.  These are not horror stories.  No gore is to be found, no monsters, no savagery.  One can find a subtle horror, a persistent sense that there are things in this world that we have either forgotten or never discovered.<br /> If one has ever engaged in any historical research on the occult (which I have undertaken as an extreme nonbeliever), one will come across several ancient books and manuscripts in the field that were edited by M. R. James.  He was not merely the writer of perfect ghost stories; he was an authority in the field of occult beliefs and practices.  This concrete grounding accounts for much of the realistic feel to the researches of many of the characters in his stories.	1998-05-08
3037609:US	52048190	R4XL0NAGP452V	0879756446	49363761	The New Age	Books	4	24	26	N	N	Some of the essays would get a 10, others a 5	THE NEW AGE is a collection of a number of columns and essays that Gardner has written over the years, and while it is almost impossible to maintain the highest degree of excellence over some thirty odd pieces, Gardner does a marvelous job.  Many of the piece in this collection--especially those dealing with New Ageism, fundamentalism, or individuals operating on the edge of the Occult--would get a 10, while others could receive a rating as low as 5.<br /><br />What I most appreciate about Gardner is the balanced perspective he brings to his subjects.  Unlike many sceptics, Gardner does not succumb to universal and indiscriminate debunking.  There are those who are not able to comprehend the difference between being a religous believer, for instance, and espousing Creationism and fundamentalism.  Gardner understands the distinction perfectly, however, and never engages in ad hoc attacks on religion when his real target is an irrational right-wing religion.  In this I find his work to be much more convincing than such sceptics as Michael Shermer and a bulk of the writers publishing on Prometheus Books.  One of the best examples of Gardner's balance is his obvious liking for Shirley MacLaine despite his abhorence of many of her inane preoccupations.  So, although there is an inevitable unevenness to the quality of the essays in the book, they overall stand at a very high level.<br /><br />Gardner reprints many letters written to him in response to the original printing of many of the articles, and I would like to take an opportunity to quibble on one small point, though on something that he mentions several times.  In writing of pentecostals, he mentions that they believe that when one is baptised in the Holy Spirit, one gift of the spirit is the ability to speak in \\"The Unknown Tongue.\\"  In my contact with Pentecostals, the stress has been on \\"other tongues,\\" many of which are known, and some of which are not.  There is no one such \\"unknown tongue.\\"  Some pentecostals like to recount anecdotes of supposedly uneducated people speaking in Latin, French, or German even though they have never learned the languages.  A small point, but I think it is important to realize that the emphasis with many charismatics is in speaking not \\"the unknown tongue,\\" but in other tongues than their own.ecount anecdotes of supposedly uneducated people speaking in Latin, French, or German even though they have never learned the languages.  A small point, but I think it is important to realize that the emphasis with many charismatics is in speaking not \\"the unknown tongue,\\" but in other tongues than their own.	1998-04-27
3045005:US	52048190	R3TJ0IHWR1712C	0521639905	305690485	The Measure of Reality: Quantification and Western Society, 1250-1600	Books	4	4	7	N	N	A quick and enjoyable read	Let me start by saying that I try not to inflate my ratings like so many on amazon.com, so this is actually a very positive rating.<br /> Crosby presents no original research here, but he does do a marvelous job of pulling together the work of others to bolster his argument that it was the shift in Europeans viewing reality in quanitificational concepts rather than qualitative ones that laid the intellectual groundwork for their global expansion.  Fortunately, in presenting the work of others Crosby has an eye equally attuned to the more entertaining moments in the shift to the age of quantification as to the more crucial.  He is also a highly entertaining writer.  The result is perhaps the easiest-to-read work of pre-modern history that I have encountered.  Not heavy duty stuff, but an extraordinarily pleasant way to spend a few hours.	1998-03-31
3046524:US	52048190	R1MFIG398D9P90	0300011571	207261206	The Works of Samuel Johnson, Vols 3-5: The Rambler (The Yale Edition of the Works of Samuel Johnson)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Contains perhaps the greatest prose in the English language	Samuel Johnson is arguably the greatest prose stylist the English language has produced, and contained within the two hundred or so Rambler essays written by Johnson (a few of the essays were written by others by invitation from Johnson) are perhaps Johnson's greatest work.  Not every essay is a classic, but many of them are and bear reading and rereading.<br /><br />Samuel Johnson was a brilliant but undisciplined scholar.  Although he was prolific as a writer, this was due more to how effortless it was for him rather than to a well-regimented schedule.  One of the reasons he undertook the projects of writing these essays--which were published every few days in pamphlet form--was to force him to concentrate on writing down his ideas on morals, art, literature, or whatever struck him at the time.  Even so, he was frequently employed in writing even at the last minute.  We are told that some of the essays were still in the process of being written even as they were being set at the printer; a printer's devil would sprint from Johnson's rooms to the press with each page.  What is astonishing is how perfect the essays are in their raw form.  Johnson surely was the greatest first-draft writer in the history of the language.  All of his contemporaries attest to the fact that he spoke precisely as he wrote.<br /><br />Even if Johnson had been given the opportunity to edit and improve his writing, what would that have accomplished?  How can one improve on a passage like this?<br /><br />\\"A frequent and attentive prospect of that moment, which must put a period to all our schemes, and deprive us of all our acquisitions, is, indeed, of the utmost efficacy to the just and rational regulation of our lives; nor would ever any thing wicked, or often any thing absurd, be undertaken or prosecuted by him who should begin every day with a serious reflection, that he is born to die.\\" (Rambler 17)<br /><br />There is unfortunately no good one-volume edition of the Rambler essays.  The Bate anthology regretfully neglects the moral essays for those more aesthetic and literary in nature, which is tragic because Johnson is a religious moralist as much as he is a literary critic, and even the critical side cannot be understood without an appreciation of Johnson's religious and moral convictions and sensibilities.  As a side note, I could add that this is typical of Bate, and is especially in evidence in his otherwise marvelous biography of Johnson, where he tends to treat Johnson's very powerful religious beliefs as an odd sort of psychological aberration.<br /><br /> It is impossible to recommend a purchase this expensive for the casual reader, but as owner of the three-volume set, I can attest that any lover of Johnson will find him or herself going to these volumes and especially particular essays, again and again and again.neglects the moral essays for those more aesthetic and literary in nature, which is tragic because Johnson is a religious moralist as much as he is a literary critic, and even the critical side cannot be understood without an appreciation of Johnson's religious and moral convictions and sensibilities.  As a side note, I could add that this is typical of Bate, and is especially in evidence in his otherwise marvelous biography of Johnson, where he tends to treat Johnson's very powerful religious beliefs as an odd sort of psychological aberration.      It is impossible to recommend a purchase this expensive for the casual reader, but as owner of the three-volume set, I can attest that any lover of Johnson will find him or herself going to these volumes and especially particular essays, again and again and again.	1998-03-25
3048790:US	52048190	R2BICGQ4X3BRKM	0198752180	745437721	Kierkegaard and the Limits of the Ethical	Books	5	13	14	N	N	The best book on Kierkegaard that I have read	During my academic studies I managed to read between 50 and 75 books on Kierkegaard, and along with Louis Mackey's KIERKEGAARD: A KIND OF POET, this was the most illuminating that I encountered.  This is a clear and penetrating study of both Kierkegaard's own work and the way that it can be used to address current issues in moral philosophy.  Should be on the short list of essential books for any aspiring student of Kierkegaard.	1998-03-17
3049166:US	52048190	R1X4QRH1SSVKU4	0156849054	710522506	The Star Diaries	Books	5	33	34	N	N	Ijon Tichy rules!	My understanding is that the three books featuring space traveller Ijon Tichy were originally published in Polish in a single volume (THE FUTUROLOGICAL CONGRESS, THE STAR DIARIES, and MEMOIRS OF A SPACE TRAVELLER).  If so, I would insist that that has to be one of the ten greatest science fiction books ever published.  The highpoint of the Tichy tales is THE FUTUROLOGICAL CONGRESS, which is published as a separate book in English, but the stories in THE STAR DIARIES are very nearly as good (the remnants were published in the MEMOIRS).  Essential reading.  They come across as some demonic blend of Italo Calvino, Escher, and Groucho Marx.  Most sci-fi writing is deeply derivative from previous writers, but Stanislaw Lem is possibly the most original sci-fi writer of the past forty years.  I am one of those who believe that Lem should have received serious consideration for a Nobel Prize.	1998-03-14
3049352:US	52048190	R38UXDI0HC0ZI7	0140107061	370355631	My Strange Quest for Mensonge (King Penguin)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	I am crushed!  A profoundly funny parody of academia!	I lent my copy to so many people that I don't know where it ended up.  I was looking this up to order a copy, and I was horror striken to learn it is O.P.<br /> Let me put it this way:  this is the funniest book ever written about academia, and the best academic parody ever written.  The book is the recounting of an attempt to gather concrete evidence concerning Mensonge, who is the deconstructionist's deconstructionist.  In &quot;What is an Author?&quot; Foucault argues that in the creative act, it is not the individual who write the work, but all of society that writes the work through the individual who serves merely as the nexus for society.  Mensonge is the fictional author of one of the most difficult of deconstructionist classics, of which only a few dozen copies exist, and each one of which differs from all the other copies, because the type was changed randomly by the incompetent printers who produced the final copies.  The title of the work in English would be (I can't remember the French title precisely, which is the only title given in the book, and I can't double check this, because I don't know where my copy is) FORNICATION AS A CULTURAL ACT.  Mensonge takes the Foucaultian insight a step further, and argues that in the act of fornication, it is not the individual but society as a whole that is engaged in the act.<br /> This book is a priceless jewel for anyone who has studied any literary theory in the past thirty years or even heard the name Derrida.  Bradbury's comments about academia are hysterical, the near-encounters and Mensonge sitings he describes are delightfully surreal, and the style in which he pursues his subject unyieldingly real in an obvious absurd situation.  The bibliography is worth the cost of the book, with, for instance, genuine writings by Barthes alongside patently made-up articles on Mensonge.<br /> If no publisher takes this book up again, the MLA should print it and distribute it for free.	1998-03-12
3049395:US	52048190	RFDYVQX4ZKEJQ	0451185455	710458261	True Grit	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A vast improvement on the movie	Charles Portis deserves to be better known in the world of American Literature, but not on the basis of this book.  TRUE GRIT is a fine novel, but it is not nearly as strong as his comic novels, in particular the tragically out of print books THE DOG OF THE SOUTH and MASTERS OF ATLANTIS.  While I do like TRUE GRIT, it is not representative of Portis's work as a whole.<br /> Despite not being his best work, this is a fine and impressive novel, with one of the most compelling Western anti-heroes to come along in quite a while in Rooster Cogburn.  Equally as good is the narrative noice of Mattie Ross, who while a young girl, is not the least bit cute or sweet.  She is, however, courageous and admirable, and is as fine an exemplar of &quot;true grit&quot; as Rooster.<br /> As is frequently the case, the book is considerably better than the movie.  The film suffered from several difficulties, the two most serious being casting and location.  Anyone familiar with Arkansas and Oklahoma knows that the movie had to have been filmed in Colorado or a similar Western state.  The incongruence of real locale and fictional locale lends a surreal air to the film.  The more serious problem in the film was casting.  On the one hand, John Wayne was perfect as Rooster.  It is impossible to imagine anyone else playing the role.  On the other hand, Kim Darby and Glenn Campbell were utterly inappropriate, the latter because he is not an actor and the former because she was 8 or 9 years too old for the role.  Mattie is a girl, not a young woman.  In the novel there is an obvious though understated affectionate bonding Rooster and Mattie, and perhaps the film makers thought that this would seem perverse if an actress near Mattie's real age played the role.<br /> Two related anecdotes.  My high school senior English teacher lived in an apartment in the area of Little Rock, Arkansas known as &quot;The Heights.&quot;  She claimed (and I have no reason to doubt this), that her apartment and Charles Portis's in the same complex shared a wall, and she could hear a typewriter from time to time.  Since they were longtime neighbors, I like to think she heard TRUE GRIT and his other books being written.  The other anecdote concerns a professor in the small, private Baptist college I attended in Arkansas.  This one-eyed geography prof was reputed to be a former sheriff of Yell County Arkansas and an acquaintance of Charles Portis, and a model for Rooster Cogburn (he also later served briefly as lieutenant governor of Arkansas, when Lt. Gov. Footsie Britt briefly became governor so that Dale Bumpass could become a member of the the U.S. Senate).  I don't whether there was any truth to this rumor or not; but it is a good rumor.and Charles Portis's in the same complex shared a wall, and she could hear a typewriter from time to time.  Since they were longtime neighbors, I like to think she heard TRUE GRIT and his other books being written.  The other anecdote concerns a professor in the small, private Baptist college I attended in Arkansas.  This one-eyed geography prof was reputed to be a former sheriff of Yell County Arkansas and an acquaintance of Charles Portis, and a model for Rooster Cogburn (he also later served briefly as lieutenant governor of Arkansas, when Lt. Gov. Footsie Britt briefly became governor so that Dale Bumpass could become a member of the the U.S. Senate).  I don't whether there was any truth to this rumor or not; but it is a good rumor.	1998-03-12
3049448:US	52048190	R2K4I7WBP9JUS2	0312863551	562507215	The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress	Books	5	1	2	N	N	And I am not a particular fan of Heinlein!	I have mixed feelings about Heinlein.  I have been disturbed by some things I have heard about his politics, and he wrote what I considered to be one of the most overrated books that I have read:  STRANGER IN A STRANGE LAND.  But on the other hand, I have read some other books that while I didn't consider them to be masterpieces, were definitely a lot of fun, such as CITIZEN OF THE GALAXY, THE GLORY ROAD, and STARSHIP TROOPERS.<br /> But this is a great book.  Superb plot, fine characters, a unique situation, lots of action, and one of the best computers in sci-fi.  I may be iffy on Heinlein as a whole, but not on this one.	1998-03-12
3049471:US	52048190	RSAM0JH13NN95	0671721674	92373266	Glory Road	Books	4	3	6	N	N	A good time is had by all	Not a masterpiece, but a thoroughly fun read.  One of those fun books to find when you want to read something light but entertaining.	1998-03-12
3050572:US	52048190	R3HTL6G8GF8GUB	0195213602	831560866	Religion and the Decline of Magic: Studies in popular beliefs in sixteenth and seventeenth century England	Books	5	32	34	N	Y	An astonishing book in every way	RELIGION AND THE DECLINE OF MAGIC is one of the greatest works of history that I have ever read. It is one of those books that is both highly entertaining and massively informative. It is also infuriating, because it is a book that is so full of detail, that it doesn't seem as if one person could have produced it. It makes me feel as if I have been wasting my life.<br />Thomas's subject is--as the title proclaims--the prevalence of and subsequent decline in magical beliefs in the Great Britain in the 16th and 17th centuries. He surveys magic in a myriad of forms: magical elements within religious practice, village wizards and cunning men, astrology, prophecies, and--in the most famous and frequently referred to section--witches. My favorite sections were those dealing with astrology and witchcraft, as well as the beginning chapter dealing with \\"nasty, brutish, and short\\" quality of life at the time in England. The book is filled to the brim with fascinating bits of information, such as the fact that most of the caloric intake of men, women, and even children at the time came from beer, and that at sea an allotment of a gallon of beer a day was made! The inescapable conclusion was that Britain was a nation of alcoholics.<br /><br />I find it difficult to overpraise this book. Since reading it during the summer, I have found dozens of references to it in various works, and always with the highest praise attached. One of the blurbs on the back of the beautiful new paperback edition recently put out by Oxford University Press claims that it is one of the two or three greatest works of history in the past thirty years, and I have no reason to doubt it. As testament to how highly I esteem this book, I plan on buying a new copy, since the old Scribner's paperback I read barely managed to hold together til the end.<br /><br />Keith Thomas's other book, MAN AND THE NATURAL WORLD, is also a work of the highest order. My one complaint with Thomas is that he has not written enough books. My hope is that he is working on another.<br /><br />Note:<br /><br />Since writing that review Keith Thomas has come out with another work that I just found out about and just ordered.  Due to a very heavy reading/writing schedule I'm not going to be able to read it for a while, but I look forward to doing so with enthusiasm.  The title is THE ENDS OF LIFE: ROADS TO FULFILLMENT IN EARLY MODERN ENGLAND.e is that he is working on another.    Note:    Since writing that review Keith Thomas has come out with another work that I just found out about and just ordered.  Due to a very heavy reading/writing schedule I'm not going to be able to read it for a while, but I look forward to doing so with enthusiasm.  The title is THE ENDS OF LIFE: ROADS TO FULFILLMENT IN EARLY MODERN ENGLAND.	1998-03-07
3050584:US	52048190	R2PHV8E8H7RLFS	0521422817	383860912	An Experiment in Criticism (Canto)	Books	5	11	16	N	N	One of Lewis's greatest books.	Whether one otherwise adores or detests C. S. Lewis, this is a book every reader can love.  Arguing that the focus in reading should not be on whether a book is a great work or not, he insists what is important is whether a book is susceptible to great reading.  The result is that otherwise flawed and perhaps imperfect books (e.g., Toltoy's &quot;Master and Man,&quot; with the previously unhinted conversion of the master at the end) can be read well, while others cannot.  Lewis was one of my earliest influences, and while I have over the years come to hold his religious works in lower and lower regard (I prefer Kierkegaard's passionate uncertainty to Lewis's smug confidence)I have come back to this one again and again for insight and stimulation.  Along with STUDIES IN WORDS and the Narnia books, this book is Lewis's masterpiece.	1998-03-07
3050594:US	52048190	R1OEX2A5UCXWMI	014039012X	453970176	Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass, An American Slave	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A powerful exhibition of inextinguishable human dignity	This is the book I would send someone to who wanted to learn about human dignity.  This is not a book for blacks or whites alone, but for anyone who needs a graphic example of a human being refusing to respect himself and forego his rights as a human being.  Douglass's NARRATIVE was published during that period of time known as &quot;The American Renaissance,&quot; and this work certainly stands comparison with the other great works of that period by Emerson, Thoreau, Hawthorne, Whitman, and Melville.	1998-03-07
3050683:US	52048190	R3Q001FNUL0Y4X	0393958035	955734301	The World of Late Antiquity: AD 150-750 (Library of World Civilization)	Books	5	33	37	N	N	Elegant and stimulating	Late Antiquity is not one of my areas of expertise, so I am approaching this book as a literate generalist.  That said, I found this to be a wonderful introduction to the subject.  Brown is a marvelous prose writer, as well as a gifted scholar brewing with interesting insights.  The only reason I do not give this book a 10 is that the book is sometimes short on explanation and detail, but then he does admit early on that the book is an essay rather than a systematic introduction.  A testament to how much I enjoyed this is that I immediately began reading Augustine's CONFESSIONS and Brown's acclaimed biography of Augustine.	1998-03-07
3051067:US	52048190	R10YVB5DE7U09H	0679405518	76352212	The Warden (Everyman's Library)	Books	3	14	16	N	Y	A means to an end	There is a very good reason to read this book, and that is to get to the rest of the Barsetshire series.  Although not much on its own, THE WARDEN is the prelude to BARCHESTER TOWERS, which is immensely entertaining.<br /> So, while I cannot recommend THE WARDEN on its own, I heartily recommend the entire series.  Except for this first volume, all the novels are superb, culminating in what is easily one of Trollope's two or three best novels THE LAST CHRONICLE OF BARSET, which is one of the undeservedly neglected masterpieces in the English language.  Why is it neglected?  Because it is the final novel of a massive series, and few manage to make it all the way to the end.  Read THE WARDEN, but only so you can go on to the other novels in the series.	1998-03-05
3051081:US	52048190	R36K7I3SUT4VJZ	044022330X	11758110	Rush Limbaugh is a Big Fat Idiot And Other Observations	Books	4	7	12	N	N	Fighting fire with fire	The ratings on this book are apt to be a poll on one's attitude towards Rush Limbaugh as anything.  And I will confess to detesting Rush Limbaugh, especially his distortion of facts and substitution of ridicule for rationale discussion.<br /> Which leads to Frank?  Is Al Franken fair to Rush Limbaugh?  Does he engage in rational discussion when ridicule and parody will suffice instead?  Absolutely, and that is the beauty of the book.  Rush laid down the ground rules of how he would proceed and he and his fans have no grounds for complaint if someone uses those same rules against him.  Though Franken's jibes are not without substance.  It is hypocritical to berate constantly liberals for being anti-family when you have been married three times like Rush or have an affair with the wife of a colleague while you are married yourself, like Newt Gingrich.<br /> Luckily, the book has merits above poking fun at fat chat show hosts or adulterous Speakers of the House.  It is funny.	1998-03-05
3051185:US	52048190	RHQ3TNRREN476	0684838834	520743760	John Waynes America	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Great for both fans and anti-fans of The Duke	What a super book!  There are multiple levels to this book, and one can love all or only a few of them.  On one level, the book is an analysis of the career of John Wayne the movie star (as opposed to John Wayne the private individual, though the two cannot be completely separated).  So you can enjoy learning about Wayne's days at Columbia pictures, or his relationship with Yakima Canutt, or the formative influence of Harry Carey, or Wayne's film with and connection to John Ford and Howard Hawks.  On another level, the book contains brilliant discussions on a number of the important films in Wayne's career, like STAGECOACH or my favorite Wayne and John Ford film THE SEARCHERS.  On another level, the book contains marvelous socio-political analysis of the function the concept of John Wayne plays in American life.  And on yet another level the book is an essay within cultural studies.  One has to admire the many areas and subjects that Wills handles with ease.<br /> My favorite parts of the book were those that dealt with the mythmaking that went into the creation of &quot;John Wayne,&quot; the symbol of everything  best about America and those dealing with his films and relationship with John Ford.  Although extreme fans of Wayne may be somewhat offended by some parts of the book (e.g., Wayne's stringent avoidance of military service in WW II and the misinformation about his early life, such as his being a potential football star felled by an injury, when in fact he was dismissed from the USC football team for not being very good), I think everyone will come away from it having a better sense not only Wayne's shortcomings but his very real accomplishments.  A fine book in every way.	1998-03-05
3051522:US	52048190	R452KOI1WDJV5	0805202412	981966805	Illuminations: Essays and Reflections	Books	5	94	96	N	N	One of the great, unclassifiable writers of the century	Walter Benjamin is easily one of the great German prose writers of our century, despite being almost impossible to classify.  His subject matter is frequently literary, but he always transcends his subject matter to touch upon issues in philosophy, art, history, Marxism, and Western culture, illuminating (no pun intended) all he discusses.  His essays on Proust and Kafka are priceless, and his essays on &quot;The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction&quot; and the theses on the philsophy of history, are classic.<br /> But the best reason to read Benjamin is his prose.  There are images in his essays on Proust and Kafka that are as superb as anything in Proust and Kafka.  That is saying a lot, but it is true.  As a philosopher, I value his example which proves that one can write meaningfully on philosophical topics, and yet write well.  This collection of his essays, ILLUMINATIONS, is preferable to the second collection to appear in English, REFLECTIONS, though that one is also worth the time and effort.	1998-03-04
3051570:US	52048190	R7FKCEJDHBRIJ	0553213105	503057596	Pride and Prejudice (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	Officially tied as my all time favorite novel	In case you are wondering, the novel it tied with is Dostoevsky's THE BROTHERS KARAMAZOV.<br /> I have read this three times in three sittings.  In case that is not clear, I mean to say that I have sat down to read PRIDE AND PREJUDICE on three separate occasions, and did not get up until I had finished it.  I once stayed up all night long to finish it.<br /> Actually, I read it a fourth time, aloud to my then 8-year-old daughter Elizabeth (who was delighted to find an Elizabeth in the book).  She liked it so much that she in turn read it twice.  Just one of the great, irrestible book in the English language.	1998-03-03
3051634:US	52048190	R3TAL9XWTZXWZQ	1573920770	400920257	Astrology	Books	1	11	13	N	N	Not an especially helpful book	During the summer of 1997, I began reading extensively on the history of astrology.  This is a challenging undertaking because there are virtually no historically sophisticated treatments of the subject.  I turned to this one for help, and was sorely disappointed.  Although I am as sceptical about astrology as the author, this one is marred by the author's desire to debunk astrology rather than recount its history.  This is a problem with most books published by Prometheus Books.  But even the purely historical sections are not especially strong.<br /> If a person is interested in learning more about astrology, I can strongly recommend Jim Tester's A HISTORY OF WESTERN ASTROLOGY, which is the premiere history of astrology in English.  Also first-rate is the section on astrology in Keith Thomas's extraordinary RELIGION AND THE DECLINE OF MAGIC, recently reprinted in a beautiful edition by Oxford University Press.  Thomas's discussion is restricted to 16th and 17th century England, but what is there is superb.  One other excellent book is Tillyard's THE ELIZABETHAN WORLD PICTURE, which deals not so much with astrology as with the entire intellectual apparatus of which astrology was an integral part.	1998-03-03
3051958:US	52048190	R2IXIQPKCS8Q1E	0820307564	297384950	Animals and Why They Matter	Books	5	110	111	N	N	A must for anyone interested in Animals &amp; Ethics	When I taught a course on Animals and Ethics, I chose this volume over all others as my primary text.  While Peter Singer's ANIMAL LIBERATION first awoke my consciousness to the tragedy of the manner in which humans have regarded and treated animals, I found the philosophical underpinnings of his work (a form of utilitarianism) troublesome (for reasons I won't go into here).  On the other hand, I found Tom Regan's THE CASE FOR ANIMAL RIGHTS, to be far too Kantian.  Midgley discusses a wide-ranging group of philosophers, but doesn't overly attach herself to any particular moral philosophy.  As a result, she is less doctrinaire than any of the other major writers on the topic.  The book reeks of common sense, in the way that the English so often seem to have mastered.  Just a wonderful, unjustly neglected book.	1998-03-02
3060984:US	52048190	R3049F90DQ3WAK	046509838X	545172516	Not Out Of Africa: How ""Afrocentrism"" Became An Excuse To Teach Myth As History (New Republic Book)	Books	4	19	23	N	N	Balanced, sane, and well researched.	At the moment I am nearing the end of William Shirer's THE RISE AND FALL OF THE THIRD REICH, and I have been struck by how much the historical claims made by Hitler reminds me of the kinds of claims made by Afrocentrists.  In both instances, all historical evidence is thrown out the window in favor of a fanciful creation of a history that never was.  The same holds true of those who would deny that the destruction of the Jews in Nazi Germany took place despite mountains of evidence that it did.  Lefkowitz expresses all of this when she writes in the Conclusion, &quot; . . . by substituting myth for history [the Afrocentrists] open the way for other groups to invent their own histories.  Some of these new mythologies could harm African-Americans far more than Afrocentrist mythology could ever help them&quot; (155-56).  Both Hitler and the holocaust-deniers are graphic proof of this.<br /> NOT OUT OF AFRICA, however, is not a perfect book.  It is hideously repetitive.  This could either be because the author was trying to flesh what could otherwise have been a booklet out to book-length form, or it could be that the individual chapters were originally self-standing essays that have been married together to form a book.  Whatever the cause, this book, while short, could easily have been fifty pages shorter.  I also wish that Lefkowitz could have discussed Martin Bernal at more length.  Most of her discussion of Afrocentrism focusses on such intellectual mediocrities as George James.  If the best exponent of an Afrocentrist viewpoint is Martin Bernal, then I would have preferred to have seen more of a discussion of his work and less on James and Diop.<br /> Still, this is an excellent book, and one that anyone interested in multicultural literacy, Ancient Greece or Egypt, or Black history should investigate.  It is also very clearly written and quite easy to read.	1998-01-15
3061236:US	52048190	RW85ODT6ONF5J	0394506146	481632924	The Dog of the South (1st Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One of the great comic masterpieces of recent decades	A number of writers would compete for the title of Arkansas's greatest novelist, but Charles Portis is not only the state's finest comic novelist but arguably one of the two or three finest American comic novelist of the past several decades. Though he is best known for his Western novel TRUE GRIT, it is actually his least typical work. Most of his other novels are either mildly or excessively funny and of these DOG OF THE SOUTH is his finest. On multiple occasions, upon being asked by friends what comic novels that I recommend, I always mention John Barth's THE SOT-WEED FACTOR, Stanislaw Lem's THE FUTUROLOGICAL CONGRESS, Joseph Heller's CATCH-22, and Charles Portis's DOG OF THE SOUTH.<br /><br />The story concerns a man who is determined to go in search of his lover after she runs away with another man, a search that takes him to Mexico. What makes the novel so wonderful is not the overall story but a host of wonderful and delightful moments. The narrator describing his Ford Torino with a rusted out hole in the floor causing a ghastly number of Heath Bar wrappers to fly around the inside of the car in a miniature tornado is merely one of those moments. Another is when the narrator explains how he carefully wets each corner of a napkin to make it stick onto the counter of the bar so that it won't stick to his glass as he lifts it into the air. This way, he opines, he won't look like an idiot.<br /><br />The novel begins in Little Rock, Arkansas but ends up in Mexico, reflecting two of Portis's attachments. On a side note my high school English teacher in Little Rock told our class that for many, many years she lived in an apartment that shared a wall with the apartment that Portis lived in. She could hear him typing in his room. Perhaps this novel was one of the ones that she heard being written.	1998-01-13
3061303:US	52048190	RG9TQ5KFLDZK5	0156340402	536588166	The Futurological Congress: From the Memoirs of Ijon Tichy	Books	5	5	7	N	N	One the three funniest books I have ever read	I am a list fiend.  I make lists of every conceivable form and fashion.  One such list is &quot;The Funniest Books I have Ever Read.&quot;  This one makes that list, finishing in a three-way tie for first with CATCH-22 and John Barth's THE SOTWEED FACTOR (Jerome K. Jerome's THREE MEN IN A BOAT is next in the list).  The plot:  the future is a very, very bad place to be.  Inconceivable overcrowding, deplorable living conditions, shortages of every imaginable form.  How to cope?  Drug the world!  Social engineering and better living through the use of mind altering drugs.  Democracy and Socialism have given way to the government of the future:  Pharmacocracy!  The world isn't a better place; it just seems to be.  But when terrorists put LSD into the water supply at the 116-story Costa Rica Hilton during the meeting of the world's foremost futorologists, the thin veneer holding society together becomes flayed.<br /> Lem has written three of my favorite books in the world:  this one, THE STAR DIARIES (also featuring Ijon Tichy--I believe in the original Polish these two were part of the same volume), and SOLARIS.  The latter is equally superb, but oddly enough, completely without humor.  It is almost difficult to comprehend that these works all came from the same writer.	1998-01-13
3061315:US	52048190	R1FX7R3YJ4UC8C	0679735909	627682796	Possession	Books	5	3	7	N	N	One of the two best books I read in 1997	POSSESSED and Keith Thomas's RELIGION AND THE DECLINE OF MAGIC were my two favorite books that I read in 1997.  As a former grad student (Yale and University of Chicago), I can attest that the intellectual milieu was quite familiar and accurately treated.  What impressed me about the book was the way that it managed to get better and better as the story progressed.  And the last four pages were as good as I have ever encountered (only Henry Green's LOVING and Dostoevsky's THE BROTHERS KARAMAZOV had final pages that I loved as much).  I would recommend any serious reader getting this book immediately, but especially anyone who has had to trudge through grad school in the humanities.  A truly fine novel.	1998-01-13
3061406:US	52048190	R3AGUS756A0ADS	0679768076	831662410	The Chill	Books	5	73	76	N	N	Give this one an 11!	MacDonald is rightfully considered one of the three great hardboiled detective novelists (along with Hammett and Chandler).  Rereading this novel confirmed what I thought the first time I read it:  this is the best detective novel that I have ever read.<br /> It is also the most appropriately titled novel that I have ever encountered.  The first time I read this I was lying in the sun beside the Adler Planetarium in Chicago.  When I reached the moment when the mystery was solved, a chill literally ran up my spine.  One of the truly creepy moments of my life.  Hyperbole rules among reviewers here, but this one would get a higher rating if I were allowed.<br /> I have read most of MacDonald novels, despite the fact that I really don't spend much time reading mystery or detective fiction.  His earliest books are good, but not great.  But about four or five novels into the Lew Archer series MacDonald (in real life Professor Kenneth Millar, and husband of fellow mystery writer Margaret Millar)found his voice and his theme.  In all his best books the theme is:  the sins of the father shall be visited upon the second and third generations (I didn't check my OT for a more precise quotation).  A typical plot from his best novels is as follows:  Archer is asked to look into this or that problem (a person has disappeared, has left, is being plagued by someone, etc., etc.).  Gradually upon conducting his investigation his role shifts from detective to archaeologist, until he eventually discovers the troubles that he has been asked to look into have causes reaching back ten, twenty, or even fifty years.  The seed planted by an act decades earlier has sprouted in the present, destroying those who are otherwise innocent.  (MacDonald always reminds me of Yeats's &quot;Leda and the Swan,&quot; where Zeus's rape of Leda will eventually result in the birth of Helen and all the tragedy of Troy:  &quot;A shudder in the loins engenders there/The broken wall, the burning roof and tower/And Agamemnon dead.&quot;)<br /> All of MacDonald is more than readable, but someone wanting to proceed from THE CHILL (which really is his finest work) should look at THE DROWNING POOL or THE INSTANT ENEMY.r/And Agamemnon dead.&quot;) <br /> All of MacDonald is more than readable, but someone wanting to proceed from THE CHILL (which really is his finest work) should look at THE DROWNING POOL or THE INSTANT ENEMY.	1998-01-13
3061423:US	52048190	R2V5US1J6FLY3E	0394757645	271412669	Trouble Is My Business	Books	4	6	10	N	N	Get it for &quot;Red Wind,&quot; if for nothing else	This contains the best of Chandler, if not all of it is the best of Chandler.  &quot;Red Wind&quot; is one of the most brilliant short stories not just in detective literature but in American Literature.  The last few paragraphs are unspeakably precious, and give more insight into Marlowe's character than any of the novels.  And the rest of the stories are fine too!	1998-01-13
