74772:US	52147775	R42PREHFWW2A3	1586482769	637724833	The Opportunity	Books	3	5	9	N	N	Sort of okay	The collapse of the Soviet Union meant that the old system of competing mutual alliances was finished. The idea of the balance of power had been central to diplomatic thinking since the time of Louis the XIV. However what does America do now that it is the sole superpower? <br /> <br />Haass suggests that one thing it can't do is to have an empire. The current US forces are struggling to keep order in two small backwaters. To have an empire would mean an immense transfer of funds into the defence budeget. What then to do? <br /> <br />Haass suggests that what America should do is to form some form of cooperative understanding with Europe and the emerging powers of India and China. If there was such an understanding then instead of the world slipping back into a balance of competing alliances such as occured in the Cold War period when either India or China becomes strong enough to challenge the US. This notion of understandings would enable the world to limit militiary expenditure control the spread of weapons of mass destruction combat terrorism and to be able to deal with humanitarian crisis.  <br /> <br />Haass suggests that currently the US is highly dependant on oil. This has shaped its foriegn policy so that maintaining a flow of oil is one of the key elements of its national aims. In reducing dependence on oil there is the potential for a more flexible policy with interaction between nations that are more mutually benificial.  <br /> <br />It is of course strange that what could be seen as \\"leftie do goodism \\" comes from a right wing former member of Bush's administration. However Haass makes some points in suggesting that now is a time to talk about how the world should progress. The United Nations is a flawed body consisting of many nations which are undemocratic. Agreements between the more significant players is a way of avoiding unilateralism and not creating a massive anti-Americanism but avoids having to take countries like Zimbabwe seriously. <br /> <br />Probably there is something to what he says. It is desirable that some rules be put in place or some system to deal with issues like Rwanda and Kosovo. It is also more sensible that countries use their rescources to help their populations rather than in arms races.  <br /> <br />It is also probably good for America if it developed a more consultative style to its policy decisions.	2005-09-04
140134:US	52147775	R138IWAOMA2VEG	0393020304	271806854	The Dictators: Hitler's Germany, Stalin's Russia	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Very Good	In recent times libertarians following Hayek have suggested that the regimes of Hitler and Stalin were two sides of the same coin. Overy who has written a very good book on the reason why the allies won the Second World War examines the two regimes.      One of the more interesting chapters is that dealing with the two economic systems. In some respects there were significant similarities. In the 30's both systems achieved amazing growth figures. The Soviet by around 100% the German by some 50%. In both economies growth was fuelled by massive investment by depressing living standards. In Russia the collectivisation policy allowed for the siphoning of farm income to fund machine imports. In Germany wages were regulated and kept at depression levels. The Soviet system allowed some private enterprise to flourish mainly in small plots and the German system had large state enterprises developing synthetic rubber and oil.     Many other aspects of the regimes were similar, the control of culture, the idealisation of the leader the means of repression. However there were also significant differences. Hitler believed in a sort of racial mercantilism where the key to prosperity of society was the geographic size of the country. To achieve wealth a country must have an empire. That empire was to be administered by those of the \\"German\\" race who operated a slave type system in the conquered territories. Inferior races were to be serfs denied education and citizenship. No one of course was going to voluntarily be part of that empire so that one had to have a strong army. In fact the key role of the government, in the Nazi State was to provide that army so that the country could achieve territorial expansion and safeguard the destiny of the race.     The Soviet system although having the same concentration camps, the same elements of repression was more a child of the enlightenment. Historically Russia had been a country that had celebrated the role of the \\"Russian People\\" in the development of the Czarist empire. Under the communists the country was not even known as Russia but the more abstract Union of Socialist Soviets. Broadly it was a repellent system but not a racist one. This meant that during the crisis of the Second World War it was better able to mobilise its resources and win. The Germans by their policy of racial exclusivity limited the potential size of their armies and were appalling at using the resources of their conquests.	2005-07-31
141060:US	52147775	RYN47OKW50PG0	0375414339	490892129	Armageddon: The Battle for Germany, 1944-1945	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Good	By September 1944 Germany was beaten. This is a history of the destruction of Germany which took place between September and May 1945.  <br /> <br />Hastings makes the point that the supposedly fanatical and suicidal Japanese leadership spared their own people a final battle. The supposedly more rational Germans did not. As a result what happened was not really a battle, but something else much more dreadful. The Russians not only defeated the Germans but started a campaign of revenge and rape that was something out of the dark ages. Amongst the killing rape and wanton destruction millions of Germans who lived in places such as East Prussia which were expelled so that these territories could be turned over to Poland. Ethnic Germans who had lived in Czechoslovakia, Hungary and Eastern Europe were also expelled.  <br /> <br />Over the skies of Germany the allied air forces having run out of military targets adopted area bombing with horrific civilian casualties mostly occurring in the last few months of the war.  Hitler of course by 1944 was beyond any rational calculation. As he could no longer win the war he wanted a dramatic final act and to take as many Germans down with him. The Russians who had been on the receiving end of a racial war of unparalleled ferocity and destruction were more than happy to oblige him.  It is a point well made in the book that Soviet troops were primed for revenge and that systematic rape of every German who came under their power was the means.  <br /> <br />Hastings does not so much write a military history as he discusses the course of the war. He makes the point that following the Normandy break out the allies made countless mistakes. The German armies on the western front had been largely destroyed as cohesive units. They had lost most of their equipment and had the Russians been in the position of the British and the Americans the war would have been over in September. But the performance of the western allies was poor so that thewar dragged on with the incredible loss of life as Hitler had his Gotterdammerung.  <br /> <br />Hastings lists in some detail were it wrong in the west. The allied armies had a high number of soldiers who simply did not fight. Only a small percentage of allied soldiers fired their weapons and advances would grind to a halt if quite low numbers of casualties occurred. This contrasted with the Germans and Russians whose troops were heavily indoctrinated and who would both see high casualty rates as acceptable. This was illustrated in the Arnhem  campaign in which small German SS units were able to delay and then halt a British Army Corp.  <br /> <br />The key to the allies success in the west was their preponderance in artillery, air support and armoured vehicles. As the allies were dependent on weapon systems the failure to take and to clear the approaches o Amsterdam were critical. It prevented the movement of material to support their armies and to allow them to advance. The lack of priority given to seizing Amsterdam was the fault of the leadership and it is something which probably prevented an early and merciful end to the war.  <br /> <br />Never the less Hastings makes the point that the efficiency of the German and Soviet armies was reflective of the brutal nature of their totalitarian states and having an army which is technologically dependent is perhaps a small price to pay for freedom.	2005-07-30
186713:US	52147775	R6ULVDTCXTKO4	0316871125	372260453	The Interrogators: Inside the Secret War Against al Qaeda	Books	2	6	15	N	N	Interesting but not for what it says	This book is by an interrogator who had a reasonably low level function of screening arrested suspects in Afghanistan. In the initial part of the war in Afghanistan a large number of people were apprehended by American forces. This was both by way of military action and the payment of bounties for Northern Alliance troops to bring in suspects. The role of the author was to try to work out if the people he questioned were non belligerents such as farmers or if they belonged to one of a number of groups who the Americans wanted to target for intense interrogation. Non belligerents would be let go, but Arab fighters, high level Taliban figures and fighters originally from Europe were sent to Guatanamo Bay in Cuba. Low level Taliban fighters would be turned over to the Northern Alliance.  <br /> <br />The reason for selecting these targets was that Arab fighters could reveal the details of the networks which helped them move to Afghanistan supplied them with funds and documents. The Taliban high level officials would have access to information which would allow the Americans to destroy what has been ongoing Taliban resistance. The reason for selecting fighters from Europe again was to gain intelligence on the networks which recruited and assisted them to get to the conflict.  <br /> <br />As the function of the interrogations was broadly a screening one the book does not contain any great revelations about the discovery of complicated terror plots. It rather talks about little victories such as getting a prisoner to become an informer in the prison. Getting some prisoners to reveal their true status instead of sticking to their cover stories.  <br /> <br />The book is very much a self serving memoir. The writer is at pains to rationalise the illegal things he did and to put the most positive spin on a number of questionable practices. For instance after the defeat of the Taliban prisoners started to come from other places such as Pakistan and Indonesia. One fo the persons the author spoke to was a boy of 15 or 17 who was kidnapped by someone and transferred to US custody in Afghanistan. The arrest and failure to charge a person of that age would constitute a serious breach of that person's rights. There appears nothing in the book to suggest that the apprehension in Indonesia was in accord with the law of that country and his detention did not appear to be lawful either according to the law of Afghanistan or the United States. One must keep in mind that from the point of view of this process at the point of arrest it was not clear if the boy was in reality a terrorist suspect. This was a screeding process to see if he would be released or transferred to Cuba for further interrogation. The writer talks about the interrogation of this boy as if it is all above board and there are no issues involved at all.  <br /> <br />Perhaps the most significant thing that strikes on in reading the book is the amateurish nature of the process. The writer is a army reservist who is in the army part time. His regular job is that of a tax adviser. He had some knowledge of German prior to working in Afghanistan and picked up Arabic prior to working and seems to have developed a working knowledge of the language. His other interrogators relied on interpreters. Thus we have for a screening process to determine the liberty of a large number of people we have some army reservists with no practical experience before this mission relying mainly on interpreters. It is simply staggering and the release without charge of a number of prisoners from Cuba without charge is thus no surprise.  <br /> <br />The book also has a number of repellent features. The writer is so distanced from the inmates he hardly sees most of them as real human beings. Cruel treatment such as routine cavity searches, the clipping of beards for no reason the threat of torture and indefinite confinement mean nothing to him.  He rationalises the use of stress positions and long interrogation on the basis that these things are dealt out to those in the army. They might be but by his own admission a significant number of people who this treatment was dealt out to were farmers who were let go and had to suffer for no reason at all.  <br />	2005-06-29
265027:US	52147775	R1JDY6HRN1JML0	0195168402	981139746	America Right or Wrong: An Anatomy of American Nationalism	Books	4	53	61	N	N	America re-living 1904	What this book suggests is that a significant number of Americans have an outlook similar to European countries around 1904. A sense of identification with an idea of nation and a dismissive approach to other countries and cultures.  Whilst in Europe the experience of the first and second world wars put paid to nationalism in America it is going strong. In fact Europeans see themselves less as Germans or Frenchmen today than they ever have.  <br /> <br />The reason for American nationalism springs from a pride in American institutions but it also contains a deep resentment that gives it its dynamism. Whilst America as a nation has not lost a war there are a number of reasons for resentment. The South feels that its values are not taken seriously and it is subject to ridicule by the seaboard states. Conservative Christians are concerned about modernism. The combined resentments lead to a sort of chip on the shoulder patriotism which so characterises American nationalism.  <br /> <br />Of course these things alone are not sufficient. Europeans live in countries that are small geographically. They travel see other countries and are multilingual. Most Americans do not travel and the education they do is strong in ideology and weak in history. It is thus easier for some Americans to develop a rather simple minded view of the world.  <br /> <br />The book suggests that the Republican Party is really like an old style European nationalist party. Broadly serving the interests of the moneyed elite but spouting a form of populist gobbledygook, which paints America as being in a life and death, struggle with anti-American forces at home and abroad. It is the reason for Anne Coulter, Bill O'Reilly and Rush Limbaugh. That is the rhetoric of struggle acts as a cover for political policies that benefit a few and lay the blame for the problems of ordinary Americans on fictitious entities.  <br /> <br />The main side effects of the nationalism are the current policies which shacklesAmerica to Israel uncritically despite what that country might and how its actions may isolate America from the rest of the world. It also justifies America on foreign policy adventures such as the invasion of Iraq.  <br /> <br />The book is quite good and repeats the message of a number of other books such as \\"What is wrong with America\\". Probably there is something to be said for the books central message.	2005-04-25
271724:US	52147775	R30T0M21JKZZKF	1574888625	892390637	Imperial Hubris: Why the West Is Losing the War on Terror	Books	2	14	25	N	N	The writer is a nervous Nelly	This book was written by Michael Scheuer who worked for 22 years in the CIA and was responsible for the Bin Laden Station as part of that role collected information on El Qaeda.  In a recent article in the Boston Phoenix it was suggested that the book started as a manual using unclassified material so that it could be used in training CIA staff. The limit of the book to unclassified material potentially allowed serving members to take it home to study.  <br /> <br />Broadly the book is a criticism of not only current US policy but also US perceptions of the threat faced by Bin Laden. Some commentators have argued that Sept 11 has resulted in the disgust felt by conservative Muslims at US society its moral looseness and free enterprise tradition. Scheuer effectively shows that this is piffle and the real motivation behind Bin Laden's movement is that of a defensive Jihad. He has been able to convince the Muslim world that America has meddled and continues to meddle with the freedom of those who believe in Islam. Scheuer argues that the United States unquestioning support of Israel, its support of corrupt non democratic regimes in places like Egypt and Saudi Arabia are the issues which have galvanised terrorists rather than mini skirts and re-runs of Sex and the City.  <br /> <br />Scheuer seems to be a conservative who admires Reagan and his criticism of the Neo Cons who have supported the attacks of Afghanistan and Iraq reflects America's isolationist history rather than do good leftism. (He quotes historical thinkers who argued against America being caught up in crusades and suggest that foreign policy should be limited to national interest)  Scheuer thinks that the suggestion that a democratic regime can be established in Afghanistan is a fantasy. In fact he thinks that both the invasion of Afghanistan and Iraq have been huge propaganda wins for Bin Laden.  <br /> <br />The problem with a lot of what he says is that it is largely speculative. One of the most repeated beliefs of the author is the assertion that America will find itself in the same position that the Soviet Union did in Afghanistan. There are a number of arguments advanced to suggest that this will happen. The first is that the American sponsored invasion to remove the Taliban succeeded but it destroyed only a small number of Taliban fighters and none of the leadership. That the leader who has been supported by America is secular, is supportive of women's rights and supports an American notion of representative democracy. The majority of Afghans are deeply religious, they do not support western secularism and apart from those who live in the capital none have much of an affinity for the rights of women. Lastly the majority of the people of Afghanistan are Pashtans. The Taliban was a Pashtan dominated organisation but the current rulers of Afghanistan are members of minority tribes who formed the Northern Alliance. Now it may well be that the Taliban leaders who survived might be able to mount a successful insurgency based on resentment by the majority of Afghans about the imposition of a secular state by the Americans. On the other hand maybe it will not happen. The fight against the Soviets was bankrolled by Saudi Arabia, Pakistan and the US. Weapons were paid for by the US and supplied through Pakistan. Large numbers of Arab volunteers many from Saudi Arabia travelled through Pakistan to fight against the Soviets. In the war which saw the Taliban achieve dominance Pakistan supplied weapons and \\" volunteers\\" which enabled them to win.  <br /> <br />The current climate is unlikely to see any of the major powers support the remnants of the Taliban with weapons and logistical assistance. One thus wonders if a resistance is possible. The reality is that rather than speculate it is more appropriate to look at what is happening on the ground. However this book contains little information about the level of insurgency which is going on in Afghanistan at the moment and the book remains a theoretical work. As such it is hard to say that the book has supported the assertion that the West is losing the war on terror. The book does however present a compelling case to say that the war on terror has become sidetracked by the invasion of Iraq and the focus on terror rather than on Islamic insurgency directed against the US is counter productive. Suggesting that terror is the problem rather than one form of insurgency has shackled the US to supporting Russia and China in two dirty domestic wars. Other writers have suggested that following the Sept 11 attacks the United States set in chain the location and breaking up of El Qaeda Cells. Across the world arrests were made not only by the US but by the British, German and French Governments. Safe houses were closed down, bank accounts frozen. It would be interesting to know how the tide is going and whether Bin Laden has the same ability now that he had in 2001. This book does not convincingly suggest that he has more.   <br />	2005-04-19
286684:US	52147775	R2AJHFH8204FF1	0060009764	571997989	The Blitzkrieg Myth: How Hitler and the Allies Misread the Strategic Realities of World War II	Books	1	40	49	N	N	Poor	In 1979 Len Deighton wrote a book called Blitzkrieg: From the rise of Hitler to the Fall of Denmark. It was quite a readable and well written book which showed that the allies greatly outnumbered the Germans during the battle for France in 1940. Not only did the allies outnumber the Germans their tanks were superior and their units were mechanised. Deighton went on to say that there was only really one Blizkrieg campaign and that was the battle of France. It consisted of the rapid movement of German armed units after the initial break through. The French and British flummoxed around and because of their lack of response lost. Deighton suggested that all other conflicts in the war, specifically Poland and Russia were of a different character.  <br /> <br />In 2001 Ernest May wrote a well researched book called Strange Victory: Hitler's conquest of France. This book showed that the allies outnumbered the Germans, that their tanks were better and they had greater numbers of aircraft. May's book argues that a failure to understand the nature of the German attack lead to their demise. However the allies learnt from their experience whilst Hitler did not. Hitler's confidence about tactical victory led him to close his eyes to other considerations.  <br /> <br />We now have Mr Mosier's book that contains the alarming revelation that the Germans were outnumbered by the allies in France. Further that the allies had far better tanks and more aircraft. The reason the allies lost was that the British irrationally withdrew from Dunkirk. Sound familiar, you bet. It is what has been for some time the general view. That is that the German attack caused a command paralysis that led to an allied defeat. Later in the war such attacks would be dealt with by counter attacks or more spirited defences.  <br /> <br />Mosier in repeating what is in reality the accepted view of things carries on as if it is a startling revelation. Despite the fact that no one really disagrees with him he hasto find a straw man to rail against. That man is General Fuller a soldier who served in World War 1 and who was an influential writer in advocating the concentrated use of tanks prior to the Second World War. Rather than being much of a revelation about the Second World War the book is more a reworking of an ancient debate that took place in the 20's.    <br /> <br />The book then rambles on and tries to make some universal judgements about the war. These judgements are made without any discussion of the Russian front, the front which decided the war. The book contains howler after howler. It suggests that El Alamien was the first allied victory of the war. One would have though that halting of the German Typhoon offensive before Moscow might qualify, as would the counter attack that followed and almost destroyed the German army. The book also suggests that El Alamien was the first British victory since Waterloo. Again one would think that the Crimean war might be seen as one that Britain allied with France won. In addition it would seem that the British were able to halt the German offensive in 1918, in the First World War and to then counter attack and breach the Hindenburg Line. The British attacks led the German High Command to request the civilian government to sue for peace. One would think that might amount to something of a victory. <br /> <br />To be avoided  <br />  <br />	2005-04-07
295771:US	52147775	R3B3F76SOZCPUA	0465081843	994543985	Cataclysm: The First World War As Political Tragedy	Books	5	21	25	N	N	Best single volume history of the war	This book is written by an economist rather than a professional historian and as a result the narrative structure is different. Rather than looking at the details of individual battles the book looks at the result of offensive periods and the phases of the war.  <br /> <br />The continuing impression of the war is one of a long pointless stalemate in which incompetent commanders used young men as cannon fodder in pointless attacks against well-entrenched infantry. Something which caused so much disillusionment that the regimes responsible for the war, those of Germany and Austria collapsed as did other such as the Russian autocracy who fought the war so incompetently.  <br /> <br />Much of that image of the war can now be seen as having some partial truth but in reality being wrong. The highest casualty rates occurred early in the war when massed armies met each other in the open field. The development of the trench system led to far lower casualty rates for most of the war. The trenches providing protection against artillery and machine gun fire. Over time both sides developed offensive skills which allowed for attacks to be more successful. The Germans developed storm trooper units who were heavily armed with machine guns, trench mortars and flame throwers and used infiltration techniques. The allies used tanks extensively and also developed the use of light machine guns, hand grenades, trench mortars and air support. Both sides developed the use of artillery so that it became more accurate and barrages were aimed at fire suppression rather than elimination of the enemy. <br /> <br />Despite the fact of German revolution and the collapse of the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy the next few years saw most of the belligerents keen for war again. Italy and Germany were taken over by nationalistic movements and the Axis did not consist of those countries alone. Hungary, Roumania, Bulgaria and Slovakia were part of the deal. In reality the war pushed most countries somewhat to the right.  <br /> <br />During the war both sides faced different problems and that was the reason for the long period of the conflict. Germany was somewhat better at warfare and throughout the conflict inflicted more casualties on their opponents. They were however outnumbered and had to not only to fight both France and Britain but also Russia. Their one real ally was the Austro-Hungarian Empire which had a poorly equipped army and whose leaders were incompetent.  The balance kept subtly shifting through the war. The casualties suffered by France were offset by the development of a large conscript army by Britain and the entry into the war of Italy and Romania. The defeat of the Russians by the entry into the war of the Americans.  <br /> <br />The book re-affirms the reality of German war guilt. Previous historians had seen the interlocking system of alliances combined with both sides mobilisation plans as something which lessened the ability  of individual politicians to make decisions about whether there would be war or not. In reality this was not the case and the German monarchy could have resisted but saw war as inevitable at some point.   <br /> <br />This book is probably the best single volume history of the war so far printed but it is not for those who are keen on a narrative history.   <br />	2005-03-30
296919:US	52147775	R2W09MXZI22EVZ	0374205183	500114205	The Path to Victory: The Mediterranean Theater in World War II	Books	1	6	17	N	N	A very weak argument	If you say something three or four times does not mean that it's true. Central to this book is the assertion that if Britain and America launched a seaborne invasion of France in 1942 or 1943 it would have been defeated. However there is no real reason to think that this is the case.  <br /> <br />If we look at Germany's conduct of the war we find that in 1942 they were able to launch an attack towards Stalingrad after they defeated a Soviet Offensive at Karhov. However the German's had not been able to replace all the losses they suffered in 1941. They were especially short of tanks and trucks. In late 1942 the Russians attacked and destroyed a number of Romanian and Italian armies holding the flanks at Stalingrad and they were able to surround the German Sixth Army. This tore a gaping hole in the German line leaving their forces in the Caucuses isolated and vulnerable. The German general Von Manstien was able to stabilise the front in 1943 by a series of successful defensive battles. He was able to do so because of wholesale transfer of troops from France.  <br /> <br />An allied attack in either 1942 or 1943 would have had two outcomes. If it occurred before the transfer of German troops it would have guaranteed the success of the Soviet Offensives which followed on from the surrender of the German Sixth Army. Alternately if it occurred after the transfer of those troops it would have succeeded and liberated France.  <br /> <br />If one reads this book one finds that there is very little discussion of the Eastern Front and no discussion of troop numbers and dispositions to support the authors assertions about the likely failure of a continental invasion. In fact the bibliography does not mention most of the leading historians of the Eastern Front.  <br /> <br />The conduct of the Mediterranean theatre was one that split the western allies. The Americans wanted to attack France and the British were hesitant to do so. This led to a delay in establishing the secondfront until 1944. Walter Dunn published a fine book entitled Second Front Now 1943 which looks at in some details the force numbers Germany had available in the west and the quality of their armoured vehicles. Dunn shows that Hitler actually increased his defensive forces in 1944 as a result of a much delayed German total mobilisation.  It is a weakness of this book that there is no discussion of Dunn's arguments and the empirical material he relied on.  <br /> <br />In fact the book contains a narrative history of the Mediterranean theatre with interspaced assertions that the fighting in Africa, Sicily and Italy allowed the allies to gain the experience of a modern land war and to sort out some dud generals. One wonders at the force of this argument. Montgomery never much got beyond the plodding stage and Patton had problems remaining focused. Eisenhower in his discussions with the Soviets indicated that the main reason for allied success in Europe was its advantage in air power. Something which was established in 1942.  <br /> <br />As a history of the theatre the book is readable although it wanders of in judgemental tangents. As a justification of Churchill's flawed strategy it is very weak.    <br />	2005-03-30
315235:US	52147775	RQLFYSV3X7TPY	1585423459	865745269	The European Dream	Books	2	12	29	N	N	Not bad a bit polemical	Broadly this is a polemic against contemporary America. In reality there is no real European Dream. Rather there is a thing called European political and economic life that is different from that in the United States. In Europe people prefer government to provide certain social goods. European countries have universal health care and the involvement of government had reduced the overall expenditure on health care to fare below rates in the United States. Europeans prefer a life style in which they have greater numbers of holidays and there are programs to support families to remain in the work force such as maternity leave.  <br /> <br />In the past it was though that the United States might not be able to provide the same level of social goods but this was more than made up for by its more dynamic economy and its ability to provide more wealth to its citizens. This is very much the notion of the American dream that hard work, initiative can be rewarded by person wealth.  <br /> <br />This book suggests that what was once an outlook with some basis in fact is now becoming an ideology which has no real basis in fact. Whilst the United States remains a wealthy country there has been an increase in inequality as shown by the proliferation of low paying jobs which have had wages which have declined in real terms. The lack of the provision of social goods means that despite its wealth America has problems of child poverty and its non universal health system means that its life expectancy and infant mortality rates are below that of Europe.  <br /> <br />In addition to the issue about equity the United States is beginning to change its economy. Once the home of the auto manufacturing industry, the States now finds its biggest company is Walmart. If one factors in holiday time European productivity rates are similar to that of America. Europe has retained its manufacturing sector and is a strong exporter whilst the States rely on its currency being a universal medium of exchange.  <br /> <br />The author thinks that the European model has a good deal to offer the United States and in the last section of the book he talks about the environment in particular. So in summary the book is one written by what Americans call a liberal arguing for change to make America a bit more like Europe. As a result it will no doubt be read by Americans on the left with interest and seen by those on the right as a betrayal.  <br /> <br />For a casual reader the first couple of chapters are very interesting as they contain economic material illustrating America's comparative decline and the way in a concrete sense that provision of social goods improves the European life style. The middle bit is an historical explanation for the development of divergent values and is a little long winded but is aimed at counteracting American insularity by trying to show how their outlook is not a divine insight but historically based. It is a little long winded for the casual reader. In summary the book is interesting but it is in reality a polemic and more interesting as a suggestion that there is some effort to refocus the American political debate.  <br />	2005-03-14
316060:US	52147775	RIK0S96168O3E	0674016971	255024590	Stalin: A Biography	Books	5	78	88	N	N	Ground Breaking	Reading this biography one becomes aware how much previous biographies of Stalin were affected by Trotsky's work and perspective. A good deal of scholarship about the Soviet Union depended on documents that were carried out by him and his written works were influential. Some of the more influential writers of Soviet history were in fact disciples of Trotsky such as Isaac Deutscher.  <br /> <br />Broadly Trotsky hoped to gain power in the Soviet Union following Lenin's death. He was however outmanoeuvred by Stalin. Trotsky was contemptuous of Stalin's ability and he thought he was a nonentity. This is reflective in his writing and accounts of Stalin's career and rise. As a result he portrayed Stalin as a nothing who had arisen not through his own ability but through a mysterious numbers game in the party which preferred hacks to people of real talent.  <br /> <br />Stalin after in his road to power was happy to portray himself in a similar way to the Trotsky caricature of him.  That is an ordinary practical man who could empathise with the problems of workers and peasants and have real solutions to problems rather than overblown rhetoric.  <br /> <br />This book suggests a very different picture of Stalin's rise. In reality he was only General Secretary of the party for a short time before the power struggle to oust Trotsky. He had little time to stack the party and the reason he won was because he was a better political operator. In fact Stalin had always been an important figure in the Bolshevik movement holding important positions such as being the editor of the party newspaper. Although a poor public speaker he was a person of considerable intelligence and he was a skilled writer. Broadly Trosky was a person who was somewhat egocentric and he had little ability to read people and depended on his charisma and ability as a speaker. By the 1920's a bit more was required to gain power in the Soviet Union.  <br /> <br />The main power of the book is to show that Stalin was in fact an intellectual figure. It deals in less detail with the historical background of Stalin's rule skating over the oppression of the peasants and the development of industry. In fact the chapter on the second world war makes at least one mistake suggesting that the battle of Karhov was the first Soviet offensive of the war obviously forgetting the attacks on the German forces by Zhukov in late 1941.  <br /> <br />Never the less the power and importance of the book is to show how previous biographies were written and influenced by ideas around Stalin's rise which when put to the test are shown to be wrong. In looking at Stalin's personality it is also clear that he was not a person who suffered from what would be described as a mental illness. His actions were to purposeful and systematic for that. Despite this the book is perhaps better at showing what could be described as the evil of Stalin's rule. Not only the effects on those who were killed by his regime but the brutal and irrational nature of the regime he created.  <br />	2005-03-14
316402:US	52147775	R1S6ZV004W7UAX	0306813610	50341204	Alexander	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A classic which stands up well	In the last few months a film by Oliver Stone has released based on the life of Alexander of Macedon. It is interesting to compare the character portrayed in the film and the character portrayed in Dodges book. In the film the success of Alexander arises because of his charisma his ability to influence his troops. The book tells a different story. <br /> <br />Dodge explains in detail every step of Alexander's campaigns and he tries to explain the logic and reason behind every move. Some have suggested that Alexander's success was the result of his superb and highly trained army. Something bequeathed to him by his father. However others had invaded Persia before without success including the Spartans.  <br /> <br />Alexander thought carefully through the problems of conquering such a vast empire as that of Persia. The first part of his campaign was devoted to building a logistical base for the conquest. He thus defeated two Persian armies and then set about the conquest of the Ionian coast, Palestine and Egypt. The reason being to destroy the Persian navy and to ensure that when he moved against the heart of the Persian Empire he would have a steady supply of men food and horses to keep the war going.  <br /> <br />The general impression of a military genius is a person who the impulsive movement of troops is able to conquer. Dodges book shows how much Alexander's genius was based on the mastery of detail. At the siege of Tyre he built a land bridge out to the city which was on an island. As the defenders developed means of impeding the work he developed counter measures. As he moved through Asia he ensured the loyalty of the areas he moved through not only by leaving garrisons but building relationships by the giving reductions in tribute by promoting popular rulers and when necessary by shows of brutality and force.  <br /> <br />Perhaps the most impressive battle he fought was against the Indian King Porus.  His victories against the Persian King Darius had beenassisted by that Kings flights from the battle fields. Porus was a lot braver and not only did he have a highly trained army he over 200 war elephants. Alexander to defeat Porus not only had to deal with these issues but he had to cross an enormous river in the face of a well lead and well equipped army.  Dodge's account of this battle is probably one of the best in the book. The manourvering and Alexander's skill come out well in Dodge's account.  <br /> <br />The negative side of the book is that the social attitudes and world view in the book are those of another age. Dodge was an American veteran of Gettysburg who lost his leg in that battle and in later life made his living as an author. He writes from the perspective that Alexander was not only a military genius but a person who represented the western way of doing things whilst his adversaries represented the Oriental way of doing things. This gloss is a bit unhistorical and occasionally mars the narrative but this is a minor quibble in reading a book which by and large is still readable today and is good. Broadly because of his military experience Dodge is able to understand and to explain the issues of logistics and marching and movement of an army such as Alexanders.  <br /> <br />And in comparing the book to the film one can see that the key to Alexander's charisma and place in history is not due to the fact that he was good looking or that he carried himself in a certain way. Rather the charisma is something which grew from his mastery of detail and his ability to be a successful commander.  <br />	2005-03-14
330945:US	52147775	R37I0DDY0S1G00	0765309408	219777348	Old Man's War	Books	5	15	20	N	N	Superior SF	Its perhaps strange but a number of the review's of this book compare it to two other successful science fiction books Starship Troopers by Robert Heinlien and the Forever War by Joe Haldeman.     Heinlien was a navy officer who did some equipment design and a lot of Starship Troopers has a feeling of the early Pacific War. A fight against  a relentless and determined enemy who did not play by the rules. Most of the book is in fact about troop training and the sorts of virtues which Heinlien saw as important. Unquestioning obedience, patriotism and a rejection of what might be called liberal squeamishness. This training creates a sort of superior more realistic man who it is argued should be the only ones who have access to the political process.   Halderman wrote a book that on the face of it seemed to be a response to Starship Troopers and won the Hugo award. Its plot is long since common knowledge so there is no real surprise in giving it away. Broadly in Halderman's book a interstellar war which goes on for thousands of years was started by a mistake and there was no real basis for it in the first place. The training which occurs is often grotesque poorly thought out and simply irrelevant to actual military operations.     In the past Heinlen's book has been seen as some sort of right wing manifesto and Halderman's a satirical response. Probably they just reflect the historical periods in which they were written. Heinlen's in a period in which western democratic values were under threat and Halderman's when there were question marks about whether the Vietnamese war was such a good idea.     This book does not really seem to have much of a political agenda after all. One of the minor characters who represents a conservative mid west figure is portrayed in a hostile manner but there appear not big themes.     Rather the book is an adventure and an exploration of what happens if we were to get a second try at youth with the wisdom and experience of old age under our belt. The test of course of a science fiction book is whether it is fun to read. This book is and you can read it in an afternoon. In addition the joy of the book is not simply the revelation of a plot or a certain universe. The author is highly intelligent and his observation of things and characters has a depth which, is unusual in a lot of science fiction and marks the better products of the genre.	2005-03-02
333313:US	52147775	R3FE6QH19BGFRW	0670033375	635086986	Collapse: How Societies Choose to Fail or Succeed	Books	4	14	26	N	N	Talking to an American audience makes it a bit long	This is a book that if not written in America would be a lot shorter. That is it raises a number of environmental problems and suggests that there are solutions to them. However some of the solutions require some governmental or collective activity which is anathema to most Americans. For that reason the book has a long discussion of past environmental crises which have led to the collapse of human societies or ongoing serious problems. It would appear that the writer lectures at university and the structure of the chapters suggest that they are a collection of lectures.  <br /> <br />The societies that have collapsed are Easter Island, the Greenland Norse, Henderson Island, some native Americans and the Maya. The pattern is reasonably similar. Human communities have move to heavily forested areas which have varying climate patterns. The removal of the forest has initially led to productive agriculture but over time years of low rainfall have reduced productivity lead to soil erosion and environmental collapse.  In the case of Easter and Henderson Island large communities have been reduced to shadows of their former selves with cannibalism and social conflict. The Maya continued to exist as a group but the communities which built the vast cities in the Yutucan have drifted away as their agriculture has collapsed.  <br /> <br />Diamond indicates that despite the tragedies there are stories in which collapse has been averted. The Japanese after the unification in the 17th Century faced the possibility of an outcome like that of Haiti. Increasing population numbers leading to de-forestation and environmental collapse. The Japanese government however moved in the 17th and 18th Century to plant forest and limit the growth of agriculture. Fishing was encouraged instead of the use of domestic animals. A more modern example is that of the Dominican Republic which again under a dictatorial government was able to retain its forests because of the commitment of a dictator whootherwise could hardly have been said to be enlightened.  <br /> <br />In his last chapter Diamond goes on to say that the worst cases of environmental collapse are occurring in countries which have weak corrupt or collapsing government. He uses the case of Afghanistan, Haiti and Somalia to back this up.  <br /> <br />Now the suggestion that government is good for something is a hard pill for a lot of Americans to follow. If this book was released in the United Kingdom or Canada then it could have consisted of some chapters talking about environmental problems and suggesting some solutions that most would find commonplace. However as the book is American it is necessary to show how problems occur and the market, marvellous instrument that it is might not correct. Diamond goes on to outline how the market can lead to poor outcomes. Thus with the mining of minerals profitably is low and it is easier for a company to pay out profits over time and then go bankrupt rather than pay clean up costs. With the forest industry in South East Asia it is cheaper to log areas and not to create a sustainable operation as all that is necessary is to pay some bribes and harvest cost rather than rent land and pay the cost of new plantations. He uses the historical examples to show that environmental damage is not something, which will necessarily go away, or self correct quickly.  <br /> <br />He focuses his opening chapter on Montana in America to talk generally about a range of issues. Pollution due to extraction mining potential loss of habitat due to logging and so on.  <br /> <br />The book is readable and all true. However it is not really about the collapse of society it is more discussion of the environment using some old examples of collapse to suggest that this is serious.   <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-02-28
374989:US	52147775	R3L8R5RU12NS6D	1594200041	518829493	The Coming of the Third Reich	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Both readable and good	There have been a lot of books written about the rise of Hitler and the reality is that unlike Russia most of the relevant source material has been available since the end of the war. This book thus does not contain anything that is new in the sense of some new fact or memoir. Despite that it does say things which are new. <br /> <br />The reason for that is that any history is written through a prism of belief. Histories of the rise of Hitler have reflected the concerns of the time in which they are written. This book is good because it has been written now at such the distance from the events that its approach is to understand the events rather to blame shift or win ideological points.  <br /> <br />The book suggests that the key to understanding of the rise of Hitler is the general rejection of democracy by the vast majority of the German people. Democracy arose out of the collapse of the Germany monarchy in 1918. It was not something which was accepted by all segments of society and was closely associated with the Social Democrats. The economic problems faced by Germany, first the inflation of the 20's and the depression saw an increasing rejection of the very notion of democracy. The communists longed for the imposition of a autocratic communist dictatorship as in the Soviet Union. The Nationalists longed for a return to the monarchy and the newly developed Nazi party wished to create an authoritarian state on racial principles. Other parties such as the Catholic Centre party were initially supportive of democracy but by the 30's were opposed to it. This left the Social Democrats with about 15% of the vote as the only supporters of the system that they created.  <br /> <br />The reality is that prior to Hitler democracy in Germany was dead with conservative Chancellors in the early thirties ruling by emergency decrees. A majority of the German Parliament was controlled by parties which despised the system. If Hitler had not risen to power then it is likely thatGermany would have been ruled by a conservative militaristic group who would have had aims of re-militarisation and territorial aggrandisement. However the barbarism of the Nazis may well have been avoided.   <br /> <br />What actually happened was that the German right hoped to use Hitler because against the left but found that on him being granted some power he was able to use violence and his para-military forces to seize absolute power and to remove the rest of the right from any control over the instruments of government. <br /> <br />Previous books have seen the rise of Hitler as the result of his talents and opportunism. The reality is that by the 1930's all except the Social Democrats were eager to dump democracy and that the rise of Hitler was its by product. The book is not about guilt and blame but in reality it is an excellent guide to where that lay and the reason Hitler came to power.  It also explains in some detail the degree that lawlessness and violence played not so much in Hitler's rise but in him gaining the actual levers of power. It also shows how Germany's professional classes were complicit not only in the rejection of democracy but its ugly aftermath.  <br />	2005-01-24
375204:US	52147775	R33T0OOJBWLQ73	0805073396	564190816	What's the Matter with Kansas? How Conservatives Won the Heart of America	Books	5	28	35	N	N	Explains the insanity which is American Politics	One of the achievements of Karl Marx was the idea that people were meant to vote for parties that reflected their economic interests and that politics was about the allocation of resources. Whilst this is perhaps the key to understanding the political dynamics of most European countries the reality is that in places like Asia or Africa politics can be based around regional or ethnic groupings rather than class.  <br /> <br />This book looks at Kansas, an American state which in the 30's had a radical history but now has been moving further and further to the right against a backdrop of increasing poverty and social collapse. The conventional wisdom would be that faced with poverty there should be a shift to the right.  <br /> <br />What has been happening in Kansas is that as poverty increases, job security slips away and the bargaining power of workers collapses a lot of resentment has occurred. However this resentment has not been channelled towards political leftist movements. In fact the poor and the disaffected are joining the Republican Party in droves and pushing towards the right. The rebellion that is expressed is not against economic globalisation and downsizing the issues that are causing problems of regional unemployment but against a mythical liberal establishment which is somehow ruining America. In reality the sorts of problems faced by Kansas might be lessened somewhat by less conservative economic policies. However rather than expressing outrage at the rich who have adopted polices which have made Kansas what it is, most of the disaffected want to cut their taxes.  <br /> <br />The main fight in Kansas is between two Republican parties. One which has members of the old elite, committed to reducing regulation taxes and government activity and but which has a middle class tolerance for issues around abortion, feminism and gay rights. The other which is a new movement based on poorly educated but highly motivated fundamentalist Christians who have thesame economic program but whose real program amounts to an attack on what is seen as the liberal elite. That is a desire to roll back abortion reform, end public education and to somehow return public attitudes about women and gay issues to the 50s. In this fight the Democratic Party are nowhere as most of the people who would have supported them in the past have drifted to the evangelical wing of the Republican Party.  <br /> <br />Most main stream commentators in the past suggest that the swing to the right in American politics was because of racial issues. The way this theory works is that in years gone by the Democrats used to win the south. In the 1960's Lyndon Johnson enacted he policies which destroyed segregation. From that time on the south started to drift to the right. Many commentators have thought that the drift was the result of a resentment by voters against the Democrats the party which destroyed the historic order. In addition prior to the 1960's the Democrats acted as a one party democracy. It contained both conservative and leftist elements. After the 1960s the more conservative elements were free to find their natural home in the Republican Party. <br /> <br />This books suggests another theory. Kansas is a state which was not really a significant slave owning state and the changes in the 60s did not affect things that much. It is a state however where the change to the Republicans has occurred making it virtually a one party state.  <br /> <br />The key to understanding Kansas is that what the new politics is about is backlash and resentment, symbolism rather than about concrete policies. The new right has a mythology of victimhood, grounded in the problems faced by those ordinary people of Kansas who are being forced of the land, seeing their towns decline and opportunity falling away. The resentment is focused on a vague image of a liberal elite, an image based on watching television and Hollywood movies. The author is a person who lived his early life in Kansas. He sees the cause of the backlash as a by product of America's addiction to self help books stressing the power of positive thought and the lack of ability to have a more sophisticated world view. He believes that the backlash is a desire by poorer people who have tried to live according to what they see as the rules to change the rest of society to live by those rules. However the outlook is inherently frustrating, as the only result is by cutting taxes enriching the elite that is so hated. <br /> <br />Key to the new conservatism is the failure of the Democrats to create a constituency in the area. For years the Democrats have assumed that they had the votes of the working poor and have aimed their campaign efforts at picking up the middle class vote by concentrating on what are seen as progressive values. In fact they should not have taken these votes as given as most have now walked to the Republicans and the reason is pushing those values which were meant to win over the middle class. One wonders just how far the march to the right will go.   <br />	2005-01-24
478143:US	52147775	R2CQ37HK3J3SOL	0752426923	746623719	Before Stalingrad: Barbarossa, Hitler's Invasion of Russia 1941 (Battles & Campaigns)	Books	5	70	79	N	N	Answers all those what if scenarios	The German Offensive against Russia in 1941 (Barbarossa) saw Germany defeat Soviet Army after Soviet Army leading to the Russians losing in excess of four millions men. Despite those successes the German invasion stalled before Moscow and in the next few years the Russians were able to win what became a battle of attrition.  <br /> <br />The German defeat was catastrophic and led to the absorption of East Prussia and a hundred-mile corridor by Poland and the creation of a Soviet Satellite in what was left of Eastern Germany. Not surprisingly the German Generals who held command positions in the war were eager to shift blame from themselves for this disaster. In reality they were responsible. The German military badly underestimated the size of the Soviet Army, the strength of Soviet industry and the fact that Stalin was a far more determined and tougher leader than Hitler.  <br /> <br />Most of the memoirs written by the German Generals tends to suggest that if some different decisions had been made in 1941 victory might have been Germany's. If the assault on Moscow had been made earlier, if parts of Army Group Centre had not been sent south to grab the Ukraine then the outcome might have been different. In general terms this view of history dominated critical thinking up recently. With the collapse of communism it has been possible to write history in a different way with a more quantitative base than the earlier anecdotal approach of memoirs. Glantz is one of the leading historians to write about the East Front and his work is solidly based on Soviet and German material. <br /> <br />Glantz sets himself the task to see if Barbarossa could have been won. His conclusion is simple, it could not have been. The earlier discussions about the timing of the drive on Moscow and all of the previous issues raised in writing about the war were smoke and mirrors. The simple reality is that the Germans bit off more than they could chew. Their forces were not large enough and they had at that point not engaged in gearing up production to cover losses of men and material. More specifically they were poorly equipped with transport. The German Army that invaded Russia was dependent on horse drawn transport and the railway system. The size of Russia meant that it struggled to keep its forces equipped, supplied with ammunition and parts to repair its vehicles. The Soviet system was run by Stalin a person of total ruthlessness and he was able to form army after army each time there was a defeat so that by December 1941 the initiative had swung to the Russians and it was clear that Germany could not win.  <br /> <br />Glantz says that the earlier debates simply miss the most basic reality of the campaign. If the Germans had captured Moscow in 1941 it would not have won them the war. The Soviets had been able to raise fresh armies of five million men despite the loss of over 4 million in the earlier months. Those five million would have taken Moscow back with no major problems and the Germans would have still lost a war they had not prepared for.  <br />	2004-10-25
489487:US	52147775	R96KDNMJCMX28	0142437905	978537760	Storm of Steel (Penguin Classics Deluxe Edition)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A war classic	Generally armies are slow to combat military innovation and those who develop a new form of warfare have a significant advantage. The British struggled against the Boers who used the new technology of repeater rifles and smokeless powder. The French and British struggled against the German development of combined arms.<br /><br />The First World War saw the development of a huge number of military innovations.  These included the development of the first widespread use in Europe of the machine gun, the use of barbed wire, the invention of recoil springs in artillery which allowed for accurate and rapid fire at an unprecedented rate, the development of the howitzer which increased the effective range and efficiency of artillery.<br /><br />During the course of the war both sides developed their knowledge of how to use the new technological innovations. However for most of the war the Western Front was a bloody stalemate in which each attack gained little at a huge cost in human life. Between the wars the literature that was produced was critical of the various commanders and suggested for example in the case of the British army that they were lions led by donkeys.<br /><br />A large number of the books written at the time reflected the experience of the soldiers on the Western front who were caught up in the endless pointless battles. Robert Graves, Siegfried Sasson and others detailed the pointlessness and stupidity of it all.<br /><br />This book however is by a German who revelled in the fighting and no doubt the experience was the high point of his life. The German experience of the First World War was perhaps somewhat different from that of the Western Powers. With the exception of Verdun and the Ludendorff offensive most of the German battles were defensive. They knew that they were in for the long hall and tried to develop defence systems which would minmize disease and provide some comfort for their soldiers. After the heavy losses on the Somme they moved to using machine guns to hold the front of the line to preserve their manpower and to use it for counter attacks.<br /><br />The book starts early in the war and the writer is a witness to some of the most significant battles. We get a strange ant like view what were affairs that involved hundreds of thousands of men. Compared to the British experience the thing which strikes one is how much the German war effort was run on a knife edge.  The book conveys the feeling of the Germans always being outnumbered out gunned and hanging on because of their spirit and elan. It is in fact not hard to understand the development of facism as a response to the disappointment over the defeat. This edition is a new edition that removes the last four pages of the original edition. The last four pages were a rambling inarticulate cry of anguish. The writer was apparently not a Nazi more of a conservative nationalist.<br /><br />An interesting book which explains the mindset of the Germans who did not accept the result of the first round and supported the end of democracy in the country.hey moved to using machine guns to hold the front of the line to preserve their manpower and to use it for counter attacks.  <br /> <br />The book starts early in the war and the writer is a witness to some of the most significant battles. We get a strange ant like view what were affairs that involved hundreds of thousands of men. Compared to the British experience the thing which strikes one is how much the German war effort was run on a knife edge.  The book conveys the feeling of the Germans always being outnumbered out gunned and hanging on because of their spirit and elan. It is in fact not hard to understand the development of facism as a response to the disappointment over the defeat. This edition is a new edition that removes the last four pages of the original edition. The last four pages were a rambling inarticulate cry of anguish. The writer was apparently not a Nazi more of a conservative nationalist.  <br /> <br />An interesting book which explains the mindset of the Germans who did not accept the result of the first round and supported the end of democracy in the country. <br />	2004-10-15
500863:US	52147775	R3DLML3CR18Y2R	0743222245	376327637	Living History	Books	4	3	7	N	N	Good	Hilary Clinton is of course the wife of Bill Clinton the former President of the United States. She is a woman who was educated as a lawyer before marriage and continued to work after her marriage, being the main income earner when he was the rather lowly paid Arkansas Governor. She is a person of considerable stature and during Clinton's presidency she wrote a successful book called \\" it takes a village\\"  and was the architect of his unsuccessful health reforms.   <br /> <br />A book by her is thus a thing of potential interest. However in addition she was married to one of the United States more successful politicians and whose life became a very public soap opera due to his liaison with Monica Lewinsky and its revelation in the Starr Report.  <br /> <br />One of the strange things about American politics at present is that it is caught up in what are described as the culture wars. This is a strange phenomenon hard to understand in most other democracies. However the nature of those wars is that middle of the road and leftist politicians in America are seen by the right not as simply advocating polices which are wrong or poorly founded. Rather the left and the middle ground is seen as being at odds with what the right sees as the fundamental basis of American society. Hilary Clinton is at the centre of the culture wars and her book is seen by Americans as part of it. Those on the American right rather than seeing Hilary as a intelligent woman with a right to her outlook on life see her as representing a seething evil. The more rabid talk show hosts refer to her as Hitliary and they refer to the Democratic Party as the demorats. All strange and bizarre to someone from outside the American political scene.  <br /> <br />As a book it is readable and deals with both her personal and political life in a way that is interesting and shows a keen intelligence. Like any book by a political figure it has its share of stories about meeting the rich and powerful and world leaders.  <br /> <br />Perhaps the main criticism of it is its dealings with the Monica Lewinsky scandal. Some Americans are concerned that Hilary Clinton was not forthcoming enough about it or she failed to express her horror at it. However all this seems a bit unfair when you consider that such things are personal and every writer can make a decision about how much of their personal life they wish to make public. <br /> <br />All in all it was an enjoyable book which explained in a clear and simple way the politics of the Clinton years. His triumphs and his frustrations and his problems of dealing with what his wife would describe as a rather large right wing conspiracy.  <br />	2004-10-04
504087:US	52147775	RQA8ONSLK1SGI	1594200076	469542612	Ghost Wars: The Secret History of the CIA, Afghanistan, and bin Laden, from the Soviet Invasion to September 10, 2001	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The first part is better than the second	This is a book which is really about two things. The first part of the book is a history of Afghanistan from the time of the Soviet invasion to the success of the Taliban in taking over a majority of the country. The second part deals with Osama Bind Laden and attempt by the Clinton and to a lesser extent the Bush regime to deal with him.  <br /> <br />Islam to the west appears a strange monolithic religion exhibiting oriental strangeness. The reality of course is somewhat different and it is well illustrated by this book especially in the first half. Saudi Arabia in the 20th Century saw the rise of a fundamentalist  sect called Wahhabism. This sect believed that all changes to Islam following 950 CE were wrong. This was significant as it meant a rejection of all more liberalised forms of Islam which had evolved in response to western ideas of democracy the rights and women and the development of secularism.  <br /> <br />The success of Whahabism in Saudi Arabia resulted in that country developing into a sort of feudal monarchy with a social system that seems to western notions hopelessly anachronistic and reactionary. However in the 1970's the oil embargo and development of OPEC suddenly transformed Saudi Arabia into an immensely wealthy state. It was able to engage in the setting up of schools and mosques throughout the world preaching its form of Islam.  <br /> <br />When the Soviets invaded Afghanistan Saudi Arabia sent millions of dollars through Pakistan to fund the resistance. In addition to money volunteers were sent to fight and to preach. Osama Bin Laden was of course one of the many Saudi volunteers who fought in Afghanistan. The effect of the Afghan war was the radicalisation of Afghanistan. This was something which suited Pakistan the country which became a conduit for the Afghanistan resistance funnelling Saudi money and US weapons to the resistance fighters. After the defeat of the Soviets Pakistan was able to use the training camps in Afghanistan forrunning their own terrorist war in Kashmir.  <br /> <br />It was of course Pakistan who was responsible for the success of the Taliban in providing them with regular Pakistani officers to assist with artillery and other logistic support.  <br /> <br />The second part of the book is less interesting and in some ways seems to be an add on. It discusses the growing awareness of the US of the significance of Bin Laden and the attempt by the Clinton administration to do something. Clinton by this state was in the midst of the Lewinsky affair and he was limited in what he could do. The Bush administration had different priorities from that of Clinton's. All in all not a bad book and a good grounding for the growth of a faction of Islam which has changed the world. <br />	2004-10-01
505240:US	52147775	R2BUMM0KJVWLEN	023113102X	667500484	After the Empire: The Breakdown of the American Order (European Perspectives: A Series in Social Thought and Cultural Criticism)	Books	3	7	14	N	N	A little US bashing is always worth supporting	The writer of this book is claimed to have predicted the collapse of the Soviet Union on the basis of a declining birth rate. One wonders if maybe he just got lucky.  <br /> <br />The oft repeated premise of this book is simple. America as a great power is in decline. This decline has been masked because a high level of capital inflow has allowed for the maintenance of high living standards despite the collapse of manufacturing. Whilst America retains a large nuclear arsenal and has a large navy and air force its army struggles to win a war against any but small nations. It from time to time will pick on small nations but always those who have a population of less than 30 million say about the size of Iraq.  <br /> <br />One wonders if the central plank of the book is a bit wonky. Whilst American secondary industry has collapsed and that has led to pockets of poverty in reality cannot it remain a wealthy country if its service sector is strong?  <br /> <br />However the book is not so much a scientific analysis of the modern world but a piece of provocative political writing. It broadly suggests that a move to a modern unified Europe will allow most of the world to simply ignore America. Europe and Japan are the areas in the world which are most productive and Europe's commercial interests are moving in line with Russia's a country which still retains its old nuclear arsenal.  <br /> <br />America the author suggests has always been a very different country than Europe. It is a country that is based on the looking down on a large segment of its own society whether that segment be Afro-Americans or Hispanics. It is a country that has no sense of balance in terms of the environment as it has no history of peasant cultivation such as Europe, China or Japan. It is also a country that has not embraced the secularism that is so much part of the modern world.  <br /> <br />In reality the book is a bit of a ramble. However it does contain vast amounts of interesting material. Some of the most interesting is the change in birth rates of Islam nations in line with those of Europe. The author suggests that this is due to a similar spread of literacy in the female population. He suggests that whilst America is keen on demonising Arab Islamics the reality is that there is much greater convergence with those societies than appears at first sight. <br /> <br />The book is in its own way an entertaining read if you find America and Americans a bit annoying at times.  It can easily be read in a couple of hours. <br />	2004-09-30
534132:US	52147775	R32RZPNTDRVTRA	0380978938	591476242	Ilium	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A mystery	It is strange to read a science fiction book when one of the robotic characters is a lover of Shakespeare's sonnets and another worm like character devotes his life to pondering Proust. It is also odd that one of the main subplots is the re-enactment of the Illiad in such detail that the writer must have studied it for years. Yet Ilium is a book which contains all of these things.  <br /> <br />The reality is that the book is a mystery. One is presented with a number of worlds in which the siege of Troy has somehow been re-created in a far of time. A time when the remote planets of the universe are inhabited by strange creatures which are a mixture of mechanical and organic parts and in which earth is inhabited by a small number of illiterate pleasure seekers. The mystery is to find out why all this is happening.  <br /> <br />The book of course needs something more than simply a mystery to hold the interest of the reader. The book has as a central character a 20th century academic who has somehow been thrust into this strange world and his role is to study and describe the siege of Troy to see how closely it follows Homer's poem. Other characters come into contact with the cental character and illustrate what else is happening in other parts of the writer's universe.  <br /> <br />The book is highly entertaining and one keeps reading it wondering how it will all turn out. Something one does not find as the end of the book is the set up for the sequel Olympus. However in short a highly entertaining and intelligent book which is interesting from the first page.	2004-09-03
582116:US	52147775	R3JWZWF2X3JODA	0586092331	647090119	Humanism (Paladin Movements & Ideas)	Books	1	4	18	N	N	Thumbs down	Humanism was a movement that was primarily concerned with literary style. It suggested that ancient Roman writers wrote in a more sparkling style than the primarily church based literature and that the old writers should be used as a model for writing. <br />In more recent times the term Humanism has been used by the religious right in America to argue for religious teaching in schools. The argument is simple and says that the separation of church and state rather than providing for a neutral transmission of knowledge is really about teaching a new religion called Humanism. As such the separation of church and state is really a myth and we should get religion back in the classrooms.  <br />It is thus unusual to have a book talking about the failure of a thing that never really existed as a thing. Western culture has in fact seen a number of changes in outlook. The 18th Century saw the development of the Enlightenment that was a movement which suggested that reason should be based on observed experience rather than deduction and faith. This led to a radical shift in a large number intellectual fields especially in how we should run the state and human affairs. Following the Enlightenment Europe experienced a scientific and industrial revolution. This in turn was followed by the development of socialist and Marxist utopian views of how to construct society. <br />The author of this book tends to lump all these diverse developments into the category of Humanism something which others do not really do. He is a critic not at the social but the individual level. That is these developments have left man bankrupt and without a soul because we base everything on man etc etc. <br />This of course fails to lose sight of the fact that these developments have created societies which of course work far better and produce much happier citizens than those of medieval Europe. The rule of law, individual rights, freedom of the press, representative democracy are institutions which are the great achievements of the last hundred or so years. Their contribution and importance is far more significant than some slight angst felt by an Australian University academic.	2004-07-20
589633:US	52147775	R2KX8LXU6FA04X	0312286252	454971228	Contest	Books	4	10	14	N	N	Good airport book	Contest is Mathew Reilly's first book. It originally failed to attract a publisher and Reilly published it himself. Initially it was not that successful but it put his name out in the market and he was able to find a publisher for his second book Ice Station that was a success. This edition of Contest is somewhat expanded from the first version and has some more alien characters included. <br />The plot is that every thousand years all intelligent members of the galaxy send a representative to fight to the death in a sort of sporting event called the Presidium. Earth as an intelligent life form has a representative but unlike the other races they do not know about it until a contestant is whisked to a remote location to battle with six other species. Generally humans have done badly in this competition no doubt as they have not had the chance to prepare for it but also because the alien races are bigger and tougher. <br />Previously the runners of this intergalactic event have chosen humans with a military background.  However on this occasion they choose a human who hit the newspapers as a result of being confronted with and fighting off some robbers. That is not someone with a combat record but with the reputation as a fast thinker.  The hero is a Dr Swain who by accident is teleported with his daughter to the contest arena which in this case is the New York Public Library which is sealed off from the outside world by a field of electricity. <br />The book is a reasonably typical horror flick with people walking down book lined corridors and finding that bad things happen as monsters come out from behind large stacks of books. Will Dr Swain end up dead or will he end up doing rounds of the intergalactic talk shows as earth's first major celebrity? <br />Reilly is a writer who in his media interviews candidly says that his books are not meant to be epic works of fiction aimed at educating the world about the meaning of life. Rather he sees books as entertainments like action movies but unlike action movies the freedom to imagine means that there are no restrictions on budget or special effects. As such most of them have been successful. The one exception is his third book which suffered the problem of being set in a defined historical period. His fiction is best when it is set in imaginary worlds. This book is surprisingly entertaining and professional as a first work. That is probably reflective of its revision and expansion from its original form. Still a great airport book.	2004-07-14
628886:US	52147775	R1HVAILOPL03P1	1400032717	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A remarkable book	Some years ago Sue Townsend wrote a book called the adventures of Adrian Mole aged 13 . It was based on one joke and that was Adrian's total inability to see the reality of what was happening in the world. He went along not realising that his mother was having an affair or that his life was collapsing around him. It was harmless and one of the funniest books to come out in years. <br />This book is a little like it. Instead of the hero being self absorbed and thick, the hero of this book is a young autistic child. A mathematical genius but a person who does not have the slightest ability to understand human beings and to pick up the subtle signs of what is going in their world. This book like Adrian Mole is funny. However there is something in it which is infinitely sad. Christopher the main character can never understand the very real depth of commitment and love that his working class dad has for him. Unlike Adrian Mole towards the end it becomes tragic, not in an outward sense of some catastrophic event but in subtle interplay of the characters.<br />The book is multi dimensional and is not just about its hero Christopher deciding to investigate the death of the neighbour's dog. It is a book about seeing and perception about the working of maths and what autism is about. By showing how Christopher does not see it shows us how people do see and understand each other. The book was originally written as a children's book but has taken off with adult readers. As a children's book it is wonderfully inventive yet serious and is fine tool for the development of young peoples minds.	2004-06-15
693569:US	52147775	R2YCGR24TI5EQV	1400031524	938118032	The Dogs of Riga	Books	2	9	14	N	N	Bit different from a normal Mankell	Henning Mankell is the author of a number of police procedurals set in Sweden with a hero called Inspector Kurt Wallender. Most of the books are slow moving with most of the interest arising from the sub plots related to Wallenders life. Generally unexciting stuff, his conflicts with his irritating father, and the general problems and anxieties of a middle aged man. The strength of the books is the sense of their Swedishness and the realism of police matters.<br />This book is odd in that instead of the usual rather dull plot the hero heads of to Latvia, enters the country illegally on a false passport, steals car, assaults the local Lativian police, falls for a local damsel in distress and we have the plot elements which would normally be associated with an American film starring Tom Cruise. In the rest of the books the most action one would expect is for Wallender to be slightly overcharged for some herrings.<br />The feeling after reading the book is rather like buying the New York Review of Books and finding that it has suddenly got pictures of page three girls from one of Rupert Murchoch's publications through it. Quite disconcerting. <br />Never the less like any mystery thriller, one is looking at entertainment rather than emerging with a new vision of the world so that such things matter not. Still probably not as good as his other books which one reads with a sort of solid comfort.	2004-04-24
705935:US	52147775	R28VQ9DI2CB9FV	1400042305	167406250	Stalin: The Court of the Red Tsar	Books	4	13	23	N	N	Good, some new things	The main elements of Stalin's life have been known since the seventies. The opening of the Soviet archives gave some insights into his person life but did not greatly alter what we know of his career. <br />Basically he was one of the lower ranked leaders of the Bolsheviks in Russia. He was thought of as a rather dull character, much less brilliant than Trotsky, Bukahrin or Kamenev. However in reality he was much brighter and more astute than any of these leaders. In the power struggle after Lenin's death he portrayed himself as a moderate and allied himself with those who opposed Trotsky. He put himself in charge of what would have been considered a rather dull job of organising the party. His rivals took more glamorous jobs. Stalin was able to manipulate the numbers so that he emerged as the man who controlled the levers of power. <br />From being a cautious conservative Stalin decided on a policy of forced industrialisation. The problem was how to fund such a policy? Stalin did so by forcing the peasants into collective farms and then reducing their incomes so that he could export the industrial surplus and import capital equipment. This was met by tremendous opposition from the peasants. Stalin responded by creating an artificial famine leading to the death of 3-4 millions of them. This war on the peasants led to the Bolsheviks being loathed in the country. Stalin then egaged in the random killing of members of his own party to create a climate of fear to protect his position. The killing of course could not stop and he had to kill more and more to continue the climate of fear. Thus his rule led to show trials, the killing of a large percentage of the officer corp and the routine trial of those accused of wrecking. <br />Stalinism as a system developed as a police state in which even the most powerful has to worry each night about the knock on the door of the secret police. Of the destruction of all interlectual values and a slavish cult of the personality whichturned the leader into a god on earth. <br />Many works have seen Stalin not unreasonably as the personification of evil. A large number of contempory books and those affected by his crims have also tried to suggest that he was stupid and to try to suggest a range of person motives for each event which occured during his reign.<br />This book focuses on Stalin's person life. It suggests that he was a man very much in love with is wife. (Who was younger than him and attractive.) When his wife killed herself in horror at his war on the peasantry it unhinged him and was responsible for some of his later excesses and the development of his personality. <br />This sort of speculation is of course just speculation. However the book is able to say a lot about Stalin's person life that was unkown. His mistresses, the places he stayed and a better accout of his relationship with his children. It also suggests that he was far smarter and better read than has been understood untill now. <br />The writer has written a previous book on Potemkin and has an ability to make a book interesting.	2004-04-15
714318:US	52147775	R1FUXSE73BQAXN	0449912558	541384114	The Sparrow: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	2	5	23	N	N	But the characters are all so stupid	In years gone by the Jesuits travelled far and wide trying to convert civilisations to Christianity. Jesuits were men of considerable learning and they became the friends of Emperors in such places as China and Japan. It is not clear if they actually were particularly succesfull but their travels make interesting reading. <br />This novels pushes the process to a future in which a Jesuit expedition travels to a star which has broadcast radio signals suggesting that it has intelligent life. The book is not linear but starts off with one member returning alive with his fellows killed. His hands have been mutilated and it is thought that he killed an innocent member of one of the species on the new planet. The book is broadly a gradual (some might say glacial) revalation of what happened on the expedition. <br />The writer is unusual in that she was a university academic who turned to writing fiction late in life. As a result the book is poignant with issues. How can a benevolent God create a universe in which there is suffering and so on. The structure of the book consists of intertwining the events as they unfold plus an inquiry which takes place some sixty years later as to whey the expedition fails. The main character who is the Jesuit priest who comes back with the mutilated hands is infuriating. For chapter after chapter one constantly exclaims, why can't you just say what happened. However we have to work to a gradual climax which only really unfolds in the last 100 or so pages of the book. In fact the last 100 pages or so are quite gripping but for the initiall 400 or so one just thinks continually of the main character, let it all out, you will feel better, but for the point of view of dramatic development we are kept guising to the end. <br />The book has other anoying aspects. In reality no one would send off an expedition to a distant planet with people hoping off and talking to new sentient life forms. Look at what happened when the Spanish went to South America and the diseases they transferred to the Indian population killed 80 to 90% of the local population. <br />However the book looks back to the time of when the Jesuits sent missions to China and other places rather than being grounded in the present. The behavour of the main characters is also irrational. They are poor at understanding the nature of their enviroment and its pitfalls. The questions they ask to their new friends are poorly directed and give them no understanding of the problems they may face. History shows that real expolorers were somewhat more robust. <br />The character who survives also wines so much. It is true that he has a rather bad time but many people in life have a hard time. He tends to exhibit maudlin self pity rather than being a person who is truly reflecting on the nature of the universe and its compatability with a benevolent creator.	2004-04-08
758315:US	52147775	R3979YMS8BT920	0747271577	825009880	Forgotten Victory: The First World War -Myths and Realities	Books	1	22	32	N	N	Well	It is unusual to find a book which is written in answer to a television comedy program. However that appears to be the origin of this book. The television program is the Blackadder series which dealt with the first world war. It portrays British soldiers existing in a system in which insane generals order pointless offensives which lead to monstrous loss of human life. <br />The Blackadder series reflects a view of the first world war which was current until recently. That is that British troops were lions who were led by donkeys. The view developed from early critques of the war by historians such as Liddel Hart who were the advocates of tanks and more mobile war. <br />This book is an attempt to suggest that despite the casualty figures and the limited gains of every allied offensive operation from 1914 to 1918 that in fact the allied leaders were competent and did in fact defeat the central powers. <br />The reality is of course that the allies did defeat the central powers. However it is possible to suggest major problems with most allied offensive operations. The Somme Campaign badly misjudged the effect of artillery and it was only after the failure of the first day that artillery was used as a weapon of suppression not only to kill front line fighters. The Ypres offensives took place over such poor ground that initial barrages turned them to swamp and made movement and supply almost impossible over the disputed battle field.<br />The problem with this book is the lack of any detailed discussion of the key battles. It is a book that talks more at the general level about the attrition rates of battles rather than looking at the degree to which technical inovation occured in the British Army and how tactics changed and evolved in response to battle field failure. <br />There is a book to be written about this, but this is not the book.	2004-03-05
764799:US	52147775	R12ICFME4K9JQV	0785243038	617144895	1: Evidence That Demands a Verdict	Books	1	31	77	N	N	Just a polemic	Is there much evidence to exist that Jesus existed? In fact there is not a lot. There is one ancient writer who was born six years after Jesus died who mentions him. That is Josephus but a majority of historians including Christians think that the reference is something that has been forged by copyists at a later date. Then there are the Gospels which were probably written in the second century AD but one may have been written about 30 years after the death of Christ.<br />This suggests that the actual evidence is rather thin. In fact there is a substantial school who say that he was likely to be a mythical figure. This school represented by Doeherty concentrates on the differences between the portrayal of Jesus by Paul and what is written in the Gospels.<br />Now the fact that there is not much in the way of evidence to suggest that Jesus existed as a historical figure is not a reason to reject him. It is a question of faith. However McDowell tries to suggest rather ambitiously that the evidence for the existence of Christ is overwhelming and the evidence also suggests that he is of a divine nature.<br />To suggest that there is evidence of Jesus relies on a series of polemical or logical tricks. This consists of characterising the Gospels eye witness accounts which purport to describe something which is so unique that it can only be a record of the divine. Thus the Gospels suggest that a large number of people saw Jesus after the resurrection, saw the empty tomb. The resurrection showed that Jesus was divine and the large number of accounts are thus historical evidence for both Jesus existence and his status as a God.<br />However this type of argument is based on the assertion that the Gospels are more than religious or legendary material and are factual. This lies at the nub of the argument and in fact sceptics argue that the Gospels seem to have been written not by actual witnesses of the life of Jesus but by people who lived sometime after he died. The basis of suggesting this is the fact that the Gospels were written in Greek not Aramaic, they are not widely mentioned in Christian literature to about 120 AD and their contents suggest they were written by non Jews. Through the book the author acts as if this problem does not exist. In fact the book is not something which is aimed at serious scholars it is a book aimed at believers who are looking at something to bolster their faith and have little background in the more complex area of biblical scholarship.is of suggesting this is the fact that the Gospels were written in Greek not Aramaic, they are not widely mentioned in Christian literature to about 120 AD and their contents suggest they were written by non Jews. Through the book the author acts as if this problem does not exist. In fact the book is not something which is aimed at serious scholars it is a book aimed at believers who are looking at something to bolster their faith and have little background in the more complex area of biblical scholarship.	2004-03-01
801209:US	52147775	R34PBCLHFV4C8W	0712661239	553206444	Horatio Nelson (Pimlico)	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Good	Nelson was of course the British Admiral who defeated Napoleon's navies in a number of battles climaxing with Trafalgar and allowed Britian to continue its resistance to France which lead to Napoleon's eventual defeat. <br />Nelson's life is interesting as it illustrates how the British Navy was so succesful. Nelson was a person who came from a reasonably poor background. He was assisted into the Navy at a young age and spent most of his early years learning saling and the art of leadership by working as a midshipman in the Navy and Merchant marine. It was a system in which privilage was important but at the same time merit was critical in advancement. <br />Nelson's life was also interesting from the point of view that it had aspects of a Mills and Boon romance. He fell in love with the young wife of the elderly British ambassador to Naples, Lady Hamilton. This was an enduring passion which led to the birth of a child. <br />Nelson comes across as a man who was brave rather than a person whose tactics were deeply refined. His methods were at variance with the official Navy ordinances which emphasised a well disciplined line of ships bringing a combined weight of fire on the enemy line. At every battle he would simply plough in and order his captains to take on the enemy ship to ship. This was based on the superb training of British sailors who could fire their guns at double the rate of any other nation and the use of a flintlock ignition system to fire the guns which was more accuate than the slow burning matches used by other countries.<br />The author is some sort of expert on Nelson and the book is meant to be based on some material which has not been available to previous biographers. It is quite a short book of three hundred pages with reasonably big print. It is easy to read and an insight into one of Britians heroic figures.	2004-02-02
820741:US	52147775	R1WARMQAQT4MES	0879757043	652411153	The Life of Jesus (Great Minds)	Books	2	38	62	N	N	Dated	Renan was a Frenchman who had spent a considerable time in Palestine. He attempted to write a life of Christ based not on the perspective that he was God but rather a man. This consists of trying to put what happened in the context of Jewish and Roman Society at the begining of the Christian era. <br />He portrays Jesus as a spiritual leader who rejected orthodox judiasm and was killed by conservative believers who felt the order of their religion was threatened. He explains some of the miracles by coming up with mundane explanations. Thus Lazarus might have been simply sick rather than dead. <br />Historically the book was of importance in developing a secular understanding of the Gospels. However it is now out of date as many more questions have been raised about the content and consistency of the gospels and what appears to be historical and mythical in the life of Jesus. The book is reasonably easy to read but is written in a archaic style that does not read easily today and it also is reflective of descriptions of Jewish people that would now be seen as racist.	2004-01-19
823320:US	52147775	R3AY37FY0CDR9	0465023282	431315804	Empire	Books	3	13	25	N	Y	Coffee Table Book Really	The kick with this book is in the last chapter where the author compares the British Empire with that of the American. Despite its faults the British Empire led to the direct government by Britian. This was accompanied by the outflow of capital the development of infastructure and the rule of law. The result of this is that a number of Britian's former colonies have developed as democratic nations in which there is ongoing progess. The most succesful example of this is perhaps India. Which is not to say that India is a more succesful country that say Canada or New Zealand rather its institutions have survived despite India being a poorer country which has to overcome considerable social problems and divisions.<br />America's Empire on the other hand is different. America is a hegomonic power which does not govern directly but has controlled its turf by the setting up of governments favourable to its interests. Thus it has on a regular basis overthrown governments and replaced them with proxy regimes. America does not export capital and it does not send out migrants to help develop the institutions of other countries. <br />In contrasting the two empires Ferguson believes that whilst Britain had many faults the results of its empire were good. The spread of the rule of law, the English Language the development of a commerical culture. America on the other hand has been marginally negative. <br />The book is not simply a propoganda tract and it outlines the negative aspects of the British Empire. Its autocratic nature, the implicit racism in its institutions the various massacres and crimes. However it has elements of adolescents debate about whose father has the more important job. That is a nostalgic look at a vanished institution.	2004-01-17
840300:US	52147775	R3JBKK68PPUURG	0142003425	338299274	Secrets: A Memoir of Vietnam and the Pentagon Papers	Books	5	3	7	N	Y	Good	Daniel Ellsberg is famous for leaking the Pentagon Papers a series of secret studies. This occurred during the war and was important in providing material for those who argued against the war. It was a decision that led to him being put on trial but the scandals of the Nixon White House led to the case against him being dismissed. <br />One would have not thought that this would be much material to based a four hundred page book on but Ellsberg turns out to have an interesting background and he has a lot to say. He started out as a strident anti-communist cold war warrior. Despite this background he was always an opponent of methods of war which led to significant civilian policies such as bombing. He regarded the allied bombing campaigns in Europe and Japan as being close to war crimes. <br />He served as a marine and also spent a good deal of time in Vietnam as an observer with the military. During his time in Vietnam certain truths began to dawn on him. The first was that the South Vietnamese Army (ARVN) was in poor shape. It had as an officer class people who came from the upper strata, and most had little training or enthusiasm for the job. Lower ranks were poorly paid and motivated. The ARVN in fact spent most of its time avoiding the communist forces. The tactics used by the communists were to maintain their force strength and to only become involved in combat when they wanted too. Direct American involvement had the effect of propping up the regime but it was not effective in reducing the level of the communist forces. Thus the doom of South Vietnam was inevitable. The continued presence of American field troops however was a disaster for the country. The Americans relied on the use of high firepower either by bombing or the use of artillery support. This generally took place in inhabited areas and led to unacceptable civilian casualties and infactructure loss.<br />Ellsberg however became involved about the morality of the whole thing. Five American Presidents had supported the continuation of the South Vietnamese State, something that was set up as a colonial offshoot by the French. The reason for the support related to issues irrelevant to the welfare of the people of Vietnam and related to domestic American politics.  Presidents did not like to be seen as weak or responsible for the spread of communism thus they supported the continuance of the South Vietnamese regime, agreeing to coups, supporting unelected leaders all for reasons of vanity. Ellesberg released the Pentagon Papers to show that the actions of all the American Presidents involved had acted in the full knowledge that their policies were unlikely to succeed and had considerable civilian cost. <br />The book is fascinating despite the years that have gone by since the conflict. The biographical material is pretty much bare boned and only those things which are relevant to the war are discussed. The book is readable and it states with considerable clarity why the war was wrong.	2004-01-05
882262:US	52147775	R28O9K2R9IABM9	0394720954	741344123	Master Of The Senate: The Years of Lyndon Johnson	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Best of the series so far	This is a rather strange book. It is sort of history and sort of biography but really it is more of a novel. This is of course not to disparage the skill of the writer Caro. He is a person who is an accomplished historian and a master of the written word. It is more what he chooses to write. He writes history in the way that McCauley or Plutarch did. Not the dry recording of events but rather the use of events to tell a certain story or to say something. <br />The story is of course that of the greatest champion of the poor and the Afro Americans since the death of Lincoln was Lydon Baines Johnson. Yet anyone reading the three volumes of Caro's story so far would never even guess that such was Johnson's destiny. Because no figure was less idealistic, more in the pockets of big oil than Johnson. His political background was Texas and his allies were the southern supporters of the Jim Crow system. However in a book of more than a thousand pages Johnson's future and success in civil rights is only mentioned as a more or less ironic aside.  <br />The book opens by describing the workings of the American Senate. How the bizarre seniority system and the strangle hold of the Democratic Party in the south enabled the Senate to strangle progressive legislation for a generation. A good deal of Caro's previous volumes concentrate on the character weakness of its protagonist. This book is very much the portrait of an anti hero. However the discussion of Johnson's time in the Senate show what a supreme political operator and tactician he was. He was able to become Senate leader within his first term. More importantly he was able to make that position one of importance. He was able to get his own party to override the seniority system and to create a dialogue between the liberal and conservative wings of his party. Johson was still very much in the pocket of big oil as is shown clearly in the hatchet job he did for them in getting rid of Olds. Yet Johnson was able to change the dynamics of the system, an achievement which dwarfs others who sat in that chamber. <br />The climax of the book is the passing in 1957 of the first Civil Rights Act since reconstruction. It was an act which was limited to protecting the voting rights of Afro Americans. In reality it was never enforced vigorously by  Eisenhower and during its course of operation the number of enrolled voters who were Afro American actually fell. Caro however sees this as a important event as it put civil rights back on the legislative agenda and more importantly gave Johnson the credential to run as a Southern Presidential candidate who did not carry with him the baggage of segregation. <br />Reading the book one is struck by how much of it is not strictly history but more a book about history. However it is an intensely readable work which keeps you turning the pages and spikes up the interest. Caro is a master communicator so that he can use a few words to not only explain the civil rights era but he can conjure up the passions which motivated both sides. It is one of the best books on the American Political system to be written.	2003-12-01
898122:US	52147775	R2N6HG562E2JVS	0670031461	244276101	Rumpole and the Primrose Path	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Rumpole goes marching on	The back of this book suggests that Rumpole is now of similar stature to Sherlock Holmes or Bertie Wooster in English fiction. Probably this is right, somehow or other Mortimer has been writing Rumpole stories for more than 20 years. The character started out as a sort of failure. A criminal barrister in his later years who had not made QC or head of chambers. Someone who the world had passed by. A lot of the early stories relied on the tension between Rumpole who never changed and a world that was constantly changing. Over time somehow Rumpole stopped being a failure and started to represent some of the better things in the law. The desire not to judge, to be fair, the professional skill of advocacy.  He began to represent a series of attitudes that to some extent have come under attack as Britian's Legal System has changed. <br />In this collection of stories he is shown as being perhaps the one competant advocate in his chambers. The other barristers in the book, Soapy Sam Ballard and Claude Erskine Brown representing the type of lawyers who never realise the importance of the liberty of the subject or the underpinning of the system and see the practise of criminal law as slumming. <br />Each of the stories is well done and the endings are not telescoped. There is one new character an efficiency expert but the other players are the old familiar ones from so many books. It is a book that brings delight to an afternoon or something which can make a train or bus tip a joy.<br />It is a formula that works to a tee. A crime mystery is set against the background of Rumpole's various goings on in his private life or his chambers. <br />This book of five stories is as fresh as the first.	2003-11-17
908065:US	52147775	R3RXNYU4ZHNTM5	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	5	11	17	N	N	Funny but also very wise	It is perhaps ironic that the most powerful voices of the left in America are those of Michael Moore and Al Franken who are both comedians. Franken's book is an unashamed wake up call to those who call themselves liberals to go out and fight and to re-take the political ground which has been won by the right over the past twenty years. He suggests that this is not an easy task as the media is conservative and radio is dominated by right wing ideologues. However his book is a demonstration of a means of fighting the good fight. <br />Franking demonstrates clearly that one of the tactics of the right in America is the oft-repeated bald face lie. If a lie is repeated enough it becomes a factoid that enters the political debate and if not countered can become an accepted truth. He lists countless examples of lies. Not factual mistakes or opinions but lies and shows how the conservative press seldom question them. This has led to the success of Bush and the Republicans in gaining the Presidency and more recently dominating congress. <br />The chapters on Ann Coulter are not earth shattering in saying anything new but Franken says it with a sense of humour lacking in others who have exposed her. The chapter on the media and on talk show hosts again is revealing. <br />Sometimes populists books are disregarded by serious academics as not researching what is a complex world. However sometimes populist books go to the very heart of a problem and expose it in a way that the most serious academic study cannot. Franklen's is one such book. One of the more entertaining and funny books to come out in years.	2003-11-09
912294:US	52147775	R1RT43A3J9AYR6	0440414806	159975375	Holes	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Kids Classic	This is a book that most kids thinks is better than Harry Potter. The hero Stanley is a loser living with a loser family when he is mistakenly accused and found guilty of a serious theft. Instead of going to a juvenile detention centre he goes to a civilian run program where he has to dig holes in the hot Texas sun.<br />The book has two broad layers. The reason for Stanley's predicament results from a historic curse his family has been subject to. The reasons for this are explained in a back narrative. Against this is the story of Stanley coping with his environment, learning how to live in a crazy system and making friends.<br />The message of the book is reasonably good. The world is not necessarily a sensible place but one has to keep working at things. Bizarrely enough the reform camp is not that far of the mark of some that have existed.<br />The book is easy to read and adult readers can read it in a couple of hours. Kids might take a bit longer but they would love it.	2003-11-05
912545:US	52147775	R4RNRP9WV7AIY	0465030491	190590158	Why Orwell Matters	Books	4	14	22	N	N	Easty and pleasant to read	George Orwell is now remembered for his brilliant portrayals of the evils of Stalinism a system which has pretty much ceased to exist except in North Korea. It is ironic that Orwell who became one of communism's most effective critics was in fact a person who was a committed socialist for all his life. <br />This book is really a collection of essays by Hitchen's looking at different aspects of Orwell and his legacy. With the collapse of communism one wonders how long 1984 and Animal Farm will continue to be put on school syllabuses and for how long Orwell's books will be read.<br />Never the less Hitchen's essays are readable and they catch the basic decency of Orwell and the man and his one or two rather minor character flaws. The best essay is the discussion of the empire and Orwell's loathing for it. Even now the dreams of past majesty can blind us to what a squalid little affair the empire on the whole was. Its racism and how much the degradation of millions of subject peoples was bound up in its very nature was so clearly illustrated in Burmese days.<br />Other parts of the book deal with Orwell and his attitude to women, his preparation of a black list of fellow travellers and a number of those issues which have been used to attack his memory in recent years. All in all an entertaining book about an important figure in his time but one wonders for how much longer that will be so.	2003-11-05
912770:US	52147775	R3D1RDCJCHU2PD	0968601405	865805341	The Jesus Puzzle. Did Christianity Begin with a Mythical Christ? : Challenging the Existence of an Historical Jesus	Books	4	15	24	N	Y	Good	The writer of the book has a web site that apparently pre-dates the book. In some ways the web site is a little clearer and is argued in a different way but the book is a reasonably straightforward read.  The argument about whether a historical Jesus existed is not new. In the 19th Century Remsberg ran a similar argument in his book The Christ. <br />The basic argument is that the epistles that were written by Paul represent the earliest Christian writings. These do not refer to the miracles and incidents mentioned in the Gospels. Rather they talk about Jesus in an abstract way as if he existed in another dimension and only appears to his followers in a spiritual way. The contest of the gospels is contradictory and there is no real independent verification for what is mentioned in them. <br />Doherty's book is different from Remsberg as it tries to date the Gospels from the mid second century and to suggest a reason for their appearance. Remsberg was content to point to the historical problems with the Gospels and then to infer that they had been constructed in much the same way that the myths of Bacchus or Isis had been. <br />The suggestion is that the Gospels started with Mark. That Mark was constructed as a sort of parable by selecting prophesies from the Old Testament and turning them into a sort of narrative. The other Gospels have started with Mark and elaborated or expanded the story by including more legends.<br />The book as a whole is interesting and a thorough canvassing of the argument. It is more logical than some other efforts which have a slightly more sensationalist bent. Worth a read.	2003-11-05
913149:US	52147775	R1K68QO7IP1AX9	0452284988	848180184	A Long Short War: The Postponed Liberation of Iraq	Books	1	33	72	N	N	A collection of newspaper columns more than a book	This is a very short book which appears to be a collection of newspaper columns rather than a book written about the topic. The theme is pretty simple and often repeated. That is that Saddam Hussien was a cruel and dictatorial ruler and it was a good idea to give him the boot. Clearly this was very much the case and anyone with a rudimentary knowledge of current affairs will be aware of his invasions of Iran and Kuwait, the murder of his own people such as the Kurds using poison gas and the brutally oppressive nature of his regime. <br />However the war over Iraq was a complex issue. It is legal to invade another country because its government is bad? The answer is probably no, however there was no discussion about the complexity of the issue. Was it reasonable to invade Iran as it had breached the UN resolutions that had formally ended the first Gulf War? The answer was probably no but maybee. This is an issue again which depended on the structure of those resolutions. They had been breached but did that sanction US as opposed to US action. <br />The means used by the US and British government to explain the war to their own people appears in retrospect to be disingenuous if not dishonest. Suggestions were made that Iraq was importing uranium for a nuclear program. This was simply not true as was the allegation that large numbers of aluminium tubes were being imported to make a enrichment plant. <br />This book is in reality mono dimensional and whilst the one central point it makes is true, it fails to examine or discuss what was a complex reality. One might also add that its portrayal of the opposition to the war did not rise above caricature.	2003-11-05
937701:US	52147775	R2IQRSM9VXG626	0262550423	883073626	The Elusive Quest for Growth: Economists' Adventures and Misadventures in the Tropics	Books	4	8	9	N	Y	Very Good	The writer of this book is something of a maverick, an employee of the World Bank who snips at its policies from the inside. His formula for growth is reasonably simple. It is necessary to create an environment in which there are considerable person incentives. However whilst he says this, he has no magic formula. In fact most of the book is a critique of developmental policies which have not worked. One imagines that the book is very much a popular account of material that appears in academic journals and is well known in the profession. Still the book is written in a bright and wry style which is easy to read and expresses complex ideas in a simple and logical way. <br />The book outlines how initially both the injection of foreign aid and the role of education were seen as the key to growth. The book explains that the popularity of the idea of foreign aid was a belief that poorer countries had a shortage of capital. The injection of capital could lead to growth which would be self supporting. Thirty hears of foreign aid have shown that in the vast majority of cases the injection of capital has no effect at all on the wealth of poorer countries. Instead of development the most common result of foreign aid is the building of white elephants which have not other impact except creating huge debt payments which restrict the normal operation of the economies. In addition education is okay if there is a demand for it but money spent on education can simply lead to the training of experts who quickly emigrate.<br />The key to many of the problems of poorer countries comes from government. The author is not a libertarian who rejects the role of government on an ideological basis. He in fact concedes that there is no relation between taxation levels and growth. He does show how poor government can damage a country in so many ways. Chronic inflation for instance creates an environment in which it is not economically rational to produce but only to speculate. Poor governmentcan result in the failure to build and to maintain infrastructure and services pushing up the costs of production. In so many poorer countries, manufacturers not only face the problems of developing products and selling them but they face poorly maintained roads, power grids without power, phone systems that do not work. Lastly real corruption can make the running of business and an economy impossible.<br />Despite the importance of corruption as one of the key reasons behind whether growth occurs or not, it has only recently been seen as something which economists would discuss. <br />The book is easy to read, in parts amusing but at its heart it shows how important economic growth is to enable huge numbers of people to live with the access to medical care and employment which allows for a certain human dignity. Well worth a read.	2003-10-16
1008483:US	52147775	R1NTLHPGNQYRZ	0529064634	523577291	The Holy Bible: King James Version	Books	2	35	50	N	N	Of historical interest but a little slow for casual reading	From the point of view of the casual reader the bible is rather hard going. It is of course a collection of writings collected for the Emperor Constantine who wanted information on the Christian religion. The book is divided into two sections. The Old Testament is a collection of Jewish writings probably written around the time that the Jews returned from Babylon after the defeat of that Empire by Cyrus the Great. Ezra a priest was allowed by Cyrus to return to Judah and it is recorded that he took with him the Torah. This seems to be the starting point of the Torah being mentioned in history. <br />The collections of Jewish writings which are now called the old Testament were seen as important by Christian writers as they predicted the coming of a Messiah and were a basis for accepting the stature of Jesus. Some of the predictions naturally enough now seem somewhat contrived. The new Testament has at its core the four Gospels which are said to be accounts of the life of Jesus. The reality of the Testament is that the earliest written books were that of the epistles. The Gospels are different and have a large number of inconsistencies suggesting that they were written in different parts of the Roman empire and reflect different religious traditions. The Gospels seem to have been mentioned by other writers in the second century ADE. <br />The bible of course was a book that had immense importance beyond its content. In England it was illegal to produce the work in English until the time of James the first. Tyndale the translator who was responsible for most of this work was a remarkable man. He taught himself both Greek and Hebrew so that he could translate the text from the original. Tyndale was executed in the Low Countries a martyr for what was to become the Protestant cause. Tyndale is quoted as saying to a bishop when he left England to begin his lifes work \\"If God preserves me so that I can do my work then that shepherd boy will have a much greater knowledge ofthe Scriptures than you.\\" A sentiment which was one of the more admirable in our history. Tyndale is the inventor of many expressions which still enrich the language such as \\"the salt of the earth\\". He is the person who invented the word beautifull.<br />An English bible was not available for many years after Tyndales death but his translation was used as the basis for the work when it was commissioned by James the first. The English bible has been a book of tremendous importance. It was the one book that many families would own. Before television or the radio it would be the centre of family life with fathers reading the words of Scripture the assembled family. Bibles would have the events of family life recorded in them, marriages births and deaths. They would be used to teach the written word and for the young to learn the art of reading. <br />The bible now is a book loved by Christians as a source of their beliefs. It is also a book loved by atheists as they believe that the contradictions within it illustrate the non existence of God. However if one was to evaluate the book objectively it is not a great read. As a history it is full of contradictions and shows poor editing. As a narrative it is broken up by a range of things which are now tedious. The genealogies and the complex Jewish dietary rules for instance. However a book that has shaped our world.	2003-08-17
1023737:US	52147775	RCSJT6L6XYC31	0806505494	324371027	The Age Of Reason	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Still worth reading today	This is a book which was written in 1795 but surprisingly enough is as clear and easy to read as books written today. The book consists of two parts, the fist is a discussion of deism as a rational religious belief and he second part consists of a textual analysis of the bible.<br />The second half is probably the more interesting part to read today. Payne goes through and compares the internal logic of the text of both the old and New Testament and Old Testament. The four gospels vary significantly in their account of a range of issues which Payne suggests proves that they were written in isolation from each other and suggests that their origin is hearsay. One example he raises is the account that suggests that when Jesus died the tombs of saints opened and they were returned to life. This rather significant event is not mentioned in the other gospels and that suggests that it was not true. He uses a similar approach to other gospels. In regard to the Old Testament he suggests convincingly that the suggestion that Moses wrote the first give books of the bible cannot be true. The key to understanding this is a close examination of the text. These books not only describe Moses life but also his death. The writing is inconsistent with personal authorship in other ways. (The text for instance suggesting that Moses was modest. If one was to make such an assertion about oneself it would not be consistent with the nature of the assertion)<br />The book is very short and apart from the discussion of the bible it is an interesting work in the context of history. It was written after the revolution but before Napoleon proclaimed himself emperor. Payne had little idea of what was to come and how quickly Catholicism would be re-introduced in France. An interesting book and the critique of the Bible is one of the foundations of modern scholarship in the area.	2003-08-04
1023892:US	52147775	R3GDTB19UKZ4I5	0192833707	64542062	Republic (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	1	14	65	N	N	Historical interest only	This book is most easily understood in the context of when it was written. Athens had been involved in a disastrous war with Sparta. As a result of the war Athens lost its empire, its fleet was disbanded and the walls from the city to the port were pulled down. The Democratic Party, which had ruled Athens, had been responsible for starting the war and also its outcome. Following the war the Spartans imposed on Athens an oligarchy dominated by aristocrats. Plato was a supporter of that government and an opponent of the supporters of democracy.<br />In writing about politics Plato argued that a proper system of government excluded the general public from decision making. He suggested that government was a technical function that should be undertaken by an elite who are trained for it. Obviously this position reflects his distrust of the majority and his belief that some were better fitted for government than others. Modern notions of government being related to dealing with conflict in society and resource allocation would of course simply meant nothing to him.<br />In discussing why he thought this was a just system the book suggests a theory of human nature which suggests that people are naturally limited in their abilities. Some people by birth are fitted to be shoemakers. Others might know how to till the soil. Society benefits from people occupying the place that fits them best. Again this view is reflective of the time and in reality large numbers of people are able to learn and to move between occupations and to fill different roles in society.<br />Plato having outlined his theory of society and government then suggests that the key to building a good society relates to the training and selection of the class who will carry out the government function. The book is historically important as being one of the foundations of modern political thought but is not the sort of work that could be said to contain wisdom which is relevant today.	2003-08-04
1033128:US	52147775	R1E7TVWUYIUTIK	0871134691	423473157	The Lords of Poverty: The Power, Prestige, and Corruption of the International Aid Business	Books	5	12	13	N	Y	A spirited rant	This book has the flavour of someone who has stewed over the question of foriegn aid for some time and then suddenly this book has been an outpouring of every bit of frustration ever felt by the author. From looking at his other books it appears that he is a person with a thorough background in the industry. <br />The book is one of the most daming that I have read. Although short the book marshals its facts and explains every argument with a clarity that is breathtaking. <br />The arguments are that the organisations which are involved in providing aid are incompetent. There are a number of reasons for the incompetance but all orginsations which deal with aid are incompetant and corrupt.<br />At the head of the list is the world bank. The world bank is willing to make grants of aid conditional on changes to monetary policy and dismanteling of anti competative market systems but it never wants to make aid conditional on introducing human rights or democracy. As a result changes to make the market more competative almost always damage the poor by for example the removal of food subsidies. The benifits of World Bank loans almost always flow to the middle class or urban dwellers. The Indian Economist Sen has shown that democracies do not have famines. If the world bank was to make democracy the condition of aid packages it would be more likely to reduce famines in these countries. In fact govermental corruption or incompetance is the real reason for the sorts of problems which require aid in the first place.<br />The world bank is addicted to large capital intensive projects. Most of these turn out to be white elephants and have unsustainable maintence costs. Again the benifits of electification or transport benifits mainly the urban centres. <br />Those who are responsible for aid projects are overpaid, come from foriegn countries and lack language skills to properly evlaute projects. The result is that huge amounts of aid are used to pay for incompetant staff at aidbodies. <br />The author says that the proof of the pudding is that those countries which have had huge amounts of aid have simply gotten poorer. Aid projects have generally failed. The world would be a better place without any aid at all. <br />Whilst this is an extreme position the book is a valuable addition to debate in the area.	2003-07-27
1033455:US	52147775	R1PH7S4LGODTRQ	0743227867	240511001	The Road to Hell	Books	4	36	37	N	Y	Written with passion and accuracy	This is an angry book that has been written with considerable passion. The author worked in Somalia for some time and later became a journalist. In that capacity he has followed the history of the area and the collapse of Somalia as a state. The book is about Somalia and it is about how foreign aid made things worse. <br />The book is to some extent journalist and fragmented. It looks at the stories of different characters. One Chis Cassidy for instance was an aid worker who headed a project to irrigate some land. He has to battle rampant corruption, the incredibly poor planning of the project and continual attempts to undermine it. In the end despite his talent and passion for the job he fails and the money put into the project is simply lost. Millions and dollars whose only achievement is to enrich some aid workers and government officials. Cassidy is a tragic case and in the end he leaves Africa after one of his children is murdered to warn him off. <br />The book also looks at how private charity works. How much of it goes to the charity organisation and how little to the target population. What aid that does go to the target population is so poorly distributed it achieves nothing.<br />The main work of the book is to look at the overall situation in Somalia and the mechanics of aid. The story which was revealed to the public was that due to a war between Somalia and Ethiopia large numbers of ethic Somalias had been forced to flee from their homes and were starving in refugee camps. As a result international agencies sent in huge amounts of food. The author reveals how the crisis was engineered by the then corrupt Somali government. That the numbers of refugees was at all times exaggerated. That the motive of the government in creating the crisis was to be able to steal large amounts of the food aid and to make money out of selling it. That the image of starving refugees was created by photographing children who were victims of dysentery and other diseases rather than facing starvation. How the importation of food distorted the economy and broke apart the relationships which used to keep Somalia to some extent a unified society. <br />The book is a devestating portrait of how flawed the aid industry is and the sorts of reasons why it is useless. It is also an interesting book to read along side Black Hawk down the recently released popular history of the military adventure which went so badly wrong. This book provides the political background to understand how flawed that entire mission was. A worthwhile book to read but one that it gripping like a novel and hard to put down.	2003-07-27
1036845:US	52147775	RM7TVO76JX9J3	0375712925	70225414	The Emperor of Ocean Park	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A thriller with depth and structure	This book is a thriller which grips you to the last page. The essence of a good thriller is of course not the plot. You need a good plot of course a thriller with a dud plot is something simply to be thrown away. <br />However plots can only be so interesting. A good thriller is something which contains either atmosphere, interesting characters or some insight into something new. This book is good as it has all three. The hero of the book is a black American who works as an academic. His father is a Judge who withdrew from a Senate hearing into his suitability to be a Supreme Court Justice. A sort of Clarence Thomas figure but whose dark side was somewhat different. The book is a portrait of what it is like to be a middle class black in America. Throughout there is a conciousness of being one of the dark nation. <br />The plot is about the search for some missing arrangments left by the Judge. The hero of the novel does not even know what these arrangments are but people begin to die. The search for the arrangments becomes a search also for understanding the true nature of his father. It is a bit like John Grishams book the Summons but far better. (And Grishams book was pretty good)<br />Although the book is long it was one that was hard to put down. A joy to read and the plot keeps surprises coming to the end.	2003-07-24
1037414:US	52147775	R33THCGK5AYGOO	0060630353	192773485	Who Wrote the Bible?	Books	4	25	29	N	Y	Good	Plot spoiler warning, it was Ezra and Jeremiah. <br />In reality however the book is not so much about who wrote the bible but the process by which we understand how it was written. Friedman is an academic who has studied the bible for years. This book is a clearly written outline of current thinking about the origin and strucutre of the bible. Probably most of the material in the book is available in dull long academc tones. This book however reduces all that to an easy to understand yet learned exposition in some 240 pages.<br />Briefly in one examines the first five books of the bible it is possible to note certain duplications of stories. This suggests that two accounts of similiar events has been synthasised together. In addition the two accounts seem to have two different names for God. One uses the term Elohim which simply means God and the other uses Jehovah, something which applies to what became the Jewish God. <br />Using largely textual and historical anaylsis Friedman suggests that what has happened is that after the splitting of the Davidic kingdom into Israel and Judah two priestly traditions probably oral emerged. These varied slightly as the systems of worship and political strucutre varied somewhat. Moses was a hero to the north, Aaron was the ancesotor of the Judian priestly class. <br />Deuteronomy appears to have been written in the reign of the King Josiah. This is based on the rather slavish praise given to him despite his mediocraty as a monarch. This would place it around 587 BC.<br />However rather than there being a bible at this point there would have been two versions of the first four books of the bible and Dueteronomy. Again using a textual anaylsis it would seem that there existed a further book which was of priestly origin. It was concerned largely with rules and laws and a more limited history. <br />Friedman suggests that these books were edited to form a continous narrative by Ezra the priest who was given power to rule over Judeaby Cyrus the great after the conquest of Babylon by the Persians. Historical records suggest that Ezra took with him the Torah from Babylon to Judea. This would place the date of writing as about 539 BCE.<br />Regardless of whether Friedman is right or wrong the book is a fascinating summary of hundreds of years of textual and historical anaylasis of the bible.	2003-07-24
1052264:US	52147775	R134ANKH9LR12I	0618134247	245124319	Dark Star Safari: Overland from Cairo to Cape Town	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Back to the height of his powers	Paul Theroux has written a lot of travel books. Most of them are reasonably entertaining and involve caustic observations of the people he meets with some background into the countries he visits. His books are darker than a writer such as Bill Bryson. To some extent his formula seemed to be running a bit dry with his last book. This however is a return to his vintage form.<br />The reasons are partially because the narrative of events is in itself more interesting than the normal travel story. Theroux for instance is shot at by bandits at one point. The main attraction of the book is the description of Africa itself. When he was in his twenties Theroux worked in the Peace Corps and taught in Uganda and Mawali. He seems to have spent a couple of years there and has retained a distinct memory of a number of countries recently given independence with their future before them. <br />Forty or so years later, everything is immeasurably worse. Theroux finds all the African cities me meets charmless, decaying places filled with diseased and suffering poor. Crime ridden with decaying buildings and facilities. Whilst the peasant society of these countries keeps going every other aspect of civilised life has decayed. One poignant section of the book describes the search for a couple who set up a school and for years tried to educate the local community. No one has heard of them or even remembers their years of effort.  <br />Theroux discusses the role of Western Aid in the African context. One suspects that part of the reason why he dislikes aid organisations so much is the priggish nature of aid workers. They continually refuse to give him lifts. However he discusses in some detail instances of aid putting countries backwards. In one country a major road in a mountainous area was maintained by large numbers of local labourers. This not only ensured the road was kept open but also provided a trickle down effect of giving some money to these villagers who were able to have someincome as a hedge against drought or bad times. An aid agency purchased some bulldozers to do the work. This meant that only five or so workers were employed. In addition the bulldozers simply pushed accumulated gravel and rocks to the side of the road. When the road flooded the piled rocks led to the damming of rain water which damaged the road far more than had occurred because of rock slides. When the bulldozers eventually broke down no maintenance occurred on the road at all. Thus an aid project has thrown local workers of the job, making it difficult for them to survive in times of famine. It has led to worse damage to the road and in the end when it has not been possible to service the capital equipment a valuable road has been lost to a community. <br />The book is a revelation about the failure of sub Saharan Africa and it is clear that Theroux has a clear idea of why that failure has occurred. All in all not only an interesting and engrossing narrative but a challenging work about the second largest continent in the world.	2003-07-12
1074403:US	52147775	RWL30T3GQJWOE	0060392452	194848581	Stupid White Men ...And Other Sorry Excuses for the State of the Nation!	Books	4	9	15	N	N	Funny provocative	Michael Moore is probably the most articulate left wing figure in America. (Even if some of his initial success was due to British television). He is the one American who has a vision which challenges the political establishment.<br />In any country there is a tendency for political parties to drift together. The reason for that is that most parties have a defined constituency and opposing parties try to woo voters in the middle ground. Although political parties will differ from each other most will have a common consensus about dealing with a nations problems.<br />In America both parties believe in low levels of public welfare, the provision of medical care through private insurance programs and a draconian criminal law system to keep things together. The result to an outsider is to say the least strange. America being on the one hand a wealthy and advanced country yet it has significant problems with literacy, infant mortality and it is unique amongst developed countries in not only having the death penalty but in executing children and the mentally ill.<br />Moore has made his name in dealing with the absurd aspects of the American system. He is a populist who believes that military spending could be diverted to achieve better outcomes in education and health. In years gone by he has run a television show which has highlighted specific cases of absurdity. <br />In this book he has collected not so much a series of essays as a series of raves which have been written in anger. He is concerned about the legitimacy of the Bush presidency but in reality his ire is aimed more generally at the system. That is he sees both the Republicans and the Democrats as parties of big business who ignore the everyday citizen. The book is surprisingly readable and often quite funny. Without doubt Moore is the most effective figure in challenging the current consensus. Certainly worth a read.	2003-06-24
1092721:US	52147775	R3D7NGSEND0F44	0333718291	474963610	A Concise History of Byzantium (European History in Perspective)	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Very Good anyalitical history	This is a very good although brief little book. Byzantium is the name given to the part of the Roman Empire which survived the collapse of the West. Those who lived in it would have known themselves as Romans and Byzantium is very much an artificial name thought up after the event by scholars who had something of a prejudice against the Eastern Empire. This book is a strongly argued rebuttal of that position.<br />The historian who has shaped the popular view of the Roman Empire is Gibbon. His rather long work explores a theme. That theme is that the Roman Empire reached its peak when its members were pagan and immersed in the values of a classical civilisation. The conversion to Christianity changed the nature and structure of the empire and led to its decline. <br />This book broadly suggests that this view is poppycock and it uses a statistical and analytical approach to prove its point. Broadly what is argued is that the reason for the decline of Rome was bound up in the nature of the imperial system in 200 onwards. The basis of the authority of the Emperor was the support of the army. The army in turn consisted of troops who were generally non-roman. Although the Empire was nominally the strongest power in Europe at the time its internal authority was subject to fragmentation and it was this which led to the collapse of the Empire in the West. <br />In the East a similar thing happened. However the Emperors were gradually able to re-assert civil power over the military. In addition it was also possible to build a common culture based on the Greek language and Christianity which unified the Empire and gave those who lived in it a common identity. <br />Rather than declining the Eastern Empire was able under Justinian to go on the offensive and to re-conquer Africa and Italy. Whilst the Empire was to suffer reverses it lasted to 1200 and was still one of the strongest powers in Europe in 1000. <br />This book uses statistics on the revenue of the empire, the sizeof its army and the extent of its territory to prove it's the central thesis. This book is fare easier to understand than a straight chronological history like that of Norwich. It is a book which cannot be recommended highly enough.	2003-06-11
1099801:US	52147775	RV1SOHXA16P4V	0971394253	975323778	Why Do People Hate America?	Books	2	14	32	N	N	Old style leftie polemic	Following the September 11 attacks on the United States prominent right wing figures suggested that the reason \\"people hated America\\" was due to jealously and resentment at its freedoms and economic success. This book is an attempt by some old style lefties to suggest that America does some things which are worthy of hatred. <br />The book has a number of themes but there are three main ones. The first is that as a superpower America's track record is not that good. It was responsible for the deaths of around three million civilians due to its bombing in South East Asia. It has intervened to prop up right wing regimes and its agencies such as the CIA have taught oppressive regimes the techniques of torture and oppression. The second is that America has developed a cultural hegemony that threatens the destruction of many local cultures. American television programming swamps the world and drives out more expensive to produce local television and films in a myriad of countries.  American fast food and products such as Coca Cola dominate the world. The last theme is that American economic power dominates the monetary system and monopolises economic resources leading to the impoverishment of poorer nations.<br />In reality of course the reason for the September 11 attacks were not really much to do with this at all. The people who carried out those attacks, by and large Saudi Arabians were concerned mainly about the stationing of American troops in that country and felt that it was inconsistent with the many holly sites in that country. At a lesser level they were concerned with perceived US support of Israel. Saudi Arabia being an authoritarian country is able to preserve its culture by censorship and the banning of Western Cultural practices such as drinking alcohol and by suppressing the rights of women. <br />The book in reality cites a number of images of America, which have currency in left wing intellectual circles in Europe and South America. As such it is mainly a polemical work that will be read and liked by the converted but generally ignored by others. Still it is easy to read and for a number of Americans who are insulated from current history it might be an eye opener.	2003-06-04
1154247:US	52147775	R16HW4IL8PL4HL	0380811812	514211574	Aftermath: A Novel of Suspense (Inspector Banks Novels)	Books	1	22	35	N	N	Like this would happen no way	The book opens up with two young police constables stumbling on the house of a serial killer. In the basement they find the corpse of a young girl. The serial killer attacks one of the police with a machette and he is then killed by the other constable.<br />Unlike most murder mysteries which usually aim to find a killer this is one about the aftermath, thus the title. The questions revolve around whether the surviving constable will be charged with the murder of the serial killer and whether it will be possible to implicate the wife of the killer. There are naturally a number of other sub plots.<br />The problem with the book is that it deviates from what a police procedural should be. That is any police procedural depends on a certain degree of accuracy for its fascination. They reveal something about the process of investigation or the process of the law. The problem with this book is that its events are so far from reality it is hard to read without cringing. <br />One could not imagine in the real world that a police woman, giving away inches in height would be regarded as anything but a hero for dealing with a serial killer in the way described in the book. The idea that she would face investigation is laughable. In addition the process of the investigation is something out of cloud cuckoo land. Any police officer facing a murder charge would receive independent legal advice and be fully aware of things like the impact of changing a statement. Police deal with these issues day in and day out. <br />The other main plot hinge around whether the wife of the serial killer will be charged is also from arm chair amateur land. The evidence against the woman at the start of the book is that she lived in a house in which young woman were kept captive for weeks and then killed. There is circumstantial evidence of blood on her clothers and other material under her finger nails. The sort of case which would lead in most cases to a defendant being charged and found guiltywith a jury deliberation of four or five minutes. However the author for some reason thinks this is not enough. <br />So the hero of the book a police officer investigates the matter. His long interviews with the wife are some of the most tedious, meandering, poorly thought out interviews of suspects that I have come across. Even a first year constable would not fall into the traps that he does. Questions are asked which are speculative, with no basis, aimed at electing answers unrelated to the charges. The aim in the book is to create a notion of a battle of wits between a crusty old investigator and a wily criminal. However in reality the questioning is so bad it would form a strong basis for any competent defence team to seriously attack the investigation. Not a great book.	2003-04-18
1159945:US	52147775	R1MUSD0G269VN6	0375705244	406271874	Founding Brothers: The Revolutionary Generation	Books	2	4	13	N	N	Founding fathers, America in love with itself	America is currently the wealthiest and militarily strongest country in the world. It also historically has been important in spreading the free market system and democracy. <br />A by product of this success has been the increasing veneration for its own institutions and history. In the same way that English Whig historians developed their own idea of history as a logical progress which led to the rule of law, respect for rights of the common man and the development of the parliamentary system American historians have developed their own myth. This myth is that their constitutional documents were works of genius. The constitution and the declaration of independence were responsible for what has come after. In fact the originals of these documents are now the subject of pilgrimages as if they were the remains of saints. <br />Now of course there is a certain logic in this approach. Whilst the nature of the American system has been radically altered in practice by the broadening of the franchise it is a country which has maintained its governmental system intact for over two hundred years, something which no other country has done. Its institutions have also been important in the development of political thought and more specifically they have served as a model for the constitution of other countries.    <br />Yet if we look at the United States Constitution it is a document which has had its problems. It failed to provide a mechanism to prevent the civil war, it did not protect the Afro Americans during the Jim Crow period. One might in fact think that the Constitution was only one aspect of the American success and there are a rang of other things to describe the development of the system apart from the individual genius of the founding fathers.<br />This book is one that can only be understood in the context of the assumed mythological stature of the founding fathers. It is in reality a series of essays that discuss themes. The willingness of George Washington toretire and not to seek absolute power. The decision to solve the difficulties created by slavery by simply not discussing it. The conflict between Hamilton and Burr as symptomatic as approaches to what sort of place America should be. Each essay is in itself well written and structured in such a way that outsiders to the area can easily understand what is going on. However each essay assumes the American myth of the greatness of the founders rather than looking at what happened as symptomatic or reflective of the intellectual currents of the time. Not a bad read but one which will fascinate Americans and inspire near reverence whilst leaving non Americans with the question what is this all about.	2003-04-13
1174991:US	52147775	R2SGVM266E5L02	0345443020	981903971	Perdido Street Station (Bas-Lag)	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Not to my taste but a remarkable book	This book is one of the more talked about science fiction books to come out in years. The strong point of the book is not so much the plot but the atmosphere and the creation of yet another universe. The book is set in a city-state called Crobuzon. The city is one, which is populated by many different creatures, but the ones running the show are men. Garudas fly above streets populated by insect like creatures called kephri, humanoid cactuses amble about. The most grotesque inhabitants of the city are the re-made. Human criminals who have been surgically altered, as a form of punishment, into mixtures of human and mechanical parts, or simply into the sorts of creatures who inhabit horror movies. <br />The world is set in a time when technological development seems to be set in the steam age, but biological science is streets ahead of what we now know. Surgeons can create all sorts of creatures but the weapons used on the streets are flintlock pistols and the main means of transport is the horse and cart and steam trains. <br />The feel of the novel is unusual. It is more like a computer game such as Fallout rather than a conventional book. There is a sense of decay and one of the things the author likes to do is to map an urban landscape of decay and steep divisions like 17th century London. <br />The main plot of the book concerns the threat posed to the city by some supernatural creatures who have the potential to destroy all sentient life forms. In some ways the climax of the book is like a block buster film where there are a series of confrontations with the creatures climaxing in the final chapter. <br />A lot of fantasy novels create worlds that are sanitised extrapolations of medieval romances.  This book is far from sanitised and it is hard to think of any modern piece of fiction that is so filled with writing which is based on purely visual imagery rather than on scene setting and plot development. <br />A book which was very much not to my taste but one can recognise it for something of a tour de force and a remarkable development in the area.	2003-03-31
1200450:US	52147775	R3T0Q2PDZUV3PV	0967790107	355514529	The Fabrication of the Christ Myth	Books	1	18	95	N	Y	Dud	The writer of this book is a person who is a well red amateur in the field rather than being a specialist. He is a free thinker who tries to suggest that the Gospels are not based on historical truth but are fictitious. The broad method is to suggest that a number of things suggest that the gospels are not historical. These relate to a lack of knowledge about Jewish customs and some other issues such as the geography of the area.<br />It is then suggested that different parts of the gospels are a transcription of some aspects of the story of Joshua and that other parts are a reworking of the fate of the Jewish community in Alexandria under the Romans. (Some prominent Jews were crucified)<br />The book is a rather plodding read. The main problem however is that the book simply relies on assertion to suggest the central thesis rather than anything else. There is no real explanation of who is meant to have written the material, their social background and the motives and mechanics of the process.	2003-03-09
1201290:US	52147775	R30VQKUKVY4DCP	067400387X	471307403	Martin Luther: The Christian between God and Death	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Clear and well written	Marius the author appears to have been a Roman Catholic. He is a former academic (he died in 2001) and has written a number of books including one on Thomas More which sold reasonably well. <br />This book is not so much a biography but is an account of Luther's early life and his break from the Church. It is more an explanation of the doctrinal divergence which led to the Reformation. A number  of people who have reviewed the book have suggested that Marius is biased against Luther. To some extent this is true and the last chapter of the book is a summation of what Marius sees as the negative aspects of Luther?s legacy. The fragmentation of Christianity the over reliance on Scripture and other problems. Some of these are a bit far fetched for instance Marius suggests that one of the reasons for the falling away of Christianity is that the key to worship in the evangelical church is preaching. This depends on the quality of the individual minister in a parish. The Catholic Church depends on ritual and thus even mediocre priests can keep a congregation because of the power of the ritual. <br />Despite what is said in the last chapter this is a readable and simple account of what is a complex subject. The Catholic Church in the 15th Century had developed doctrinal practices that were very different from the early church. The role of Mary, the importance of the saints, the importance of purgatory as a doctrine and the role of the Pope and the church were things which would have been difficult for those in the early church to understand. Luther believed that the key to an understanding of Christian doctrine lay with reading Scripture which he thought was the word of God. He placed no faith in the role of the Church as an institution and believed that all men could spread Gods word. He in fact called for the secular authorities to intervene in the affairs of the church and to reform it. The Church believed that it was an organisation which had been established by the word of God and that if no bible had been written then it and Christianity would still exist. <br />Marius is able to explain these two positions clearly giving justice to both sides of the debate. He in fact is able to talk about how the church had evolved and he is able to explain how reformers would be appalled by the veneration of relics and the use of the Popes powers over suffering after death to generate income. <br />The one weakness of the book is the overplaying of the suggestion that Luther was driven by a fear of death. An alternate explanation is simply that he was appalled by some of the practices of the contemporary church and he was a man who thought he had an insight in how it could be reformed.<br />The one weakness of the book is that it looks mainly at Luthers life and doctrine. It fails to explain why Luther was protected by the princes in Northern Germany and the institutional reasons why his message was accepted. Never the less an interesting and well written book.	2003-03-09
1201357:US	52147775	R1ALBMQRL97BFO	0393321126	702934503	The Iron Wall: Israel and the Arab World (Norton Paperback)	Books	5	20	28	N	N	Diplomatic history at its best	The writer of this book, Shlaim is one of the Revisionist School of Israeli historians. His book is an interesting companion piece to Benny Morris's Righteous Victims. Whilst Morris writes in detail about the military and political history of Israel, Shlaim writes a sort of diplomatic history.<br />The person who has most shaped popular views of Israels history and predicament is Benjamin Netanyahu. His work may not have sold many copies but it provides the ideological framework through which large numbers of people understand the history of the period. Netanyahu paints a picture of Israel as being a sole democracy in a sea of autocratic, fanatical Muslim states. The predominant response of the Arab world to the creation of Israel is one of hate loathing and in the end a commitment to its destruction.<br />Shlaim deals however not in the simple right wing ideology of Netanyahu but in the complex series of events which have brought about the present. His central thesis is that Israel?s foreign policy has always been founded upon a principle that any relations with the Arab world must be based on strength. The problem with this policy is that it has not only protected Israel but it has shaped the response of the Arab world around it. It is this policy of the use of force which has led to problems with the achievement of peace in the region. <br />Shlaim shows how the creation of Israel in itself was an event of immense importance for the Arab world leading to the collapse of most of the Monarchies which had been set up prior to the withdrawal of the colonial forces. The response of Israel in regard to a number of boarder incidents is discussed in some detail in the book. This led to a decision by Egypt to arm itself and in turn this led to the idea in Israel that there would be another war. The Suez incident was an attempt by Israel to weaken any potential Egyptian threat but this again lead to tensions in the region which again led to all nations arming. <br />The invasion of Lebanon led to the response of terrorism being directed against Israeli troops. This response was succesful and it lead to the success and growth of the extreme movements such as Hamas, Islamic Jihad and Hizbullah. <br />The book is one that is written from the persepective of the Israeli left. It is a well written book which can be read in conjunction with  other histories of the period. Its depth of study in the field that it covers means that it is always interesting.	2003-03-09
1235218:US	52147775	RSYAEGF3YVIEE	0060655186	602904794	Who Wrote the New Testament?: The Making of the Christian Myth	Books	3	110	123	N	Y	Not bad	If we read the dialogues of Plato the person who is the mouth piece of his thought is a historical character Socrates. It is clear however that Plato is not simply writing down what Socrates has said, but he puts in his mouth ideas that he thinks are correct. Mack thinks that this was a common practice in Greek communities and that a large number of the sayings of philosophers like Diogeneses were constructed after the event to reflect the spirit of his philosophy.<br />Mack is a biblical expert and has written previous works on the subject including one on the existence of a common source of sayings for two of the Gospels known as Q. <br />In this book he uses as a tool of exposition the recent finding of the Gospel of Thomas. A manuscript written in Coptic which was found in 1945. Rather than being a Gospel which purported to tell Jesus life, this is a collection of his sayings. Mack believes that all of the Gospels have a similar background. A series of sayings which have been developed by different Christian communities to reflect their teachings over practical and theological issues. The interesting thing about the Gospel according to Thomas is that there are no miracles, there is no crucifixion and no physical resurrection, suggesting that these things became important somewhat later. <br />He sees the writing of the Gospels as something akin to fiction writing. The authors of the Gospel wrote their stories to illustrate and to explain the doctrinal intricacies of their belief system. In much the same way that an ancient Greek may have developed a saying of Diogeneses to illustrate a point about his philosophy. <br />Later these stories have become something else and have been seen as literal history. The book is interesting as an exposition of what is common knowledge about the study of the bible. I personally would have preferred more detail about some things such as the means of dating the Gospels. However the book is aimed to be an introduction to a complex field.	2003-02-09
1236314:US	52147775	R3JQGGJR6ESPJA	1566390818	874978260	The Case Against Christianity	Books	3	63	78	N	N	A bit of a plod	Martin is a reasonably well known free thinker who has a background as a academic philosopher. This book is an attempt to suggest that Christian doctrine is not true. The methodology of the book is to suggest that a Christian is someone who accepts the doctrines outlined in the three major Christian Creeds. That is that Jesus existed as a historical figure and was God incarnated, he died and was resurrected, he was born of a virgin and will come again. <br />As a text some of it is a bit plodding. The reason for this is that unlike other books rather than just outlining his position, he advances his argument by contrasting it to other arguments against his position. Thus in the chapter about the resurrection he discusses at some length the position o Habermas a thinker who suggests that the resurrection is a historic event. He then responds to those arguments at some length but the narrative flow is rather poor. <br />The arguments around the resurrection and the historical nature of Jesus are the same arguments which have been running around free thought circles for years and have been outlined by such people as Remsberg (The Christ) and Cutner (Jesus God, Man or Myth). That is that the biblical accounts of Jesus life are contradictory and the Gospels appear to have been written years after the event. The structure of the Gospels suggest stories which are mythical or elaborated and there is a complete absence outside Christian sources to verify what is meant to have gone on. Martin tends to labour these points a bit and in my view Remsberg is by far the strongest exponent of these arguments. <br />The rest of the book is however reasonably original. The argument against the incarnation is in short that the biblical account of the temptation of Jesus is inconsistent with his divine nature. How could the supreme God of the world be tempted by Satan and entity who had in reality no power? How could a God, who does not have human appetites and is a perfect moral beingsuffer from temptation? This then leads to a discussion about how it would be impossible for the natures of God and man to co-exist. The discussion of Christian Ethics and their general incoherence is well done as is the problems around the notion of salvation. <br />The problem with the book is that it is very much a work that is written by an academic philosopher. It discusses the topic by the use of a series of abstract theoretical arguments which have force but take a bit of getting through. Other free thought writers such as Remsberg and Ingersoll write with much greater clarity passion and sense of the absurd aspects of Christian belief.<br />The part of the book that I enjoyed most was the second appendix which discussed the diverse theories of the Atonement. The main advantage of the book is that is presents in a reasonably accessible form a series of arguments which otherwise are contained in a number of volumes.  The main difficulty with the book is probably the first chapter which tries to set up a basis for suggesting that Christians should adopt a rational approach to belief instead of relying on faith alone.	2003-02-08
1243624:US	52147775	R172VOK1WN9ASW	0062517082	772299140	Christianity: A Global History	Books	3	4	7	N	N	A reasonable introduction	What is Christianity, is it the history of an idea or a series of institutions? Chidester the writer of this book is more concerned with Christianity as an idea. This contrasts a bit with other books on the topic of Christianity. Hans Kunne for instance has written a short history of the Catholic Church which is very much an institutional history. <br />One of the weaknesses of Chidesters book is that it is mainly doctrinal. It looks at the establishment of Christianity, its acceptance by the Romans and its revival after the collapse of the Western Empire. One thing which is missing is the history of the development of things such as the Cannon and the development of church structures. We know little about early Christian Communities and about the development of the Western and Eastern Churches as institutions. <br />Never the less this is something of a minor quibble. The history of Christianity is so vast that it is hard to discuss it in any detail even in a 600 page book. To make things more difficulty this is a global history with chapters on the development of Christianity in places as diverse as India and New Guinea. <br />The strength of the book is the development of the belief systeml. Thus he is able to chart the development of the interest in relics and icons. The development of Marianism and the intellectual tensions which led to the Reformation. <br />Although the book does not gloss over the shortcomings of Christianity, the persecution of heretics, ant-Semitism and the failure of the churches in Nazi Germany are all discussed the book is written from a Christian viewpoint. Thus there is no discussion about whether Christ existed as a historical figure or the controversy over the accuracy of the Gospels and New Testament. <br />The reality however is that the scope of the book is so wide ranging it is difficult to cover much of the material in depth. What could be seen as some as a little superficial would be seen by others as the compromise that has to be made in presenting what is an immense topic.	2003-02-02
1244752:US	52147775	R11G25JK8KR1IU	0879755725	637218845	Gospel Fictions	Books	5	73	77	N	Y	Very well written, a revelation	This is a short simple little book. Anyone who is familiar with the Christian Gospels knows that they vary from each other in various details. This book provides and explanation why and in the process explains how they came to be written.<br />The first Gospel to be written was that of Mark. It however from a doctrinal point has some problems. There is no mention of the Virgin birth, Mark in quoting a number of prophecies in the Old Testament misunderstands and misquotes them, the description of Jesus?s Baptism suggests that he only becomes the Son of God at that point and not at his birth and lastly the women who observe the resurrection tell nobody. <br />Helms suggests that the Gospel of Luke attempts to deal with these issues by providing details about the birth, it quotes correctly from the Old Testament and it tries to make sense of the baptism of Jesus and gives a different account of the resurrection. The process of working out the events of Jesus life rather than coming from a historical narrative are often constructed by looking at Old Testament prophecies and then creating events which mirror these prophecies. Helms gives as an example of this Mathew?s use of a prophecy in Isa 7:14-16 to predict the Virgin Birth. It is clearly a passage which illustrates a suggestion that King Pekah of Israel will not reign for long. Mathew has misunderstood the nature of the prophecy. <br />The writing of the Gospels has thus not come about from an inquiry into the historical Jesus but rather as a result of the Gospel writers creating a legend that fits in with their communities view of the personality and nature of Jesus. Helms refers to the large number of other Gospels which were in circulation `such as the Gospel of Thomas, the Gospel of Peter, the Gospel of Phillip, the Secret Gospel of Mark, the Gospel of Mary Magdalene which have been disregarded from the Cannon. The survival of the current Gospels reflects their acceptance by the church as reflective of acceptable doctrine.<br />The chapter on the biblical miracles is perhaps the best in the book. A number of these, especially the raising of the dead are borrowing?s from the Old Testament. Again it is shown how Mark presents a view of Jesus using clumsy magic like tricks whilst in the later Gospels the magic is replaced by Godlike power.  However there is a discussion about the story of Jesus arrest and the cutting of of the ear of the servant of the high priest. This starts off as a simple story but the later Gospels tease out a miracle with the curing of the ear. <br />The source of the miracles is shown clearly to be a number of Old Testament stories which have been copied closely. This book also shows the different treatment of miracles in the Gospels. In John they are proof of supernatural power and a reason to believe. In the other Gospels they are the result of the faith which Jesus inspires in people, <br />Unlike some authors, Helms believes in the existence of a historical Christ. He believes that the crucifixion and the baptism by John the Baptist were both inconvenient stories whose inclusion can only be explained by the fact that they happened. He suggests that a good deal of work has been undertaken by the writers of the Gospels to incorporate these stories in such a way that it fits in with Jesus divine nature. The story of the Baptism is the clearest example. Baptism was aimed at removing sin from a person. Why then was Jesus baptised? The later Gospel writers have incorporated dialogue from John the Baptist suggesting to Jesus that his Baptism was unnecessary as a means of dealing with this dilemma.     <br />All in all an easy to read and interesting little book	2003-02-01
1252013:US	52147775	R2CKB0IFDFSALH	1585090727	113824912	Jesus: God, Man or Myth? An Examination of the Evidence	Books	3	9	13	N	Y	Okay but a bit plodding	This book is an argument for the proposition that Jesus Christ did not exist as a man and that the tradition of his life was made up. The argument in the book is a reasonably familiar one and has been advanced by other sceptics. Basically there is very little historical evidence for the existence of Christ. Mentions of him by contemporary authors are both ambiguous and probably forgeries. The Gospels themselves are probably written about a hundred years after his death. <br />Cutner suggests that the creator of Christianity is Paul. His letters are the first surviving material to suggest the existence of Christ. Paul of course never met Christ but had visions of him. Cutner suggests that the construction of the Christian myth has been based on religious concepts that were current at the time. Krishna, Dionysius, Krishna and Osiris all had similar careers. That is being divine personages, born as men, killed and then risen from the dead. The story of Christ seems derived from these similar legends. Cutner does not explain the mechanics of the process he just suggests that it is the overwhelming likelihood.  <br />The structure of the book is to look at the evidence for Christ in the ancient authors and in the bible. The material and approach is similar to another book The Christ by Remsberg. Of the two, Remsbergs book is probably better written and is a much clearer exposition of the theory. This book however has a chapter looking at Jewish sources and it also has a chapter dealing with the response to the Myth theory of Jesus. <br />The book is not bad but it appears to have been written some time ago. The forward of this version suggests a publication date of 2000 but the style suggests that it is much older. I preferred Remsberg. Still this is interesting for its greater discussion of the Jewish material.	2003-01-26
1262787:US	52147775	R10EMNICOUK2CL	0939040158	747046357	The Book Your Church Doesn't Want You to Read	Books	2	20	29	N	Y	A little fragmented	This book is an anthology of writting by free thinkers. It is quite a long book of over four hundred pages but it consists of a very large number of short essays and pages of quotes. As a result rather than there being a narrative structre or an in depth explanation of issues there are lots of rapid fire points.<br />If you have not come across this sort of material before it might be interesting. A lot of traditional free thinkers are quoted such as Ingersoll and Remsburg but the shortness of the quotes makes it hard to get the sense of the original work. A couple of the essays are very good such as one on sexual abuse in the church and independance from authority both by Anne Gaylor. In addition the discussion of the religious traditions around Krishna and Horus are interesting as the legends are similiar to that of Christ. However some of the things suggested about Krishna I checked on Hindu site and it was not entirely accurate.<br />All in all quite an easy book to read and one that covers a lot of interesting material. However some of the essays were a bit flawed. To suggest that circumcision is catastrophe which religion has thrust on us is a little overdrawn. Some of the material on creationism is also a little shrill.<br />However I found it a little disapointing perhaps because there is so much high quality material available on the nett.	2003-01-18
1281859:US	52147775	R29VLRV8VM2S59	0140213244	581606836	The Misery of Christianity (Pelican books)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Good	The author was born in 1941 in Germany and was trained as a theologian. He lost his faith and published the book in 1968. It is quite a poweful book and reading between the lines it reflects the shock of the author at realising the collaborationist role the Lutheran Church played in Germany in the war.<br />The main thesis of the book is that reading of the history of Christianity is the most effective way of spreading atheism. The writer thus goes through the history of the church discussing its abysmal record. He starts of with the support of slavery in church doctrine and the role of the church as a slave owning organisation until slavery was abolished. He finds the support of slavery deeply immoral and suggests that church doctrine and practice refused to confront the immorality of the practice.<br />He then goes on to talk about church history in repressing divergent thought. This went through two stages of destroying paganism and then mercilessly stamping out heresy. The key to his study of these issues is to show how such oppression was part and parcel of religous doctrine rather than being anything else.<br />The book then goes on to discuss other issues such as the churches problems in dealing with sexuality and also an examination of the early church and historical problems with the Gospels.<br />The book is quite short but it is an excellent primer of the negative aspects of religion.	2003-01-04
1286081:US	52147775	RLCFV99B7YLGK	0879759240	243559305	The Christ	Books	5	55	62	N	N	Best outline of the free thinkers position available	This is a book that is now quite old being published in 1909. Despite that it is very readable and it exhibits a high degree of scholarship.<br />The writer is a free thinker who tries to determine if Christ was a historical figure and if the stories of his life are true. The method is to firstly examine contemporary material from non-Christian writers to determine if there is evidence of the existence of Christ as a historical figure. Although there is a large amount of written material from the period Remsberg shows that there is only one reference to Christ and that is in the writings of the Jewish historian Josephus. He suggests that the reference appears to clearly be a forgery as it only occurs in later translations of the work and the wording is inconsistent with the original. This is surprising as Josephus mentions large numbers of minor historical figures. His failure to mention Jesus suggests either that he did not exist or alternately he was not thought important. In a similar way there is no mention of events such as the massacre of the innocents or the natural events which were have meant to have taken place at the crucifixion.<br />Remsberg then goes on to examine the existing Christian writing. He suggests that the early epistles attributed to Paul show no knowledge of the Gospels and that as a result these must have been written in the second century and not by the writers who are meant to have written them.<br />Remsberg then goes on to look at the Acts of the Apostles and the Gospels and examines them for inconsistencies and also compares them with what we know of the period. The Gospels reflect widely divergent accounts of the events portrayed an example being the genealogies of Jesus. Again if the events portrayed are examined in the light of history a lot of the material does not make sense. The most powerful example of this involves an examination of the legalities of the trial of Jesus.<br />In the end it becomes clear that the Gospels rather than being documents which are historically accurate are in fact written with an aim to establish doctrinal truths. An example of this being the interpolation in one Gospel of the statement by Jesus to Peter that, you will be the rock on which I will build my church. The phraseology is out of context and the passage has clearly been inserted to justify the Western Church.<br />Remsberg finishes by discussing a large number of the mythologies of different religions which existed at the time of the development of Christianity. The sorts of myths that are found were similar to biblical ones and on this basis it is suggested that the Gospels are largely compilations of myths which might have been added to the tale of a more humble life.<br />Despite the age of the book it is one of the most clear and logical explanations of the free thought position that has been written.ther than being documents which are historically accurate are in fact written with an aim to establish doctrinal truths. An example of this being the interpolation in one Gospel of the statement by Jesus to Peter that, you will be the rock on which I will build my church. The phraseology is out of context and the passage has clearly been inserted to justify the Western Church. <br />Remsberg finishes by discussing a large number of the mythologies of different religions which existed at the time of the development of Christianity. The sorts of myths that are found were similar to biblical ones and on this basis it is suggested that the Gospels are largely compilations of myths which might have been added to the tale of a more humble life. <br />Despite the age of the book it is one of the most clear and logical explanations of the free thought position that has been written.	2003-01-01
1287809:US	52147775	R3BBQXTOY7DQOW	0374123543	928235722	Churchill: A Biography	Books	3	7	11	N	N	Not that good	Probably, nowadays a lot of people do not know who Churchill was. He was a British Politician whose career started before the First World War and finished in the 1950s. He was mainly famous for leading Britain during the dark days of the Second World War. This occurred when he was in his late 60s. <br />Churchills greatest achievement was his decision not to make peace with Nazi Germany in 1940. Clearly a brave decision and one that was important in shaping the world. (If he had not then there would have been two possible scenarios. Germany not having to fight on two fronts may have defeated Russia. Alternately if Russia could have defeated Germany Western Europe would have become communist. Clearly two outcomes which would have made the world a worse place)<br />Churchills career otherwise was largely a failure. He had been responsible for the disastrous Dardenelles campaign in the First World War, he switched parties from the Liberals to the Conservatives and did not even attain Ministerial status after Baldwin regained power in the 30s. Although Churchills statements waring of Hitler can be commended and showed insight his other causes such as retaining British Rule over India are best forgotten. Even after leading Britain through the war he lost the 1945 election as conservative leader again lost in 1950 and only narrowly won in 1951. <br />Jenkins has written a biography which although reasonably long seems simply to skim Churchills career. As he was a politician for so long it is hard to write an in depth biography and some of the other books written about him exceed 10,000 words. Probably people who know little about British history will struggle with this book. Jenkins assumes that everyone knows who Asquith, Lloyd George and Baldwin are. He provides little background material to put the events he describes into context. As a result most readers will have problems understanding the various political battles which are described and the role that Churchill played in them. Jenkins of course is a former Labour politician and he has an intense knowledge of the system and he has written extensively on British history. His depth of knowledge probably leads him to being a little optimistic about his reading publics depth of knowledge.<br />The majority of the book is a little bit of a slog. It mainly develops some passion and interest in describing Churchills role in the Second World War. In reality that is no real surprise as the events were momentous.<br />The book is reasonable in recounting Churchills life and it certainly conveys his charm, the positives of his character and his importance in history.  It is however just a little disappointing and that disappointment is that the author assumes a little bit to much of his reader.	2002-12-30
1292182:US	52147775	R2FGX922W3VSCN	0060934913	24249899	Kitchen Confidential: Adventures in the Culinary Underbelly	Books	4	3	5	N	N	You will never have a buffet again	This book is in reality a collection of articles written for various publications. They have a common theme and that is the life of a chef. The author is a talented writer with a knack for comedy. The first essay is about his life and why he became a chef. Other articles are about food production, his problems with drugs and people he has known in the industry. <br />After reading it one can never approach food and eating the same way again. You know to avoid buffets (used to recycle food that might otherwise be wasted) to eat fish on Tuesdays (the day when the fish will be absolute fresh as opposed to Monday when it will be least so) to eat during the week ( the menus are most interesting, restaurants expect less adventurous customers on weekends). <br />The book is also interesting as it is a history of eating in our society. The writer appears to be about 50. He started work in the industry when he was in collage 30 years ago and was sucked into the joy and passion of food. In talking about himself he talks about the way that restaurants and food production have changed over that time. From simple dishes 30 years ago with a bit of French and Italian Cooking to what happens today with a vast and ever changing repertoire in even the small restaurants.  This has occurred against a backdrop of more and more people enjoying eating out and trying different and more exotic things. <br />However the joy of the book is not so much what is said, it is the talent of the writer to make even dull things amusing and entertaining.  He is a natural writer and this is a book which although around 300 pates you will read at a sitting in a few hours.	2002-12-27
1305179:US	52147775	R2OGS27ZTU0Z0Y	1565846524	491173377	One Step Behind: A Kurt Wallander Mystery	Books	3	15	25	N	N	Good	Mankell writes police procedural featuring a detective called Wallander. His novels are set in a southern rural province of Sweden and they are written against a backdrop of the political issues of the day and the problems in life of the main character. Previous issues have dealt with such issues as immigration and the problems of the newly democratic Baltic countries. The author in this book senses a decline in Sweden as a society and that is mirrored by the health problems of the main character who is now in his 50s and suffering from diabetes. <br />Mankell's books are generally slow moving but the attraction is that they have a greater sense of realism than books by writers such as Stephanie Plum or David Baldacci. Not to say they are totally realistic as one would imagine that the area in which they are set has far fewer and much more mundane murders than occur in the pages of Mankell?s fiction. However what happens is that a very human detective who is no action hero tries methodically to sort out who is the person who has committed some eight murders, including that of a police officer in his area. The main character does not jump into bed with super models but deals with more mundane problems those of ill health. One suspects that the author himself has probably been diagnosed with diabetes as the picture painted of the hero Wallander dealing with the disease is so accurate. The feeling of depression after diagnosis and the problems of modifying diet and lifestyle while dealing with the pressures of work and a lifetime of habit.  <br />In the end the reason we read crime fiction is for entertainment. We pick up such books as we want to keep turning the pages. By this test, Mankell's latest book is a success. It gets you in more than some of his previous offerings. In reality a successful crime novel has to be more than the revelation of a mystery. It must generate some interest in the characters, have some feel about the society in which it is set and to some extent have an edge or a feel. Mankell is a good crime writer because he does all of these things.	2002-12-14
1312907:US	52147775	RWYHFUGQQZ64B	0385720386	288543952	Carnage and Culture: Landmark Battles in the Rise to Western Power	Books	1	75	148	N	N	An example of bashing square pegs into round holes	The author of this book is a right wing newspaper columnist. He has written a number of other books mainly about ancient Greece. <br />This book tries to establish a particular line. That is the reason why Europe became powerful was because of the institutions of private property, the success of the market economy, the existence of a free society and the use of well armed infantry forces. <br />The book examines a number of battles which include the battle of Salamis, a sea battle which occurred in 480 BC between a coalition of Greek City States against the Persian Empire moving on to Guagamela, Cannae Poiters, Tenochitlan, Lepanto, Rorks Drif, Midway and the Tet Offensive. <br />The problem with the book is that it is mostly nonsense. The style of the book is to not to analyse the various propositions sought to be advanced but rather to use anecdote, factoid and bland assertion to create a picture which is basically false. This of course is not to suggest that private property, and a market economy are not important. <br />The reason why the book is poor relate to a number of issues. The first is that in reality there is no continuos stable society that contains the values he suggests through Western History. If we look at The Greek City States and the Early Roman Republic, he might well have a point. However for most of recorded history Europe has not had a free society and it has had an economy which is a long way from market capitalism. Following the victories of Alexander at Guagamela (and he was a king not an elected official) the Macedonians controlled a huge empire. That lasted for a long time but it was basically an autocratic society that used mercenary armies in the main. After the collapse of the Roman Empire Feudal Society was again unfree and instead of their being a free market, the economy of most western countries were characterised by guilds and market dominated monopolies. <br />The second issue is that what is the west anyway? North Africa appears not to have been part of the west although Carthage was a state which was very similar to that of the Greeks. They had a commercial sea faring economy and the government seemed similar. Carthage however for some reason is not seen to be part of the west. Russia which has been similar to more eastern states is seen to be. <br />The last issue is that the book contains a massive attempt by the author to bash square pegs into round holes. One battle that is discussed in some detail is the battle of Leparto. This is a naval battle in 1571 between the Ottaman Turks and a coalition of powers that included Spain, the Papal States and Venice. The battle of Leparto occurred in year in which the Turks conquered Cyprus from the Venetians after a heroic siege. Concerned about the Turks running rampart through the Mediterranean an uneasy alliance was formed by the Christian powers which led to the battle of Leparto. Despite the defeat the Turks had within a year rebuilt their fleet and taken Tunisia back from the Spaniards. In reflecting on  the loss of the battle the Sultan of Turkey said, the loss of Leparto is like having my beard singed, for in time it will grow back. The loss of Cyprus is like the loss of an arm for once an arm is cut off it will never grow back. <br />In discussing the battle the author suggests that the reason for the victory of the battle by the Christians was the ability of commercial capitalism to build weapons of war such as cannon and arquebuses. He suggests that Turkey did not have the economic wealth of these countries and this was the reason for the defeat and the decline of the Turkish empire. None of this seems true. The ability of the Turks to re-build their fleet was seen at the time as a miracle. To build this many ships as quickly was something  which the Christian countries were simply not capable off. The reality was that despite the loss of the battle, the Turks were still within a short time able to mount offensive operations against the Christians. It was not for three hundred years that the Turks were forced to give up Cyprus. Other historians have suggested that the reason for the Turks being contained at the time had less to do with the battle of Leparto but the fact that they had to contend with a series of wars with Persia a strong military power at the time.<br />A key weakness of this book is that it will make assertions about the comparative commercial strength of the powers involved and provide no evidence to show that there is a basis for the assertion. The book also takes a battle such as this out of context and does not discuss the importance of other Turkish victories and their ability to continue to mount successful military operations.<br />This is a rather tiresome book to read. Most narrative histories will simply contain a narrative of the relevant events and an argument which is based on the material. This book however relies on anecdote after anecdote, with florid descriptions of military engagements followed by homily after homily on the glories of the west. A very tiresome book to read.	2002-12-08
1321502:US	52147775	R2SQ04W38JN95H	0670031399	390297151	Rumpole Rests His Case	Books	5	19	20	N	N	vintage Rumpole	It seems strange that Rumpole of the Bailey has now been going for some 30 years and the actor who played him so perfectly has passed away just recently. John Mortimer the author is apparently now 80. <br />The early books were tinged with a certain sadness, placing Rumpole as a man past his time, a disappointment to his wife and someone who others were trying to ease into retirement. Yet Rumpole survived as an old Bailey hack, resiting all attempts to move him out of chambers.<br />As time has gone by these side plots, although existing have receded into the background and Rumpole has over time become the master of the court room and the one ethical figure in a modern world. <br />Mortimers strengths are that he has spent a lifetime in the courts and writes about it with a certain realism and eye for its absurdities. He is also a skilled story teller and even the shortest of the stories in any of his books with have multiple themes, plot twists and characters who spring from life. <br />This latest lot of stories does not show the slightest diminution of Mortimers power as a story teller despite the fact that he must have written them as a 78 year old. Each story is not only complete in itself as a little drama but it is also a picture of England under new labour. Stories feature the problems faced by asylum seekers, harassment by email and the struggle of the conservative party to retain some relevance by launching into a bit of populism. <br />It is a book that once you open, you will not put down and you will finish it in a couple of hours. What a shame that Leo McKern is no longer able to bring to the screen such gems.	2002-12-01
1345991:US	52147775	R9WOH4JYL9YH2	0375411070	628573598	Basket Case	Books	4	3	4	N	N	An author finds renewed life	Carl Hiaasen is one of the most amusing writers going around. Early books such as Skintight and Striptease were laugh out loud funny with grotesque characters, incredible plots written against a mild background of social satire.<br />This book is a bit different from Hiaasens previous books as it breaks from some characters who inhabit his previous novels. Its main character is a middle aged journalist who has been exhiled to writting the death notices for a past indiscretion. He discovers that what at first seemed the accidental death of a aged rock star was murder. <br />Part of the joy of Hiaasens books are that they are not just plot driven like a lot of detective fiction or mystery writing. They are written against the background of a real world, and although the books are satires they give insight into the real world. This books characters work in a paper and the decline of serious journalism is one of the themes. <br />This book is not quite as hilarious as some of Hiaasens other books but it is in some ways more interesting. Some of the older characters in the other books had gone around a bit to often and by leaving them out new characters and new ideas get a run. The resolution and villians are all up to the authors high standard and it is a great read.	2002-11-09
1352013:US	52147775	R2PCL4R01WJ3ET	0385489102	424706370	The Rasputin File	Books	2	2	9	N	N	So So	This is a book by a Russian author who has a television show. The book started out as a presentation on television of the life of Rasputin a controversial religious figure associated with the court of the Tsar Nicholas, the last of the Romanovs. The author has also written a book on the life of Nicholas and his wife Alexandra. He is thus familiar with the context of Rasputins life. <br />Rasputin does not seem to be a very substantial figure. He was a Russian peasant who experienced some form of religious conversion in his thirties. He became a faith healer and religious mystic. The male heir of the Romanovs suffered from haemophilia and Rasputin was introduced to the family. In their view he healed their son and nursed him through a large number of bouts of ill health. Rasputin became a figure of some notoriety and had a number of friends and followers from well to do families. <br />His main importance as a historical figure probably was not so much to do with himself. Rather groups in society hostile to the autocracy used his friendship with the Royal Family as a means of ridiculing them and attacking their legitimacy. It was possible to do this for two reasons. The first was that Rasputin was a peasant and it would seem barely literate. To attack his closeness to the Royal Family played on the popular prejudice of the Russian ruling classes. The second was that he appeared rather dissolute. He was seen frequently with prostitutes and in his later years he drank to excess and there were a number of minor scandals.  Prior to the revolution his friendship with the wife of the Tsar led to constant rumour and innuendo about a sexual relationship.<br />The book is written in a style that is a bit strange. Some reviewers have suggested that the English translation is not as good as the Russian original and some other versions. Rasputin in life was followed almost daily by the Russian secret police. After his death there was a commission of inquiry into his life. Thereis thus an enormous mountain of documents about his life and the book is a sort of working through these to work out what sort of man he was. <br />The author suggests that he was rather strange. His dalliances with prostitutes did not involve sex but a form of mystic testing of his spiritual strength. His religious beliefs instead of being the same as the Khlysty sect as often thought were more orthodox. It is also suggested that Rasputin did not support Russian offensive wars and in act by interceding with the Tsar prevented one. <br />The conclusion that one has after reading the book is that it says a lot about a very minor figure whose importance was at the time rather overblown and now is of very little interest at all.	2002-11-04
1354022:US	52147775	R13QUBGMF7KHR5	0674007514	323862188	The Death Penalty: An American History	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Well balanced and interesting	Most books that are written about the death penalty tend to be partisan either filled with impassioned criticisms or passionate defences. This book is unusual as it is measured and objective. <br />It is not a long book but it looks at a surprisingly large number of issues not only about the penalty itself but the ritual around it, the means used and a detailed explanation of the constitutional argument that led to its abolition and its resurrection... <br />In describing the way the death penalty is administered the one interesting point made by the author is the discrepancy in its implementation. Almost all of the death penalty cases occur in the Southern States. There appear to be a number of reasons for this one being the fact that these states have the highest rates of murder, the only crime which realistically now attracts the penalty. The author however makes the point that another key factor in the geographic distribution of the death penalty is the way that defendants are represented. In the North the state funds public defenders officers which provide a high standard of legal representation. This means that during the penalty phase of the trial care is undertaken to call evidence that will lead to imprisonment rather than execution. In the South the system of providing legal assistance is for the state to pay private lawyers to undertake death penalty cases. The fees are stingey and as a result defence lawyers are often have no experience or skill in running such cases. Mitigatory evidence is seldom called and the usual methods of arguing for a lesser penalty are not used. Capital cases in the South are littered with tales of incredibly incompetent defence lawyers. <br />The writer appears to be a legal academic and the most interesting part of the book is the explanation of the constitutional arguments over the legality of the penalty. The explanation of the arguments over how it was argued that the penalty was cruel and unusual and the legislative changes which were used to overcome these arguments is excellent and makes a complex area easy to grasp. <br />All in all an interesting book for those who wish to read about the subject.	2002-11-02
1371242:US	52147775	R26L5CEMX43A5G	1557504326	757379907	Sunburst: The Rise of the Japanese Naval Air Power, 1909-1941	Books	2	11	50	N	Y	Very short ...	The Pacific War is a subject which has not led to many new revelations in the last fifty or so years. As Japan was occupied it was possible to obtain access to their side of the conflict. This can be compared to the European Conflict that has been the subject of a large number of revelations. The Soviet Union kept a lot of its secrets close to its chest and with its collapse we now have a greater understanding of its role in the war which has balanced our previous understanding which has been based on German sources. ...This book ...deals with the Japanese development of a naval air force. ...Although the book is clearly written and structured in a logical way it does not say much more than one would get on a Pacific War Internet site. It traces how Japan developed naval aircraft which in 1942 were able to outperform allied aircraft but which became quickly obsolete and were shot out of the skies with ease from 1943 onwards. It also describes the failure of Japan to coordinate its army and naval aviation programs and the failure to train enough pilots to deal with losses suffered during the initial campaigns....	2002-10-19
1379421:US	52147775	R1GHEJIRHOV20D	0812930991	150767402	Blinded by the Right: The Conscience of an Ex-Conservative	Books	5	19	24	N	N	Conservative attack dog goes feral	Brock is a person who was converted to conservatism by his observation of extreme left wing intolerance at University. He became a journalist who became famous for his polemics the most famous being a book on Anita Hill a witness who claimed that Clarence Thomas, a prospective right wing appointee to the Supreme Court had committed acts of sexual harassment. The book was an attack on Hill and it was aimed at destroying her reputation and legitimising Thomas as a right wing figure on the bench. It contained the description of Hill as a little bit nutty and a little bit slutty. <br />Brock describes in the book the history of the development of the right in America during the last 10 to 15 years and also describes his own journey as he became disillusioned and moved to the left. <br />The key to understanding the right Brock says is that up to the early 1990s what was seen as the key issue was the fight against communism. With the collapse of communism it was necessary to find a new enemy to fight and a new basis of its ideology. Brock sees Newt Gringich as the pivotal figure who shaped the New Conservatism. Gringich was not a person who really had any policy ideas what he was about was tactics. Gringich moved the debate from issues of policy to a debate about morals. He adopted a policy of suggesting that the Democrats were morally repugnant and not fit to govern. The key to his politics was to raise large numbers of quasi symbolic moral issues around school prayer, abortion, the tolerance of gays and try to suggest that the Democrats supported an America which was at odds with the values of decent Americans. Brocks book and much of his work was framed in this way. His attack on Hill and his later articles on Clinton was an attempt to demonise the opponents of the right. <br />Brock says that this process led over time to considerable inner searching. He is a person who is gay, and he found himself in a movement in which preaching against gay people was one of the themes. Initially he was accepted as were some other right wing gays. His problems arose when he wrote a book about Hiliary Clinton which was seen as to fair by his conservative allies. Following the publication of the book he began to be socially ostracised by  his former friends and he suffered a conversion in which he became revolted by what was happening on the right. <br />The book is interesting, as the language of American politics is so different from anywhere else in the world. Brock shows us how it became that way and why the opposition to Clinton was based not on his policy agenda but on revelations about his personal life. Up to Clinton the sexual goings on of political figures in America had been seen to be unworthy of news coverage as they are in most other countries. However during his presidency huge amounts of money were spent to find out any skeletons in his personal closet. Brock describes in detail how this went on. Funds were set up and people employed full time to travel to Arkansas and to trawl for dirt. Half truths, rumours and untruths were circulated in right wing hate sheets in a process to undermine Clinton and to return power to the right. <br />The book seems to have touched of an interesting debate in America where the right still hangs on to Brock the conservative and tries to suggest that his earlier work is valid and that as he has come out and admitted he is a liar you cannot trust him. However this is a simple propogandistic view. The book is fascinating and a must read so that anyone can understand the US scene.	2002-10-12
1393798:US	52147775	RC8PXR6A0POLF	0521791391	939044078	The War for Palestine: Rewriting the History of 1948 (Cambridge Middle East Studies)	Books	3	33	56	N	N	Interesting material plodding book	Israel has won most of the propaganda battles over the story of its formation and its version of history has come to dominate current thinking. In recent years ironically a group of Israeli historians known to the world as the Revisionists have been exploring this history and suggesting that previous histories are inaccurate self-serving myths. <br />This book is an attempt to look at the war that gave rise to the creation of Israel as a state. The book is a collection of articles and with the exception of one article written by Benny Morris is rather leaden and academic never the less it raises some interesting issues. The last chapter by Edward Said moves away from academic objectivity and is a bit of pro-Palestinian propoganda but the other articles are interesting. <br />The basic foundation myth of Israel is that following the United Nations passing a motion supporting a partition plan, hostile Arab states invaded the area and were defeated by a heroic outnumbered Israeli army. Local Arabs reacting to calls from the invading powers left the area to become refugees. Their plight was self inflicted their claims to have their property returned were thus somehow illegitimate or irrelevant. <br />What the book shows is that most Arab states were reluctant to intervene and were not in a position to do so effectively. What in fact happened was that two wars occurred. The first prior to May 1948 saw the Haganah crush the local Arab forces. This led to strong pressure for the surrounding Arab states to intervene. However the surrounding states for their own reasons were reluctant to do so. Syria was more concerned about possible aggression from Jordan. Jordan had been busy negotiating a secret deal with Israel to occupy those parts of Palestine which were designated Arab. The Egyptians did not have the military capacity to launch a military action and it only occurred when Farouk overruled objections of his military commanders. At all times the Haganah had an advantagein numbers and was soon able to gain a decisive advantage in heavy weapons. <br />Benny Morris again shows that the flight of the Palestinians was not due to mythical broadcasts and his new essay is a significant departure from his earlier work suggesting that violence played a greater role than he previously suggested. <br />The book also makes it clear how the war altered the history of most of the Arab states. The failure of the Arab armies destroyed the legitimacy of those regimes who took power after de-colonisation. This in turn led to military coups in most Arab countries and started a tradition by which the military routinely became involved in politics. It also distorted the economy of these states as arming for further wars with Israel became a significant priority. <br />An interesting if book although it is rather dry and distinctly non riverting.	2002-09-29
1406974:US	52147775	R3224108M8TIP0	1565846842	952422716	Hooked: Five Addicts Challenge Our Misguided Drug Rehabilitation System	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	A must read for those interested in the subject	Hooked is a very good book. It starts of as one of those investigative journalist things with a description of real drug addicts. Often books of this type look at these people as if they were the inmates of a zoo, but rather than doing that the book uses their problems to illustrate the difficulties which plague organisations which provide assistance to drug addicts. <br />One woman suffers from a combination of mental illness and drug abuse. Her attempts to find help are continually frustrated by the fact that when she applies for assistance from mental health professionals she is told that she has a drug problem and she is referred onwards. When she speaks to drug agencies she is told that she has a mental health problem and told to see a psychologist. In the last chapter of the book she is able to find an agency which will help her, but this occurs only after the intervention of one of the doctors. The intake staff is concerned about accepting her as they prefer people who have fewer problems and who are easy to deal with. <br />A lot of the book is focused on one person Mike who attends a live in facility for close to a year. His story illustrates how current rehabilitation facilities fail to have access to services such as detoxification and also use ritual humiliation as a means of controlling the inmates. Mike breaks a rule by developing a relationship with another inmate. He has to sit in a chair for three days and to go through a re-education session similar to those that featured in the Chinese Cultural Revolution. The author makes the point that the people running the program are generally untrained and not able to work out when such treatment is appropriate or whether those who might be put through it could suffer from major mental illnesses. Those people who suffer from substance abuse problems generally will have a background of some difficulty. In this case Mike was a person who was raped repeatedly as a child. There was however no psychological treatment available in the program.  More important however is the inability of the program to deal with relapse. Drug addiction is a problem that is often defined by the tendency to relapse. However the response of Mikes program was to kick him out. That is despite the fact that if allowed back into the program his prognosis would have been good. <br />The author is an admirer of the Drug Court system. The reason for his admiration is that the Drug Court is better able to make the diverse and not well functioning elements of the treatment system accountable. Thus they use relapses to build the drug addicts skills in dealing with their addiction so that they are more likely to stay clean. They can also ensure that rehab placements accept people, provide them with appropriate care and they can also direct addicts to detoxification.<br />The book is not only an interesting discussion of the issues the author is able to interest the reader in the story of the addicts he studies. One can see them as humans and follow their struggle to get on top of their problems and to live lives as valuable citizens. A book which should be a must read for anyone with an interest in the area.	2002-09-16
1412321:US	52147775	RUINHR8FDNEUB	0312061188	733442066	Australia in Peace and War	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Reasonably good right wing history	This is a history of Australian foreign policy from 1901 to 1977. Whilst a lot has happened in the last 25 years the book covers the development of Australia as a nation and its move towards an independant foriegn policy. <br />When the Commonwealth of Australia was created most Australians only thought of themselves as British and until 1940 it had no diplomatic relations with other countries. Britian was its like to the world. <br />The Second World War saw Australia move close to the United States as Britain's militiary forces in the area were defeated. The Labour Foriegn Minister Evatt was an internationalist and he was an important figure in the setting up of the United Nations and the establishment by Australia of Diplomatic relations with the new emerging nations as the old colonial empires were broken up. <br />The book makes the point that for the first part of the 20th Century Australia did not have a sophisticated view of the world seeing diplomacy as a means of resisting what was known as he yellow peril that is Asian nations. After the war conservative governments saw diplomacy as a means of guarding against communism rather than as a means of dealing with countries in the region. <br />It was only with the election of the Labour government in 1972 that diplomacy moved into the area of real politic. <br />The book is an interesting study if written is a somewhat studious style.	2002-09-11
1415558:US	52147775	R1YBMQUMA70LVC	1859843395	346161198	Image and Reality of the Israel-Palestine Conflict	Books	3	38	72	N	N	The Fink goes into bat for Palestine	This is a book by Norman Finkelstein who is a left wing academic teaching at New York University. Although he is Jewish his reputation is that of being a strong supporter of the Palestinians. This rather short book is no exception.<br />Finkelstein?s main thesis is that Zionism arose in the 19th century in response to nationalist ideas that were fashionable at the time. These ideas stressed that the basis of a nation state was a population that had a common identity and strong cultural links. (This contrasts with the modern idea of a country as having citizens who may be different but who have common rights which derive from their citizenship) The 19th Century notion of nationalism was one of the main reasons for the rise of anti-Semitism as a political idea. Jews were seen to be foreign to the identity the various national states in which they lived. Finkelstien has suggested that the idea of Zionism springs from this idea and as a result suggests that a Jewish state should be established to be a home to the Jews as they will be rejected by other states. Further that the character of this state should be defined as being Jewish, that is consisting of a majority of one group. In Europe this idea has been rejected and the notion of citizenship and acceptance of diversity means that modern countries are more polyglot in nature. Finkelstien sees Israel as a curious survival of a bygone age and mode of thought. <br />The book is very short and consists of six essays which deal with topics based on the idea of Israel and also aimed at exploding some of its foundation myths. The essays do not contain much in the way of new material but are examinations of some of the existing literature which suggest an interpretation of Israeli history which is very different from what we have come to expect. <br />The first essay is about the notion of nationalism and fleshes out the ideas outlined above. The second essay is a demolition of Joan Peters book From Time Immemorial. Petersbook has now been subject to so much criticism it is probably requires no further attacks as it is pretty much discredited as a serious work. This book was written in 1994 and at that time people probably did not know as much about Peters work. <br />The second essay is a discussion of Benny Morriss book on the Origin of the Palestinian refugee crisis. Finkelstien does not produce any new material but contrasts Morriss conclusions with the evidence he presents. Finkelstien suggests that force was used in a systematic way by the IDF to move Palestinians out of what was to become the state of Israel. Interestingly Morris in an Essay published last year has come to some extent to accept this. <br />The most interesting essay is a critique of another book by former Israeli ambassador Abba Eban. In this essay Finkelstein suggests that the 1967 Arab Israeli war was not provoked by the Egyptians as usually suggested but a clear case of Israeli aggression. His basis for suggesting this is the fact that Israel made a number of high level threats to invade Syria early in the year. Egypt was an ally of Syria and the movement of its troops into the Sinai in 1967 the thing which is usually credited with setting of the war was in Finkelsteins view a measured response to assist its ally. Recent material which has been released suggest that the orders given to the Egyptian troops were consistent with a defensive arrangment of their troops. It was also clear to all parties that the Arab nations would be defeated easily if it came to war. <br />The book is interesting but it is written in a rather dry academic style and it is based largely on interpreting material rather than producing more material. Yet it is interesting to compare what it says with other material on the conflict.	2002-09-08
1418682:US	52147775	RH0HSJ93X8ZRS	0679744754	26336400	Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001	Books	5	48	69	N	N	Good middle of the road history	The Israeli right has attacked this book but the truth is that it is a reasonably middle of the road account of Israeli history compared to more extreme pro-Palestinian works by others such as Finkelstein (Image and reality of the Israel-Palestine Conflict). Morris would seem politically attuned to the outlook of Rabin and Barak but in recent years he has become more pessimistic about the possibility of peace settlement with the inhabitants of the disputed territories although he is not alone in that outlook.  <br />Morris has been characterised as a revisionist historian. This reputation was gained with his earlier work The Birth of the Palestinian Refugee problem 1947-49 in which using recently released archival material he suggested that earlier Israeli accounts of the problem were not correct. Prior to Morris and others the official Israeli version of the refugee problem had been that the Arab inhabitants of Palestine had fled in response to calls by the invading Arab states in 1948. Morris was able to show this was a propaganda myth to justify the refusal of Israels policy in regard to the refugees. <br />This book is not so much a new study based on original work by Morris but it is a general history of Israel based on secondary sources. Naturally there is more material available now than when the first histories of Israel were written. <br />The book explodes a large number of myths that have been part of the propaganda war between Israel and its enemies. What he suggests that is new is as follows:<br />1. That the leaders of Israel aimed to set up a racially exclusive state. Prior to 1948 there were discussions about the need to transfer those Arabs who were to live in the new state. <BR>2. That some of the groups who were involved in the creation of Israel such as the Irgun used terrorism to achieve their ends and introduced methods such as placing bombs in civilian areas. <BR>3. That there were two wars of independence. The first war was a civil war foughtagainst the Palesinian Arabs in 1947. This was crushed the Palestinians and was then followed by the 1948 war. <BR>4. That the suggestion that Israel was embattled and won a war against great odds in 1948 was not accurate. Rather Israels forces outnumbered its opponents and they were supplied with equivalent weapons and thanks to an agreement with Czechoslovakia had a plentiful supply of ammunition. The Arab states by comparison were short of ammunition because of the arms embargo and their troops were poorly trained and poorly led. <BR>5. The unprovoked attack by Israel on Egypt in 1956 had an effect in hardening the views of Arab states and contributed to the development of those states hard line to Israel. <BR>6. The 1967 war was probably not a defensive war as Egypt did not intend to attack Israel. (As shown by captured documents)<BR>7. That since 1973 Israel has had a military superiority over all the Arab states. In addition it has had nuclear weapons. Arab states were only able to attack Israel when the Soviet Union was able to continually re-supply them with weapons. The demise of the Soviet Union means that the Arabs are not able to mount an effective offensive war against Israel. <BR>8. The first Intifada was a popular revolt, which has occurred in response to the brutal Israeli occupation. <BR>9. That the rise of extreme Islamic movements those which are now supporting the second Intifadas suicide bombing campaigns have arisen as a response firstly to the invasion of Lebanon and secondly from the fist Intifada. <br />Whilst critical of some of Israels policy?s Morris is not blind to the short comings of the Arab governments and the nature of their regimes. He is also keenly aware of the fanaticism of the various terrorist groups now operating out of the West Bank and Gaza. <br />In fact Morris and Barak have been involved in a recent interchange with some of Clintons aids of articles in the New York Review of Books talking about the failure of the PLO toaccept what would seem generous peace terms in 2000. He has indicated that peace will probably only be acceptable with a generational change in the PLO leadership.	2002-09-05
1423631:US	52147775	RAQDXMKVXRUCX	0671633104	886544400	The Siege: The Saga of Israel and Zionism	Books	2	11	27	N	N	Now dated and somewhat biased	This is now a rather dated history of Israel as it was written in the 80?s before the Oslo accords and at the height of the invasion of Lebanon. The book is pro Israeli and rather unbalanced although that probably reflects the picture that most would have had in the early 80?s.<br />The central thesis of the book is that Israel is in conflict with the Arabs and that this conflict cannot be settled in a peaceful way. The reasons why it can?t be settled are complex but in part are due to the fact that Arabs in general have different values from that of the Israeli state which is a Westernised modern pluralistic democratic state. The Arabs in general live in authoritarian non democratic societies and  they do not hold the same values. Thus a land for peace deal will not work and would in fact lead to the military weakening of Israel as he West Bank is an important military buffer in defence against its enemies. Rather than peace Israel should continue to occupy the West Bank and live in a state of Siege. The author thinks that whilst Arabs living on the West Bank cannot be given citizenship rights, over time they will come to an accommodation with the Israelis.<br />The recounting of Israeli history is not widely at variance from the accounts given by other similar histories such as Righteous Victims by Benny Morris. However there are changes in emphasis and interpretation. The flight of the refugees from Palestine in 1948 is that of the official propaganda line given out by Israel that the decision to leave was because of calls by the invading Arab armies to do so. Morris and others have shown that this is unlikely. The authors also down plays acts of terrorism by the Israelis in the setting up of their state.<br />However  the major problem with this history is not the questions of bias, the basic problem is that so much has happened since it has been written which has changed the face of middle east politics. There are now a large number of more recent books from arange of diverse political approaches.	2002-08-31
1425266:US	52147775	RENDF1CLHT73F	031252305X	98332615	Matters for Judgement: An Autobiography	Books	1	4	5	N	N	Kerr could bore for Australia	John Kerr was a Judge and later Governor General of Australia. He is famous as he was Governor General during Australias Constitutinal crisis of 1975. On that occasion there was a deadlock between the conservative controlled senate and the labour controlled house of representatives. The Labour party lead by Gough Whitlam had just been forced to an election the previous year by the conservatives and were not keen to go again especially as the economy was not in good shape. <br />Kerr dismissed the Whitlam Government installed the conservative leader Fraser and called an election. The decision was controversial at the time as it was thought by some that the conservatives would give in and in dismissing Whitlam when he did Kerr handed the conservaties a massive electoral advantage. <br />More recently Kelly in his book 1975 has critized Kerr on other grounds. That is in his view the failure to comunicate with Whitlam was a serious error. <br />After teh events Whitlam put out a book attacking Kerr not only for his decision but attacking him as a person suggesting that he was a drunk and a social crawler. This is Kerr's response. <br />Unfortunately Kerr did not have the gift of the light quip or even the light anything. The book is written in leaden prose and in a tone that is hard to like. It probably now would only be of interest to historians or people who have a high boredom tolerance. <br />Following the writing of this book, Kerr who had a slight problem with alcohol and who gave a speech at the Melbourne Cup obviously very drunk went into exile moving to Europe. <br />The social damage done by this episode in Australia's history was repared by the success of the Hawke Labour government and by the parties electoral success in Queensland.	2002-08-29
1425287:US	52147775	RPI02WT7LV9U3	0522844421	189154318	001: Robert Menzies: A Life 1894 1943 (MARTIN, AW (ALLAN WILLIAM)//ROBERT MENZIES)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good	Robert Menzies was a conservative Australian politician who served as Prime Minister from 1939 to 1941 when he surpringly resigned. At this time the Australian Labour party won office and dominated politics for the next eight years. Menzies built up a new party to regain power which he called the Liberal Party. He also developed an ideology to appeal to the forgoten people. That is he positioned his conservative party to appeal to the middle class rather than having it to closely aligned with big business.<br />Volume one of this biography concerns his early years and his career up to 1941. He was born in a country town and came from a poor family. He was able to get a university eduction and became a succesful lawyer and state politician before moving to the federal sphere. He did not serve in the first world war although his brothers did. <br />The book is actually by an author who has more sympathy with the labour side of politics rather than the conservative. Never the less it is a reasonable portrait of the man and also the period. One of the better Australian political biographies.	2002-08-29
1425644:US	52147775	R26N73QY755SKP	0802135587	549818269	Che Guevara: A Revolutionary Life	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Good biography both in the tale it tells and the context	This is an interesting book. It is on one hand a biography of the Argentine revolutionary Ernesto (Che) Guereva yet it also tells the story of the political conflicts in Latin America in the 50?s and 60?s.  <br />Che (it means he you in Spanish) grew up in Argentina the son of parents from the old landowning aristocracy. Che?s diagnosis of asthma as a two year old meant that the parents had to move to a remote area in which his disease was more manageable. This meant that his father was unemployed for a long period of time and as a result the family had financial problems. Che trained as a doctor and after graduation he travelled extensively through Latin America on a moped. These travels radicalised him as he learnt of the difficulty of the lives of the poor throughout the region. It would seem that he became a Marxist because of US policy towards Guatemala. <br />In the 1950?s Guatemala had a mildly progressive government which was aiming to introduce some populist measures such as land reform. The United States Government during Eisenhower?s Presidency financed a rebel movement to take over the government?. After some brief fighting the American backed troops set up a conservative junta in the country. Che was in the Guatemala at the time and from then on he seems to have considered himself a communist.<br />He met Castro in Mexico and joined up with the group that had been formed to set up a Guerrilla war on the Island. Che was recruited for his medical training and it was thought he could treat those who were wounded in the struggle.<br />Castro?s expedition was almost wiped out with only 20 men surviving the landing. They headed off into mountain country and started what was to become a successful struggle. The books longest section deals with the Cuban civil war. Che turned out to be not only a heroic soldier but a talented one. He was able to discipline his men, organise attacks on the Cuban army which were generally successful and resulted in light casualties for his men. He also established craft shops to make clothing and shoes for the rebels. His main talent however seemed to be in establishing discipline and rooting out people with little enthusiasm for the struggle. It was Che?s seizure of an important city which led to the collapse of the Bastia regime.<br />Che however did not fit in once the fighting stopped. He was an aesthetic who insisted on living on his salary and he would not take for himself any of the trappings of success. He initially was involved in the arrest and shooting of enemies of the new regime. It seemed however that his heart lay mainly with the thrill of revolution. Cuba started to try to export revolution to other countries in Latin America. These movements in the Dominican Republic and Argentina failed. Russia was trying to come to some understanding with America and did not want to alarm them by more revolutions in the Americas. Tiring of his life in Cuba Che went off to fight again in Africa an area not so sensitive to US interests. This time he was to fail. The book describes in some detail the problems Che had in trying to motivate the Conglose rebels and it is almost comic. He then met his end in Bolivia.<br />During the seventies he lived on mainly because of a photo taken of him at a funeral which was used to make a best selling poster. His physical appearance attracted the young and they saw in it a potent symbol of youthful rebellion. His reality was far more complex and he was much more than a youthful rebel. This book is interesting as it tells us a good deal about a complex figure but it also gives us an insight into the politics of the time and why figures such as Che and Castro were created.	2002-08-29
1426006:US	52147775	RB4DMOYTBHR7W	014070079X	740412439	The Truth of the Matter	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Its time has passed	In 1975 Australia had a constitutional crisis. In 1972 after some 23 years out of power a left wing labour government was elected to power. Because of the way the upper house in Australia was elected at the time the conservative party dominated that chamber. <br />In 1974 Australia was affected by the high inflation and falling demand levels which were occuring throughout the Westen World. The conservatives in the Senate forced the Labour party to an election in 1974 which they won. The Senate still remained in conservative hands. <br />In 1975 as the economic position of the country got worse the conservatives thought that they would have another shot. The supply bill was deferred and the conservative leader thought Whitlam the Labour leader would be forced to an election again. Whitlam had other ideas and decided to plunge on without supply, that is the legal ability to spend tax revenue. The country drifted into a crisis. <br />Whitlam thought that if he could tough it out the conservatives would change their vote in the Senate and his popularity would go through the roof. Instead the Governor General a former judge with a love of alcohol John Kerr sacked Whitlam and installed Fraser the conservative leader. Kerr wrote a book defending his actions called Matters for Judgement. It was a work of mind blowing tedium that was immediately remaindered. <br />This book is Whitlams side of the story and in reality it is now dated as the crisis is so remote from most peoples memory. However it is full of his usual wit and it is a savage attack on John Kerr taking frankly about his drinking and his many bad qualities. <br />The reality is that Kerr is now dead and Whitlams book although enertaining is a bit partisan. Kelly has written what is the definative book on the crisis called 1975 which is the best thing to read.	2002-08-29
1426008:US	52147775	R1OKJ39MJYGTB8	0855720794	598506403	The Whitlam venture	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Okay but not much more	Gough Whitlam is one of Australia's more controversial Prime Ministers. He was in power from 1972 to 1975 and is seen by his supporters as a person who brought Australia into the 20th Century but by his detractors as a man who destroyed the economy of the country. <br />He led the Australian Labour party which was out of power from 1949 to when he led it to an election victory in 72. To do this Whitlam had to reform the party. He was behind the intervention in the Victorian Branch to get rid of a small cabal of left wing election losers. He was behind the constitution to remove the suggestion that the party was controlled by faceless men. He also worked out a program which for an Australian Party was revolutionary.<br />Once in power he withdrew Australian forces from Vietnam, recognised China, disbanded what was left of the White Australia policy and he reformed the divorce law and established Australia's health care system. Unfortunately he then ran into the stagflation which overran the Western World due to American deficiet spending and the OPEC Oil embargo. <br />Whitlam was forced by a hostile conservative senate to an election in 1974 and then again the refusal to pass supply led to teh constitutional crisis of 1975 which in turn led to Whitlam being sacked and suffering a massive electoral defeat. <br />This book is an account of Whitlam's career but it is reasably negative. Alan Reid was a press club figure who also wrote on John Gorton and was hostile to both Gorton and Whitlam more for reasons of style than their political substance. Never the less it is a book that those who dislike Whitlam would like, whilst his fans would prefer A Certain Granduer by his speech writer Freudenberg.	2002-08-29
1426197:US	52147775	R32HXIF9LFGHQ8	0855580488	536869920	Gorton Experiment: Fall of John Grey Gorton	Books	2	0	0	N	N	A polemical book now a little dated	John Grey Gorton was an Australian Prime Minister from 1967 to 1971. He became Prime Minister by a fluke. Harold Holt the then Prime Minister drowned in a swimming mishap. The most senior and respectable liberal Billy McMahon got himself into a fight with Black Jack Mckewen the leader of the Country Party the liberals coalition partner. As a result Mckewen refused to servce under McMahon. <br />This caused a crisis and the liberals had to find a leader. Gorton was the liberals leader in the Senate. He had recently handled a potential scanal about VIP aircraft with aplomb and suddenly it seemed he should be the man to lead the liberals. <br />In Australia it should be noted that the liberals are the conservative party. Within a short time Gorton began to exhibit eccentric behavour. He liked to get drunk and when drunk he liked attractive women. Within a short time he was doing things like scaling the fence of the American Embassy whisky bottle in hand with a young woman in tow to have a chat with the American Ambassador in the middle of the night. Apart from his personal eccentricities he also turned out to be a person who against the normal run of conservative policy wanted to increase the power of the commonwealth over the states. <br />His larrakin behavour meant that he soon became an easy victim for the press and despite winning an election in 1969 he voted himself out of office when a leadership ballot was tied in 1971. <br />This book is by an infuential journalist and basically it sets out to bag Gorton and to suggest that he was not up to the job. With the passing of time people feel a bit more affection for a figure who was one of Australia's great characters and more recent biographies have been kinder.	2002-08-29
1426640:US	52147775	R12GFPO5PYZXC3	0786866748	565829447	The War Against Cliche: Essays and Reviews, 1971-2000	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Very funny	This is a collection of reviews and essays written over a long period. Most of them are brief, but all are intelligent insightful and many highly amusing. Only Amis could say something like, writers are now accorded their biographies whether or not anything happened to them?.E.M.Forster who lived 91 years utterly devoid of incident has recently been the subject of a two volume biography. <br />Apart from the sheer joy of reading the reviews Amis has a deeper message about literary criticism. He is a person at war with the schools of criticism, which inhabit the towers of academia. In his view the study of Literature should not be something which is as hard as philosophy or physics. Literature is something that is interesting in it self and each reader can have his own view. For instance describes the eminent critic Dr Leavis as a person completely without a sense of humour and his followers as the thought police. <br />His essay on Joyce?s Ulysses is a revelation. He freely admits to only being able to struggle through half of it and demonstrates that rather than a book that has been written to read, it has been written for an academic audience. Finegans wake being the logical progression is close to incomprehensible. Yet Amis freely admits that Joyce was a talented writer as shown by Dubliners and the Artist as a Young man. <br />Amis is also willing to have a dig at the classics. He suggests that Don Quixote is not really a novel and to try to read it from cover to cover is a huge effort. Rather it is a book of its time and would probably only have been read part by part in a group setting. Instead of the accepted classics Amis like Nabakov, J.G. Ballard and Saul Bellow. <br />An entertaining read and an interesting one.	2002-08-28
1430252:US	52147775	R1B6AHZMEOE8QA	0140260781	78452877	The Arrogance of Power: The Secret World of Richard Nixon	Books	3	19	23	N	N	More of a muck raking exercise than a biography	If you are expecting a biography of President Nixon, you will be disappointed. The book fails to discuss any of his achievements or to talk about the problems he faced in office and how he responded to them. The book has only one purpose and that is to destroy the reputation that Nixon tried to create for himself in later years. <br />The book basically spends some 480 pages listing his dodgy deals and character flaws. This will if you are a democrat supporter fill you with feelings of warm, and if you are a republican supporter will strike you as unbalanced and a sneak attack. Never the less the book is readable and the list of wrongdoing is long. It includes<br />1. That possibly his career was supported by organised crime<BR>2. He may have been involved in the early plots to kill Castro <BR>3. He accepted large amounts of money from Howard Hughes in return for favours<BR>4. He may have been part of a conspiracy to frame Alger Hiss<BR>5. He accepted a huge campaign contribution from the Colonels who overthrew the democratic government of Greece and supported them as a result <BR>6. He received campaign contributions from the Shah of Iran, Saudi Arabia and Marcos of the Phillipines and this led to him supporting those regimes <BR>7. He prevented the possibility of peace in Vietnam in 1968 and sent a representative to the South Vietnamese government asking them not to participate in Johnsons peace program. Possibly this led to an lengthening of the war and loss of American lives<BR>8. The Phoenix program in Vietnam occurred with his consent resulting in the murder of 20,000-40,000 people. <BR>9. Extension of the war into Cambodia and Laos and the secret bombing of Cambodia<BR>10. The destruction of a friendly regime in Chile<BR>11. Watergate <br />However the main weapon of the book is not so much in listing the wrongdoing but in the way it portrays Nixon. He is described as a wife-bashing drunk who was addicted to prescription medication. He is a person who was a pathological liar who would lie about his wives birthday to get a small advantage. <br />His early career is discussed in some detail. It seems that when he first ran for congress and the senate he was bankrolled by big oil and a number of other interests. They put money into a fund that not only paid for his expenses but also subsidised his living expenses. His initial campaigns were unethical, using false slurs against sitting members and full of dodgy leaks push poling and the like. <br />The portrait towards the end of the book (it finishes when he resigns) shows him to be an unstable drunk giving orders such as bombing Damascus and Nuking North Vietnam in regard to minor provocation. The suggestion was that Kissinger and his military advisers would generally disregard these commands to see if he would rescind them in the morning. The book also suggests that towards the end the nuclear trigger he carried was disabled because of fears about his sanity.  An interesting but not dispassionate book.	2002-08-25
1437316:US	52147775	R1TD59N2QBFDA9	067973371X	933385853	Means of Ascent (The Years of Lyndon Johnson)	Books	4	2	7	N	N	Weird	Robert Caro has spent some 20 years of his life writing a four volume biography of Lyndon Johnson. This is weird as Caro seems to dislike him intensely. The first volume in the series was one of the amore amusing books around. It highlited in detail every negative aspect of Johnsons life focusing on minute detail including what he called his penis.<br />The second volume covers a seven year period from his failure to win election to the senate in 41 to his tainted victory in 48. The climax if it can be called that is a dramatic description of that election. Caro talks up Johnson's opponent Colk Stevenson into a person of folk hero status. The reality seems to be a bit less than that as Stevenson was a reasonably conservative segregationist. Caro somehow sees it as a sort of morality play with Johnson representing evil winning the election by a bit of old fashion vote riging. <br />Despite all this the book is entertaining. The description of life in Texas before the coming of electricity alone is worth the price of the book. However reading it one ponders the question why Caro has spent so much time on a person he despises as much as he does.	2002-08-18
1446785:US	52147775	R322ATIPF97YJ4	069100899X	386283023	Racism: A Short History	Books	5	32	36	N	N	Written with remarkable clarity	This book is certainly short only some 160 pages(the rest of the 200 is made up of foot notes)  but it is written with a clarity that makes it a delight to read. The thesis of the book is that racism is something, which developed due to Western Europe?s relation with the Jews and Africans. In medieval times the failure of the Jews to convert to Christianity became to be seen as reflecting something malicious or evil rather than being a purely intellectual failing. It was something to do with the character or nature of the Jews themselves.<br />However racism took off in a big way in the 19th Century. The Enlightenment had made it possible to see mankind as a type of animal. In that animals had certain characteristics it became fashionable to attribute cultural differences in people to a biological cause. It became fashionable to characterise people who lives in Britain or Germany as members of the British or German race rather than as Britons or Germans. The poverty of other groups such as Africans was seen as a product of their racial breeding rather than being the result of their history and sociology. European universities developed departments that investigated the pseudo science of Eugenics or the study of the biological character of races. <br />Racism became something that was supported by the actions of states. Places such as Australia developed immigration policies to preserve the racial character of their state. In South Africa and America political systems, were developed aimed at subjugating blacks. <br />Germany brought about the end of racism as an accepted part of main stream policy by its crimes. One of the interesting facts raised in the book is that the Holocaust was Germany?s second tray at Genocide. In South West Africa it had been German policy to exterminate two of the main tribes. One tribe consisting of 60,000 people had 44,000 killed and the remaining 16,000 only survived by fleeing. <br />The end of the book suggests that while the Holocaust has sent racism into a decline as a state supported policy racism is not dead. In addition the world faces a new challenge with obnoxious doctrines similar to racism being framed in the language of religious fundamentalism.	2002-08-09
1451236:US	52147775	R2KFIKACQ89E3M	038079439X	431533232	Expendable (League of Peoples, Bk. 1)	Books	3	1	3	N	Y	Good read but its only science fiction	My friend Melvin said that science fiction books may be set in the future but they are always about the present. Thus a science fiction book will have characters who are bus drivers, even if they drive a bus that works more like a helicopter. <br />This book is basically about disability. People who go through life with some affliction. The premise of the book is that if someone popular in an organisation dies, then it affects the morale of the organisation. Thus in the future those people who become space explorers undertaking dangerous missions will the the ugly the deformed. That way if they keep getting killed no one is to upset. <br />Of course in the future people will probably only have selected clones as children or the technology will exist to remove things like birthmarks. So really this is a book about being ugly or suffering from a disfigerment and the problems that it brings. <br />The thrust of the book is that the main character of the book goes through a number of adventures and although in the end she is able to cure the defect that she has ( a large birthmark on her face) she is not concerned about it and feels at peace with herself. <br />The book of course is written for young people who despite all looking youthfull and attractive go through a period of feeling that they are ugly. A book like this is no doubt a good idea as they can learn the very real message that physical beauty is something which has its advantages but in real life ones sense of self depend on so many things apart from appearance. <br />The book is very easy to read and it creates a world which is interesting and new, even if in the end it is about a very here and now theme.	2002-08-05
1464204:US	52147775	R2AG7MS6E72NIX	0743202120	692090769	War in a Time of Peace: Bush, Clinton, and the Generals	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Okay but pre September 11	This is a history of American foreign policy from the Bush Senior to just before September 11th.  <br />Bush Senior saw foreign policy as his main area of interest and he forged a close relationship with Gorbachov and supported the Russian leader through the break up of the old Soviet Union. After this he forged the coalition which defeated Iraq. <br />Bush had a limited interest in domestic policy to his cost. Clinton was able to use the angst caused by Americas move from an Industrial economy to a Information economy to win the 1992 Presidential election. Clinton had no interest in foreign policy and he hoped to focus his administration on domestic reform. He was unable to do this because of Bush and Reagan?s legacy of budget deficits. Instead he had to adopt a policy of debt reduction hoping to have more freedom to move in his second term. <br />Whilst Clinton had no interest in foreign policy it caught up with him. America had stationed a division in Somalia to protect United Nations Relief workers. This had been a big success. However The United States had agreed to withdraw their troops and have them replaced by United Nations peace keeping troops from Pakistan. The United Nations started to switch its policy from one of humanitarian relief to removing General Adid from the equation. This led to a conflict between peace keepers and the forces controlled by Adid. The remaining American forces changed tack and attempted to capture Aidid. This led to the disastrous Black Hawk Down incident and Clinton immediately pulled out the US forces. <br />This book is partially about Clinton but it is more about America searching for a role in the post cold war world. After the disaster of Somalia the world was faced by the break up of Yugoslavia.  Slovenia, Croatia and Bosnia decided to separate from the old Yugoslavia. This occurred despite the fact that these countries did not have any armed forces and Milosevic the Serbian leader had been able to make the Yugoslavia Army and almost exclusively Serbian force. What happed in response to the break up of Yugoslavia was a humanitarian crisis. The Serbian Army siezed areas of Croatia and Bosnia and started to murder Bosnians and to force others from their land in a process that became known as ethnic cleansing. England and France were largely pro Serb. This was helped by the fact that the Croatian leader seemed to be an anti Semite. Germany and Austria supported Croatia. America under Clinton was reluctant to intervene. <br />Eventually Chirac was elected President of France. He was appalled by the fact that some French peace keepers had been taken prisoner and demanded stronger action. Croatia during the time that the Serbs had been attacking Bosnia has been able to obtain arms covertly and to use former American military personnel to train their army. They attacked and decisively defeated the Serbs. This coincided with a decision by France and the United States to use air attacks against Serbia. America was able to organise peace talks that led to an end to the conflict. America had been dragged into a conflict which they had been able to resolve. <br />In Clinton?s second term a similar crisis errupted over Kosovo. America in conjunction with its NATO allies was able to use bombing with the threat of ground troops to again bring the crisis to an end. These foreign policy failures led to the fall of Milosovic and the creation of a democratic state in Serbia. <br />The book shows clearly how Clinton was a very reluctant starter in these conflicts and the degree to which he bumbled through them. The suggestion of the book is that he started to get a grip on foreign policy in about the seventh year of his Presidency. Towards the end Clinton tried to broker a peace in the Middle East as a means of getting some cudos but this failed.<br />The book was written before September 11 and suggests that America has still not developed a defined role. Instead of fighting against communism the choice that America has to make is whether to use it status as a superpower to solve the problems of disintegrating states such as Somalia, Sierra Leone and Yugoslavia. Over the next 25 years this realistically looks as if it will be one of the big issues facing he world as large numbers of states in sub Sahara Africa and the South Pacific teeter along towards implosion. Of course since the book was written some events have occurred which have led US foreign policy having a rather crisper definition.	2002-07-24
1468884:US	52147775	R2L223LXWM92EG	0522839959	849198578	Squatting Age in Australia, 1835-47	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A bit racist for modern tastes	This is a reprint of a book written in the 1930's. Basically Australia was first settled as a Penal Colony. In the 1820's and 1830's a strong market for wool developed in England. This was the result of the development of the textile industry as part of what is now known as the Industrial revolution and also due to a fall in production in Europe. <br />Large numbers of English and Scotts purchased sheep hired a few convict labourers and headed off into the area beyone the Sydeny settlement. This policy was actually illegal as the governors of the colony had limited the boundries of settlement. <br />The money to be made from wool was such that the existence of these regulations was a minor problem. <br />Within a few years the East of Australia was covered in Squatting runs. The term Squatter was used as the land occupation was illegal. Within a short time the amount of wool being exported was immenese and made the colony rich. <br />This book is a history of the process and also a history of the conflict of the squatters with the government. It describes how they pressed to obtain some title to the land and how they pushed for the retention of convict labour and when that failed for the importation of cheap labourers from India and the South Pacific.<br />The book is in some ways a classic but its discussion of Aboriginal issues reflects the racism of the period when it was written. The actual discussion of Aboriginal issues is not central to the book and involves somewhat less than a chapter. However it is replete with racist generalisations and the failure to support a range of contentious suggestions. <br />The squatters were armed and it would appear that there were a large number of classes between Aboriginals and Squatters. In discussing these classes the author adopts a position which paints Aboriginal people in a racist way to support the policy of extermination which occured at the time. <br />Despite this rather major fault the book is of some interest inexplaing a central element of Austrlian history.	2002-07-20
1481061:US	52147775	R2Z44ARSX78DKC	0333338367	846022659	The Tyranny of Distance: How Distance Shaped Australia's History	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Interesting History	A lot of history is the history of the decisions of government. Blamey has written a book which looks at why in the early history of Australia this is only part of the story. <br />In the late 18th Century a number of European countries knew that a large landmass existed south of what was to become Indonesia and that parts of it looked as though it was good agricultural land. The reality was however that there was no particular reason to colonise the land. Blamey explains why in some detail. The reason relates to the economics of the time. <br />Australia was an immense distance from Europe and the only reasons for colonising it would be if there were goods to trade. To move people there to farm staples such as wheat was simply not economic considering the price of transport. The sorts of goods, which were attractive at that time, were those produced by local natives and which could be traded for European goods. Australia at that time was inhabited but its natives were hunter gathers who did not produce large volumes of exotic goods. For that reason most European powers ignored the continent. <br />England however developed a problem after the American Revolution. That was a surplus of convicts. Prior to the revolution England had exported convicts to America as labourers. This meant that she did not have to pay for the cost of guarding or feeding those convicted of crimes. With the loss of the colonies the number of convicts in England began to explode. England decided to set up a penal colony in Australia as a means of getting rid of the convicts and also perhaps to be able to use the flax and pines which grew on Norfolk Island to provide naval stores. <br />A large number of convicts were sent to the colonies and they developed some subsistence agriculture. This was not a great success and the colonies were not self sufficient in food until the 1840?s. What developed was a network of settlements that were part of a prison network. Sydney cove and Hobart took mostof the convicts and places of punishment were set up for those convicts who continued to commit offences at Norfolk Island and Port Macquarie. <br />Australia might then have simply stagnated as a sort of Devils Island except for a number of developments. The first of these was the discovery of large numbers of whales close to the coast. In the early 19th Century whales were the source of lighting (Europe was illuminated by whale oil lights until the commercial discovery of kerosene), material for making soap and perfumes and lastly whale bone was an important ingredient of women?s clothing. Whale products were valuable and the costs of transportation did not destroy their profitability. The second development was the growth of the market for wool. Australia turned out to be a country ideally suited for raising sheep. Whilst sheep started to spread through Australia, European demand started to skyrocket. This was in part due to a decline in European wool production due to using sheep more for meat production. <br />The development of whaling and sheep herding occurred far ahead of the spread of lawful authority in the country. Men of capital would arrive in Sydney buy sheep and head off into the interior of the continent. They did not purchase land but simply put their sheep on it. Farmers in Australia have developed the name ?squatters? as a result. Within twenty years most of the Eastern seaboard of Australia was occupied by sheep farmers who hired convict labour to tend their herds. Wool was moved to river ports and then to major cities to be shipped to Europe. At this time the population of indigenous people started to fall catastrophically. <br />Blamey explains the process in a simple entertaining and clear way. It is no surprise that his history won an award for Australian literature. He then goes on to talk about the development of the railroad and the use of clippers on ocean routes and how they shaped the development of Australia. The book is interestingas it provides an innovative an interesting way of narrating history mixing up the economic and causative factors and breaking free of a dull chronological record	2002-07-09
1481127:US	52147775	R3Q5ILH1FDY6BK	0080344240	832088476	The Petrov Affair: Politics and Espionage	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Australia's greatest spy saga	In 1954 the Australian Labour Party seemed poised for electoral victory. Just before the election the senior KGB officer in the Soviet Embassy defected to Australian authorities. A short time after his defection armed Soviet Body Guards tried to take his wife back to Russia but were stopped from doing so at the Darwin airport. Photos of a distressed Mrs Petrov being dragged across the airport tarmac by two Soviet Goons hit the front pages of all major newspapers. <br />Petrov?s defection was one of the more significant defections of Soviet Agents in the post war period. Amongst the documents he brought with him two caused fireworks. One was a briefing that had been prepared for the Soviets by an employee of the Labour Opposition. Another was a document prepared by a leading journalist.<br />The conservative Prime Minister Menzies who had seemed poised for certain defeat immediately established a Royal Commission into Communism in Australia. The existence of documents prepared in the office of the leader of the opposition was a tremendous embarrassment. In the following election Menzies was able to win.<br />These events became known as the Petrov affair. The loss of the 1954 election led to the Labour leader Evatt having what was probably some form of mental collapse. He from this point made a series of errors of judgement that led to the party splitting and it was out of office for another 18 years.<br />The fortuitous juxtaposition of the events have led writers on the left to believe that the whole affair was orchestrated by the Liberals for their short term political advantage. Manne has gone through all the sources, some of which at the time of writing had just come into the public domain. <br />His book is a convincing argument for the fact that no conspiracy existed. Rather Menzies simply capitalised on chance events that occurred in a miraculous way to get him out of a deep political hole. <br />Manne?s argument is convincing. The book itself is reasonably amusing. Petrov himself was a chronic alcoholic and it seems clear that he was one of the more incompetent KGB operatives to be let loose on the Western World. Despite his incompetence he was able to provide the Australian secret service with an account of what had happened in the past when KGB operatives womanised and drank less, and as a result could do some work. The political events around the affair have meant that most Australians have never released that the defection was in fact of some importance apart from what it did to destroy the electoral fortunes of the Australian Labour Party.	2002-07-09
1484620:US	52147775	R28L08V1GTLOE6	0593048059	771413298	Dead Famous	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Very Funny	Ben Elton has written a number of novels which are laugh out loud funny. In recent times popcorn was a little dissapointng but this book represents his return to top form.<br />In the midst of a Big Brother type TV program one contestant is killed. The investitgation is undertaken by a conservative detective who is a lover of fine novels, the music of Mozart and the plays of Ibsen. A lot of the comedy is based on his shock at being forced to watch tape after tape of schlock television. <br />The actual mystery is carefully calculated so that it is not clear till the end who has done it. The plot rollicks along with suspicion going one way and then another. <br />Part of the joy of the book is that it is an amazingly well drawn explanation of how reality television works and how the producters manipulate the product. If you buy the book, you will read it at one sitting and laugh out loud for most of the time.	2002-07-07
1490255:US	52147775	R2OCOGK5GEG5QD	0465023266	348030697	The Cash Nexus: Money and Power in the Modern World, 1700-2000	Books	4	13	17	N	N	A new type of non narrative history	This is an interesting book as it is part of \\"the new history\\". Ferguson is a person who heads a team of researchers who collect a range of data. This data is then written up into a book.<br />It is an interesting approach and breaks free of the simple narrative history of years gone by. This book is basically a history of the financial mechanisms of government and their effects. <br />It is unusual to read a book which is written from what is largely an ideology free perspective. (The author has a mild bias towards free market mechanisms but he would not doubt suggest that instead of these representing a defined ideological position they reflect current what is now commonly accepted across the board as economic fact.) In some ways it is quite refreshing. The book also writes history free of the sorts of biases brought about by seeing history as a process. The development of democracy or the development of a national identity for instance. <br />One thing which astounded me was the fact that no one ever in reality tried to manage overall levels of demand as advocated by Keynes. Even when Governments accepted Keynsian orthodoxy, they never used deficient financing to offset unemployment because of balance of payment considerations.  <br />The book basically sees the development of British financial institutions as the key to a large amount of modern history. Britain pioneered the use of salaried officials to collect tax, when they borrowed arrangements were put in place to ensure that such a debt would be repaid. The British system was successful in financing wars, the major expense of states until the 20th century and was adopted by all other states. <br />The book however is more than a history of the financial arrangements of states. It is a discussion about the role of governments, what they have done historically and the sorts of things they do now and what challenges they face. Well worth a read.	2002-07-02
1502210:US	52147775	RR3SOTXB8TVBG	1859843239	513688777	The Holocaust Industry: Reflections on the Exploitation of Jewish Suffering	Books	4	31	45	N	N	Readable interesting , but a difficult subject	This is a passionate essay by Norman Finkelstien. Finkelstien is Jewish but would appear to be both secular and left wing. A number of his publications have appeared in publications like New Left Review. The publication of this work has led to some reasonably savage attacks on the author.<br />The book although short has a number of themes. Although the various accusations tend to move around the central thesis runs something like this. During the second world war a large number of Jewish people were killed by the Nazis. The number is not critical but somewhere between five and eight million. At the wars end, a large number of Jewish people who had not been killed were freed from concentration camps. They were clearly the victims of incredible cruelty. The suffering of the Jews one aspect of the cruelty of the Nazi regime. In addition to the Jews, Gipsies, the Handicapped, Russians and Poles were also killed. <br />Up to 1967 the Genocidal killing of the Jews led to only limited academic study. There in fact appeared two books in print describing what happened.  Both of these books were high quality works which described in detail the Nazi final solution. Main stream Jews outside Israel however preferred to get on with their lives instead of dwelling on the evils of the period. In fact in America Jews as a group drifted to the right politically and advanced remarkably. The old anti Semitism which been part of the life of Europe and America passed away. <br />After 1967 the situation has changed radically. Instead of 2 books on the topic there are now 10,000. Instead of the subject being forgotten, there is now what Finkelstein describes as \\"an Industry\\". This \\"Industry\\" consists of a collection of people and organisations who make a living out of teaching and explaining the Holocaust. Large numbers of Universities now have subjects on the topic using some of the 10,000 published works. Finkelstien suggests that a large amount of this scholarship is poor. He quotes two frauds, the novel Fragments by Wilkomirski and the Painted Bird by Kosinski. He has also been a long term critic of the scholarship of Goldhagen and Wiesel. He suggests that a lot of the Holocaust scholarship has a narrow ideological function of supporting the state of Israel. That is that the unique nature of the Holocaust demands a Jewish state and that one should thus turn a blind eye to the short comings of that state and its human rights record. He spends some time suggesting that the Jewish experience is not unique. To do so he points out that the suffering of other groups was comparable. Gipsies for instance had about 50% of their community murdered. He also quotes the Congo a country which under Belgium Colonialism lost around ten million people. <br />In addition to the academic side, there has been money to be made out of governments who were involved in the process. Germany for instance has paid some repatriation's to surviving members of camps. However there is a potential for obtaining more money and assets. Thus a significant number of Jews who were killed either owned property or had bank accounts. In Poland the Jewish Community was large and held many public assets such as schools. <br />In talking about the assets Finkelstien is at his most passionate. Basically in dealing with such assets there are problems over what to do with the money. To track down either survivors or the descendants can be difficult. Thus there can be temptations to give it to an organisation which is meant to benefit the community more broadly. Finkelstien suggests that a number of organisations are being active in seeking out such money and are loath to give it to actual victims.  <br />The book is something which no doubt will outrage a lot of people. However it contains a lot of material which is interesting. For example Switzerland has been the subject of legal action over the buying of gold from Jewish Victims, for making it difficult for relatives of the deceased toaccess band accounts and for its rather restrictive policy of accepting Jewish refugees. The United States however also had a policy of purchasing Nazi gold, also made it difficult for descendants to access bank accounts and accepted a similar number of refugees to Switzerland. The United States however is never mentioned in Holocaust publications. <br />The book is very passionate and readable but it occasionally meanders a bit. The author also assumes some knowledge of figures such as Wiesel who I for instance have not heard of. Never the less an interesting read.	2002-06-21
1508929:US	52147775	R2GCJRGHGWBV2B	0664223133	407749786	Ancient Israel's Faith and History: An Introduction to the Bible in Context	Books	3	10	23	N	N	Pleasant but lightweight	This book appears to be designed as a text book. Each chapter has a section which outlines further reading and the book is full of illustrations and diagrams. <br />The book deals with a difficult subject but is generally pleasant and non dogmatic. It is reasonably short and easy to read.<br />To put the book into context, some years ago it was thought that the bible was an accurate historic record of both Israel and the Jewish people. Modern archeology has created some big doubts about the historical accuracy of the bible.<br />For example the book which discusses Abraham mentions the use of camels. It would appear that in the relevant period camels had not been domesticated. An examination of Egyptian records shows no mention of the tribes of Israel as a captive source of labour at any time in its history. There is no mention of their escape and the destruction of an Egyptian Army in the Red Sea. <br />The bibilical account of the conquest of the holdy land by Joshua describes the siege of larged walled cities such as Jerico. An examination of the historical record shows that these cities to the extent that they existed were small and unfortified. Lastly it would seem that there is no real evidence that the Davidic Kingdom existed as descibed in the bible. <br />These findings have led to a number of schools of thought. One school suggests that the books of the bibal which purport to be a historical record are in fact things which were written centuries after the occurance as a means of providing a rallying call for the state of Judah. That the writtings were more of a form of propoganda to inspire the present than being a record of the past.<br />Mendenhall's book is an attempt to find a sort of middle way, which can reconcile parts of the biblical record with the historical record. He thus suggests that the basis events in the bible occured but they have been subsquently exagerated. Thus the exodus did occur but it would have been a smaller group. There would have been some form of Davidic Kingdom but it would have been smaller. <br />One interesting part of the book is the section on the ten commandments. Mendenhall argues convincingly that instead of being \\"laws\\"these were more commitments that would identify individuals as the members of the religous group.<br />In general terms a pleasant book, but one in which the basis of the writting is one of faith rather than hard evidence.	2002-06-15
1509064:US	52147775	R3KIAT1PUGD7X5	0870215353	976967079	Empires in the Balance: Japanese and Allied Pacific Strategies to April 1942	Books	4	24	25	N	N	Readable	This is basically a book which examines Japan's rise to Empire, its motives for attacking the United States and starting the Pacific War, and the first six months of the course of the conflict.<br />The book's author is a reasonably prolific writer whose style is easy to read and unlike some popularisers he has a good grasp of his topic. <br />Japan's history is interesting as it opened up to the West and modernised at the time that the European Powers had carved up most of Asia and Africa as their private fiefdoms. The gospel of the time was a book written by Admiral Mahan called the Importance of Sea Power in History. Japan caught up in the fashions of the time decided to embark on the quest of Empire. They built a large army and navy to assist them. The basic problem was that to gain an empire they would have to divest someone else of it as most of the known world had been carved up. <br />Japan initially attacked China and Russia. By allying with Britain and fighting in the First World War it was able to gain a number of pacific Islands. During the 30's it embarked on a series of wars with China which gave it a huge amount of territory. The problem was that this antagonised the United States who imposed an oil embargo to try to stop the Chinese war. Japan was a country which was totally dependant on imported oil to supply its war machine. The embargo meant that it had about one years oil for its ships and about six months aviation fuel. Faced with either giving in or attacking, Japan decided on the later.<br />In reality this was a stupid decision. The Japanese by declaring war immediately started to have problems. It was reliant on imported raw materials for its industry and it imported food. The basis of its trade system was the use of foreign ships as well as its own. By declaring war Japan immediately lost the ability to use foreign ships. With its existing merchant marine Japan was barely able to transport essentials. In addition it had to conquer the oil rich areas of Indonesia within six months to be able to keep its economy going. It did not have enough Tankers to move the oil from the conquered regions if it was successful. <br />The reality of course was that Japan had stopped operating as a state in the early 1920's. Since that time authority had fragmented so that the decision to invade China rather than being the result of some considered policy was undertaken by army units which did not recognisee the central civil authority. Japan limped along with the real power being located in the various armed services but in reality even this power was fragmented. <br />The miracle was of course that in the first six months the Japanese were victorious everywhere. Of course after that they never won a battle. <br />This book is interesting as it explains the process. It is strongest in talking about the Japanese history and motives prior to the war. The coverage of the early campaigns is very readable but falls into some traps of previous histories. <br />For example the Japanese invasion of Malaya was against numerically superior forces. The numbers in favour of the defence was 5:2. For the British to lose required massive incompetence. In this campaign the British command effectively was hopeless dispersing its armies allowing them to be defeated in detail. Even at the point of surrender the Japanese had run out of ammunition and were about to withdraw. The author however accepts that there was some inevitability to what happened.<br />In much the same way, although he is critical of MacArhur in the Philippines, he again seems to accept the inevitability of Japanese victory. This is despite the fact that the American forces again were about twice that of the invading army, that the defending forces had tanks and aircraft and that the Japanese were poorly supplied. <br />Despite these minor criticisms the book is well researched and readable.	2002-06-14
1509769:US	52147775	R1E49UAI608RTS	0743200284	190676249	Deliver Us from Evil: Peacekeepers, Warlords and a World of Endless Conflict	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Good discussion of the issues	This is a book about the role of the United Nations in international peacekeeping missions. Prior to the end of the cold war, the United Nations was not able to intervene in regional conflicts. The reason being that the split on the security council meant that one or other of the superpowers would veto actions which would conflict with their national interest. With the end of the cold war the world was faced with the possibility that the United Nations could for the first time try to act to limit human misery brought about by civil war and the collapse of civil authority in some countries. The early nineties also saw the election of the American President Clinton. Clinton at the start of his term was committed to trying to increase the importance of the United Nations as a means of bringing a rational approach to ending conflict. He appointed Madeline Albright as an Ambassador to the UN and there were expectations that something could be achieved. <br />Shawncross examines a large number of conflicts and looks at the attempts of the UN to achieve some positive result.  The vast majority of the cases examined by Shawncross were failures. His book is an examination of how those failures occurred and what factors led to them. <br />There have however been some successes. The intervention in Cambodia, although it did not lead to the setting up of democratic institutions (Hun Sen was able to quickly set up an authoritarian state after elections were held which should have removed him from power) did lead to the end of the civil war in that country. Although it is only dealt with in a sketchy way the UN intervention in East Timor led to and end to the killing and it now seems possible that a democratic state will emerge. <br />The failures are however significant. The UN failed to do anything to prevent the genocide in Rwanda. What effectively happened in this case was that the Rwandan population was divided into two ethnic groups. One group the Hutus moved to kill the minority group the Tutis. Over 100,000 Tutis were murdered brutally with the UN taking no action at all. However the story did not end there. A guerilla movement consisting of Tutis was able to take control of the country. The Hutu groups responsible for the initial massacres forced huge numbers of their own people out of the country into neighbouring Zaire to form the basis of a guerilla army. This fought for some time against the victorious Tutis. Eventually the Tutis invaded Zaire massacring huge numbers of Hutu and in the process overturning the government of Mobutu. Some peace keepers were put in place to prevent this but the mission failed abysmally. <br />Another disappointment was Somalia. Again Somalia was a small country which had experienced a total break down in civil society. The collapse of order led to large numbers of rural people moving to the capital and a fall in food production. In place of civil authority the country became ruled by armed gangs. Both the United Nations and the United States became obsessed with one gang leader and spent most of their efforts trying to capture him. Alternative strategies might have involved the provision of food aid in country areas to move people out of the city as a means of increasing rural productivity. In addition attempts to disarm the groups one would have thought productive. Instead the UN and American troops fell into a confrontation with some gangs in the capital and suffered casualties which in the view of the US were not sustainable. This led to a pull out. <br />The book is interesting. It does not really propose a solution but it raises a huge number of issues. One interesting point made by the author is that it cost the Sierra Leone government $36m to hire a mercenary outfit Executive Solutions to deal with its rebellion. (The rebels involved were brutal and routinely amputated the limbs of village people for no good reason). The cost of hiring these mercenaries was cheaper than the cost of a UN force ($46m for the same period). As a number of the UN members do seem to have a stomach for the work one wonders if this may not be the future of peace keeping.	2002-06-14
1510310:US	52147775	R26K0O64GKKSVY	0198208774	993547035	1: The First World War: Volume I: To Arms (First World War (Oxford Hardcover))	Books	5	24	27	N	N	Best available	This is a book that was commissioned some time ago by Oxford Press to be a replacement for a book written in 1934 called a history of the Great War by Crutwell. It is the first of three volumes and it covers the lead up to the war and the first two years. <br />The book is quite long over 1,000 pages but it is a thorough treatment of the subject. Not only does it cover the diplomatic lead up to the war and the initial campaigns, but it also covers the naval war, financing the war and the problems faced by both sides in producing weapons and munitions. <br />The book is without doubt the best volume so far written on what is now a rather remote conflict. The reason for this is the partisan nature of previous histories. The First World War saw a number of technical developments including the invention of barbed wire, smokeless powder, the magazine rifle, the machine gun and recoil mechanisms for artillery which enabled battlefields to be engulfed in rapid accurate high explosive and shrapnel fire. These developments favoured the defence. In the confined area of the Western Front battles turned into a form of siege warfare that led to immense numbers of casualties for attacking forces. (The Eastern Front because of the much greater distances operated differently)<br />Following the war many British Writers such as Hart and Fuller wrote a number of books which shaped our understanding of the war. These histories were in general terms rather simplified schematic and sought to portray the military leaders of mainly the allied powers as dull blockheads who butchered thousands of men with little regard for the cost. It picked out a small number of leaders such as Monash as examples of the doctrines which these authors thought the key to future warfare. This view of things is the basis on which military history of the conflict has relied until recently. <br />Strachan has only written about a small amount of the actual conflict, but what he has said so far paints a differentpicture from the normal orthodoxy. To illustrate:<br />In deciding to go to war Germany faced considerable problems. Although the German High Command believed that their troops were of higher quality than those of the allied powers, it was clear that they were outnumbered because of the potential number of troops that could be mobilised by Russian. The Germans were also aware of the potentiality of new weapons and the changes which favoured the defence. Their planning for war depended on invading Belgium thus avoiding a frontal contact with the French and using the room gained by invading a neutral country to surround and role back the French Army. The initial proposal of this strategy was made in 1906 by Alfred von Schlieffen a member of the German general staff. Histories of the conflict have tended to focus on the Schlieffen plan? as if it was a set in concrete operational plan which was set in concrete. Historians have tended to focus on the German operations in 1914 and suggested the reasons for defeat were because of minor alterations to this ?plan?.<br />The reality is that in reality there was no such ?plan?. Rather the invasion of Belgium was seen by successive General Staffs as a rational solution of how to overcome the problem of numerical inferiority. Various plans would be brought out depending on the strategic situation as it evolved from 1906 to 1914. <br />Strachan also attempts to rehabilitate the reputation of Joffre, the French Supreme Commander. Hart and Fuller portrayed him as a fool who rather than examining the reality of war, was obsessed with the notion of the offensive and the importance of the bayonet charge. The French Plan for an offensive into Alscace and Lorraine was portrayed as suicidal nonsense which could only lead to immense casualties because of the invention of the machine gun and magazine rifle. Strachan shows that Joffre?s offensive plans were in fact flexible and rational. In addition it was Joffre who responded to the German attack through Belgium by the manoeuvres which were to become the battle of the Marne and ended in German defeat and the relieving of the German commander Moltke. <br />This is indeed a fine book. One criticism of it is the maps. The author instead of providing maps with military units displayed with arrows to show their movement, simply has terrain maps and one has to concentrate on the text to work out what has happened. This is slightly annoying but a minor irritation in what is otherwise a fine book. <br />The discussions also about Naval Strategy, the Shell ?crisis?, the entry of Turkey into the war and the African campaigns are all first class. This is the best book written to date on the war.	2002-06-13
1525096:US	52147775	R16QXI35YZX796	0140094296	458351721	The Songlines	Books	1	13	31	N	N	Drivel	Bruce Chatwin was a travel writer of moderate talent. While most travel writers tend to try to write books which generate laughs by trading on the comic elements of travel and the ridicule of different customs Chatwin was more of a poetic writer. <br />In this book he writes about Aboriginal Australians and suggests a theory. The theory is that the map of Australia has a number of inter connecting song lines which represent points at which Aboriginal people communicate with others and as a result &quot;songs&quot; are passed on. <br />The reality is that no such thing exists and that Chatwin has simply made it up after a brief Australian visit. One of the problems of course is that now because the idea has appeared in a &quot;book&quot; some people now accept it. <br />Aboriginal people in Australia have over the years suffered considerably by being pushed of their lands, being marginalised and suffering ongoing discrimination. However their culture is rich and vibrant and for someone to make up something which is not true does them no good and is another manifestation of white paternalism.	2002-05-31
1532477:US	52147775	RXRG64GETOAUR	B00005XE9R	645711625	The courage of his convictions	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Interesting	I read this book some thirty five years ago. It is the biography of a minor criminal in England, who was a person who was totally unrepentant and attempted to blame no one for his choices in life. <br />It was probably the first book that I read which gave me a picture of life outside that of a normal middle class existence. From that point of view it was a revelation. <br />One of the interesting things about the book was that it told of a criminal underworld before the spread of drugs. Robbery and theft were purely motivated by commerical considerations rather than by any addiction. <br />The narrator in the book is a person who despite spending a third of his life in jail is able to tell his story with some ironic detachment and at times the book is hysterically funny. The scene with a social worker from the Salvation Army is particullary amusing. <br />One of the interesting things in the book was a description of how to do an Armed Robbery. The narrator explains how the best weapon to use is an iron bar. People will often think that they might not be hit by a bullet or that they can overpower their attacker. An iron bar is something which everyone sees as causing harm and will lead to a robbery going ahead smoothly without resistance. One would hardly think of the modern drug filled criminal being able to muster the self possession to think through the crime and the likely outcome as used to happen in the past.<br />Not a book which fills you with a golden vision of humanity but a readable and interesting book.	2002-05-24
1544885:US	52147775	R3I65KD5QJ37PS	0226812243	71676217	The Last Days of Hitler	Books	2	13	23	N	N	Deceptive	This is a historically accurate book of the last days of Adolph Hitler the German dictator. Despite its accuracy the book has had a slightly mischievous effect. The reason for this is that after the war most senior members of the German government and military tried to shed their own responsability for the many crimes of the time by saying that Hitler was soley responsible. Part of the tactics used were to play heavily on the irrational aspects of Hitlers character and to focus on his rages and statements made by him at times of crisis. <br />The reality of German life was somewhat different. The military and most of the more affluent classes were glad to see and end to democracy and an attempt to build Germany into a strong power. The ending of the rule of law and the establisment of a police state did not lead many to losing sleep. <br />Roper fell into the trap of accepting the exculpatory view put out by the Germans and his portrait of Hitler focuses on a small set of events which give a false picture of the man. (Not to suggest that he was a particularly pleasant or good, but rather to be an effective politician one has to be a little above a rambling mental patient.)	2002-05-14
1560265:US	52147775	R3EBVN49U4ZF15	0385720270	814405181	Development as Freedom	Books	5	33	33	N	N	Excellent	This book is in reality an argument against relying solely on the market to produce the best outcomes. In the fifties Keynsian thought was triumphant and it was thought that an unrestrained market system would lead to problems. As a result governments had to intervene to ensure demand management and to also deal with problems of structural inequality. In more recent times such an approach has been rejected and any interference with the market is seen as likely to lead to poor outcomes. <br />Sen suggests that there are a number of reasons for not abdicating completely to the market although acknowledging its importance as the most efficient way of determining the overall use of resources. Sen is an economist who has been concerned with Developing countries for many years. One of his specialities is the phenomena of famines, why they occur and how to prevent them. <br />This book is really a collection of essays that have a common theme. Sen argues strongly that the provision of certain services in developing nations not just as a means of achieving equity but of achieving development. <br />The first issue that he canvasses is the importance of democracy. He says that no democratic country has ever had a famine. Even in a country as poor as India it has been possible for governments to prevent famines. To explain the way famines are prevented Sen explains in some detail how they are caused. In 1943 British India suffered a famine in which 3 million people starved to death in Bengal. Oddly enough this was not brought about by a fall in the availability of food but rather by a fall in wages for some groups which led them to not being able to buy food. Sen explains that very modest employment programs have been used by successive Indian governments to prevent this happening again. <br />Sen then goes on to argue for the importance of the provision of medical services and education in providing freedom and the potential for development. To illustrate this he discusses the death rates and the death rates by sex in various Indian states. The difference between progressive Kerala and Rajastan are instructive. <br />The book is easy to read and is very interesting .	2002-04-30
1560780:US	52147775	RF4QH4MZA0NXN	0700611878	361615757	Inside Hitler's High Command (Modern War Studies)	Books	5	8	14	N	N	Shatters some old myths	This book is an attempt to re-write what has been the conventional view of the relation between Adolph Hilter and the German General Staff. After the war, Hitler was conveniently dead and that allowed the German Generals to put out a version of history that was accepted for some years but was at odds with the truth. The German Generals had towed the line that they were politically neutral prior to the 1930?s and that they had not been supporters of Nazi aims. Further that they opposed some aspects of Nazi war aims and acted in a professional way. Lastly they were highly competent and might have won the war if it had not had been for Hitler continually interfering with their operational plans. <br />Megargee argues convincingly that the German Generals had a political agenda similar to the Nazis. That is they supported the abrogation of the Treaty of Versailles, they wanted an end to democracy and they wanted Germany to rearm and to become a great power again. A large number of Generals such as Rommel, Guderian, Zeitzler and Reichenau were if not committed Nazis, enthusiastic barrackers yelling support from the sidelines. <br />One interesting point is Megaree?s estimation of the ability of the German Generals. After the war a large number wrote memoirs in which they modestly estimated themselves as pretty good. Megaree concedes that from an operational point of view the German army did well. However it was vulnerable in a number of respects. The key mistake made by Germany in the war was the attack on the Soviet Union. It would seem clear that the planning for operation Barbarossa was deeply flawed. For instance the Germans knew nothing of the actual strength of the forces against them. (The Soviets had 5 million men, 20,000 tanks and 20,000 aircraft to the German?s 3million 3,200 and 3000 respectively) In addition the Germans had no clear plan of defeating the Soviets. Barbarossa was based on the hope that the bulk of Soviet forces could be destroyed near the Polish border. It was then hoped that the Soviets might give in or the government would collapse. However if this did not eventuate the Germans had massive supply problems. They had limited fuel, and they could not use the Soviet railway system until they changed the gauge. In fact when the Soviets failed to collapse the Germans suffered massive supply problems, not being able to supply their troops with winter clothing and struggling to maintain ammunition levels  and fuel and spares for their vehicles and planes. <br />Thus throughout the war the German Army acted as if intelligence was not really worth worrying about and that supply was a problem which could be overcome by an act of will. This deficiency was not a problem in initial war in the west, as the distances were so small and the French and British acted incompetently when faced by the German advance. However against the Soviets it was fatal. <br />Megargee summarises the weakness of the German generals as one of a strategic weakness. It was one that they shared with Hitler and in fact it is clear that they had little insight into the reason for their defeat even after the finish of the war. <br />Another issue dealt with by the book is the question of the role of Hitler?s leadership in bringing about the loss of the war for Germany. Megargee clearly shows that it was only in the later part of the war (1944) that tensions arose between Hitler and the Generals. By this time the war was lost. Over the big decisions there was not a lot of disagreement. <br />This book although expensive is short and easy to read. It is interesting not just for those interested in the war, but it illustrates how history can be distorted by over reliance on self serving material.	2002-04-30
1571796:US	52147775	R1OFEJGVY3LELW	1574882856	329455826	The Forgotten Soldier	Books	3	6	19	N	N	Sort of interesting	The writer of this book was a citizen of Alsace, nominaly a Frenchman with a german mother who ended up in the German Army on the Eastern front in 1942. He initially served driving trucks in a supply unit but volunteered for the Grosse Deutscheland Division and fought with them for the next three years. At the end of the war as his division had name not a number there was some suggestion that it was an SS Division and he enlisted in the French army for a short time as a sort of recompense. <br />The book is both interesting and dissapointing. The dissapointment arises from the fact that the author has a very limited knowledge of what is going on at any time during his service. He has an ants eye view of the events as they sweep him up. The interesting aspect is that it shows clearly the horror that was the eastern front. Most of the book is a story of deprivation in some way. Even in 1942 when the Germans were doing moderately well in Russia Sajer complains about the quality of the food, how difficult it was to find and how it is eiher to hot or cold. The strongest part of the book are occasional images. A train of Russian prisoners who line up the dead bodies of their commrades to make a windbreak as they travel on open flat cars into captivity, the first encounter with partisans as small flea like figures. <br />Reading the book it is clear that by wars end Sajer had been caught up in events. He romantasises the support for the Germans by the Ukrainians. He lists the atrocities of the Russian partisans but is generally silent about what the Germans did. <br />The end is rather poignant. After seeing countless friends killed after suffering hardship after hardship Sajer realises that the three years he spent in the German Army are something that he will have to forget, rather than it being something that he will ever be rewarded for, or something that anyone will ever thank him for or realise the enormity of his sacrafice.	2002-04-21
1579401:US	52147775	R3VDNG9ET6DEV6	0679743758	371416552	The Creators: A History of Heroes of the Imagination	Books	2	19	47	N	N	Well yes, sort of	This is a history of various figures in what could be described as western culture. The book is not an original work of history as such but rather a summary of other sources. Books of this type can elicit different reactions. If you have not read about the subject matter it may all be a revelation and incredibly interesting. If you have read about the subject matter it effectively says nothing new and adopts a reverential rather than critical approach to western cultural development. <br />Another issue is that the book is so ethnocentric. It touches briefly on Japan discussing its use of wood in building but otherwise just deals with Europe. To some extent this is probably because the author's idea is to develop the notion of a European tradition. However of course the reality is that the fashhions of culture and art are not that sealed. <br />One reads the book hoping for an occasional critism of the normal view of art. The normal view of art is that developed by Wagner in the ninteenth century. That artists are supreme individuals different from the rest. That art has to evolve and change. That art and craft are distinct. This theory of course is a recent invention and it is one developed by artists for self serving ends. The author however is not able to look at art outside the theory and as such the book says little that is orginal.	2002-04-15
1608720:US	52147775	R2UUG93FVKLFCL	0945971281	893434594	Bali: A Paradise Created	Books	3	12	13	N	N	Interesting and thought provoking	If you read most travel books aimed at the Lonley Planet market the most common mantra is how tourism and western influences destroy traditional societies. Naturally this is a proposition which has a bit of trut to it. The movement of travellers can lead to people in some countries becoming beggars or quasi beggars. Tourism can also create a superficial materialism that is unattractive to some compared to more traditional cultures.<br />This book however suggests rather alarmingly that the reverse is the case. Bali is an island in Indonesia which is famous for its culture. Unlike the rest of Indonesia it never converted from Hinduism and the island is vibrant with art and dance. <br />The author of this book suggests that a good deal of this culture has been created by the west. His evidence is that some of the &quot;tradional&quot; dances such as the monkey dance were actually invented by a western film maker in the 30's. The argument is stronger in suggesting that the growth of art and culture in the Island has blossomed and been made possible by the influx of tourists interested in buying it. <br />The author compares the basically fuedal society of the 1030's when art existed but was limited, to the current situation in which the market has exploded.<br />The book also shows how western ideas of the island as a tropical paradise were developed by early travellers with a romantic imagination, no doubt influenced by previous customs of woman not covering the upper torso of their bodies. <br />All in all and interesting and challenging read if you have been to Bali and have been expossed to the normal propoganda.	2002-03-23
1616793:US	52147775	R1K63G7IBT3UWY	0700608761	523851535	Stopped at Stalingrad: The Luftwaffe and Hitler's Defeat in the East, 1942-1943 (Modern War Studies)	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Okay	In 1942 the German campaign in the Soviet Union was in big trouble. The Germans had fought off the Soviet winder offensive in 1941 but they had not been able to bring their force level back to the same levels as when they had started the campaign. The question was simply what could they do to win?<br />Hitler with the support of the general staff decided on a strategic campaign. One that would aim at cutting Soviet industry off from its supply of oil and also cutting the major rail links. This offensive was given some assistance by the Soviets who launched and enormous and disasterous offensive around Kharkov freeing the way for the German break through. <br />The Germans started to march towards Stalingrad and the Soviets waited. They thought that the Germans were going to attack Moscow again and that the German offenisve was a prelude to a swing north. <br />The strategic reality of the situation was that the Germans put their armies deep in Soviet Territory were they were impossible to supply. In addition the Germans split their attacking force with the sixth army besieging Stalingrad and the rest headed off into the Caucuses. In reality the Germans had put their under supplied armies into a noose. When the German sixth army was surrounded they did not have suffucient fuel or ammunition to do anything but to hang on till an eventual surrender. <br />This book is basically a re-writing of the campaign from the point of view of the German Air Wing. Some memoirs have come to light or alternately this is the first time they have been used. The diary in question is that of Richtofen the commander of air operations over the sixth army. <br />The book is interesting as it suggests that the Germans could have used their air power to destroy the Soviet Oil production as the offensive brought them within range. However they failed to do so as they were confident of victory in the theatre and hoped to use the oil production themselves. (An absurdity as they had no possibleway of moving oil from Grozny to Europe.)<br />The book is interesting in a number of ways. The concentration on the importance of the air war is new. However in the past most discussions of the Stalingrad operation have been centred around discussions about whether Hitler acted rationally in not allowing the Sixth Army to stay put. This book explains the rational of the operation and talks in a realistic way about the supply and other problems which made the operation a crock from the start. Well worth a read.	2002-03-17
1617472:US	52147775	R10RX4FX6YJN8Z	0520042727	662656122	Alexander the Great and the Logistics of the Macedonian Army	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	Ground Breaking	This is a very short yet it is a very good book. The reputation of Alexander the Great as a military commander has never been in doubt. However this book explains just how great he was. <br />Most treatments of his campaigns focus on the key battles and his use of the phalanx and cavlary to achieve victory. However Engels makes the point that the conquest of Persia was a potentially very difficult campaign. Generals such as Crassus, Antony and Julian were to fail despite having large well disicplined armies. <br />Engles shows that to maintain an army in the field in ancient times was difficult. Armies consumed food and water at a prodigous rate and all land transport was ineffecient. The remote location of Persia combined with its arid agriculture over time were its greatest protection. <br />Alexander had to think carefully about every stage of his campaign so that he could obtain food and keep is army in the field. <br />The key to this was initially water transport. Ships were the one effecient means of transport in the ancient world. Persia however at the time of Alexander had a large navy. <br />Alexander calculated every move to perfection.Firstly he made his own men carry their equipment rather than using servants or camp followers as was the norm with Greek armies. This made his army quick moving and lessened the mouths to feed. He then started his campaign before the Persians could use thier harvest to provision a fleet. Alexander was able to move his army through Anatolia siezing all the Persian ports and to put their navy out of buisness. He was then able to use his navy to supply his forces. <br />This book is masterful in explaining the campaign and it reveals the depth of Alexanders genius and the care of his planning. Invaluable for anyone interested in the area.	2002-03-16
1618899:US	52147775	R1RMTONUW6G61Y	0345375564	836091346	Dreadnought: Britain, Germany, and the Coming of the Great War	Books	3	3	10	N	N	A long readable piece of popular history	Around the turn of the century the British had a huge naval fleet. Britian at that time was the richest country in the world although Russia probably had the largest empire. <br />The dreadnought was a revolutionary battleship design which changed the balance of naval power. Basically the dreadnought was a steel ship with heavy plated armounr which mounted 12 inch guns and had coal fueled turbine engines. The dreadnought was so far ahead of other naval ships that it rendered them obsolete overnight. The British had thus made most of their own navy obsolete. <br />Germany saw this as a chance to develop a naval power which would challenge that of Britain. As a result they started the rapid construction of a fleet of their own Dreadnoughts. Britain countered by expanding their production to ensure they maintained naval superiority. <br />This arms race was seen as one of the pivotal causes of the first world war. <br />Other books have suggested other causes for the war. For instance \\"The arming of Europe and the making of the First World War\\" by Herrmann have suggested that the cause was related not to the naval balance but to the development of land armies. The thesis of that book was that by 1914 the prospect of Russian military reform meant that the central powers would be outnumbered by the Entente in a few years. This led to them adopting war as a means of resolving the dispute rather than negotiation. <br />Whilst Massies book may only present a narrow focus based on the naval arms race it is a fine piece of popular history writting with many portraits of figures of the time. It is well worth a read.	2002-03-15
1619149:US	52147775	R1K1A36VD9IGR0	1565844114	11740787	McLibel: Burger Culture on Trial	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Good	The Mcdonalds Corporation has used the threat of litigation to protect both its logos and also its reputation. This is an example in which the threat of legal action came unstuck. Two British enviromentalists had handed out material which it was later found out defamed the McDonalds corporation. Defamation action was threatened unless the enviromentalists recanted. This they refused to do and McDonalds issued a writ suggesting that they had been libeled. <br />It was at this point that McDonalds made a serious legal error in making some allegations against the enviromentalists. This led to a counter suite for defamation which was run at the same time. The problem for McDonalds was that they had to lead evidence to prove their case. Normally in a defamation case it would be up to the defendant to do so. As the two enviromentalists were both broke they would not have been able to do so. However McDonalds by their tactical mistake forced themselves to provide evidence to back up their claims. The two enviromentalists were able to cross examine the various McDonalds witnesses to provide evidence for their claims. <br />As a result the case went on for so long that it became Britain's longest ever case. The two enviromentalists had a year to learn how to cross examine and were able to elicit some evidence that was unflattering McDonalds. <br />In these sorts of cases costs of litigation are nominally recoverable from the losing side. However as the two enviromentalists had no money any cost order against them was without value. This led to a incredibly long and expensive case which ended up bleeding McDonalds with the unfortunate side effect that the two enviromentalists were able to milk it for all it was worth to attack the reputation of McDonalds. From the point of view of the firm a total disaster... The decision to litigate had been a disaster.<br />The book is okay but leaden at times, the film that was released of the event is probably a bit more interesing.	2002-03-15
1637452:US	52147775	R1TO9XKUDKC4SC	0751501999	887389902	Stark	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Laugh out Loud funny	Ben Elton is probably England's most talented comedian. Not only does he do stand up comedy he has written scripts for Black Adder and the Young ones. This was his first novel. <br />The finding out the plot is part of the enjoyment and point of the novel so that it would be unfair to reveal it. However there are two tiers of characters. At one end is a financially succussesful businessman who seems to be slightly based on Rupert Murdock. He is gradually drawn into a conspiracy which is the basis of the book. At the other end are a number of classic comedy figures who discover the conspiracy and try to prevent it. <br />The book is a passionate defence of the enviroment movement and raises a number of issues which have since been more widely accepted. However it is more than a political tract. It is simply laugh out loud funny. Elton writes the book as a series of gags which are totally effective. It was a comedy classic in its time.	2002-02-28
1638064:US	52147775	R30ZKJJXX5SPZF	0671510053	357229344	The Shipping News	Books	2	4	8	N	N	Basically a fantasy	The shipping news was a critically successful and  popular book. Its main character is a man who in the early part of the book lacks self confidence and an ability to assert himself. He gets in a relationship which fails and his wife leaves him with the car of the children of the marriage. He moves to Newfoundland with an aunt and rebuilds his life. <br />The book is a very gentle one and it describes the hero's slow progress as he starts to find anchors in the world. A job which gives him some notion of self worth, a place to live and a strange environment to discover. The book is all pastel tones, meaningful looks and stilted conversations. <br />The basic problem is that the book is little more than a fable. The job that the hero gets is to write a small column on shipping movements in a town newspaper. Now the reality is that there would never be such a job. A town newspaper would employ one or two people to write all of its copy. They would have to answer the phones, arrange the printing and do a range of stories. There could never be a situation in which a paper would pay someone a wage to write a small information column. <br />The lack of the reality about the job is only one problem. The main character is a person who seems to be completely without passion or feeling except a slight feeling of awkwardness. Real people live in worlds of sharply defined feelings. They have feelings about their social status, they think about possessions, relationships but the main character is this book is largely a bundle of nothingness. The narrative is in fact more of a fairy story. <br />Never the less hundreds of thousands of people have loved the book and it has now been made into a film.	2002-02-28
1660752:US	52147775	R1POBMOIJ5CSKI	0140165614	116378185	Guadalcanal: The Definitive Account of the Landmark Battle	Books	4	7	10	N	Y	Well written and clear history	Guadalcanal was one of the key battles in the Pacific Campaign. This is a history of both the land and naval battles and is written in a clear and easy to understand way.<br />Broadly what happened was that the Japanese military siezed the Island of Tulagi early in the Pacific War. They decided to build an airstrip on the Island of Guadalcanal which was a short distance away. The allies in their first offensive of the Pacific war decided to sieze both Guadalcanal and Tulagi. A large naval operation dropped over 12,000 troops on both targets who brushed aside the various construction groups responsible for the air strip construction.<br />The Japanese however infiltrated a naval force at night to attack the invasion convey. In one of the more spectaular victories of the war the Japanese sunk most of the escort vessels but did not attack the transports which were at anchor off the Island. A fairly typical Japanese response. To have destroyed the transport vessels would have led to an immediate American defeat.<br />Over the next few months the Japanese would land troops on the island to try to oust the American troops whilst the allies would attempt to foil these landings and to hang on. The campaign saw a large number of naval battles and on the island there was a continued infantry campaign.<br />The book shows how the Japanese as ever in the Pacific war acted as if logistics did not exist. Their troops were so poorly supplied that most were incapable of combat at the end of the campaign. They recieved no medical supplies minimal food and very little amunition.<br />There was no attempt by the Japanese to build air strips on islands near Guadalcanal to support their troops or to effectively challenge American air control. The book shows clearly how the Japanese military could only think in tactical and not strategic ways. Potentially the Japanese could have won this battle but instead of concentrating forces they turned the campaign into one of attrition so that the allies were able to inflict serious causalties on all combat arms.<br />The book is a good one as it discusses all issues and it gives a clear history talking about the prospects of both sides so that one can see the sorts of options which would have been available for both sides and one realises why the allies won and the Japanese lost. A good book.t the allies were able to inflict serious causalties on all combat arms.<br />The book is a good one as it discusses all issues and it gives a clear history talking about the prospects of both sides so that one can see the sorts of options which would have been available for both sides and one realises why the allies won and the Japanese lost. A good book.	2002-02-09
1660812:US	52147775	R1WHOOPBK6WM3S	0618001905	966326914	King Leopold's Ghost: A Story of Greed, Terror, and Heroism in Colonial Africa	Books	3	2	15	N	Y	The telling of an old scandal	The 19th Century was the high point of colonalism. This book is the retelling of one of the scandals of the period. King Leopold of Belgium used his own rescources to gain the Congo not as a colony of his own country but as his own bit of real estate. <br />The Congo at the time consisted of a huge area. It was largely tropical forest and not that thickly inhabited. To make money from his enterprise Leopold had the local natives collect rubber. Naturally they were not paid for this and had to be forced to do it at gun point. The main import of the Congo colony was firearms. The soldiers employed by Leopold could not waste bullets and had to provide evidence that any used had been used for good purpose. They thus had to cut off the hands of those they shot. <br />Roger Casement was a British official who noticed what was going on. He had a colourful career and was later hanged as a spy. He helped to show the truth behind what was at that point one of the greatest crimes against humanity carried out. (Of course over the next hundred years it would be dwarfed by events in Europe)<br />The scandal at the time was considerable and led to novels like \\"Heart of Darkness\\" by Conrad. This book is an interesting retelling of the tail and if you are interested it is a good read.	2002-02-09
1661872:US	52147775	R1EOO42ID4BHEY	0813338697	226826039	Fire In The Sky: The Air War In The South Pacific	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Good	This book is a history of the air war in the Pacific. It is however not a chronicle of the events but more of an analysis of the nature of the war. <br />Previous narrative histories have generally explained the war in the following way. Initially the Japanese had a fighter the Zero which was superior to the allied machines. Their pilots initially were very well trained. As the war went on the allies experimented with a range of aircraft design which led to the Zero being surpassed as a fighting aircraft. It lacked armoured protection and it was not possible to increase engine power to improve performance or to allow for the carrying of armour or more weapons. In addition the Japanese system of training pilots did not produce enough people with sufficient skills to replace losses. This led to the Japanese becoming completely outclassed by the allies and they were forced to use desperate tactics such as Kamikaze raids. <br />This book looks in more detail about the air war including losses of machines and what prevented Japan being able to compete in the air war. The author makes a strong case for suggesting that combat losses were in reality not the be and end all of the air war. By 1944 the Japanese had developed new aircraft designs which had the potential to meet the allies on near equal terms. The problems that they faced was the maintenance of aircraft and the supply of fuel and repairs. These factors in turn impacted on the ability to give pilots requisite flying time to develop skills. <br />From this point of view the book is interesting as it goes beyond the sorts of assumptions which most have accepted. It also gives an immense amount of material on the technical background.<br />Some might find the book a little disappointing as it is not a blow by blow account of the war but a discussion of the mechanics of it.	2002-02-08
1663908:US	52147775	R24Z6FL0RFL2YJ	0060929499	356393047	There's Nothing in the Middle of the Road but Yellow Stripes and Dead Armadillos: A Work of Political Subversion	Books	5	15	16	N	Y	it is a must read	I purchased this book out of mild interest to see who Jim Hightower was, I had little expectation that the book would hold much interest. <br />It is however an interesting attempt to forge a new notion of leftism. The reality of the party system is that most countries, which have single member constituencies have two party systems. Each party has a certain core of support and to gain electoral office the competition is over the middle range of voters. This leads to notions of parties being similar or having similar policies. Left wing parties have traditionally identified themselves by not having any substantive difference but by adopting certain issues to develop a veneer of being caring. <br />Hightower is critical of this, and he is critical of the American Democratic Party. He suggests that what is happening is that by phrasing policy in a narrow guise of rights rhetoric the Democrats are losing support of their traditional constituency which is basically keen on economic issues. He suggests that the drift to the right in US politics is because of working class or potential Democrat supporters drifting out of the system. <br />He further suggests that the \\"new left\\" not only has lost its constituency but it fails to try to reach potential voters. His section on the media is one of the more interesting in the book. He argues that the main way ideas are spread in modern America is through talk back radio. Talk back however is something that the right dominates because the left will not touch it. They are afraid to enter into dialogue with common people. <br />Hightower argues that the future of the left must be to develop \\"populist\\" policies which are aimed at the welfare of the vast majority of ordinary Americans. He also argues that the message should be sold in a way that resembles the old grass roots political campaigns of the past rather than the carefully scripted media events of today. <br />A book which is interesting, always amusing and raises some realissues of interest about politics in all countries.	2002-02-07
1677441:US	52147775	R1NMWBNMMIOVVW	0380713802	280023223	Neither Here nor There: Travels in Europe	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Laugh out loud funny	When Bill Bryson was in his twenties he went on a trip to Europe. It was for him a liberating experiance despite spending his time with a friend called Katz. <br />This book is about another trip that he goes on through Europe after he has worked in England for some years as a journalist. He starts of in Norway and travels through Europe to Istanbul. <br />Bryson is partially a travel writer, partially a story teller. His books are largely a starting point to have a talk. That can be about his childhood, his German teacher or his belief in the arrogance of French people. This book is actually a laugh out loud type of book. I first read it some years ago, but on re-reading it recently the jokes were just as funny and one actually breaks into laughter reading it. <br />The book is short and can be read quickly but it is worth every penny you pay for it.	2002-01-27
1679372:US	52147775	R3TX69IWKU2ZRT	0684869128	460969074	The Bible Unearthed: Archaeology's New Vision of Ancient Israel and the Origin of Its Sacred Texts	Books	5	23	30	N	N	Interesting and readable	Is what is said in the old testament true? For a long time the account given in the bible of the history of Israel was thought to be reasonably accurate. However after years of looking the archeology of the middle east it appears that this might not be the case. <br />The bible suggests that Abraham from the city of Ur was the father of the Jewish people. His decendents moved for a while to Egypt and multiplied to the number of 600,000. They escaped from slavery there, wandered around Sinai and then conquered Canaan. A great kingdom was established under David and that later split into two kingdoms because of the failure of David's successors to follow the word of God. <br />The consensus of modern scholars is that this account is probably rather than being literally true, was in fact a legend written in the kindom of Juda around 630 650BCE. The reasons for this are explained in this book. <br />The early account of the book of Abraham seems to be written much later. It refers to the use of camels, where as they were domesticated later. The travel occurs mentioning cities which would not have existed at the time. The examination of settlement in the area also suggests that the people of Israel instead of coming from there, were simply always there. <br />The account of the captivity in Egypt also appears wrong. There is no existing Egyptian material to suggest that the events of the Exodus occured. There is no mention of of the loss of an army, the mass movement of a population of 500,000 and so on. In addition there is no record of the movement of such a number in Sinai. Again the account seems to refer to Egyptian cities which were constructed hundreds of years after the supposed event. <br />The conquest of Israel by Joshua also seems idealised. The account refers to the siege of cities such as Jericho when through the help of God mighty walls are brought tumbeling down. An examination of these sites suggest that the cities referred to in the bible at the time the conquest is meant to have occured had no walls, and were very small towns. <br />It would also appear that there is only one suggestion that the Davidic empire ever existed. In 1993 a broken enscription was found celebrating a victory over the desendents of the house of David at Dan. Again careful examination of the archeology of the period shows that the Davidic kingdom as described in the bible could not have existed. Judah at the time the empire was meant to exist was a backwater. Jerusalem the supposed capital of this mighty empire would have had a population of around 1,500 and was a small hamlet. There is no existing material that has survied from the period. No examples of the construction of cities of historical records of anything. Thus the Davidic kingdom is at best a tribal legend. <br />The book is not only very interesting but is a great read. It is a huge challenge to some but as the authors conclude. The fact that the bible was probably written as a political document in the late period of the kindom of Judah does not diminsh its importance as a religous document. In a way it shows the depth of the achievment. This book however does pose a challenge for biblical literalists.	2002-01-26
1691664:US	52147775	R22S7BDMUM7367	1857993284	380749586	Sophie's World	Books	2	1	13	N	N	Sort of Okay	Basically this is a bit of pro philosophy propoganda. A young girl recieves a mysterious letter asking her some questions about her identity. You know, not like her name but in reality who is she. She then starts to recieve an course in philosophy. <br />The book is moderately interesting as it keeps us wonderning who our heroine is and who is the mysterious Major in the peace keeping force in Lebanon. <br />Basically however it is an attempt to popularize philosophy as an area of interlectual interest. It doesn't do a bad job but the reality is that philosophy is dying. <br />It was a thought system which developed in the Greek world to supply a non religous explanation of natural phenomena. At the time of Hume we had a split. Hume developed a theory of empirical knowledge and rejected all of the complex systems which had been developed prior to him. Philosophy very much lives on as a historical study into these old thought systems which have little value in the real world. <br />After Hume philosophy tended to become an ethical and historical area. The rise of science has marginlised it in life and also in academic institutions. <br />This book doesn't really look at whether philosophy is a live discipline. In fact the only critism it makes of the discipline is of Plato's theory of forms. Still attempts to popularise things seldom are in depth studies so that one should not complain to much. <br />If you are interested in learning about philosophy from someone who likes it this is your book. If you are sceptical about it steer away.	2002-01-16
1692401:US	52147775	R1IF1G2BKIHDA8	0393314693	438946422	The Wooden World: An Anatomy of the Georgian Navy	Books	4	45	46	N	Y	Very Good Book	The writer of this book is an academic historian of some importance and he appears to be in the midst of writing a three volume history of the British navy. This book is a little more specalised and tells what it was like to serve on a British ship in the 18th Century. <br />The main theme of the book is to rebut academic theories which suggest that the British Navy of the period was run like a concentration camp. The author in some detail goes through the relations on ships and shows how the navy took a lot of care to preserve one of its key assets the sailors who manned the ships. Food was plentiful and of high quality or the time, British sailors worked out the cause of scurvey before medical science did. Care was taken to ensure that ships were clean and that sailors washed. The most interesting discussion is however on discipline. It would seem clear that in trials carried out to deterime the guilt of individual sailors, senior officers were very careful to establish the truth of charges and they were willing to aquit or to accept the sailors point of view. The book establishes that with a number of mutinies the Admirality removed incompetant officers from command and took no action against the men who mutinied, accpeting that the actions of the sailors was justified. <br />The author goes a long way to establishing that the reality of sea born life was one more or partnership rather than that of an oppresive regime. <br />The book however does more than this and describes in detail the tremendous organisational feat that was the Royal navy. It looks at all aspects of the navy from recruiting sailors, to feeding them and the reality of training and manning ships. <br />One finishes the book and relises what an achievment it was for England to be able to run such an effecient arm as the navy and how the way it was run led to the success it had in battle.	2002-01-16
1696923:US	52147775	R11RTVQKNU1KQP	1573920533	991184537	The Most Dangerous Man in America?: Pat Robertson and the Rise of the Christian Coalition	Books	2	14	32	N	Y	Hearts in the right place but not that good	The author of this book is a person who is involved in an organisation to maintain the seperation of church and state. This is the second book he has written on the area. <br />Pat Robertson is a tele evangalist who must now be in his mid seventies(the book was written some time ago) and perhaps is not as dangerous as he might have been. Robertson made millions through a religous program &quot;the 700 club&quot; which was apparently succesful. <br />In 1988 Robertson ran for president and failed. Whilst he was reasonably well know he had no skills as a politician and found dealing with the press more difficult than running his own TV show. It is however the events which occured after 1988 which concern Boston. <br />During Reagan's presidency right wing Christian groups had been active. Jerry Fawell had formed a group called the Moral Majority. That group supported Reagan and he made some vague commitments to them. During his Presidency Reagan made some lukewarm attempts to deliver on the changes demanded by the Moral Majority but unltimately he did nothing. Jerry Fawell started to have his own problems and his cash cow the &quot;old time gospel hour&quot; started to collapse. As a result the Moral Majority soon headed off to the dust heap of history. <br />Robertson decided after his defeat to have another go at wedge politics and formed the Christian Coalition. Rather than doing deals with the Republicans in return for support, they tried a direct take over of grass roots organisations. This was succesful and in the mid 90's they controlled at least a third of the Republicans organisations. This allowed them to control the agenda of the GOP. <br />Boston the author of this book sees this as an alarming development. He of course may be correct. The aim of the book is to reveal the evil of what is happening to all. <br />The main problem with the book is that it is written in a language that is rights based and will only be read sympathetically by the already converted. Thus he writes a huge amount to demonstrate that Robertson is against the seperation of Church and State. One would have thought that this would be fairly obvious but if he demonstrates it then it is not necessarily something which will cause people to suddenly wake up and take notice unless it can be shown why this is a bad thing. <br />The book is short and easy to read but its big weakness is that it will only be appreciated by those whose votes are assured.	2002-01-12
1696972:US	52147775	R3S38A5YAZVQXE	0879759844	171804759	Why I Am Not a Muslim	Books	2	49	84	N	N	Lacks balance	The writer of the book is a person who has a Muslim name but who has been raised in a secular household. His origin is such that he is aware of the teachings of Islam although clearly they have never had any attraction for him. <br />The problem with the book is its rather scatter gun approach. He effectively has one day written down a list which contains everthing bad he can think of about Islam and he has then expanded on each item. Certainly the book is interesting, it is easy to read and it raises a lot of issues. <br />If one looks at Islam it is clear that some of its doctrines are problematic. To what extent is the religion consisent with the rights of women? To what extent is the religion consistent with a secular state? To what extent is it consisent with the a democratic state?<br />If one speaks to a moderate of the faith they will argue that the religion is not oppresive of women, that the religion is not committed to the sorts of barbaric treatment of women that occurs in some Moslem countries and that it is adaptable to the modern world. <br />The author rather than discussing these issues spends his time listing every dumb thing that the religion has done. <br />Now it may well be that the Islamic religion is not compatable with modern notions of a modern state. This would depend on the extent that the Koran is said to lay down fixed rules governing society, and whether there is an ability for the Koran to be seen as a guide rather than a basis for inflexible rules. This question is one that the author does not really deal with. Instead he simply lists what he sees as the faults of the religion. <br />Despite the fact that the book lacks that sort of balance it no doubt will be selling a few copies at present because of recent events in America. Hopefully it will set of a debate and Moslems can respond to the claims in the book and in the future we can get an idea of whether the claims in the book are true or not.	2002-01-12
1697279:US	52147775	R23MRK0EV5H0PC	076790382X	213092180	I'm a Stranger Here Myself: Notes on Returning to America After 20 Years Away	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Not one of his travel books but okay	After Bill Bryson returned to America he wrote a column for an English newspaper about his experiances. These columns have been collected togeher to make up this book. Thus the book is not one of his travel books as such.<br />The articles are written for an English market and most of them make gentle jokes about America and how different it is from England. There are discussions about shoping malls, drug policy and a range of other things. <br />In general it is classic Bill Bryson with most of the articles being very funny and also most containing acute observations about the American culture. <br />Some Americans may not like the book as the articles sometimes are a little critical and are destined for reading behind the irony curtain.	2002-01-12
1697516:US	52147775	R270XXA4LC0XSP	0767903862	430278994	In a Sunburned Country	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Typical Bryson	Bill Bryson is not so much a travel writer as a teller of shaggy dog stories. He has travelled to Australia a number of times and this is the recounting of adventures that he had on one longer trip where he rented a car and drove huge distances around the country. <br />Each place he visits gives rise to a story. Thus he visits a small pub in the Norther Territory which used to be a stop of air strip in times when planes had shorter ranges than they do now. He gives a description of the &quot;town&quot; and some background and then recounts the exploits that he had staying there. The device he uses is to describe waking up and having a coffee with his travel companion. Both are hung over from a solid night on the booze and they work out what has happened by looking at the items they have in their pockets. As they do so the memories of a rightous and funny night come back. <br />One of the other great stories in the book are the description of listening to five days cricket commentary when Bryson is completely unaware of the rules of the game. His attempts to work out what is happening from the jargonised language of the broadcast is a classic. <br />The only slightly strange thing in this book is Bryson's gentleness in talking about Australia. He can be a little more biting but in this book he is rather complementary.	2002-01-11
1698263:US	52147775	R30VP7VAWHUBX5	0380727501	157497316	Notes from a Small Island	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Very Amusing	Bill Bryson worked for some years in Britian. Prior to returning to America to live he went for one last trip around Britian and he wrote this book. <br />Bryson clearly has an immense affection for English people and he has captured what they are like. The fear of undertaking a road trip of more than three miles, yet the inherent sense of humour that they have. <br />Bryson is a person who has an immense knowledge of the history of England. He has written popular books on the development of the English language. As a result he is able to talk about the history of the towns he visits and to give a depth to the places he visits which has not been so much a part of his other travel books. <br />However it is the stories again which make his writing unique. His stories of waiting in the queue at McDonalds, the story of getting directions on short cuts. All are immensely funny and are laugh out loud humour. Bryson is without doubt one of the more amusing writers around. Yet his humour in this book is of the gentle and affectionate kind.	2002-01-11
1701265:US	52147775	R2XAOEDBO1AO03	0815411472	589809619	Sulla the Fortunate: Roman General and Dictator	Books	1	25	31	N	Y	Opinionated gossip not history	This is a book which was written in 1927 and is very dated. The author has no foot notes and the book does not have a bibliography. It is a folksy anecdotal telling of the career of the Roman dictator Lucius Cornelious Sulla which is replete with the the prejudices of the author. <br />For example Mithradates VI King of Pontus is described at one point as &quot;every much a Turk&quot;. At another point he is described as a &quot;typical Asiatic&quot; despite the fact that the concept was invented after the conquests of the Ottoman Empire. Throughout the book concepts more at home with Victorian England than ancient Rome are continually introduced. He thus talks of the influence of &quot;Capatalists&quot; in what was basically a land owning society. <br />The book seems to be based on Plutarch with the author providing his own gloss. The historical accuracy is not great. Baker accepts on face value ancient accounts of battles which had been called into question by both Dodge and Delbruck prior to the writing of this book in 1927. <br />This is popular and opinionated history at its worse. I am surprised that the book is still in print.	2002-01-09
1702951:US	52147775	R3A95JJW3P18D2	0002114453	642117272	Lion and kangaroo: The initiation of Australia, 1901-1919	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Sort of Okay	Australia was settled as seperate states during the 19th Century. At the begining of the 20th Century in 1901 the various states federated and formed what was to become Austrlia. This book is a history of the first 19 years of the new nation. <br />Rather than being a conventional history this focuses rather narrowly on the development of a seperate idea of nationhood. Other histories approach the period differantly. Austalia was in some ways an interesting experiment at the time. It was one of the early democracies and as a result its social system differed from that of other British Countries. It developed a distinctive method of dealing with industrial disputes, an arbitratin system and it was one of the first countries to elect a socalist government. Australia at the time was in comparson to a number of european countries wealthy. <br />This book however shies away from these sorts of issues and instead looks at the development of &quot;nationhood&quot; and its gradual seperation from Britian. Souter concentrates on the development of an independant armed forces, the creation of national symbols and the like. He sees as important the Prime Minister Billy Hughes who carved out a role for himself at the Peace negotiations seperate from that of the British.<br />It is a book that is of some interest in that it looks at things which other histories do not focus on. However it perhaps fails to concentrate on the sorts of things which others might see as more important, that is the development of a labour movement and its electoral success.	2002-01-08
1707129:US	52147775	R5DC24GADJZQK	0909144370	599053247	A fortunate life	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Moving	The author of this book was approached in old age to talk about his life. From memory it was because of some form of literary grant or a history project. However what was said was of such quality it was transcribed into a book and became a huge seller in Australia.<br />The author grew up in Australia around the time of Federation. He was abandoned by his mother and from an early age did tough farming work in Western Australia at the time pasture land was being cut out of the forests. His work involved ringbarking trees and then clearing them. He worked for a brutal man and his early life is enough to make anyone cry.<br />He served at Galliopoli and was injured by a trench collapse. This restricted his ability to do farm work and after the first world war he worked as a tram driver and later owned a poultry farm.<br />One of the most touching things about the book is the quality of its author. Despite the worst hardships imaginable not one bitter word comes from his mouth. His view of his life was that it was fortunate despite being the victim of countless acts of cruelty and abandoment.<br />The book is a classif of life in early Australia and if there was justice in the world it should never go out of print.	2002-01-05
1707738:US	52147775	RHJ64I2YQNK6A	1863733884	128345554	The End of Certainty: The Story of the 1980s	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Readable history	In the late 1940's and 1950's both sides of Australian politics had agreed over the fundamentals of economic policy. That is that  both were committed to Keynseian economic theories combined with a high level of taffifs to maintain a manufacturing sector. <br />During the post war period the most succesful force had been the conservatives known in Australia as the liberals. <br />In 1982 the Australian left wing party the Labour Party won office. To everyone's surprise it rejected the conventional economic wisdom and started to dismantle protectoin, it allowed a floating exchange rate and indirectly started to kill the trade union movement by providing a series of non income benifiets to union members instead of wage rises. Thus the books title, these types of reforms would normally have been carried out by the conservative side of politics rather than by the left. <br />During the 80's a large amount of Australia's secondary industry collapsed but it was replaced by a growth in the servic sector especially tourism. As the decade ground on the country had high levels of economic growth and inflation fell to low levels. <br />The ruling Labour party was able to stay in power until 1993. The book provides a history of the time with more of a focus on the political ins and outs of the time. The writer is a prominent political journalist and lots of the book is actually quite funny. <br />It is currently the best history of that period of Australia. Worth a read if you are keen on Australia or the period in question.	2002-01-04
1709088:US	52147775	R2M3HV5DE4LV73	0393316890	700412307	The Bible and the Ancient Near East (Revised Edition)	Books	2	27	82	N	N	Not very good	This book is reasonably old the first edition coming out in the 1950's. It is written by Christians as a book to be read in conjunction with the bible. That is it generally accepts the truth of the historical sections of the bible and tries to put them in a historic perspective. To be fair to the authors they indicate the similarity of biblical creation stories to those of Babylon.<br />The book however is rather partisan. The reality is that there is little in the way of historic evidence to suggest that much of the bible is true. There is for instance no record of the events of Exodus in Egyptian records.There is also no objective evidence for the existence of King David or King Solomon. <br />Rather than looking at these questions, which are at the heart of <BR>Biblical Scholarship the authors try to fit the biblical narratives into a historical time frame. <br />The book is reasonably easy to read and an alright introduction to the period that it covers but in reality it does not look deeply into the real issues of the time. Christians will find it interesting but for those with other interests it falls short.	2002-01-03
1709267:US	52147775	R3E7SE82W6G5AJ	1559705604	11793821	The Big Ask: A Murray Whelan Mystery	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Highly amusing	Shane Molondy is one of Australia's newer and more succesful crime writers. This book is set in the dying days of the Victorian Labour government in the early 90's before it was voted out of office in a landslide. The hero Murray Whelan works as a staffer to a Labour Cabinet minister and faces the problems of a dying government. <br />In addition to these problems he is divorced and his son goes missing. A short time later the son of a rich transport magnate is murdered and Whelan becomes a suspect. <br />The book is hysterically funny a sort of Australian Carl Hiaasen. <BR>It also conveys a feel for both the political world and the inner suburbs of Melbourne. One of the more enjoyable crime novels to come out in some time.	2002-01-03
1710442:US	52147775	R1Q58FTIJ4EFWU	0767902521	157497316	A Walk in the Woods: Rediscovering America on the Appalachian Trail (Official Guides to the Appalachian Trail)	Books	5	2	6	N	N	America's greatest travel writer	Bill Bryson is without doubt America's most funny travel writer. His technique is not so much to describe places that he visits but to use travel as a means for doing a series of comedy routines. He tells shaggy dog stories or develops characters and comic situations. <br />This book is about a series of walks that Bryson made along one of America's great walking trails. Rather than doing the walk in one hit he returns a number of times. He talks an unemployed friend &quot;Catz&quot; to go along with him. Half the book is a description of Catz's sulks and black moods as he and a complete lack of fitness engage on what is an arduous walk. Bryson spent a good deal of his life in Britian and has a deep understanding of irony and is a great social satarist. He also has a gentle humour which does not cut to deeply to limit one's enjoyment of his books.<br />All in all an entertaining read.	2002-01-03
1710622:US	52147775	R3L13YP0XU290C	0899667287	510996447	The First and the Last	Books	3	12	30	N	N	Average	Despite what some have said this was a book that was quite easy to read. It was written reasonably soon after the war and is more a recounting of the writers experiances rather than being an in depth revelation about the war. <br />Galland was involved in flying before the war and joined the German Air Force early. He served as a volunteer with the Nazi forces in Spain during the civil war and then served as a fighter pilot in the early part of the war. He was succesful and was promoted to a desk job in charge of fighter command. Towards the end of the war he returned to active flying duty this time in the new German jet fighters. <br />Although a good deal of his time in the war was spent in a higher command role Galland does not have much insight into the German air defeat or the reasons why the Germans lost. He focuses on a number of factors including the delay in bringing jet aircraft into production and the failure to develop a strategic bombing force. However other books since have pointed out that the technical superiority of the jet fighter would have not saved Germany due to the enormous numerical superiority of allied forces and Germany in reality did not have the rescources to build up a strategic air fleet on top of its existing air force. <br />Never the less although not very inciteful the book is easy to read and gives a feel of Germany in the war. The author however falls into the usual approach that most Germans in the military did in writing memoirs. That is it was all Hitlers fault and we were honourable men etc. Still not a bad read.	2002-01-02
1711204:US	52147775	RON0HK9O1SMPZ	0743412834	400656986	Samurai!	Books	3	8	16	N	N	Okay	This is quite a readable book although one does not know how much of it is the author's work or how much the translator's. <br />The author was the most successfull living Japanese Ace in World War 2 shooting down some 64 planes. Probably the reason he survived the war was that he was badly injured in one the first air battles over Guadacanal and saw limited action after that. Most of his flying time was in the early part of the war when the Zero was technically the best plane flying and Japan was in the ascendancy. <br />Despite that he did see action on Iwo Jima after he returned from injury and also he flew missions against the bomber raids on Japan. The book conveys the shock which occured to the Japanese as the Americans started to develop technologically superior aircraft and also were able to produce such aircraft in huge numbers. <br />The book is interesting as it talks perhaps briefly about the author's training as a enlisted man in the navy. The methods used by the Japanese were brutal (and one might also suggest not very effecient). The brutality was such that it explains the addiction <BR>that the Japanese armed forces had for the commission of war crimes. <br />It is a book which can be read in an afternoon and gives a fascinating picture of the other side in the Pacific War.	2002-01-02
1711329:US	52147775	R2JTABETJO52WA	0304358487	357661325	Jutland: The German Perspective (Cassell Military Paperbacks)	Books	5	8	14	N	N	Very Clear easy to read	One of the reasons for Germany and Britian being on opposite sides in the First World War was the decision of Germany to build a battle fleet to rival Britian's. By the start of the war Germany had a large modern fleet but it was considerably smaller than Britian's. <br />The battle of Jutland was an attempt by the German Admiral Scheer to bring to battle a smaller part of the British Fleet and to even up the odds. What occured was a confusing battle which has been very clearly explained in this book. Basically a smaller unit of German Battle Cruiser entered into an engagment with a large unit of British Battle Cruisers. The Germans tried to lure these on to their fleet and instead precipitated an short engagment between both fleets. The Germans returned to port losing some ship to torpedoes. <br />During the initial fight the German Battle Cruisers were able to sink a number of the British Battle Cruisers. The reasons for this were that the British ships were lightly armoured. British shell design was also faulty and this led to a large number of their &quot;hits&quot; not exploding. <br />Whilst the Germans sank more ships the engagment was not decisive and the British were able to continue their Blockade of Germany something which contributed significantly to the German defeat. (At the end of the war front line troops were on a ration of 1,500 calories a day)<br />The book as well as explaining everything clearly and well has a very large number of maps to explain the position and movement of the ships in the battle. In all and example of how naval history should be written.	2002-01-02
1712863:US	52147775	R165BERMYDY42D	0312206100	301979646	The Falls: An Inspector Rebus Novel (Inspector Rebus Novels)	Books	3	0	5	N	N	Quite Good	Not really a police procedural as the book is more TV mystery genre than gritty realism. Never the less it is easy to read and entertaining. The plot involves an abduction which might be a murder set against a strange internett game and a coffin with a doll turning up near the crime scene. <br />The author's main character Rebus is a 40+ divorced cop, drifting around the edge of alcoholism. He has a younger female sidekick who looks into the internett side of things. The main characters are drawn a little more lightly than in some detective fiction. You never sense any of the real desperation or feeling of waste as you would normally do with a person of Rebus age and circumstances. <br />Never the less this is basically an entertainment which is well done despite the fact that the ending is a little weak.	2002-01-01
1716064:US	52147775	R1RIBR9HPEFJX5	0253213800	447261986	Bayonets Before Bullets: The Imperial Russian Army, 18611914 (Indiana-Michigan Series in Russian & East European Studies)	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	Good	This book examines the changes in organisation of the Russian Imperial Army from the period just after the Crimean War till the eve of the First World War. <br />Over that time tremendous changes occurred. During the Crimean War the Russians used mainly smooth bore muzzle loading weapons, firing black powder. Artillery was as rudimentary. Armies were reasonably small and a war would be decided by single battles fought over a day. <br />Over the next fifty years tremendous changes took place. Infantry were issued with rifled weapons that were breech loaded. This increased the fire rate and range of such weapons. In addition recoil springs were invented for artillery. This combined with breach loading meant that artillery could fire accurately and rapidly at distant targets. In addition the development of the railroad meant that huge armies could be put into the field and supplied for long periods of time. <br />These changes in weaponry led immense changes in the nature of battles. Because of the increased lethality of weapons battlefields became more dispersed. Instead of a battle taking place on a defined field of a few miles with closely packed infantry armies were more thinly spread over immense fronts. Battles instead of taking a day lasted months. This in turn meant that the modern armies had to be supplied with huge amounts of ammunition as well as food. <br />In the First World War the Russian armies in the end were defeated. However that was due not so much to the structure of the army but other things. The inability of the Russian state to be able to produce sufficient munitions for a long war and the fact that the state itself fell apart in 1917. The reality is that on the whole the Russians were able to build a reasonably efficient army in the period covered by the book. <br />Th book is fascinating and in addition to looking at issues around the development of the army it gives a history of two imporant wars. The Russo Turkish War and the Russo JapaneseWar. A must read for people interested in the subject.	2001-12-29
1722125:US	52147775	R3OHC89GEGHYNJ	0156421178	802050474	Homage to Catalonia	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Classic	George Orwell is now remembered for two works Animal Farm and 1984. As these books are parodies of Stalinist Russia one would imagine over time that he will gradually sink into obscurity. <br />This book is an earlier work and tells of his experience as a volunteer during the Spanish Civil War. Orwell was a volunteer with the forces organized by POUM. The early part of the book tells of his experiences at the front line. As a memoir it is remarkable honest and readable. <br />The Spanish Civil War was one of the early experiences of Communism seizing a nationalist movement and diverting it for their own purposes. Orwell was horrified at this occurring and a good deal of the book deals with the politics of the situation. He describes how a popular movement with some chance of winning was hijacked by Stalin's cronies and ended up being defeated. <br />It is no surprise that he ended up being one of the most articulate and effective critics of Stalinism. This book is readable and a fascinating picture of a pivotal time in history.	2001-12-24
1727462:US	52147775	RNHV8G0I45KY8	0345391691	920269539	The Battle for God	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Up to the Author's usual high standard	The book looks at the growth of fundamentalism in three religions. It examines the experience of Judaism in Israel, Christianity in the United States and Islam in Egypt and Iran. <br />The reasons for the growth of fundamentalism seem to be different in each case. In Iran the regime set up by the Shah removed rights limited the rewards of economic development to the few and was based on a ferocious terror apparatus. Western values to the bulk of people in Iran seemed to be identified with corruption emptiness and an oppressive regime. The main opposition to this was not a secular movement but a number of religious leaders who advocated an idea of returning to a state system based on fairness and justice. This justice was to be guaranteed by having a state based on religious principles. <br />(...)<br />Armstrong's book is readable and explains in detail how religious fundamentalism has developed and ties it in to the history of each region in which the religion is placed. She has written a number of books on religious subjects and the depth of her knowledge is impressive. <br />The only weak point in her argument is a suggestion that there is a generalised cause or similarity between the various fundamentalism's that have grown up. She suggests that there is a common pattern of retreating into a simple ideological system which is filled with hate and it then reacts against modern secular western ideals. This idea does not seen entirely born out by the fact that she puts forward and the difference in the cause and nature of fundamentalism seems more apparent than the similarities. Never the less a readable challenging and interesting book.	2001-12-19
1749304:US	52147775	R3GAV1XX1QDQK0	0929087771	870451446	1937: Stalin's Year of Terror	Books	1	6	11	N	Y	Not for the casual reader	This is a history of the Soviet Union in the year 1937. It is by a Russian historian who has socialist leanings and has been advertised on that basis. All in all I found the book disappointing. To explain why it is perhaps briefly to talk about the period. Stalin seized power after the death of Lenin. He was not particularly well known at the time and most expected others such as Trotsky or Zinoviev to succeed Lenin. Stalin's main ability was as a political numbers man and he benefited in not being held back by any scruples. <br />Initially an economic conservative Stalin in the late 20's and 30's adopted a policy of forced collectivization to enable the export of primary products to finance a rapid industrialization program.  <br />From this point on Soviet Russia descended into the living hell that has been portrayed so well by George Orwell. The year 1937 was a year which saw the height of the purges directed against the ruling communist party and army and is of tremendous interest to any historians of Russia and Communism. <br />Rogovin has apparently written a multi volume history of the Soviet Union of which so far this is the only volume to be translated into English. Effectively the book relies on a lot of old material rather than using the newly available archives which had led to other historians revealing things that we did not know in the past. Rogovin uses a lot of old sources for his work. Thus in establishing the sorts of problems faced in the growth of industry in the period the author quotes a book written by an American in the 1940's. A lot of the material quoted is very old, Khrushchev's memoirs and Trotsky's writings for instance. When he is able to able to quote new material what he says is of some interest. For instance it would appear that the reason that one group of defendants confessed to non existent crimes was a personal meeting with Stalin in which he promised them to let them live. <br />In general terms what he says is unremarkable andit is what has been said about the period by many including Trotsky. The forced collectivization of agriculture with all the criminal behavior involved meant that Stalin was unpopular and there would have been a high probability of either him or his regime being removed. The framing of the higher members of the ruling elite with non existent crimes was a way of spreading terror and preventing any opposition growing. The campaigns against wrecking, that is to say the trial of those who were responsible for accidents during the period of development was a way of covering up the appalling way the economy was run. <br />Historians in the period have debated to what extent the polices of the time were simply due to Stalin's alleged mental instability. One virtue of the book is to show that rather than reflecting any instability all of the crimes were carefully calculated acts by Stalin to achieve his ends. <br />In summary however the book is not so much a new work of research but more an ideological spin on material derived from fairly old secondary sources. The structure of the book is rather formless and drifts all over the place and would not be an easy read for anyone who was not familiar with the area. It is very much a book for people interested in the period rather than being an easy introduction to it.	2001-12-02
1760865:US	52147775	R1CTT659UXVMHN	0060929588	485442755	Napoleon Bonaparte: A Life	Books	5	7	15	N	N	Very Good	I notice that a number of people who reviewed this book didn't enjoy it. I myself approached it with some negative feelings as I had found the authors previous work on the hundred days somewhat opinionated. Never the less this was a book that I enjoyed very much. <br />At the end of the book it is revealed that in the view of the author Napoleon clearly was a psychopath. That he was an egomaniac who had problems learning from his experience and much of his interaction with others was irrational. Despite this suggestion the majority of the book is written in a reasonably neutral tone and the argument for Napoleon's instability is developed carefully by examining the totality of his career. <br />Nowdays probably most people have little idea of who Napoleon was. During the French revolution he was a successful general. He staged a coup taking over the government of France first as a Consul and then as Emperor. He achieved some domestic reforms developing the legal system which is still part of French Law and has been exported to much of the world. He also established a compromise with the Church and allowed its re-establishment. One things which counts against him is his reintroduction of slavery and his racism towards Africans.  His main interest however was in war and establishing France as the dominant power in Europe. <br />This lead to him being involved in almost constant war for most of the time he ruled France. Napoleon is perhaps more important as a legend than as a historical figure. His empire was destroyed after his unsuccessfully invasion of Russia and he was never able to defeat England. His reputation as a military genius lived on after him. Perhaps more importantly his legend grew as a sort of superman who through dint of talent alone was able to rise to rule a great power and to conquer an empire. It was his legend that the book Crime and Punishment attacked so strongly. <br />Schrom is able to prick that legend and to show that Napoleon was a very flawed figure. I note that some reviewers have suggested that this book is an attack on Napoleon's military reputation. In reality it isn't. In more recent years books such as Blundering to Glory by Connelly have looked at Napoleon's ability as a commander. Schrom has simply followed this line. Napoleon was a ruthless self-propagandist. He peddled a line that as a general he carefully worked out plans for each victory. Schrom and Connelly suggest instead that this is a myth and that in reality he was reactive and won battles through being energetic persistent and ruthless. He emerges as a considerable military commander but his book defines the nature of military command in a different was from that of legend. <br />Napoleon clearly had many failings. The empire he set up was unstable. He allowed Prussia and Austria to have the ability to put armies in the field to oppose him. Instead he relied on setting up allied states such as the Confederation of the Rhine which were not powerful enough to offset the enemies that he made. His putting in place the trade embargo on England known as the continental system brought about a collapse of the European economy and prevented any form of peaceful settlement which would have preserved his empire. <br />Schrom's book is highly readable and entertaining. It describes Napoleon's strengths and how he was able to set up his empire by keeping his enemies dived and moving his armies around quickly to be able to defeat his numerically superior opponents. However the invasion of Spain was a massive disaster tying up a quarter of a million French troops in a long running war which could not be run. On top of this was the disaster of the Russian campaign. <br />The Russian campaign is of course the strongest example of Napoleon's weakness as a general. Through poor planning and inadequate supply he lost over half his army to disease prior to the first battle. After his victory at Borodino he had no idea of how to end the campaign and hethen lost the rest of his army to disease and to the cold. After Russia, the European powers were able to coordinate their efforts and to all put armies into the field. From this point on Napoleon never had a hope. <br />A very readable book.	2001-11-23
1794695:US	52147775	RMB2V0NPZ8DBF	0333949447	310227080	The Eastern Front, 1941-45: German Troops and the Barbarisation of Warfare (St Antony's Series)	Books	5	34	36	N	N	Brilliant	This is quite a short book of some 156 pages yet it tells us a lot more about the German fighting on the Eastern front than a lot of much longer histories. The book is an attempt to understand the Barbarism that infected the German army on the Eastern Front in the Second World War. The first chapter studies the manpower and casualties of three German divisions who fought on the eastern front. Each of the divisions suffered enormous numbers of casualties all in excess of their actual establishment. This meant that at any given time most divisions were below establishment and this had considerable effects on individual soldiers. Not only would soldiers see their comrades killed but it meant that the amount of time available for sleep would be reduced, as there would be fewer people to be available for watch and sentry duty. In addition the author examines the movement of the actual divisions especially in the first year of the war. German Divisions were not mechanized and foot soldiers marched. His calculations of the distances covered by these divisions show that men were marching 15 hours a day for long periods. As a result German troops would have been physically exhausted. The situation got worse in the winter due to the poor supply of clothing and other necessities. <br />The second chapter deals with the composition of the officer corps. The overall membership of the Nazi Party in German Society was about 15%. The level of membership in the Army was around 30%. One interesting thing that becomes clear is that the promotion rate for Nazi party members was a little slower than for non-Nazi's. It is thus clear that membership of the party was not due to a perceived advantage, but because of ideological commitment. <br />The third chapter is an examination of the means by which Nazi racist doctrines were spread. The Nazis were keen on the use of propaganda and made available radio's newspapers and films to soldiers on active duty. All this propaganda was immensely popular with the army, again being an indication of the ideological fervor of the army.<br />The third chapter deals with the level of criminality shown by the army. Previously a good deal of what was written about the German Army came from the memoirs of serving officers. This material suggested that the army was reasonably free of criminality and this was the responsibility of specific Nazi units such as the SS. This chapter examines the policy towards civilians in the Soviet Union and it also examines the disciplinary record of the Nazi formations, which were examined earlier in the book. It becomes clear that the murder of civilians by regular army units was commonplace. Civilians were murdered and villages burnt as a means of terror to keep the population under control. Crimes such as theft and rape, were punished in other campaigns but not on the Eastern Front. This chapter looks at the number of civilians killed and villages burnt and the record is staggering. <br />The book is readable and puts paid once and for all to one of the comfortable myths to come out of the war about the &quot;honor&quot; of the German Army. It is clear that the Army acted in a way that was criminal and atrocious. The earlier parts of the book go a long way to explaining why this occurred.	2001-10-27
1802345:US	52147775	R12QNN3TKOXPCQ	0312278152	588523173	The Prince of Princes: The Life of Potemkin	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Great fun to read	Potemkin was a Russian statesman who exercised power in the reign of Catherine the Great. He had a position of importance for about 17 years in the last part of the 17th Century. <br />He was associated with the &quot;Southern Strategy&quot;. In the early years of the 17th Century Peter the Great had modernized the Russian army, organized society in such a way that it could support a standing army and run a centralized state in a modern way. Peter had defeated the Swedes and thrown them out of Russia. His campaigns in the south were not successful and he was forced to sign a humiliating peace with Persia. <br />Potemkin expanded Russia to the South. Detaching the Crimea from the Turkish Empire and making it an independent state was the first step. Later it was annexed as was some of the territories in the Caucasus and Besserabia. Not only did Potemkin add these territories to Russia but he made them what they are today. These areas had been largely pastoral areas dominated by the Turks and sparsely populated. Potemkin filled these areas with peasant farmers and they became some of the richest agricultural areas in Russia. He also designed and built cities such as Odessa and Sebastapool. One thing which was important to Russia's history over the next hundred years was that he developed good relationships with the Cossacks and in fact created the Kuban Cossacks. As a result the Cossacks became one of the pillars of Czarism.<br />In the 19th Century Russia was one of the largest and most successful empires. Potemkin is one of its architects and laid the basis for its relentless eastward expansion. He is remarkable in many ways. A good deal of what he achieved was through diplomacy. His skills and interests were greater than that of a normal military leader and involved setting up the infrastructure of a nation state. <br />This book is something that could not fail to be interesting because of its subject matter. The writer however tends to focus on the dramatic and scandalous parts of Potemkin's life to make a dramatic story somewhat at the expense of the historical narrative. <br />Catherine the Great was married to a Czar who was probably insane. It seems that her son was the product of an affair. Shortly after her husband came to the thrown she became fearful that she would be divorced. She conspired with two brothers called the Orlovs to overthrow her husband and later murder him and to make her the Czar. <br />In her forties Catherine had an affair with Potemkin who was a very minor noble in a guards restaurant. He had shown bravery in battle and continually flirted with Catherine and threw himself at her feet. She succumbed and they were lovers for a while and probably were married secretly. His power and office derive from her trust in him. After their affair ended he continued to exercise power in the South of Russia. <br />The book tends to push the romance between Potemkin and Catherine to the fore and to discuss the history as something of an afterthought. It seems designed at selling to a larger market than normal academic histories. Despite all this it is an interesting work both from the point of view of discussing Catherine and also documenting the rise of the Russian empire.	2001-10-20
1803796:US	52147775	RR7VUHJJNLQ1K	0871137879	53273275	Not the End of the World	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Very Funny	Christopher Brookmyre is an unusual writer. His works are sort of detective fiction, sort of block buster thriller and sort of left wing satire. Until this book all of his books were set in Scotland. His first book quite ugly one morning introduced a new sort of hero, a short sarcastic investigative reporter called Parlabane. <br />This book is set in Los Angles but one of the main characters is a visiting Scots photographer. The plot is as with his other works somewhat convoluted and ends in a  climax which would not be out of place in a Bruce Willis movie. Along the way there is a ferocious satire of Baptist Evangelical Sects and the consumerist aspects of American life. <br />The main attraction of the book apart from the non stop action is the fact that it is side splittingly funny.  Brookmyre is one of the most amusing authors to write mystery fiction. The humour however has a distinctly adult bite to it.	2001-10-19
1806745:US	52147775	R2NORDB6Y3JGSI	0679772685	810809476	Hitler's Willing Executioners: Ordinary Germans and the Holocaust	Books	5	9	24	N	N	Flawed but fascinating	Hitler's willing Executioners <br />Immediately after the war it became apparent that Germany had committed unspeakable crimes. At attempt had been made to destroy the Jews and the Gypsies. The occupation of Poland had led to the cold blooded murder of large numbers of people simply because of their education and position in the country, millions more captured soldiers and civilians were murdered or starved to death. The response of most Germans who had lived through the war was to try to avoid responsibility for these actions. It was normal to suggest that they lived in a repressive totalitarian state and the murders were carried out by a narrow range of specialist agencies of that state such as the SS and the Gestapo. <br />As time went by it became clear these excuses which had allowed large numbers of Germans to avoid criminal prosecution or to escape de-nazification were fabricated. The reality of the regime was that for most of the war Jews were not murdered in death camps by small numbers of fanatical racists using gas chambers. This was a later development. Rather the killing was by firing squad or by the use of carbon monoxide from motor fumes. Large numbers of Germans had participated in these killings rather than just a few. <br />This book is an attempt to look at the question of the killing of Jews in the War and to try to establish the response to it by normal Germans. The methodology of the book is to examine the records of German police who were called up to form squads which were used to execute Jews in Russia. The police were not members of the SS or any elite squads just the normal run of the mill police. What the book finds is that none of those involved in the killing of women and children seem to have experienced the slightest qualm over what they did. In fact the book shows that the police involved did things like sending home pictures of them shooting women and children to their wives and children. <br />The book is divided into two halves. The first part of the book contains the basic argument of the work that is supported by the police studies. The theory is that Germany in the 30's became attracted to &quot;eliminationist anti Semitism&quot;.  That is rather than just wanting to treat Jews as an inferior class, normal Germans wanted to get rid of them. The author discusses how wide spread was the phenomena in the early Nazi period of villages spontaneously posting signs about being Jew free, or that Jews were not welcome. <br />The book has been widely critiqued on the basis that there is no real evidence to suggest that the hostility to Jews was at such a level that normal Germans were committed to their physical elimination.  Rather the compelling evidence is that this came from the top. Despite that criticism the book is a fascinating portrait of the mechanics of genocide. The complete lack of scruple of the people researched in the second part of the part is amazing.	2001-10-17
1824395:US	52147775	R32X4G3KHKG4CR	0465049060	441473878	Nazi Terror: The Gestapo, Jews and Ordinary Germans	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Good	This is a book which was written over ten years by an Academic who traveled to Germany. He has tried to work out what it was like to live in Nazi Germany and how the organs of a police state would have affected day to day life. <br />His methodology consisted of a number of surveys of people who lived through the Nazi period in two German cities and supplemented this by looking at Gestapo files and court records. The study is interesting for a number of reasons. <br />Immediately after the war, large numbers of Germans used the excuse of living in a police state as a means of providing an explanation for war crime guilt. The reality is that the repressive mechanisms of the German state were reasonably modest. The number of Gestapo operatives in the city of Cologne was 14. The use of informers slightly increased that reach. In more recent years a number of books have come out which suggest that the German public were reasonably committed to the ideals of the Nazi regime, and as a result the notion of an all encompassing police state was something of a myth. (For instance Hilter's willing executioners for instance)<br />This book describes the Gestapo in action. It would seem clear that initially most of the efforts of that agency were aimed at leftist opponents of the regime. Communists were rounded up and sent to concentration camps. After that the Jews and some of the Churches were targeted. <br />The thesis of the writer is that the Gestapo had two different faces. To the German public it was reasonably benevolent. Although it had power to send people to concentration camps for offences such as listening to foreign broadcasts and being critical of the regime, it generally did not do so. In fact it warned most people and dismissed a number of cases. Further in matters in which informers were involved the Gestapo appeared to be reasonably judicial looking carefully at the strength of evidence and to what extent it might be tainted by person antagonism or other factors. With Jews and other groups which were the target of the regime things were different. <br />The surveys undertaken by the author support this view of a reasonably benevolent state. That is a majority of the people surveyed were committed to the values of the state and did not feel a day to day unease about the security organs. All in all an interesting and provocative book which explains the mechanisms of a selective terror.	2001-09-29
1860266:US	52147775	R29V7UICTSYRLU	0679640924	743193338	The Catholic Church: A Short History (Modern Library Chronicles)	Books	5	7	12	N	N	A lot is packed in 213 pages	This is an interesting book especially to those such as myself who knows nothing of the Catholic Church. The writer Kung is a priest but has been censured for his rather radical views in the past. This book is a rather passionate call for change. When Christianity was established in Rome around 300 AD it was clear that the ultimate control of doctrine was by the Emperor. With the collapse of the Western Empire the church in the West was able to convert the largely Germanic conquerors of the Empire. The various German Kingdoms ebbed and flowed in terms of their power and the Bishop of Rome was able to have a power over the church independent of the secular power. This is a development that Kung dislikes. His model for the Church is more of a wider organisation embracing the broader church community not a hierarchical authoritarian organisation. Kung also suggests that the conversion of the Germans led the Western Church to change its character and to develop and interest in Saints and relics. At much the same time the clergy were forced to become celibate. This created a church that was separate and distinct from worshipers. The retention of Latin as the language for the mass further turned rituals into things that could not be understood by the congregations. Kung also shows how the early church used extensive forgeries to back up the image of the church always being a hierachial and authoritarian organisation something that was far from the truth. Kung talks about the other failures of the church in modern times. The resistance to modernity and democracy that was part and parcel of church life prior to 1890. The failure of the Pope in the second world war to speak out on behalf of the Jews. It is a book that has a lot in it for such a short work. One would imagine that conservative Catholics would hate it and see it is left wing propaganda but to an outsider it is a fascinating insight into a world that is often hard to understand.	2001-08-28
1862025:US	52147775	R75J4B4UP196U	187584726X	330257129	The culture of forgetting: Helen Demidenko and the Holocaust	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Great	Robert Manne is a historian who works at Latrobe University in Melbourne. He has been a person who has normally been associated with the right wing of politics. For a while he was the editor of the far right publication Quadrant. More recently he has become one of the most articulate spokesperons for the Aboriginal Community. He has written some of the best essays published in the country about the Stolen Generation. Manne even to those who may not agree with him is a writer of clarity and simplicity that makes reading his books a delight. His work is always painstakingly researched and one cannot recommend it enough. This book is concerned with a bizarre chapter in Australia's literary history. A prize was set up for new authors. A book called &quot;the hand that wrote the paper&quot; by an author &quot;Helen Demedenko&quot; was submitted for the prize. The book was about a Ukrainian who had been a victim of the Stalinist policy in the Ukraine. As everyone is aware Stalin was responsible for the forced collectivization of the farms in the Ukraine. The peasants in the area retaliated by killing their animals and reducing grain production. Stalin responded by exporting grain at the same rate as had previously occurred despite the short fall and some 3 million Ukrainians starved to death. The hero of the book notices that some of the communist officials who are sent to his area are Jewish. He forms the view that it is he Jews who are behind what happens and when the Germans conquer the area he becomes a collaborator. The war crimes he commits are pay back for what the &quot;Jewish Communists&quot; have done to him. Naturally enough a book with such a theme was seen to be controversial. To be given a major award was seen to be close to rewarding anti sematism. Things however got stranger. The author of the book described herself as a Ukrainian and stated the book although fiction was based on the experiences of her own family. In various promotional activities the author would tell anyone who wanted to listen about Ukrainian folk songs drinking rituals and the like. Most close to the prize thought the reason for the granting of the award was a sort of reverse discrimination based on rewarding Demidenko for being a &quot;Ukrainian writer&quot; rather than for the merit of her work. The controversy however increased when it was found out that Demidenko was in fact not a Ukrainian at all. She was the daughter of a British migrant and that she had put on an elaborate deception. Manne describes the affair and argues passionately about the merit of the original work. His essay is a fascinating insight into a strange part of Australia's literary history.	2001-08-26
1865876:US	52147775	R2IA5W8YND5YLN	0060920203	406036314	Hitler: A Study in Tyranny	Books	3	13	24	N	N	Good in its time now a little dated	The unabridged version was the first major work dealing with Hitler in the English speaking world. As such it was widely read for years and made compulsory for many university students. <br />Hitler is not that difficult a person to write a biography of. This can be contrasted with figures such as Stalin who was able to control the materials about his life and manufacture a range of untruths. The defeat of Germany and the discrediting of Nazism meant that little was hidden. <br />Despite that there are some things which have occurred since this book came out which date it a little. Kershaws recent book on Hitler is thus superior simply because of this but Bullocks work is by no means badly dated. <br />These are to some extent a matter of emphasis but they include. <br />(a) Hitler seems to have falsified some aspects of his background. He exaggerated his poverty in Mein Kampf which was the source of Bullers material.  (b) Hitlers rise to power depended more on the circumstances around him rather than his own actions. Hitler seemed to be rather lazy (c) During his last years Hitler spent most of his time with military personal. They portrayed him as a man who was the archetypal mad dictator. A good deal of this seems to have been made up to shield military leaders from their own actions.  <br />Despite that Bullers work is readable and comprehensive	2001-08-23
1874262:US	52147775	R1NK63NLNJ4FWH	0060196769	270759759	The Myth of the Great  War : A New Military History of World War 1	Books	3	10	18	N	N	Readable but weird	This is a rather strange book. Conventional histories of the First World War tend to say similar things. Basically what they suggest is that a number of technical innovations meant that the carrying out of offensive operations was difficult and resulted in large numbers of casualties.  These innovations were:<br />1. The use of bolt action magazine rifles which enabled infantry to fire accurately and rapidly. 2. The development of the machine gun  3. The use of barbed wire  4. The development of hydraulic recoil systems for artillery which allowed for rapid fire over close areas. <br />What this meant was that attacking infantry had to move over ground, try to break through barbed wire whilst being subject to huge volumes of fire. <br />For a range of reasons the Germans were on the defensive in the west for most of the war. It was thought that this led to a greater attrition of their troops as compared to the allies. <br />This book however says that this analysis of things is completely wrong. The author suggests that the Germans were able to master the art of combined armed tactics. That is they had a large number of howitzers that could load enormous amounts of fire on carefully defined targets. Their infantry operations consisted of small units of men moving forward carefully and using grenades and explosives to systematically kill of those infantry who had not been killed by the artillery. The allies on the other hand did not have the same mix of artillery. They had field guns such as the 75 which fired on a flat trajectory and delivered lower volumes of explosive per gun. Allied infantry tactics in the view of the author were laughable and depended on the use of the bayonet and the advance of large masses of infantry over open ground. <br />The author discusses most of the major battles on the Western Front and suggests that the German casualties were minute compared to the allies in all major battles. He suggests that the overall level of German casualties were the result of running a multi front war rather than what happened on the Western Front. He further suggests that most existing histories of the war have been flawed as they have relied on falsified casualty figures produced allied historians who have been biased. <br />In the end the author suggests that the allied armies were near collapse and it was only the transfer of the American Expeditionary Force which forced the German collapse. This would seem to be a rather fanciful analysis of events. In the last year of the war allied armies continued to mount offensives and the Germans started to suffer high levels of desertions. The blockade of Germany had reduced food rations for even front line troops to a level at which they were beginning to starve. In addition Germany was rocked by revolution. These factors seem to have been ignored entirely by the author. <br />The book raises some interesting issues which are mirrored in some other recent books such as the Pity of War by Niall Fergusson. However there seem to be question marks about the sources for casualties relied on by the author. Still an interesting read.	2001-08-17
1882039:US	52147775	R3KT7SQKJQRJG8	0451184963	179012025	Insomnia	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Can't put it down	An old man has problem sleeping. As he suffers from insomnia he starts to be able to see another world superimposed on the world that we all see. <br />One of Kings strengths is his ability to create new mythic concepts, new monsters and new worlds. So much popular fiction works by retelling stories which have been created before. How many detective novels are about serial killers, how many books have been written about vampires. Each time King writes a novel he creates a new genre and a new world. <br />The other attraction of Kings books are that the characters are not two dimensional stick figures whose only purpose is to advance the plot. Rather his characters live, think, love in a way that is very close to reality. His ability to plot character and dialogue strengthen reader interest so that one get more involved in the plot than with other pulp fiction. <br />A long book but one that brings joy on each page.	2001-08-11
1882458:US	52147775	R1WGSKAUWCZ2WG	0522848982	393277242	3 & 4: A History of Australia: Volumes III and IV: 1824-1888	Books	1	2	5	N	N	Tedious in the extreme	This is volume three of Manning Clark's history of Australia. It is the longest history of Australia published. Clark has the reputation of being left wing and in fact in recent times sensational allegations were made that he was awarded the Order of Lenin by the Soviet government. These allegations would seem in retrospect to be absurd. <br />Despite that Clark sees history as an epic struggle between forces which he sees as &quot;good&quot; and forces that he sees as &quot;bad&quot;. His writing is torturous and filled with florid word pictures. The sun does not rise but rather but rather the yellow orb raises itself in the east. <br />Clark has no real sense of economics or other issues as simply writes history as a chronicle. Whilst this book is dreadful the tragedy of Australia is that there is no competition. No one else has written more than a short history of the country. This work has thus been inflicted on students and school children for years.	2001-08-11
1887778:US	52147775	RBT47ZA7U4LWP	0393321835	877440502	Something New Under the Sun: An Environmental History of the Twentieth-Century World (The Global Century Series)	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Good	This is an interesting book. A good deal of history is concerned with the anecdotal recounting of the exploits of a small number of people. This book is part of the &quot;new idea of history&quot;. That is the use of large scale quantitative material to look at larger issues. <br />Prior to 1800 most civilizations in the world depended on muscle power to produce wealth. Societies were generally similar with small elite's dependent on others to produce their wealth. After 1800 the world started to change as energy was used by man to produce wealth. This has continued to change the globe in ways that could never have been anticipated. <br />The world has seen enormous increases in population. Places such as Java had in 1800 populations of around 10 million. The current figure is some 127 million. These increases have occurred throughout the world with patterns of agriculture changing and in Western Countries people living in cities. <br />The book divides the history of the environment into a number of chapters which focus on specific topics. The effect on the water supply of increased irrigation and pollution. There is a chapter on air pollution and how governments have responded to it. <br />The book is reasonably no polemical in an area which can become highly emotive. The affect of some environmental changes such as those to the ozone layer however can have extremely long lasting effects. The current changes to reduce fluro carbons will probably take about 87 years before the ozone levels will return to normal. <br />All in all this book is worth a read. It is interesting as it shows how government in richer countries has been responsive to the threat to the environment but non democratic countries especially in poorer areas will continue to contribute to the environmental problems of the world.	2001-08-07
1912574:US	52147775	R2P3OL7U1KKO1G	0140186336	977628100	The Solid Mandala (Penguin Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	5	24	27	N	N	Classic	Patrick White is of course Australia's most famous novelist. He lived for some time in exile but returned to Australia and lived there for some years before dying some years ago. He was a somewhat prickly character but his winning of the Nobel Prize for literature helped solidify his reputation.  <br />This book is unusual in is clarity and sheer joy. A number of White's books are heavy going, densely written and pretentious. This book however was simply sheer delight. It concerns two old men who live together and are brothers. One is reasonably intelligent and has worked in a library. The other is what might be described as intellectually simple. The book consists of both of these characters speaking and talking about their lives and their past. <br />White was a gay man who lived most of his life with a companion who he was deeply attached to. One suspects that the book is loosely based on their later life, but of course this is only speculation. The character who is most hardly done by is the librarian who clearly is White. <br />It is hard really to describe the delight and joy of the book, however once I picked it up I could not stop reading it.	2001-07-19
1912761:US	52147775	R1HMHUGBMDSOUT	084640740X	364338896	Power Without Glory	Books	4	9	9	N	N	The Great Australian Novel	This is a book that was loosely based on the life of John Wren. In the book Wren is known as West and other names and locations are rather superficially disguised. For instance most of the action takes place in a suburb of Melbourne called Collingwood, which is rendered as Carrinbush in the novel. Wren had a colourful life becoming wealthy by running an illegal gaming operation around the turn of the century. He gained immense wealth and later moved into more legitimate business. He became close to senior church figures in the Catholic Church and the Australian Labour Party. <br />Hardy the author of this book was a long term member of the Australian Communist Party. His book is a strange mixture of story telling plus an attempt to paint the political affairs of Australia as corrupted by influence and money. Despite his somewhat doctrinal and schematic approach the richness of the material on which the novel is based makes it a fascinating read. It is strongest when Wren was a younger man portraying his rise to power and the sort of society that Australia was around the turn of the century. One senses a strong sympathy for the younger Wren as a working class boy who defied his background and society to claim his place in the sun.<br />The book is not only interesting as a novel but was part of Australia's history. After it was published Wren's wife took a famous libel action against Hardy which failed. As a result the book achieved folk law status and was made into a mini series.	2001-07-19
1918318:US	52147775	R2MYFO0ERQH4YO	0521637600	327122679	Military Innovation in the Interwar Period	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Readable and Good	This is an anthology of various articles. Generally anthologies are the pits as they tend to lack a central them and the quality will vary. These articles are generally by the authors and as such they are of an even standard.<br />There are a number of chapters that discuss a range of issues from the use of Tanks to the development of the Aircraft Carrier.<br />The book is interesting although the area covered is naturally enormous and the amount of space that can be devoted to complex subjects is naturally limited. Despite this most of the essays are interesting and not only for what they say. In the first essay about the development of armored warfare by way of an aside the writer attacks Gueridian as a sycophant and also as a person whose reputation was largely the result of self publicity. Later the English theorists Fuller and Liddell Hart are critiqued as presenting overly schematic histories of the First World War which warped the truth to fit in with their own theories. Interestingly the essay then goes on to suggest that the first world war infantry battles were so complex that even now we struggle to understand them and for that reason it was no surprise that Douglas Haig had the problems that he did.<br />All in all an interesting book although again very much a starting point for the issue it covers.	2001-07-15
1918437:US	52147775	R1XYJRD6C4R63R	0684853523	44310359	On Writing:  A Memoir of the Craft	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Excellent	This is really two books in one, the first is a brief autobiography of the author, the second some advice on writing. <br />The autobiography is remarkably frank and discusses King's battles with alcohol and drugs. It shows a man who is remarkably modest about his talents and in humble despite his enormous success. Despite his fame and wealth he seems very much a family man and one of the touching aspects of the book is his devotion to his wife. <br />His discussion of writing it simple. Read a lot so that you know how things work, write as much as you can and keep it simple. Don't' fall into complexity or the use of long words and ponderous sentences. All very good advice.<br />King is without doubt the most skilled of the popular writers. The interest of his books stem not from his plots and monsters but from his ability to create characters which are streets ahead of others in the field. His books reflect (despite their supernatural elements) a world grounded in reality in which ordinary people have the sorts of feelings which ordinary people have. <br />He now reveals himself as a person who is perhaps flawed but who is totally free from pretension or the sorts vanities which can afflict the more successful in our society.	2001-07-15
1918514:US	52147775	R2RBXPNK99JQ3C	0140246967	501983138	Touched with Fire: The Land War in the South Pacific	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Great	Australians love this book as it discusses the Pacific War giving them more credit than has been given in the past. Australian troops represented a majority of the allied armies in the New Guinea campaigns but have been rather glossed over by a focus on Guadacanal. Rather than being a narrative chronicle of the conflict the book is a discussion of issues around ground combat in the Pacific theatre.  <br />Combat was very different from Europe and Africa. Disease and supply represented major challenges and accounted for most of the Japanese casualties on Guadacanal. The book explains the nuts and bolts of combat in a jungle environment, the nature of the armies involved and their weapons. It talks about the sorts of diseases suffered by the troops the methods used to prevent them and the effects on combat efficiency. <br />The author has followed this work up with a similar work on the air campaign. This book however is readable and enables one to understand the difficulty of running a war and is more valuable than simple narratives.	2001-07-15
1918771:US	52147775	R17FSBQHSRO6UI	038549341X	277823768	Actual Innocence: Five Days to Execution, and Other Dispatches From the Wrongly Convicted	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	A timely evaluation of how the American Criminal Justice Sys	The development of DNA technology allowed around 65 people to prove their innocence. Not just to raise some doubt about a technicality of their conviction or to find a legal loophole but to show that they were actually innocent of the crimes for which they had been charged.<br />Now days the use of DNA has been incorporated into police investigations in most countries and it will not only prove guilt but it will enable innocent people to be removed from the list of potential suspects. This book is interesting as it gives a snap shot of how the American criminal justice system works and why wrongful convictions occur.<br />One of the big problems is the unreliability of identification evidence. This book shows how that sort of evidence can be faulty. People will identify suspects for a range of reasons. If a crime occurs, and a person is seen in the lineup that looks familiar it is not uncommon for that person to be picked as the perpetuator. However it is easy for people to become confused and pick people who have had nothing to do with the crime. One example in the book is of the identification by a ticket seller of a person who's face was familiar as he had purchased a ticket some time prior to the crime but who in fact had been overseas at the time the crime had been committed. Another was of someone who was picked as a criminal but the reason for the selection would seem to be that he had lived in the same neighbourhood. In all these cases the victim or witness honestly believes in the guilt of the person who is misidentified. In one case mentioned in this book the DNA evidence in the end cleared the initial suspect but the victim still lives with that face in her mind as the man who raped her.<br />Identification is not the only reason why innocent people go to jail for crimes they do not commit. The book examines cases in which authorities concoct evidence, prosecutors fail to disclose exculpatory material and defendants are represented by incompetent  Attorneys.<br />One of the sad things about this book is that on average the people who were wrongly convicted spent an average of close to ten years each in jail. Some were entitled to compensation others to nothing at all.<br />The authors suggest that the problems that led to these injustices still exist in the system and that a certain number of people will, as a result be spending long times in prison for crimes they did not commit. The final appendix of the book is a number of suggested reforms to the legal system.<br />The book is not written that well and has a certain amount of padding which makes for rather dull reading but despite that it is an important book in evaluating the American Criminal Justice System.neys.   <br />One of the sad things about this book is that on average the people who were wrongly convicted spent an average of close to ten years each in jail. Some were entitled to compensation others to nothing at all. <br />The authors suggest that the problems that led to these injustices still exist in the system and that a certain number of people will, as a result be spending long times in prison for crimes they did not commit. The final appendix of the book is a number of suggested reforms to the legal system. <br />The book is not written that well and has a certain amount of padding which makes for rather dull reading but despite that it is an important book in evaluating the American Criminal Justice System.	2001-07-15
1956485:US	52147775	R1BTLETSKEDTO2	0140068147	725749247	Miracle at Midway	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Clear and simple	The Battle of Midway was the most decisive battle in the Pacific in the Second World War. Prior to the battle the Japanese had one victory after another. They had put the majority of the American Pacific Fleet out of action at Pear Harbor, they had sunk the British Battle ships the Prince of Wales and the Repulse in a few minutes and they had won naval actions in conquering the Philippines.<br />The Japanese had in their carrier arm a superb weapon. The Zero fighter at that time was superior to any American aircraft. Their naval pilots had been fighting since 1936 in China and were superbly trained.<br />The Japanese fleet which sailed to Midway had four carriers and a huge battle fleet. The Americans had only three carriers available, one the Yorktown had only just been repaired after the battle of the Coral Sea. Logically the Japanese should have won and dominated the Pacific. Instead at the end of the battle all the Japanese carriers involved in the battle were sunk, the cream of the Japanese fliers had been killed and the Japanese started to lose their confidence. As the war developed the Americans were able to rebuild their fleet and to develop technology which meant by the 1944 the Japanese navy was totally outclassed both in numbers and qualitatively.<br />Unlike the European war there have been no real mysteries about the pacific campaign. The conquest of Japan meant that records of all major battles were available from both sides. Never the less this book is a clear well-written account of an important battle. It can be easily understood by anyone and is a delight to read.<br />In short the victories of the Japanese meant that they became careless. The did not do a proper search for the American forces and their carriers were caught with fully armed aircraft on their flight deck. This meant that single bomb hits detonated the weapons of the Japanese dive bombers causing multiple explosions and the destruction of the carriers. A great book of a battle in which American bravery allowed them to win against considerable odds.which American bravery allowed them to win against considerable odds.	2001-06-16
1956838:US	52147775	R1TFXQACK56JVI	0879758341	72247421	Why the Religious Right Is Wrong: About Separation of Church & State	Books	2	24	39	N	Y	a bit simple	I must first declare my bias. I am a person who has some sympathy with the ideas of the author and I am in fact a non-believer. Despite that I did not particularly enjoy it. The author has written a number of books on related topics and is active in a political way. Towards the end of the book he describes how the religious right is politically active and how they provide pamphlets and information and become involved in local and school politics. He encourages people with a liberal outlook to do the same. This book is basically a fact list for that purpose rather than being a book which stands on its own as a dispassionate study of an interesting phenomena. <br />In reality the book is quite short. It is 218 pages but the type face is quite large. It can be read quite quickly. It has a brief history of the rise of the separation of church and state and talks a little about early American history. The initial settlement of America was by religious groups who did not show much tolerance. He refers to the execution of some quakers by one colony. There is a discussion about the reasons for the development of constitutional separation which would seem to be that although America was a Christian country there was enormous division within the various sects and there was not a clear consensus about the real elements of religious belief. <br />The book then discusses issues around the operation of rights clauses and a history of some litigation. The book is readable and is a good introduction but is short and superficial. However the reality is that the aim of the book is to be a primer more than a scholarly work so that my complaints are probably minor quibbles	2001-06-16
1957051:US	52147775	R1M7ZCPEORJLHV	0060984031	794982372	Third Chimpanzee, The	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Excellent	Diamond is the writer of the very successful Guns Steel and Germs.  He is a biologist by profession and he has spent a lot of time in New Guinea. This is an earlier book and perhaps does not reach the standard of &quot;Guns&quot; but despite that is entertaining and interesting to read. Diamond is a witty and entertaining writer and he is good at popularizing  scientific matters. <br />The book covers a range of issues and is in reality more of a series of essays than a book exploring a central theme. This however does not detract from its interest at all. <br />Most of the book is devoted to discussing evolution and putting a new perspective on it. In the past popular descriptions of evolution suggested that man evolved and as part of that evolution he developed a large brain which led to him being able to develop the use of tools, language and a range of skills which enabled him to dominate the planet. Diamond however explains a set of ideas that have become known as evolutionary psychology. What that means is that certain parts of our behavior and ideas are not things which we develop as part of our free intelligence but are part of our mental evolution. One example is the role of altruism and group cooperation. Humans are unique in having children who are very slow at developing. An animal child will be able to feed itself after birth, is able to move around a few days after being born and can function as an adult within a year. A human child cannot feed itself for a year and is dependent for at least six. This means that the mother has to protect it and is in turn vulnerable to predators.  Diamond suggests that humans have developed a set of instinctive feelings which lead to group cooperation to offset this rather major evolutionary deficiency. Thus humans naturally tend to develop cooperation and long term sexual relationships. <br />Diamond also provides further research to again break down what used to be seen as the division between men and animals. He shows that some other animals, a specie of monkey, have a language which has complex verbal warnings to distinguish various predators such as leopards, birds of prey and other animals of the same type. Each leads to a different response from the monkeys with them running up trees or hiding on the ground depending on the sort of threat. <br />The book is fascinating and it is a valuable in making available to the general reader of a number of important advances in biology and science. Highly recommended.	2001-06-16
1982078:US	52147775	RWEBAH6GY7DUI	074320395X	785819131	The Body Artist: A Novel	Books	1	11	17	N	N	Tedious	One stage performance of \\"the diary of Ann Frank\\" was said to be so bad that when the Gestapo arrived in the last scene the audience as one said \\"their in the Attic\\". This book raised a similar reaction in me and after one character suicided in the course of the novel I said to myself one down two to go. <br />The main attraction of this book is that it is very short. It is only about 160 pages with an enormous type face and is in fact little more than a short story. Something which becomes a virtue when one starts reading. <br />The male character in the book is a thrice married man who makes experimental films. The female character is a body artist. What that means is that she is a performance artist. She bleaches her skin, cuts her hair badly and does performances pretending to be an elderly Geisha and a castrated man. The performances have a high number of people walk out who are bored by the lack of activity. <br />As the novel is about two totally self absorbed people it is free of any communication or internal dialogue. The opening scene consists of these two drop kicks having breakfast not talking to each other and looking at the shape of Corn Flakes. A bit later the male commits suicide and then a mysterious possibly retarded person turns up in the house. The normal response of a person in these circumstances would perhaps be to call the police. The female drop kick however has a number of long unsuccessful attempts at conversation. <br />This book is experimental literature at its very worst. The writing in no way describes people but rather it describes things. It is excruciating.	2001-05-28
1985212:US	52147775	RKCQ743XYZAF6	0674003306	472729616	Lenin: A Biography	Books	5	12	18	N	N	Great	This is one of the more readable history books I have read in some time. It is able to deal with Lenin in a way that is fresh and interesting for two reasons. One is the availability of material from the soviet archives. The other more important reason is the distance in time since the events of Lenin's life have lead to a more measured evaluation of what is important. <br />Lenin is of course the inventor of communism. In the modern mind socialism and communism tent to run together as political systems in which the state takes over ownership of the means of production and extinguishes the private sector. In reality communism was a political system developed by Lenin both in this theoretical writings and in what he did when he ruled Russia. Communism was an anti democratic system in which power was controlled by one party. The press was censored, the judicial system became a mockery and coercion was the basis of state control. Communist parties were set up quickly following Lenin's seizure of power in 1917 to see if they could gain control of other countries. Their actions were regarded with revulsion by what had been the main heirs of the Marxist tradition the Social Democratic Parties of Europe. <br />Traditional histories of Lenin have focused on his role in the creation of the Russian Social Democratic Party. This party had a long history prior to 1917 and the traditional biographies of Lenin have focused on the feuds and splits of the Social Democrats and the creation of the Bolshevik faction. It has been held traditionally that these endless small fights were important in giving Lenin an organisation with which he was able to gain power. <br />This book is refreshing as it suggests that this approach is nonsense. The party that Lenin set up was of no importance prior to 1917. It had few members, was little known in Russia and very few of its publications were read by Russians. In fact its most successful members were double agents working for the Czarist police.  Lenin became important when he was able to enter Russia in 1917 and launch a coup against what was a close to a democratic system. He was able to set in place a repressive regime involving the suppression of press freedoms and the creation of the Checka later to become the KGB. By distributing land to the peasants and pulling Russia out of the war he was able to form a basis for his regime to cling to power. His repression had the effect of stating a civil war which he was able to win. He was then able to ensure the survival of the communists in Russia by making concessions to the peasantry with the NEP. <br />Apart from the importance of the focus, the book is able to show the development of Lenin's life in a way that has not been done before. It has always been well known that Lenin's older brother was executed for an assignation plot. This book however shows how Lenin's family existed on the margin of privilege and how the death of his brother led to the social ostracism of the family. This in turn led to a hatred of Russia's ruling class by the young Lenin. <br />All in all a readable book which is able to shape free of the ideological limitations of previous works by both the right and the left.	2001-05-25
1990195:US	52147775	R34FU62F0QG4BP	0691058881	479334725	The Origins of the Urban Crisis: Race and Inequality in Postwar Detroit (Princeton Studies in American Politics)	Books	5	38	47	N	Y	Excellent	This is quite a remarkable book. It attempts to explain the riots that occurred in Detroit in the late 1967. These riots were racially based and some of the most brutal in America. <br />The book basically is about racism. It describes the history of racism in Detroit between the 1930's and the 1960's. Unlike other books that tend to be anecdotal this book attempts to look at the mechanics of the process and to provide empirical material to illustrate and validate the material in the text. <br />The story of the book is that racism is a complex phenomenon. Detroit in the 1940's had a vast appetite for labor. This lead to it being a city in which Afro Americans could be employed. Large numbers began to migrate and to fill the more lowly paid jobs in the auto industry. The book explains the sorts of mechanisms, which governed this process. How employers would discriminate against blacks, to keep them in lowly paid positions and the fights that some unions engaged in to overcome such practices.<br />The book goes on to explain how housing was one of the main ways in which blacks were able to be limited to certain areas. The widespread use of housing covenants permitted blacks to be excluded from more affluent areas. This meant that blacks became concentrated in small areas which subsequently became ghettos.  The action of courts and legislatures to overcome the use of discriminatory covenants was opposed violently. The book shows how populist politicians would ply the race card to gain election at the expense of the more principled. How they would exploit the fear of residents about the alleged nexus between Afro Americans and crime. This in turn led to violence being unleashed on those Afro Americans who were able to afford housing in more affluent areas. <br />With the 50's and 60's came the widespread use of automation. The number of jobs in the auto industry began to decline. As the jobs dried up the position of Afro Americans eroded further. As employment fell away the areas they lived in began to run down and become the stereotypical ghettoes, wracked with decay and unemployment. This decay occurred against a background of a society which battled hard to exclude Afro Americans from good housing, employment and the political process. The violence of 1967 was thus hardly a surprise. <br />The book is extremely good. Often books dealing with such subjects can rely on clich and assertion. This book consists of fact after fact and it is full of tables and maps. It is one of the more interesting studies to come out in years. No wonder it won a prize.	2001-05-22
1997879:US	52147775	R3D5RMQDJL402Z	0452282152	858318999	Girl with a Pearl Earring: A Novel	Books	2	7	15	N	N	No good	This book was to my taste disappointing. It is a period novel and it deals with a young woman who as a 16 year old works for a few years for a great artist. The book describes the tensions which arise in household as a result of her employment and growing relationship with the artist. <br />In some ways the book is a strange one having almost no plot and it deals with the reaction of its characters to minor incidents and the various power shifts in the household. The dramatic highpoint is when the heroin has to have her ears pierced. The period detail is sketchy and one does not really develop a sense of the period.<br />The portrait of Vermeer the artist is at best sparing. This is no real surprise as historical records say little about him. The portrait of his family is very sparse and they come across not really as characters but as focal points to move the plot along. The writer has a conception of art which he/she tries to develop through the novel. It is the notion of art as a vision as opposed to being a craft. The heroin has this vision and it is the basis of her relationship with Vermeer. In reality their relationship makes little sense as they do not talk and never even really touch. A strange and disappointing book, however one that seems much loved.	2001-05-16
2008582:US	52147775	R3AWPHUJUAZY1L	0195134427	508453670	The Isles: A History	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Iconoclastic	The Isles <br />This is in some ways a rather strange history. Generally one would expect a book of this type to be a narrative history of Great Britain. The book is some 880 pages and in reality that is a rather small book to cover the historical detail of the period which is from the stone age to the present. Instead the book is an attempt to look at British history in a new way. <br />In the past most British history suffered from being Anglo centric that is focusing on England as the main player and teleological, that is seeing history as part of an evolutionary process to a given end. This book is a sustained and logical attack on both approaches. <br />Firstly the book attempts to be a history not only of England which is about a third of the British Isles but also Ireland, Scotland and Wales. Secondly it demolishes myth after myth that used to be the staples of English history. These myths one of the most important which is a notion of a continuing quality of &quot;Englishnes&quot; in the place that we now know as England. The author clearly shows how prior to the Norman invasion in 1066 Britain was part of the Viking world. With the Norman invasion it became part of the French world. The Plantagenents spoke French regarded themselves as French and were by and large buried in France. England started to develop the use of its vernacular after the defeat in the Hundred Years war and the driving of the English Kings from the continent. <br />The book is readable and interesting but if falls short of being a history of England and is rather a lengthy discussion about what should be the history of England. As such it may disappoint some. <br />I found it to be challenging interesting and towards the end quite amusing. Other readers seem to have found the earlier parts more interesting and this is the part in which the historical narrative is most clear. Generally it is a long but entertaining and interesting book.	2001-05-06
2031290:US	52147775	R1VPQFVJGFX35M	0809089068	518265730	Strange Victory: Hitler's Conquest of France	Books	2	13	23	N	N	Neither very original or very interesting	Why strange victory? In 1940 the Germans won the battle of France, they initially invaded the Netherlands and Belgium, forced the evacuation of the British forces and then defeated the weakened French forces. The victory is seen by some as remarkable because not only were the German forces outnumbered but the allies had better weapons. The Germans at this point did not have a heavy tank and their other tanks were generally inferior to the French. <br />In reality this was not so remarkable. The Germans initially did very well in the campaign against the Soviet Union despite being outnumbered by two to one. In the first World War Germans and Austro-Hungarian Armies although outnumbered had been able to defeat the Russians. <br />This book is unusual as only about 40 pages are devoted to the actual military campaign. The bulk of the book looks at the lead up to the War and looks again at the issues of Munich and the phoney war. <br />Other writers such as Len Deighton in Blitzkrieg have covered the same ground. Deighton suggested that the key to the German success was the passive reaction by the French. This book does not suggest anything very different. <br />One interesting argument put forward by the book concerns the phoney war. The Germans concentrated all of their forces in Poland. If the French had attacked at this point the German commander of the West wall conceded that they would have won easily. The Germans had only older poorly trained infantry and very limited supplies of ammunition. The book suggests that the French also believed they would have won but decided to wait for a German offensive as they were confident of resisting it. <br />After the war some books suggested that the reason for the defeat sprang from a malaise in French society. That is the split between the right and the left which had been revealed during the Dreyfus affair. One of the strong points of this book is to suggest that the defeat was purely military which seems to be the case.<br />All in all the book was rather disappointing as it contained so little detail on the actual military campaign and most of it was devoted to diplomatic and political issues. It in reality does not say much more than other books have said.	2001-04-17
2044797:US	52147775	R36Q16X3P2B1MA	0375706364	123472120	Crucible of War: The Seven Years' War and the Fate of Empire in British North America, 1754-1766	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Clear easy to understand and brilliant	This is a book about the Seven Years war between Britain and France. Its main concentration is on the battles that were fought on American Soil and resulted in the expulsion of the French from Canada. In reality it is more than that and it tries to explain the tensions within empire which led to the American War of Independence. <br />The book is written in a clear style and explains a number of military operations that overlapped very clearly. One problem with history books is that they can assume that the reader has a good knowledge of the period and refer to tangential events in a way that leaves a reader wondering. This book is marvelous in the way that it explains the dynamics of the English political system, the response of the colonies so that it is possible for someone having no prior knowledge to understand the period. <br />At the start of the Seven Years War, there was delicate balance of forces in America. The French controlled Canada and they were allied with the majority of the Indian people. The continued independence of the Indians was based on trade with the French and the supply of arms. The alliance was valuable for France in offsetting the smaller number of colonists it had in Canada. <br />England started the war but suffered from a major handicap. That was the commitment of George the second to support his ancestral home of Hanover. This in practice meant that the forces that Britain had to send to the colonies was limited. Initially the French carried the field. Early on George the second had been willing to delegate his war policy to his younger son the Duke of Cumberland. After Cumberland suffered a military defeat in Germany William Pitt the elder took over the reign of power. He removed British forces from the continent and decided on a policy of attacking France on the periphery. That is to attack its colonies. The British Naval predominance made it difficult for France to defend its Empire. On the continent Pitt paid huge subsidies to Frederick the Great who obligingly took on Russia, Sweden, and Austria. <br />By disengaging from the continent Pitt was able to concentrate vastly superior forces in America and later in the Caribbean. Previous administrations had attempted to gain support from the American colonies by coercion. Pitt instead paid again large subsidies. Within a short time Canada had been conquered, a number of Frances sugar Islands seized and huge gains in India. Frederick the Great was just able to hang on against overwhelming odds. <br />The conclusion of the war changed the landscape of the colonies. The Indian power had been severely diminished as they no longer the potential of the French alliance or the supply of munitions available to them. In addition the colonies had been treated during the war as equals rather than as an adjunct to the Empire. Individual officers such as Washington had seen service and gained confidence. <br />The British tried to impose a Stamp Tax on the colonies as a means of defraying the cost of establishing regular forces in the colonies to prevent a French revolt and to prevent incursions by the Indians. The colonies staged riots to prevent this duty being collected. The British had no forces available to quell these riots most of their troops being in Canada or Indian Country. Thus they had to give in. This was the first step in giving the colonies the confidence to become independent.  All in all a very fine and readable book about an important time in history.<br />The book also re-evaluates the reputation of General Wolfe one of the heroes of Empire. It clearly shows that he was an incompetent in one of the more amusing sections of the book.	2001-04-04
2049125:US	52147775	R3LU2LO52XRLT5	1565846052	342108579	Faceless Killers: A Mystery (Kurt Wallander Mysteries)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Interesting	This is a detective novel set in southern Sweden. It is one of a set of continuing novels and the main character is far from perfect. He is a police officer who has been divorced and is not coping. He cannot relate to his father and daughter. His divorce has also led him to not looking after himself and succumbing to a diet of alcohol and take away food. <br />No doubt previous novels have charted how this has all happened but it is not necessary to read them to understand the action. This novel is able to stands on its own. <br />A murder occurs involving an old couple being tortured to death. Suspicion initially rests on a local refugee camp and things began to spin out of control. The novel is largely a police procedural and the main character is shown to investigate the various possibilities and leads in a methodical way. <br />The book is marketed as not just a detective thriller but a book which is meant to have an insight into the refugee problem in Sweden and the strains that it is putting on that society. That in fact is probably the books weakest aspect. The main character is shown to be slightly racist but, this probably does not reflect the views of the author more part of the development of a flawed central character. <br />Despite that the book is one of the better detective books that I have read in years. I read it from cover to cover in a short time. It evokes the cold of the Swedish winter, the desolation and loneliness of farm life. It has something which is fresh and new in the genre.	2001-03-31
2051275:US	52147775	R369LN1XCZG4SD	0679640320	890146488	Hitler's U-Boat War: The Hunters, 1939-1942 (Modern Library War)	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Definative	This book and its companion volume are the definitive history of the German U-Boat campaign. This book examines the initial more successful period of the campaign from 1939 to 1942, the second volume examines the defeat of the U-Boats. What Blair does is to examine every submarine log and the reports sent to U-Boat headquarters. These he then compares to allied logs and shipping manifesto to work out what occurred with every encounter in the theatre.  <br />There have been previous histories of the campaign which have been mainly a narrative.  In general terms the story is that Germany started the war with a very small number of submarines around 30. The mechanics of submarine warfare are that this translated into a small number of boats in action at any one time. Some boats were used for training, and the period of time taken to move into the battle zone meant that most boats were not on station for long. <br />After the fall of France the number of boats started to increase and the availability of French ports lessened the travel times. During the later part of 1940 and during 1941 the Germans were able to achieve some success. This was aided by a shortage of escort vessels after France left the war. <br />When America entered the war, U-boats moved to the American coast and targeted oil tankers. A large number were sunk in what was known as operation Drum Beat. <br />Blair analyses these operations and comes up with some remarkable findings. Those findings are basically that the U-Boat war never came close to threatening supply to England. The reasons for this are that even at the height of operation Drum Beat the movement of oil and other commodities was never even slowed. America was able to use its rail system to substitute for coastal shipping and easily offset any loses. American and British losses were never such that shipping could not be replaced. <br />The book might come across as slightly dry to some and certainly does not have the feel of a battle narrative. Despite that it is an outstanding history of an important campaign.	2001-03-29
2057565:US	52147775	R11U4KZN36GM47	0674354117	685981170	Getting Away With Murder: How Politics Is Destroying the Criminal Justice System	Books	5	5	8	N	N	A passionate inditment of the current system	Susan Estrich appears to be a lecturer in law. She is a rape victim, but that fact has probably been mentioned, as a good deal of her book is an attack on the current sentence system in America. It establishes her credentials as someone who is not a bleeding heart liberal but someone who has thought about the issues carefully. <br />The book is very short, easy to read and passionate in its call for change. By way of background America has seen a huge increase in the number of people put in prison over the last ten years. Despite falling crime rates the number of people in prison is equivalent to countries such as Russia and South Africa. Whilst America is generally a well ordered country with low crime rates in all categories except for homicide countries such as Russia and South Africa are experiencing social break down.  The placing of large numbers of people in prison has a number of negative consequences.  It is extremely expensive and the sorts of people who end up in jail will always be from the poorer sections of the community. In the United States this means that the prisons have very large numbers of Afro Americans and Hispanics in the prison population. <br />Estrich suggest that the basis of this occurring is a move away from the sentencing discretion of the courts and the introduction of mandatory sentences. She argues that basic criminology shows that people who commit crimes have very different prognosis for re-offending. A small percentage of offenders will commit most of the crimes whilst the broad mass will have a limited contact with the system. She argues that what you should do is to lock up the people who are likely to offend and not lock up those who are not likely. She further suggests that there are easy ways to predict criminal behavior based on the type of offense priors and drug use. She believes that a significant proportion of low level offenders could be let out of jail with massive savings to the community and no likelihood of an increase in the crime rate. <br />Against this background she says that the high levels of imprisonment combined with the high proportion of black people being locked up has started to corrupt the judicial system. Juries especially black juries are becoming sympathetic to calls by lawyers acquit guilty people as a way of showing that the system is wrong. This is at odds with the very notion of the law. <br />She also explains the Willie Horton case and the process by which the current system is now supported by both the major parties in America. In summary a passionate and interesting book.	2001-03-24
2067085:US	52147775	R36H7DKSS6G81U	0684837382	651671686	Fixing Broken Windows: Restoring Order And Reducing Crime In Our Communities	Books	3	13	17	N	N	An Important book	This book established the notion of Zero Tolerance policing and is probably one of the more influential books on policing policy. Zero Tolerance policing is however a different concept from what the plain meaning of the words would suggest. The book basically argues against the techniques of policing developed in the 60's and argues for a more community based approach. <br />In the 1960's the structure of cities had changed from that of the thirties. Suburbs had increased the physical size of cities and made old policing techniques such as street patrols difficult due to the lack of sufficient police officers. To deal with this a form of policing based on rapid response to emergency calls was substituted. That is a central control room would receive telephone calls from the victims of crime and they would have power to send a squad care to deal with the emergency. <br />The authors of this book suggest that such a strategy has failed. They quote a number of reasons for that but broadly what they say is that by the time police arrive the person who has committed the crime has left. In previous years crime detection would occur because police had links with a community. People would tell them what happened and they could investigate crimes with the cooperation of communities. The rapid response policy had the effect of severing contacts between police and communities. Especially in black and immigrant communities police seem to be outsiders. <br />What the book suggests is that the key to combating crime is to prevent the sort of decay which allows the development of a criminal culture. The absence of police from an area allows people to start committing minor crimes.  These can be fare evasion or breaking windows. The existence of broken windows acts as a signal to criminals that they can move in. <br />The book uses as a proof of this thesis the work of William Bratton who headed the Transit Police in New York. His technique was to try to remove all forms of petty crime including fair evasion and illegal squatting on the underground train platforms. As his officers arrested fair evaders they found that they were arresting people who had warrants out for their arrest or who were carrying firearms. The realization of the risk of arrest meant that serious offenders tended to stay clear of the subway system. This in turn led to a collapse not only of fair evasion and graffiti offences but of robberies and assaults. The book thus suggests that by a zealous approach to preventing all offending the prevention of more serious crime follows. <br />It is actually interesting to read Bratton's autobiography Turnaround to have him recount what happened on the subways. He describes the situation when he took over the Transit Police as a force in chaos. The officers simply had stopped arresting people. They were dispersed in such a way that it was easy for fare evaders to avoid them. The officers also had a sense of being an inferior part of the police because their weapons and cars were different from other parts of the police force. <br />Bratton organized to give them bigger guns and cars to rebuild their morale but he also insisted that they arrest people. The mechanics of arrest prior to Bratton taking over were that if an offender was arrested he would have to be taken to a court and charged. This mean that an arrest would take hours. What Bratton told his officers to do was to arrest one offender handcuff him to a fence and then arrest more. This meant that each officer could increase the rate of arrests by about eight times what had previously been possible. As the police started to find the people they arrested had warrants out for serious matters or that they possessed firearms their morale improved as they felt they were doing something important rather than raising ticket revenue. When Bratton moved on to run the New York Police he did similar things. That is he used labor saving techniques to maximize the availability of policeon the streets and used neighborhood crime reports to concentrate them in areas where they were needed. <br />The reality is that Bratton rather than using a particular strategy or technique has in the case of the Transit Police taken over a unit that was very poorly run and from an objective point of view on its last legs. With such a poorly run unit it is not surprising that the subway system had such crime problems. From this point of view the book is somewhat flawed as it suggests a rather over simplistic solution is available to problems which are complex. Still and interesting and readable book and one that has generated much debate.	2001-03-16
2067356:US	52147775	R1VQ934XXCE7HA	067973869X	903112807	Africa: A Biography of the Continent	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Okay and interesting in parts	To some extent this is a strange book. Most histories focus on politics or people. This book starts of by looking at the geographic history of the continent and the formation of animal and plant life. It then goes on to discuss the evolution and development of man. <br />One interesting part of the book is a new tweak to the theory of evolution. Man is unique as being an animal who walks upright. Previous theories have suggested that this was an adaptation which occurred because it would allow for man to see further ahead and seek out food and to avoid danger. <br />This book suggests a new explanation. It suggests as others have that man initially was a scavenger. The book even quotes information about the death rate of herd animals. It shows that the vast majority of herd animals some 80% die of natural causes and only 20% through predators. There is an evolutionary niche for animals to follow grazing herds and to eat those animals who die of natural causes. This book however suggests that the reason for the development of an upright stance would have other advantages than extending vision. That advantage would be an ability to function in high temperatures. Man because he walks upright only has a small surface area showing to the son. The lack of body hair and the ability to sweat also means that he has an ability to lose body heat. The book compares mans ability with a number of other animals. The advantage that man had over other scavengers was the ability to scavenge during the day. <br />The book moves on to discuss the history of Africa before and after colonialism. The amount of the book devoted to other subjects means that this material is dealt with in a way that is somewhat superficial. Never the less the book is interesting and a good introduction to Africa.	2001-03-16
2067880:US	52147775	R3D8P40SJVMOT4	0520223357	388650318	The Fix	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	Brilliant	This book is about drug policy in America. It is a celebration of the Drug policy enacted by Nixon and a criticism of the drug war. The book is two layered, the author follows around a worker who deals with drug addicts and talks about his life running a poor under funded agency  while at the same time talking about the broader issues. <br />All drugs cause society some problems. Probably the most costly drugs for society are alcohol and tobacco. Heroin and Crack however have a very visible cost in an increase in criminality. Drug dependant people often drift into various forms of crime to support their habits. Other drugs such as cannabis also have side effects and there is evidence that long term use can cause a range of problems. <br />The book suggests that the policy developed by Nixon was in fact the correct policy. That is by making provision for rehabilitation centres for treatment of drug addicts. Rehab centres are cheap by comparison with jails and significantly cut drug use and criminality.  The author of the book refers to studies carried out by the RAND Corporation into the cost benefits of such programs to support his case. <br />During the Reagan years the direction of drug policy changed. A number of parents groups had sprung up suggesting that teenage use of cannabis was responsible for a range of adolescent social problems. Money was taken from rehab centres to fund Nancy Reagan's \\"say not to drugs campaign\\". <br />In reality the \\"say no to drugs campaign has been successful.\\" Cannabis and other drug use in American is far lower for adolescents than for other comparable countries. The basic problem was that as resources were taken from rehab centres hard drug use skyrocketed. This in turn led to the substitution of imprisonment as the main response to drug dependant criminality. The cost has been significant with a tremendous social cost of prison construction lessening funds for other government programs such as eduction. The arrest of drug dependant people also has led to massive increases in the imprisonment of Afro American people. <br />This book is one of the more impressive written on one of the significant issues facing American society,	2001-03-15
2069245:US	52147775	R304UNW5UDYYRQ	0060927623	236168985	Patton: Genius for War, A	Books	3	10	30	N	N	Not bad	There is some debate about which American general was the most competent during the Second World War. McArthur has been seen by some as the most outstanding, however he fought against isolated Japanese garrisons, short of ammunition and lacking air support. Patton is seen by most as the most outstanding American general as he fought against the Germans who were in the position to put up more resistance than the Japanese. <br />His actual war experience is reasonably limited because of the nature of America's role in Europe. He fought in Africa, Sicily and then in Europe after the Normandy breakout. He has been criticized over his strategy in Sicily. The majority of the defenders in Sicily were Italian. The Germans had approximately two divisions committed to the island. Patton advanced to the north west of Sicily after landing rather than trying to cut of the German retreat to Italy. His finest moments came in France. Following the Normandy break out the American armies suffered from major logistical difficulties. Despite this Patton kept driving his armies southeast from the break out and towards the German border. This was vital in pushing the Germans back to Germany and preventing them from stabilizing a front.  A lesser man or a man without his self confidence would have waited for supplies to catch up. In the same way he moved quickly to attack the southern section of the German offensive in the Ardennes in what became known as the Battle of the Bulge. It would seem that the German general staff formed the impression that he was the best-allied general in France. <br />The reality is of course that war is only a small portion of a military figure's life. Patton was a person who joined the military when he was young. He wrote books on tactics and designed the saber that was used by the American cavalry. He served on Pershing's expedition against Villa and had a good combat record in the First World War. He also competed in the Olympic games between wars. He is also a person who overcame dyslexia that is not an inconsiderable achievement.  <br />As a human he was a person who had his weaknesses and no doubt would have been an absolute pain to live or serve with. Still soldiers are not employed to win niceness tests. <br />The book is of interest to people interested in military history but the book would probably not have a huge appeal to other readers despite some eccentric aspects of Patton's life. Never the less a well written book although the author is a little bit partisan to his subject.	2001-03-14
2069347:US	52147775	R3MZHZJ5TF4JE7	0380708213	223407615	The Forever War	Books	4	0	3	N	N	Good book perhaps a little dated	This book came out as a response to another science fiction book &quot;Star Ship Trooper&quot; by Robert Heinlen. Heinlen's book was a glorification perhaps not of war but of the training process which creates soldiers. He was a veteran of the Pacific theatre and absorbed both the hatred and fear Americans felt for the Japanese. He wrote a book in which a future civilization was fighting a war of extermination against an insect race. <br />This book also tells the story of a war between mankind and another civilization. One of the plot devices is that the travel of the hero does not take place in real time. Rather as travel is close to light speed the hero who continually travels through space experiences time more slowly than those who remain on earth. He is thus able to see all of a war that last a thousand years. <br />Over time he is able to see human civilization evolve as the population increases on earth. Things such as homosexuality become encouraged so as to maintain population numbers. Towards the end of the book doubts are raised about the rational of the war and the reason why it started. By the time the war finishes the hero is a person who is so out of touch with the earth that has evolved that he goes to live on a remote planet. <br />The book is easy to read and in its time it was challenging and interesting. Nowadays it may not be quite as relevant. The reasons for this are that Heinlen's book is not quite as important as it once was. It has sunk below hundreds of other books. In addition the changes to society are such that some of he satire has lost a bit of its bite. Still and interesting and readable book.	2001-03-14
2075704:US	52147775	RO08B59NRXG6S	0521297931	727926923	Supplying War: Logistics from Wallenstein to Patton	Books	5	30	31	N	Y	Great Book	This is really a number of books in one. It is not very long some 240 pages but it is easy to read and challenging. It is the first book that I have ever seen published on logistics and it is fascinating.<br />First and foremost it is a picture of the changing pattern of war. It describes in the first chapter the sorts of campaigns which were run until the time of Napoleon. In those days ammunition would be the most minor problem for an army. Most soldiers could carry enough ammunition in their back pack for a campaign and in a major battle they would fire perhaps twenty or thirty times. In a siege a cannon might fire four or five times a day. The major problem was the provision of food for men and horses. Generally an army could take from the country enough to feed itself. Problems arose if an army stayed in place for any time. A siege would have the power to destroy an area of country by stripping it of everything edible. For these reason there developed a system of magazine storage for siege campaigns.<br />The next chapter discusses the Napoleonic period and the failure to set up a logistics system in Russia despite careful planning. This led to enormous French casualties and the collapse of the campaign.<br />The rest of the book looks at the Franco-Prussian War, the Schlieffen Plan , the German operations on the Eastern Front in the Second World War, the African Campaign and the operations in France following the break out from the initial beach heads. In discussing these campaigns the author charts the gradual change in logistics. The development of railway systems and integrating them into providing supplies. The development of modern weapons and the increase in the demand for ammunition and for fuel. The importance of motorised transport and the problems created in providing oil and spare parts.<br />Each of the campaigns discussed is done so in a way that brings new light onto the mechanics of the campaign and in our ability to understand what happened. The Russian campaign is fascinating as it shows how tough was the problem faced by the Germans. They were able to cobble together large numbers of trucks to supply their troops but were never in the position to replace them once they began to wear out. The amount of ammunition stockpiled was also barely enough for a campaign of four weeks. The German effort in doing as well as they did was incredible but once the Soviets were able to hang on through the initial period then the odds started to swing their way. Germany's supply problems were shown by their in ability to supply winter uniforms and this led to massive casualties from frost bite.<br />One of the most fascinating chapters is on Rommel and his campaigns. The material in the book has been quoted elsewhere. In previous times it has been thought that Rommel failed in Africa because of the allies intercepted supply conveys and sunk material on route. The book shows that supplies to Africa were not the problem. The problem in supplying Rommel related moving those supplies the enormous distances to the front. The book suggests that the German High Command knew that this would be a problem and they ordered Rommel to restrict any advances. As we know he disobeyed these orders and won a number of significant victories against the British. What the book shows is that although a tactical genius he had little grasp of strategy.<br />The book is fascinating and everyone who is interested in the subject of military history should read it.	2001-03-09
2076500:US	52147775	R2ONVMUASJDSF	067972561X	157381610	The Undeserving Poor: From the War on Poverty to the War on Welfare	Books	3	21	36	N	Y	Sort of	In the United States in 1960 there was significant poverty. Twenty percent of the population had not seen a doctor and there were some areas in which people did not have enough to eat. <br />Kennedy and Johnson after him instituted programs aimed at combating these problems. The involved the development of a medical system for the poor and other programs aimed at increasing the disposable income of some of the poor. These programs were reasonably successful and dropped the infant mortality rate by 35% and pretty much ended hunger. The Democratic Party had never been a Labor or Socialist Party and the author suggests that these programs were in part a attempt to gain the black vote.  <br />During the Nixon years it was briefly proposed to end administered welfare programs and to replace them by case payments for people whose income fell below a defined amount. The policy was a suggestion of Milton Friedman. The advantage of such a policy is that it is cheap to administer and gives the recipients more freedom. In the end this change was not enacted. <br />From that time on there has been tremendous pressure on welfare that over time has seen a reduction in the scope of programs. The American system is different to a large number of wealthy industrial countries. America has a social security system that provides assistance to the aged and some relief to the unemployed. For those who have not contributed to this scheme there exists &quot;welfare&quot; which provides targeted aid involving some income supplements in the form of food stamps and medical assistance. Welfare is limited to a narrow range of people generally single mothers. The payments are low and require the recipient to be in some paid employment. <br />This climaxed in the 1980's with the election of Reagan. America had been going through difficult economic times with foreign competition decimating the manufacturing sector. Surveys show that most workers who were displaced from manufacturing jobs never retained the wage levels they experienced before being made redundant.  Most welfare dependants were black single mothers. It was easy to attack them as a group suggesting that their dependant position was based on their morals rather than anything else. The Democratic Party conceded the contest and made no attempt to argue for a just and fair society. At that time a number of nutty right wingers published a number of books suggesting that welfare was bad for the poor and should be abolished as a favor to them. These gave some semi intellectual justifications for what went on. <br />The book is very much a literature survey of the various periods. It has some figures and describes the mechanics of programs but basically describes texts that deal in general theories rather than facts. In reality it is a rather poor polemic rather than anything else. It is not the sort of thing which would challenge the belief of the right and it provides not the avalanche of statistical material which might get the uncommitted thinking. It is a book for the already converted. A far better book is &quot;It takes a Nation&quot; by Rebecca Blank.	2001-03-08
2082004:US	52147775	R3U9RTRZIUZOC9	0671201581	635633775	A History of Western Philosophy	Books	3	6	9	N	N	A little short for the content	Philosophy is a series of theories and intellectual structures that predated the development of the scientific method. In years gone by Philosophy was the queen of knowledge dominating universities. Now it occupies small faculties and has drifted of into obscurity. <br />The mass of theories developed by philosophy is enormous. Probably the best introduction is that by Frederick Copplestone which is a multi-volume series of thirteen books. Russell's book by comparison is about 800 pages. This means that Russell spends sixteen pages discussing Immanuel Kant whilst Copplestone devotes one of his volumes of 213 pages to it. To reduce a complex subject such as Kant's philosophy to such a small number of pages makes the exposition summarized in the extreme. Yet Kant's ideas are the basis of Philosophy continuing as a discipline after the development of Hume's theories. <br />Russell is a person who was foremost in developing ideas so that we can understand the scientific method. To some extent his life's work has been to dump idealist philosophy as it now continues on in academic institutions. From that point of view the theme running through his book is development of scientific ideas and the move to the modern age. With this in mind it can be understood why he devotes a limited amount of time discussing ideas which are complex in the extreme. <br />His advantage as an author is that he writes clearly and he is able to convey the essence of most of the people he writes about in a clear and understandable way. The book is however more a book for someone that is not interested in philosophy rather than for someone who is interested.	2001-03-04
2083149:US	52147775	RV9VWHU84VYSP	0451525264	996904481	Les Miserables	Books	5	2	2	N	N	One of the great books of all time	Les Miserable would probably be seen by most literary critics as a minor work of propaganda marred by undue melodrama. Despite this it is one of the most important works of literature written.<br />It is about a French peasant John Valjean who is imprisoned for stealing a loaf of bread. His family was starving and he had no money. He escapes from a prison hulk and initially shelters in the house of a Bishop. This is one of the most moving scenes written. It is only a chapter but has been reproduced separately from the book as part of school anthologies. Valjean steals some silver candlesticks from the Bishop. He is caught a short distance away and taken back. The Bishop tells the arresting policeman that he has given the candlesticks away so that Valjean will not be punished.<br />The novel is enormous. It follows the life of Valjean as he sets up a business and becomes successful. However a police officer Javert remorselessly pursues him.<br />The book was important in shaping the way that society thought about crime, the notion of justice and the obligation that people have to each other and society has to its members. It created such a stark portrait of the injustice of rigid laws that it was a catalysts for the reform of the criminal justice system. It is one of the books that has shaped modern thinking.	2001-03-02
2083917:US	52147775	R3FVH36NHYOX9K	0394716175	686218819	V617 Circus of Dr. Lao	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Five Stars	It is difficult to describe the wonder of this book. It is a short book of a little over a hundred pages. The category that it has been sold under is science fiction. The book has no plot but tells of a strange circus setting up in a small town. The owner of the circus Dr Lao is a Chinese man who changes between being a strange 1920's racist caricature to a person of the clear flowing oratory. <br />The book develops as the residents of the small town visit each of the exhibits. Each exhibit opens up a world of magic. The author attempts to satirise the residents of the town by contrasting their mundaneness with a world of passion and mystery. <br />The one exception to this is a dialogue between a sea monster and an office clerk. The sea monster is so large that it could destroy any other creature with a flip of its tale. Its power is dwarfed by the power of the clerk who is unremarkable but representative of the power of humanity as a collective mass. <br />The climax to the book is one of the most humours pieces of writing in science fiction. This book is now sadly out of print and will probably never be published again. Yet it is a work that deserves to endure for ever.	2001-03-02
2085307:US	52147775	REALA98MA195Z	0374524653	761564208	Lytton Strachey: The New Biography	Books	4	5	13	N	N	Great Nostalgia	I remember when I first saw this immense book that Lytton Strachey must be a person of some importance. As I had at that point never heard of Lytton I was surprised that a person of such importance had escaped my notice. It was then that I discovered one of the important things in understanding books. The size is often related to the amount of material available rather than the importance of the person. <br />Lytton Strachey was an English writer in the interwar period. He wrote a number of histories including a biography of Queen Victoria and another work called Eminent Victorians. At the time it was published Eminent Victorians was seen as a savage attack on the reputation of a number of English heroes. Nowadays it seen as an affectionate but realistic portrait of a number of figures who were previously given mythical status. <br />The biography of Strachey is really a biography of the Bloomsbury Group. Keynes, Virginia Wolf and the others who lived or met around the London Suburb of Bloomsbury. It tells of their affairs, the ups and downs of their lives and how they interconnected. <br />The portrait of Strachey is a gentle and affectionate one. Strachey was a person who was gay. He married Carrington a woman who became a minor artist. Their relationship has been turned into a recent film. <br />The book is quite long but it is the portrait of an England that is long since gone. A description of a number of people who were once at the centre of their nations cultural life. It is a book that is gently endearing.	2001-03-01
2090382:US	52147775	R3PSJVVVOO9NHQ	0691004013	450498618	It Takes a Nation	Books	4	12	13	N	Y	Thought provoking	This is a book that is full of facts. It analyses the studies of poverty that have occurred over the last 30 years. It concludes that a lot of popular views of poverty are wrong. The popular perceptions are that poverty is ghetto based, it is behavioral and untractable.  Some groups in America tend to use stereotypes as a means of arguing for the reduction of welfare payments. These include the assertion that a large number of poor people are black single mothers. The decision to become a single mother in a time of freely available birth control and abortion suggests that the mother has made a considered decision to become pregnant. <br />The book examines the nature of poverty. The material is statistical but it breaks down a number of stereotypes. Poverty is far more diverse with poor people living in a range of settings and neighborhoods. A high percentage of the poor work poverty is due to a range of factors. The inability to obtain employment, the dependence on part time employment or factors which prevent the ability to obtain an income such as age or having the sole responsibility for raising children. Some social programs have been successful in reducing poverty amongst the aged.<br />In previous years it has been thought that economic growth has decreased poverty. This certainly was the case after the second world war and in the 1960's. The reason for this was the combination of increased work hours and an increase in wages at all levels. Since 1988 however this has not occurred. Poverty has increased despite economic growth. The reason for that is the decline in wage levels and availability of the jobs usually occupied by the poor. In 1994 the unemployment rate for people with a University qualification was 3% the rate for high school drop outs was 14% and for Afro American high school drop outs was 20%. Between 1979 and 1993 the wages for high school drop outs decreased by 22%. The situation is however worse for women who earn about 75% of what an unskilled male would earn.  The problem of poverty is thus something which will be likely to occur despite what happens in the general economy.<br />The writer indicates that the amount spent on welfare by the Federal Government is low about 8% of the budget with Medicare contributing another 6%. These programs have been at a stable level since the 1980's. America spends far less on welfare than countries of comparative wealth. The author speculates that this is due to the nature of American history. The groups that have been poor have been recent immigrant arrivals or Afro-Americans. Rather than empathizing with such groups the broad population usually thinks that the problems of poverty relate to issues of laziness or other aspects relating to the different culture of the most recently arrived group. <br />An examination of the programs to date shows that they are generally reasonably successful and effective. In the 1960's pockets of Americans suffered from actual malnutrition. The food stamp program has solved this problem and the numbers of Americans starving has been reduced. In much the same way giving welfare recipients access to subsidized health care has reduced infant mortality. American programs tend to be more bureaucratic than in other countries and this make their administration more complex but not unduly so. <br />The author attempts to show that a number of other views of welfare are wrong. She produces statistical evidence to show that welfare payments do not lead to women becoming welfare queens and that most recipients are eager to get back into the work force. <br />Her main argument is a suggestion that Government assume the role of collecting child support from absent husbands. At the time of writing such support was only undertaken by the women themselves and this led to a low level of payment of support. In other countries the government collection of these payments has made a significant improvement in the welfare of women and children. <br />Thebook is readable and it is at all times based on statistical material rather than anecdote. The conclusion is that because of the decline in non skilled wages poverty will be a problem in America for some time regardless of growth. There is no simple solution and a range of solutions must be constructed for what is a complex problem.	2001-02-25
2092262:US	52147775	R176SE2GBIODY8	0679728228	969362924	A Man for All Seasons: A Play in Two Acts	Books	1	11	34	N	N	Yawn	A confession I can't stand this play. Thomas More was a political figure in the time of Henry the VIII. He was a committed catholic and wrote a very large number of religious works. When Henry declared himself head of the church More refused to take the oath of supremacy. He was executed as a result. Last century More was made a Catholic saint.<br />Bolt's play however is secular. He sees More as a man who has principles and will stand against the state. The play was written in 1960 against a background of the problems of totalitarian regimes. <br />The real more was a person who was to say the least unpleasant. He wrote long turgid books filled with foul language declaiming heretics. He was prosecuted under the enclosure legislation for restricting peasants access to land. His role also involved the prevention of vernacular copies of the bible coming into England and the persecution of heretics. Some writers suggest that he had a torture chamber in his house. <br />The picture of More in the play is not sanitised it is a work of fiction. It is constructed to make him a figure who is perfect and brings life to everyone. In reality his death was a selfish act. More was terrified of being condemned. His death meant that his family was thrown out on the street and stripped of their possessions. More knew that this would happen and he put his personal salvation above the comfort of his family. <br />The characters in the play are two dimensional. The villains Ritch and Cromwell are pathetic creatures. In reality Cromwell was a man of more interest and complexity than More. The most annoying character is \\"everyman\\" who acts as a narrator and does bit roles. He is meant to be a solid English yeoman type but is from the land of caricatures. <br />Thankfully the play is now so dated they don't subject school children the agony of reading it.	2001-02-23
2095850:US	52147775	RSSQNJI98HSIT	0300077920	899703411	Grand Delusion: Stalin and the German Invasion of Russia	Books	4	17	30	N	Y	Excellent	Winston Churchill's multi volume history of the Second World War was for many years influential. In talking about the period between the fall of France and the Invasion of the Soviet Union Churchill suggested that British Intelligence came to know of the German plans for Operation Barbarossa. Stalin was given a warning but he refused to head it. Churchill also saw the attack as inevitably flowing from the program which was outlined in Hitler's book Mein Kampf. As a result of Stalin's refusal to accept the warning the Germans were able to achieve enormous gains in the initial part of the invasion.  This book is the most recent attempt to examine that period and to explain why Stalin acted as he did.<br />The book suggests that Hitler's decision to attack the Soviet Union was in fact not something which was cast in stone. Hitler and the German High Command also looked at alternate plans to end the war in Africa by the seizing of Gibraltar. Whilst this occurred Stalin seized a buffer zone in Romania and started to negotiate with Bulgaria and Yugoslavia. It would seem that it was the Soviet Policy in the Balkans which led the German leadership to decide on Barabarossa. <br />Stalin at all times is portrayed in the book as totally pragmatic in deciding foreign policy. The Soviets in fact had more complete spy networks than the British. Stalin made on fatal miscalculation and that related to his assessment of the power structure in Germany. He believed that the German leadership was split on whether an invasion of Russia should occur. He thought that it would be possible to negotiate and to gain time through some form of appeasement. The reality was that although some German figures such as Ribbentrop were against Barbarossa they had no real power. The German ambassador to the Soviet Union fanned these hopes. He in fact hoped that Germany would not invade and ended up joining the plot against Hitler in 1944. <br />Stalin realised when France fell that the Soviet Union wasin great danger. Not only did Germany have the best army in Europe but the Red Army was in disarray. The purges meant that 70% of serving officers had only been in their positions for less than a year. There were substantial problems in supplying units with ammunition and fuel. The T 34 tank had just been put into production and deliveries were slow. <br />Stalin hoped that if Germany was to invade Yugoslavia it would set back their time table by a month and delay the invasion of the Soviet Union by a year. Instead the crushing of Yugoslavia only took a few days. Stalin was eager for his army to remain passive and that it not provoke the Germans. He in turn hoped to stall events whilst Soviet factories cranked out munitions and tanks to try to get the Red Army in shape. When the warning came from Churchill to Stalin he was aware of the German preparations. It was viewed by the Russians however as an attempt to embroil them in the war rather than anything else. <br />In recent years some revisionists have suggested that there was some chance that the Soviets might attack Germany first. The book shows that this could not have happened. Zhukov raised the issue but Stalin was not keen because of the state of the Army. Zhulov himself later suggested that if a spoiling attack had taken place the Germans would have defeated it easily captured Moscow in 1941.     A first class book which explains the moves prior to the German Soviet War.	2001-02-20
2098771:US	52147775	RQ34LWOSU56PA	0147712556	627065254	The Iliad / The Odyssey	Books	3	7	49	N	N	More interesting as a historical document than poetry	This poem is the first contribution to western literature.  The plot deals with a short part of the Greek Trojan War. Archilles the Greek warrior has had a dispute with another Greek Agamemnon the leader of the expedition over the spoils of war. He is upset that he has not been given a particular slave girl. He withdraws from the fight in a sulk. This leads to a considerable advantage to the Trojans. It means that their champion Hector is able to dominate the battlefield.<br />Archilles's friend Patroclus decides to use Archilles's armor in battle to swing the tide for the Greeks.  He meets Hector in battle and is killed. Archilles hears of the death and is enraged. (To the modern reader one suspects that Archilles swang both ways.) He meets Hector in battle and kills him. He drags the body of Hector around the city of Troy to further humiliate him. Hectors father Priam meets Archilles and buys his sons body so that it can be given a good funeral.<br />It is rather hard for someone reading an English translation to understand the original beauty of the language. One can only look at the story and how it is told. The Iliad is a tale that is bound up in the history of the ancient world. Alexander the Great traveled to Archilles tomb. Ancient Greeks and Romans admired him and the poem formed the basis of countless statues and pictures.<br />To the modern mind the story comes across strangely and the characters are flawed. Archilles the main character is willing to betray his countrymen over an argument. He allows his passion to control his life. His decision to enter the fray again is the result of another outbreak of bad temper. His treatment of Hecotor's body suggest vindictiveness and lack of control.  The people in the poem act in a way that would have been inconceivable for Romans or Chinese. In fact the Trojans come across as the more virtuous and deserving.<br />Still the work is a classic of the highest importance in understanding the basis of our culture. It is a work populated by heroes a world in which gods also intervene in the affairs of men and are subject to the same temper tantrums as the mortal characters.<br />As an a work in English it is however difficult to see as a work of art or literature. The characters act more like some people down at the local pub having a brawl rather than rational men.. It is a work populated by heroes a world in which gods also intervene in the affairs of men and are subject to the same temper tantrums as the mortal characters. <br />As an a work in English it is however difficult to see as a work of art or literature. The characters act more like some people down at the local pub having a brawl rather than rational men.	2001-02-18
2099511:US	52147775	R1B1SB2F0JFBC7	060960550X	263719775	Bhagavad Gita: A New Translation	Books	4	9	18	N	N	Amazing considering the antiquity of the original	This is an English translation of a Hindu Poem written in Sanskrit which probably dates from 500 BC. The basis of the dating is the failure of the work to refer to Buddhism that has developed after. <br />The poem is basically the exposition of religious doctrine. The setting is a mythical battle. Two armies are drawn up to fight each other. Arjuna who is either the leader or champion of one army in a chariot takes up a position between the armies so that he can start firing arrows at the other side. The Hindu god Krishna drives his chariot. Arjuna is rendered powerless as he is eaten up by a moral crisis. As the other army contains so many of his relatives victory in battle can bring no honor for him. The honor would be eaten up by the moral evil of killing those who he should revere and protect. He turns to Krishna and asks for advice. <br />Krishna indicates to Arjuna that his role is to be a warrior. He should carry out his duty honorably and by doing so he acts morally. Krishna then explains that although Arjuna may kill people in battle he cannot destroy them. An explanation then occurs about the Hindu schema of the universe with the importance of reincarnation. <br />What then happens is an explanation of the Hindu religious scheme. The Gods exist to receive sacrifice and to receive prayer. They in turn have an obligation to intervene in the affairs of men providing rain and sunshine. The aim of men is to seek freedom from passion and the world. The poem is interesting as it sees the means of doing this as not simple or schematic but diverse. <br />When you consider the poem was written five hundred years before the Christian era the thing that strikes you about it is the clarity of the exposition and the sophistication of the dialogue. The sorts of works that were being read in the west at this time were the Iliad and the Odyssey.  The sorts of people portrayed in the Iliad were by comparison bad tempered country helots. <br />The book is very short, god knows how good the translation was who speaks Sanskrit but it is an easy thing to read and a fascinating glimpse into a complex religious system of tremendous antiquity.	2001-02-17
2105789:US	52147775	R1YV0S22RLCX8Q	0140188320	990924494	Sons and Lovers: Cambridge Lawrence Edition (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	93	100	N	N	A Classic	Sons and Lovers is a book that has been set for years in school for children to read. Somehow doing this usually means that most people emerge with a hatred of it but Lawrence's book is of such quality that it is able to survive.<br />It is about a woman who marries a coal miner someone who is below her class. While he is young there is some joy in her life but as she grows older the class differences create a wall between them. She lives for her two male children who she tried to keep out of the mines and to ensure that they can live middle class lives. As she grows older the children become more important to her. The death of the oldest means that she suffocates the younger son with a love that affects his normal development. <br />The story is told through the eyes of the younger son. There is little question that the novel is autobiographical and based on the early life of Lawrence. His life is almost identical to the events portrayed in the novel. <br />Lawrence was a prolific novelist and short story reader but this work is probably his most accessible. His later novels tended to be more about peoples relationships but without the social content. <br />Nowadays the class issues have receded a bit into the background. At the time of its publication the book would have been seen as revealing the divisions that operated in Britain. Most critics tend to focus on the relationship of Lawrence and his mother as the primary focus of the novel. To some extent this is true but the book is much more. It is a portrait of a society thankfully now gone. It is the portrait of a young man being propelled by his mother to escape his fathers destiny. Unlike Lawrence's other books which have tended to date this book is easy to read and still a classic.	2001-02-12
2105837:US	52147775	R36GN92QCDXAUD	0399501487	502818647	Lord of the Flies	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Sort of Classic	In the early part of the 20th Century a Englishman called Barry wrote a book called The Coral Island. It involved some children who were cast away in the pacific. Full of British pluck they quickly get organized and build a working civilization on the Island. They are more than equal, the adult natives they meet and have far higher and superior values. They have many adventures and all end in triumph. The book was a hymn to Imperialism and the racist assumptions on which it was based. Pacific Islanders probably still ritually burn it as part of their independence ceremonies.<br />William Golding's book has generally thought to be a response. Golding is apparently a deeply religious man and a number of his later books have religious themes. His theme is probably related his view of the nature of man. Unlike Barry he has a pessimistic view of the nature of man and his tendency for evil. He also starts by having a number of school children marooned on an island. The children are all male and appear to be from wealthy backgrounds. Initially there are attempts to collect food and carry on in a civilized way but things break down. A number of the boys chase pigs and set up a pig's head as a sort of religious shrine in a clearing. Towards the end of the book the group turn violent.<br />Golding's book has been prescribed on school texts for years. Unlike most books set for children to read most of them seem to like it. The imagery is startling and the book is quite short. Golding's other works never quite had the same impact as this one.<br />In retrospect although a readable book it is hard to think that it is really about much at all. The subject of the work is after all just children. It is not surprising that poorly socialized kids placed in a difficult social environment might be at sea. The books main message is probably a historic one putting in context the reality of what people are like and should be read in comparison to Barry's work which suggested a more political view of white people. Despite the fact that the historical impact has declined the book is remarkable easy to read and the imagery is startling. It is probably a good bridge for children to move from kids to adult literature.tical view of white people. Despite the fact that the historical impact has declined the book is remarkable easy to read and the imagery is startling. It is probably a good bridge for children to move from kids to adult literature.	2001-02-12
2106540:US	52147775	R2CAG4URNSA8KE	0844640573	239494011	Men Against Fire: The Problem of Battle Command in Future War	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	Very Interesting	This is quite an interesting book. It was written by a American Officer who served in Europe and the Pacific as a combat officer in the Second World War. For some reason he researched the fire level of American troops. That is the number of Americans who used their weapons in combat. He did this by speaking to individual soldiers after engagements. He found out the rather startling fact that only 25% of troops fired their weapons. The 25% included all who fired their weapons even if they fired them only once. He found that soldiers who had more responsibility, say those who had been allocated machine guns or anti tank weapons were more inclined to fire and those least inclined to fire were rifle men. <br />The author discusses these findings in some depth in the military context. His approach is aimed at working out strategies to ensure that in a future combat soldiers will use their weapons more efficiently. However he discusses the issue of why soldiers don't use their weapons at some length. He finds that one of the main reasons is the socialization that people have had in American society and how they are affected by the taboos against killing and violence. He suggests that the failure to shoot was unrelated to cowardice as many of the soldiers who did not shoot were in other respects brave and willing to place themselves in danger. <br />The author discusses a number of ways of overcoming what he saw as the problem. He was of the view that the major problem relates to the nature of modern battle. In previous wars soldiers have tended to be bunched and close to NCO's or Officers. With the advent of modern weapons most soldiers are isolated from command and their fellows. He noted that both German and Japanese soldiers tended to talk amongst themselves almost constantly in combat situations were as Americans did not. He formed the view that conversation was positive in a number of ways. It allowed individual soldiers to know that there were others around and it also created feelings of obligation and support. The tactic of silence on the other hand meant that soldiers became isolated unaware if others were around and fell quickly into despair. In fact the key seems to be the group dynamics of the soldiers unit. Training cannot turn normal people into cold blooded killers but it can build up a sense of belonging and this will lead to individual soldiers fighting to protect their buddies. This is complex and involves the relation between soldiers and also the relations between officers and those they command. The author suggests that during operations soldiers should be told the locations of the positions they fight over and to some extent their importance. While not suggesting jingoism appeals to their role and duty are important. <br />During the Second World War military training had been on a fairly old model. That is by repetition to create an automatic reflex of obedience. This method is ancient and derived from the time of Frederick the Great. It was designed to ensure fast fire rates when armies used muskets and stood shoulder to shoulder in battle. The crux of this book is that soldiers trained by this method failed when they were separated from their officers and fellows. It suggests that training should involve high standards of discipline but it should aim at training individual soldiers in such a way that they can cope with taking on individual responsibility. <br />The book is quite short and it is a very interesting book to read on a number of levels. The first is that it dispels a number of myths about the nature of man. The second is that it is a fascinating study of small scale warfare. One of the more interesting books I have read in some time.	2001-02-12
2106925:US	52147775	ROL757XZCOVB	0786863870	105944539	Ho Chi Minh: A Life	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Not definative but a good read	This is quite and entertaining and interesting book it does however have some faults. The main one is that he author has some trouble establishing what Ho's role was in the Government of North Vietnam from the granting of independence onwards. This of course is not a fault of the author but rather it reflects the problems with the documentation of the period. A lot of the minutes and documents of the government of Vietnam have not been made public. Ho was a person who was generally respected in Vietnam because of his long association with the Nationalist cause. He was clearly used as a figurehead for the regime and the author suggests he also played the role of a diplomat. The author suggests that the way Vietnam was run was by a shifting coalition of the leading group. He seems to think that Ho may not have been responsible for the land reform policies that led to bloodshed in the 50's. It is also clear that the move to a wholly state run economy occurred after his death in the 70's. The reality is however that it is not possible at this point to write an accurate biography of Ho as so much of his later political life is a matter of speculation. <br />Despite this the book is a fascinating picture of the early life of Ho up to the take over of power in what was to become North Vietnam. This period is fairly richly detailed as Ho himself wrote two autobiographical works and there is material available from the places in which Ho lived. <br />Reading this book one realizes how tough Communists were. Ho was the son of a provincial mandarin. He early was an opponent of French Colonialism and decided to go to France. He worked as an assistant cook on a boat for a year to finance his trip. In France he became active in the Vietnamese Community there and in fact wrote a letter to the allies at Versailles requesting consideration for the cause of Vietnam. This led him to being branded as a dangerous revolutionary. He moved to Moscow and was educated in a revolutionary school run by the Commitern. He then traveled to South China and was responsible for setting up the communist movement in Vietnam. His life from this point resembles a James Bond novel with him using disguises to move around, using false identities and being pursued by most colonial governments. On one occasion he was arrested in Hong Kong. The French sought his extradition and would no doubt have executed him if they had succeeded. British lawyers (probably paid for by Russia) worked to free him. He returned to teach in Russia and then as the second world war closed moved back to Vietnam to run the movement he had set up.<br />The success of Communism in Vietnam was a close run thing. In China the communists faced a corrupt and fragmented regime. In Vietnam the Communists had to content initially with the Japanese, the Nationalist Chinese and the French. The French put in an army of 200,000 to retain their colony. Their troops were well trained and they were supplied with American weapons. Vietnam was not a big country and there was not the room to move around, that had existed in China. The critical event seems to have been the success of Mao that allowed the Vietnamese to be supplied with modern weapons particularly artillery. <br />The book does not lead to one having any sympathy with the French as a colonial power. Prior to the French conquest the literacy rate in Vietnam was very high comparable with some western countries. Under the French it collapsed. In much the same way the French were brutal in the actions they took against Vietnamese fighting for their liberation.  The book is a fascinating biography and well worth a read. It will probably not be the definitive biography of Ho Chi Min and that book won't come out until historians can access the records of Vietnam. In the meantime however it is a good examination of the period and what was a remarkable life.	2001-02-11
2107146:US	52147775	R1WD2MKNJU9VS4	067976397X	659658614	Corelli's Mandolin: A Novel	Books	3	4	9	N	N	Readable but strange	This is a strange book, which vaguely resembles One Hundred Years of Solitude. It is about an Island in Greece (presumably fictitious) which is occupied by the Italians during the Second World War. <br />The main focus of the book is a sort of love triangle involving a Greek woman Pelagia her first love a fisherman and Correlli and Italian Officer who gives the book its name. The story is set in a sort of semi-realistic fantasy world. <br />This is only one dimension of the book. It also attempts to present the politics of Greece from 1941 to 1960. Characters such as Mussolini appear and write short narratives for a while as does Metaxas. The book describes the disastrous Italian invasion of Greece in 1941 which required the German Armies commitment to rescue them. It describes the role of the British in setting up resistance movements and the formation and techniques of the Communist Party. <br />It is however the main characters which drive the story. The portrayal of the main characters is probably meant to be both humorous and endearing. There is a scene in which a priest sits in his confessional. The villagers bring him gifts and leave them near where he is sitting. The priest wants to urinate but is worried that if he leaves the flow of gifts will stop. He thus starts to drink wine with the purpose using the empty bottles to urinate in. Progressively he gets drunker and is found by the local doctor in a pool of vomit and urine. Its not a form of humor that will appeal to all. <br />The key to the story is however the relation of Pegalia to Correlli, their finding love, the problems that arise because of the political situation and the obstacles which occur. The book is a reasonably substantial novel of over 400 pages but is readable and keeps you interested.  It has many virtues the most significant being the portrayal of the political background. I personally found the main story somewhat grotesque for my taste but no doubt others will love it.	2001-02-11
2113393:US	52147775	RF9G5ZPZ7VZ1A	0393317552	733405472	Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies	Books	5	15	21	N	N	Great thought provoking book	There is little question that this is an entertaining and thought provoking book. The author starts out by describing a conversation that he had with a person from New Guinea. The conversation was why New Guinea had by comparison little cargo or wealth compared to other countries. The author has considered this statement and found that it raises an interesting question. He for some reason or other is of the belief that the inhabitants of New Guinea are of a higher intelligence than other people and their poverty is thus unusual. The book is an attempt to find an answer.  <br />The main argument of the book is to look at the conquest of the America's by the Spanish. When Cortez and Pizzaro conquered the New World they did so with comically small armies. The reason they succeeded was due to a number of factors. It is worthwhile discussing these factors a little as they form the analytical basis of the book. When the Spanish came to the New World they immediately and unintentionally infected the local populations with a range of diseases. The local population had no resistance to those diseases and the effect on the local population was catastrophic leading to declines of population of 70% to 90%. This made it very difficult for the Aztec and Inca states to resist the invaders, or after the initial conquest to mount rebellions. The Spanish also had superior weapons. In reality the main advantage in these struggles seems not to result from firearms but the use of sharp edged weapons made of steel, swords and spears. The horse was also vital to the military effort. Lastly the Spanish were more Machiavellian than their enemies. <br />If we look at the history of the New World it is clear that the Aztec and Inca civilisations were successful in developing cereal crops which allowed large concentrations of people to live of the land and for cities to be established. The civilisation did not develop metal working and its society was static. Both the Inca and Aztec civilisations were basically stone age. In a later chapter the author looks at New Guinea. One of the key aspects to New Guinea is that it developed the use of a form of subsistence agriculture. Its overall development lingers behind that of what the Americas achieved. <br />If this is compared with Europe it is possible to see why there were forces at work which gave it an advantage over the Americas. These advantages are geographic and are seen to be the key to what the author sees as the development of civilisations. <br />These basically are that Europe arose on a huge land mass which gave all societies certain advantages. If a development occurred in Siberia it could be taken up in Europe. If a development occurred in India it could be taken up in China. The author then goes on to discuss how the production of cereal crops, the domestication of animals occurred and how they spread over the Eurasian land mass. The development of high populations then led to the development of cities and the sort of intellectual progress which leads to technical innovation. <br />The problem with the theory is that it is strongest when it looks at societies which were cut of and in which these forces could interplay. Thus the thesis is excellent when it examines the conquest of the Americas. It becomes weaker when it looks at other areas. <br />If we had looked at the world in 1400 Europe would look to be a backwater. The most powerful and advanced countries at that time would have been China and the Islamic states in the middle east. Over the next three hundred years Europe was to become powerful. One explanation for this is the development of military technology. Around 1700 Europe developed the use of the flintlock musket and armed sailing ships. These gave it an edge which was illustrated in wars between Austria and the Ottoman Empire. These technologies however were picked up by other nations. <br />One reason for the success of Europe was its policy of Imperialism and Conquest. The basis of this policy was for European states to over time use naval technology and the concentration of force to conquer overseas possessions. This led to a gradual increase in their wealth and power. If we examine the history of Holland, Spain, Portugal, France, England and Russia all acquired significant empires. The acquisition and the administration of empire meant that each of these nations had to keep on top of technical developments. One only has to read about the reign of Peter the Great to see how European Nations were continually modernising to ensure military strength. The importance of military development was something which dragged along technology. <br />Despite these minor quibbles the book is a great read entertaining and one of the more thought provoking in some time.	2001-02-06
2114333:US	52147775	R3R3L7291FRO15	0684846179	306559860	Big Trouble: A Murder in a Small Western Town Sets Off a Struggle for the Soul of America	Books	3	3	8	N	N	Not bad a little long	This book is basically an examination of a trial by Clarence Darrow. In short what has happened is that Frank Steunenberg a former state governor has been killed by a bomb. The authorities had been able to track down the trigger-man quite quickly. What is in issue is the trial of three union leaders the most prominent being Bill Haywood. The allegation was that this was a pay back killing for the former governors support of mine owners who were involved in anti union activity and had been ordered by the unionists.  <br />The events occurred in Idaho which at the time was a very sparsely populated state. The state had problems investigating the matter and the mine owners paid for the Pinkerton detective agency to investigate the matter. The union hired Clarence Darrow to appear for the Defence. <br />The book is a very long one some 800 pages and is full of epic stuff. The author goes off and writes long descriptions of characters far from the action to give the reader a feel of America at the time and the sorts of struggles that were going on between Labor and Capital. Some people who have read the book have found this a bit of a slog. I thought that it was reasonable if a little long winded. <br />The meat of the book concerns the trial. However the trial was only one aspect of complex legal maneuvering. All the parties played the game toughly. The defendants were not legally arrested but kidnapped by private detectives. Witnesses were made offers by the prosecution and the Defence was responsible for the spiriting away of at least one witness. <br />It was a case in which by the time of the trial most parties knew what was going to happen. The trigger-man would give evidence and his credibility would be attacked. The removal of other witnesses improved things remarkably for the Defence.  This is broadly what happened and in the end a jury rejected the evidence. <br />The book is an interesting portrait of how big capital can play the game tough and how this in turn can bread a culture of violence. An interesting read but not a on the edge of the seats nail gripping read.	2001-02-05
2114641:US	52147775	R1WZT7OJNGGOQP	0553211757	755691955	Crime and Punishment (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	One of the top five novels written	This is book is one of the greatest novels written. It was however written originally as a piece of propaganda. Its author was a political conservative who was concerned about the spread of Western ideas in Russia and how they could destroy society. It was a theme that he was to return to in some of his other novels notably the Devils. The book was written at a time when novels produced in Russia had to be supportive of the autocratic system and this was passed by a state board. <br />The central theme is about a young student who decides to kill an older woman in his apartment block. The reason for the murder is not gain but rather to show that he is a person who is free and like a Napoleon.  Dostoevsky also intended to write another novel called the drunkard at the same time. The plot of that novel involved a man who forces his daughter into prostitution because of his inability to control his urges. Instead of bringing them out as separate novels Dostoevsky intertwines the two stories and makes the young prostitute the means by which his main character can be redeemed. <br />The book starts with the murder and follows the gradual realisation by the police of the identity of the murderer. Although the book started out as a simple expose of the way that western ideas could corrupt the youth of Russia it grew into something else. In part that was because of the development, some time after the novel was published, of philosophical systems which stressed a moralism of self actualisation. The sorts of systems of Nietchze and Kirkagaard.  It is also a novel which tends to speak to young people. At least once in a young person's life they feel like the hero, wanting to do some act which defines them as superior to the common heard, to express their freedom or individuality. Ironically they identify with the hero who is meant to be an example of a person who is redeemed by rejecting the sorts of ideas which is the reason why people now read the book.<br />Whilst the mainattraction of the book is a message which was at variance with the reason it was written it is still a classic. Everyone has to read this as it is one of the most remarkable books written.	2001-02-05
2116559:US	52147775	R3GFEQOFGLQDSP	0446672394	888012585	The New Victorians: A Young Woman's Challenge to the Old Feminist Order	Books	4	10	14	N	N	Very Brave	Rene Denfeld the author of this book is an interesting person. It is not often that a female boxer writes a book. The book is an attack on what some would see as fringe feminism. <br />Denfeld suggests that what most women want is equality with men, child care, job opportunities and reproductive rights. Feminism however is drifting away from these core concerns and fringe academic groups are defining feminism and what it means to be a feminist.<br />Denfeld argues that some academic feminists have preoccupations that involve arguing against heterosexual sex, opposition to pornography, the creation of a victim mentality and a bizarre attempt to create a new religion. In her view these currents to the movement are turning away younger women who make more practical demands from the movement and are not interested in obscure ideological debates. The book has a number of chapters which discuss each of these trends. <br />In the anti-phallic campaign Denfeld argues that a significant number of feminists have argued against penetrative sex and normal sexual practices.  She quotes Adrienne Rich's essay on &quot;Compulsory Heterosexuality and Lesbian Experience&quot; which suggests that heterosexuality is the model every other form of exploitation.  This essay is apparently used in most women's study courses. Denfeld argues that as most young women are heterosexual such essay's tend to turn them away from feminism. <br />In arguing how a victim mentality is encouraged Denfeld examines a number of prominent studies of female victimization. These include work by Diana Russell and Mary Ross. It is argued that such studies over inflate female victimization by including in rates of sexual assault consensual sex, minor contact such as wolf whistling and phone calls to grossly inflate the rate at which females are subject to sexual assault. Denfeld argues that these surveys trivialize the reality of rape by broadening the definition of rape to include very minor transactions. Thisleads to scare mongering suggesting that women are in constant danger of leaving home, does if believed restricts their enjoyment of life. It also is an insult to women as it is an attempt to recreate the model of the Victorian defenseless woman rather than today's modern self-confident woman. <br />The book is challenging and interesting. One suspects that the more doctrinaire will dislike it.  It is however a passionate argument for women to equality with men and not to limit themselves by ideologies which will return them to the sheltered status of the women Victorian times. <br />It is a suggestion for feminism again to become a movement which will achieve things for a broad range of women rather than creating a new self limiting ideology.	2001-02-03
2117931:US	52147775	RF1HBTE0PQSXA	0060951656	133364277	The Real War on Crime: Report of the National Criminal Justice Commission, The	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	Must read for those in the justice system	The United States of American has over the last ten years developed a strategy of increasing the average prison sentences for a range of crimes. The mechanics of this process are complex. The reason being that each state and the Federal Government have distinct criminal law systems. To summarise a large number of states have been passing laws which remove judicial discretion from sentencing substituting a range of fixed sentences for various forms of crime. These can either be three strikes and your in legislation, mandatory sentences for specific crimes or sentencing grid legislation. The Federal Government has also been waging the \\"war on drugs\\". The overall effect of this legislation is for the prison population to increase enormously and especially for afro Americans to be incarcerated in large numbers. The imprisonment rate in the States is similar to that of countries such as Russia and South Africa, places which have experienced social break down to an extent that it dwarfs America. <br />This book is a strong argument for changing the structure of criminal justice in America. It is largely a statistical analysis and as such it presents material in a dispassionate way. It is not a rhetorical book of left leaning propaganda but a book that looks at hard facts. The rate of imprisonment is now so high that the authors suggest that if imprisonment rates were to be reduced to European levels the unemployment rate could increase by 1% or 2%. The cost of imprisonment in most states is so high that it is outdistancing higher education. The pressure of constructing prisons and maintaining them is that it is limiting the ability of some states to cover normal expenses. California has had to reduce some welfare and highway construction.   <br />The authors present a strong case for how these policies impact unfairly on different racial groups. One of the more chilling sets of figures are the rates of imprisonment for Afro Americans. The authors show that of the age group 20 to 30 1/3 of Afro Americans are either in jail, on parole or on probation. <br />Most commentators have suggested that the current system instead of punishing more violent offenders tends instead to give long prison terms to low level offenders who have reasonable prospects of reform. A change to non custodial options plus lessening some offences for minor crime could lessen the cost to the community with more or less no real change in the incidence of offending. <br />The book is thought provoking well argued and easy to read. A must read for all in the field.	2001-02-02
2125325:US	52147775	R5BKRJDGL6RA2	0060675187	946877738	Rescuing the Bible from Fundamentalism: A Bishop Rethinks the Meaning of Scripture	Books	3	22	30	N	N	A competent polemic	In America the issue of biblical literalism is significant. The reason for this is the existence of large numbers of Christians who do not fall into the Catholic or Anglican traditions. The Catholic tradition gives scripture some importance but it believes the church has the major role in explaining and disseminating religion. That in fact is one of the roles of the Church. The basis of the Church's authority is the link that it has with the disciples who spoke to Christ and passed on his message. This is the &quot;oral tradition&quot; and it is the basis for the key elements of Catholic worship the sacraments and the role of the priesthood. The Anglican Church has a similar tradition although it has some minor doctrinal differences with the Catholic Church. The fact that the bible is not central to the tradition of these churches means that it can be seen as a historical document. Catholics are thus free to interpret parts of it as allegorical, symbolic or irrelevant records of Jewish history. <br />The position of Baptists and those called fundamentalists is more difficult. Not having a church tradition based on the provision of sacraments means that the religion has to be based on something. This usually means and uncritical acceptance of the bible as literal truth. This of course is the basis for the huge political fights which occur in America but not in other places over whether evolution should be taught in schools and the like. <br />The author of this book is an Episcopalian and as such is in a position to have some flexibility about the bible. He suggests that rather than taking each portion of it as the word of god what should happen is to view it as a human document which has sought to capture he word of god. One should look at the passages which are clearly historical and reflect the knowledge of the humans who wrote it. Thus in years gone past it was a common view that the world was flat. Clearly the world is not flat but this fact alone does not falsify the bible. What you need to do is to look at the underlying message. <br />To illustrate the sense of this way of reading the bible the author goes through a number of passages to illustrate things which appear to the modern mind immoral or stupid or clearly reflecting the time. A lot of the examples are ones that have been pointed out before. <br />In summary if you have not read this sort of thing before it is interesting but it is a general introduction to bible study rather than being a substantial work. That of course does not meant that it is not readable and interesting. The reality is that it is a book published as part of an ongoing debate about he power of the Church in American Society and it is aimed at showing the limitations of fundamentalist thinking.	2001-01-27
2125561:US	52147775	R29PNJWVG6RXG5	1557505330	437890443	The Loss of the Bismark: An Avoidable Disaster	Books	4	12	17	N	N	Good	Despite the success of the submarine campaign in the First World War and the failure of its surface fleet, Germany decided to pin its hopes on surface ships in the 1930's. The German naval commander Admiral Raider had developed a plan to complete a fleet of super battleships by 1942.  At the outbreak of war the German's had three 10,000 ton pocket battleships which were in reality cruisers and two 30,000 ton battle cruisers. A further two super battleships the Bismarck and Tirpitz were due to be completed in 1941. (The U boat force consisted of only 30 vessels)<br />Raider decided on a campaign, which would use his surface ships to sink, allied merchant shipping. This book is an examination of whether that was a sensible decision. It examines two of the major naval campaigns, Operation Berlin which was the Scharnhorst and Gneisenau's raid in the Atlantic and Operation Rheinburg which was the unsuccessful sortie which resulted in the destruction of the Bismarck.<br />The author makes the point that although superficially Operation Berlin had some success it had significant problems. Those problems were that surface ships faced considerable problems in locating enemy merchants without air assistance. The commander of Operation Berlin Lutjzens had to use captured merchant ships to from a reconnaissance line.   <br />The sinking of the Bismarck in fact ended German fleet operations in the Atlantic. In short what happened was that British Cruisers using radar were able to track the Bismarck and Prince Eugen as they sailed in the Denmark Straight. The Germans had not realised the efficiency of British radar and had overestimated the ability of surface ships to use bad weather to escape detection. As a result of this detection the British were able to direct two heavy ships the Prince of Wales and Hood to intercept the German ships. The battle of the Denmark Strait should have been the end of the Germans. Instead a freak shot sunk the Hood and the Germans were able to sailon. The British cruisers were still able to follow and Swordfish aircraft flown from aircraft carriers were so able to cripple the Bismarck that she was easily sunk by British capital ships. <br />Rhys-Jones shows that the destruction of the Bismarck was if not inevitable due to a floored operational plan. Not only was the Bismarck sunk but the battle cruisers Scharnhorst and Geneisu were vulnerable to air attack and were repeatedly damaged in French harbors. Later the pocket battleships were also shown to be vulnerable to air attack. The actual Rheinburg operation was planned very poorly. News of the operation was made available to large numbers of civilians and the ship was even given an official send of which was seen by Norwegian civilians. <br />The author shows clearly that Raider had little knowledge of the effectiveness of British radar and how it changed the game rules. He also was not willing to ensure that German air surveillance was available to assist his ships in avoiding enemy capital ships. <br />This is a short and reasonably expensive book but it is an interesting examination of the surface navel war and contains material not available eslewhere.	2001-01-26
2126377:US	52147775	R284IMY67705B9	0312205406	963436946	Hot Six	Books	4	4	8	N	N	Better than five	What makes a good detective thriller? Agatha Christie wrote books filled by dull cardboard characters in which the plot and the revelation of who had done it were paramount. Raymond Chandler wrote gritty and what at the time seemed realistic novels in which atmosphere was everything. Plot was nothing to Chandler at the end there would be ends hanging everywhere and not a lot of it made sense. <br />Janet Evanovich in more in the Chandler class although her main character Stephanie Plum is light years away from Christopher Marlowe. Stephanie Plum lost her job, selling women's underwear and became a bounty hunter. She lives in a working class neighbourhood, and there are a number of characters who appear in every book. There is the good looking Italian cop Morelli who she grew up with and has a on again off again affiar. There is the mysterious and handsome Hispanic Ranger who sometimes works with her and other times fills in plot holes. There is also Stephanie's grandmother who is the comic relief. <br />In Hot Six Ranger is wanted for murder and Stephanie has to track him down. She is followed by two inept thugs and she also has to capture a homicidal maniac. The book however moves more slowly than it sounds. You read he first sixty pages and you know what everyone is wearing and what cars they are driving. A plot starts to intrude but is not so noticeable that it interferes with the descriptions of the food the characters eat their sexual longings and the endless changes of clothes. The Evnovich's main strength is her comic writing. The book moves along from one comic scene to another until at last all the plot ends are tied together. <br />Some people found this book a little repetitive and similar to the previous ones in the series. I actually enjoyed it a bit more and it seems that Evanovich is becoming more comfortable with her various comic inventions and her building up a sense of place and character. Short entertaining and easy to read.	2001-01-26
2127839:US	52147775	R22LE3D0FIGSM6	0304352853	126628109	Achtung - Panzer! (Cassell Military Classics)	Books	3	12	19	N	N	Of historic interest	This is a book that was first published in 1937 and was an argument for the use of armored warfare, instead of the use of infantry in attack. As such it is mainly of interest to Historians of the Second World War. The author Guderian is seen as the person who developed the techniques used by Germany so successfully in the war. He served as a Panzer Commander in the early part of the war but was sacked by Hitler after an argument over operations in the Eastern Front. He was re-appointed as an inspector of armored forces and was involved in the attempt of Germany to recreate its armies after the problems related to the Stalingrad Campaign. Guderian was a committed Nazi and served in the Freikorp after the end of the First World War.<br />The book is rather fragmented. The first two chapters describe why a large number of First World War battles tended to stalemate. The development of barbed wire, machine guns, quick firing artillery, the repeating rifle and barbed wire meant that infantry attacks became very costly. The use of prolonged artillery barrages gave an indication to an enemy of a pending attack. This allowed a defender to increase the depth of their defences and led to battles becoming long slogging sieges. <br />In the First World War the Germans only produced very small numbers of Tanks. (4) Most of the tanks were produced by the English and the French. Guderian discusses a number of battles showing the problems of employing tanks. He looks briefly at a number of battles and shows how the choice of ground was important and how prolonged artillery barrages could prevent the movement of tanks over the ground. He then discusses Cambraii. In this battle large numbers of tanks were able to penetrate deep into the German lines. The problem with the British plan was that it depended on cavalry to exploit the gap created by the tanks. What happened at Cambraii was that last minute deployment of German forces were able to prevent the cavalry advance. The implication being that the use of tanks to exploit the break through could have achieved victory. Guderian goes on to show that the attack at Cambraii was able to achieve a penetration as great as the Ypres offensive at a fraction of the casualties. Guderian discusses a number of other tank battles and then talks in general terms about the problems of positional warfare. He indicates that machine guns can easily stop large infantry attacks. Artillery can be used to destroy machine guns nests but there are problems. A machine gun is a small target and is hard to hit. By comparison a mass attack of tanks can destroy machine guns and overwhelm defending artillery. <br />This discussion takes place in about 80 pages. There is then a bit of propaganda about the Versailles Treaty and a discussion of tank development in the inter-war period.  The book then concludes with an argument for the development of a combined arms strategy outlining how tanks, aircraft, infantry and artillery should cooperate. These tactics were in fact used by Germany in the war. <br />The book is easy to read but is very much a book for people who have an arcane interest in the war. Still they are probably the sorts of persons who would look at it in the first place.	2001-01-25
2131829:US	52147775	R1TCEIZHTHJR36	185984054X	181218559	The Missionary Position: Mother Teresa in Theory and Practice	Books	4	30	41	N	N	Interesting expose	This book is an expose seeking to attack the Mother Teresa myth. The writer does this by looking at the way that Mother Teresa acquired her reputation and then discusses what he sees as shortcomings in her ministry. <br />Mother Teresa is very much the creation of Malcom Muggeridge. Muggeride passed away some time ago but he was a committed Christian.  He was responsible for the first stories which brought her world attention. The author describes a range of incidents which suggests that Muggeride was so in awe of her that he occasionally took leave of his senses. One example is that a photographer took photos of the place in which Mother Teresa cared for the sick. There was a failure of the lighting equipment but despite that the photo's still came out. Muggeride was of the view that this showed that Mother Teresa exuded a divine light. The author of this book spoke to the cameraman involved in the incident and it seems that after the lighting failure he simply used fast film.<br />There are however two major criticisms of Mother Teresa's. The first is that she was willing to be involved with people of low reputation to get money. The book describes a number of relationships but one of the most chilling is her support of some of the previous leaders of Haiti. She has also taken donations from serious criminals. In return for the acceptance of money Mother Teresa has spoken out in support such people. <br />The other criticism is that her places set aside for the poor and dying are run dreadfully. Money is diverted away from the provision of medical services to build churches and to fund anti-abortion campaigns. The lack of available money means that the nuns in her hospices re-use infected bandages, don't provide basic medicine and the staff are badly trained.  This means that people who due to their poverty are forced into her hospices receive a level of treatment that can lead to their death. <br />The book is easy to read although the style is a little high drama in parts. Still it is an interesting expose of someone who has become a public figure and thus open to such criticism.	2001-01-22
2134194:US	52147775	R1RUW3ZWHV3F45	0785812075	6837061	Blitzkrieg: From the Rise of Hitler to the Fall of Dunkirk	Books	5	33	33	N	N	A little old now but a great book	This book is now some twenty years old. Len Deighton is mainly famous for writing novels about espionage. This book and a companion book were written for his own private interest in an attempt to understand the Second World War. <br />The book is basically an attempt to explain Hitler's victory in 1940 in the Western Campaign. Deighton was one of the first to highlight the fact that force levels favored the allies. The balance of forces not only favored the them but the quality of some German weapons were also inferior. For instance the French produced the best tank in the early part of the war.<br />Deighton goes back to the First World War and looks at the sorts of strategic dilemmas that led to that war being bloody. He then looks at the role of the tank and the German doctrines developed by Guederian who he credits with the development of Blitzkrieg. Deighton sees the essence of Blitzkrieg not so much in the use of air power and armor to achieve a breach of an enemy line but rather what comes after it. The book is divided into four sections. Only one section and that is about sixty pages describes the initial part of the campaign against the Western allies in 1940. What happened was that the Germans initially moved into the Netherlands and Belgium. This led them to move the British Expeditionary Force north. The reason being that the allies expected a Schieflen like attack wheeling behind Paris as occurred in the First War. Instead the Germans moved their Panzer Divisions through the Ardennes and cut off the British Army and Units of the French and Belgium Army from the main mass of the French Army. The British and French units were either forced of the continent or surrendered. This then meant that the Germans had a massive material superiority and were able to win the battle for France which occurred some time after the expulsion of the British. <br />Deighton defines Blitzkrieg as the movement of the Panzer Divisions around after the initial break through. The allies reaction was one of confusion and inactivity. Later in the war narrow penetrations such as this would be subject to massive flanking attacks seeking to encircle the attacking forces. Blitzkrieg to Deighton was the use of rapid movement to create a sense of paralysis and hopelessness in the other side. <br />At the conclusion of the book Deighton goes on to say that in his view, the campaign in the West was the only time that Blitzkrieg was successfully executed.  The character of the Russian campaign was different. Narrow based penetrations failed on numerous occasions such as the Russian attacks at Kharkov in 1942 and the Russian attacks on Army Group Centre in Operation Mars. <br />Deighton is a novelist and his books are easy to read. This book is good as it has thousands of line drawings of the types of weapons used by all sides. It has tables of the performance of all weapons and graphs explaining the performance of aircraft. It is an extremely interesting and readable book. At the current price it is good value.	2001-01-19
2141259:US	52147775	R1KNSQH90K1AEX	1574881256	103553841	The Luftwaffe, 1933-45: Strategy for Defeat (Brassey's Commemorative Series, Wwii)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Empirical history at its best	This is an extremely good book. It examines the history of the Luftwaffe through the war by using detailed statistics of force availability and loss rates. <br />The author indicates that at the start of the war Germany had an air force of about 3,000 aircraft in total. In 1940 the German high Command set production levels of aircraft production which remained static for a couple of years. The production levels basically were able to keep abreast of loses suffered in France, the Battle of Britain and the first Year of the Russian campaign. The overall level of the force was not however increased. This meant that there was a considerable attrition of pilots and a growing tendency for serving pilots to be less experienced. <br />Whilst Germany kept aircraft production low in the first few years of the war the allied nations under the impression that the Luftwaffe was bigger than it in fact was greatly expanded aircraft production. This meant that by 1942 the allies had a massive preponderance of aircraft. <br />The Germans refused to think about the air problem in a strategic way. The argument is in fact similar to one raised by Magenhiemer in his book &quot;Hitler's War&quot;. The author suggests that Germany's last throw of the dice was Operation Blue in 1942. The battles of 1941 had depleted the strength of Axis forces. The Luftwaffe was concentrated in this campaign to be used as flying artillery in a last desperate throw of the dice to try to knock Russia out of the war. Whilst this campaign was underway the allies were launching the strategic bombing campaign and operations were about to start in Africa and Italy. <br />If the Germans had not committed their airforce to Operation Blue then it might have been possible to concentrate forces in the Reich and to destroy the American strategic bomber offensive. Instead of thinking in strategic ways the Germans risked all on long winner take all strategies. Although towards the end of the war it was possible to increase fighter production there was no reserve of experienced pilots. This meant that the day fighters experienced very high attrition rates. <br />This in the end meant that their air force collapsed in late 1944 allowing for the strategic bombing campaign to destroy their transport system. <br />The book does however dissect the British area bombing campaign and it shows again that Harris was defeated by the night fighters of the Luftwaffe. The attrition rate of the British bombers was unsustainable and it was only the general collapse of the Luftwaffe in late 1944 which allowed the British to continue operations. <br />This is a fine easy to understand and readable book. Each argument is supported by extensive tables and sets of statistics. It is an essential research tool for anyone interested in the period.	2001-01-14
2141540:US	52147775	R2H65K0C2VSLRR	0802136834	405327590	The Six Wives of Henry VIII	Books	4	2	7	N	N	History as romantic drama	This is one of the more entertaining histories that I have read for some time. It is able to provide an insight into the mechanics of history.<br />Henry the eight was the younger brother of Arthur Tudor. It had been expected that Arthur would rule England, and a marriage had been arranged by Arthur's father to Catherine the daughter of the Spanish King. Arthur went through the ceremony of marriage but died probably before consummating he marriage. Catherine was a beautiful woman and she had a sound knowledge of religious literature. Henry fell in love with her and his father arranged a dispensation which allowed him to marry her. Henry the seventh was notoriously stingy and some say it was to avoid him returning the dowry. Henry's father died soon after and Henry now ascended the throne as Henry the VIII. A number of histories have painted Henry in an unfavorable light.  Yet he was a person who was clearly intelligent he wrote a book which defended the faith and he wrote music. One of his songs &quot;Green sleeves&quot; is still played today. <br />Catherine was unable to give birth to a male heir. Henry also had some setbacks as a King. His vision of kingship was to be successful in war. France and Austria were antagonists at this time and Henry tried to ally with Austria to sieve French territory. He failed in his enterprises. <br />It would seem clear that he started to believe that God was punishing him for his marriage. He believed that it may have breached the biblical injunction which precludes the marriage of a wife of a brother. These beliefs occurred at the same time he met Ann Bolyn a beautiful and intelligent woman. Ann was woman who also had the strength of character not to become the kings mistress. Henry requested a divorce from Rome so that he could be free of his sin and at the same time marry his beloved. The Pope refused to grant him a divorce. <br />This book illustrates how Henry at this time started to brood and to lose faith in the authorityof the Pope. How could the vicar of God force him to continue in a marriage that was an offence to God. Thomas Cromwell the person responsible for Henry's break from Rome clearly used the situation to suggest that Henry should place himself at the head of the English Church. He further suggested the confiscation and sale of the monasteries land. By selling the land of the monasteries revenue would be raised for the crown but also the nobles which bought the land would be implicated in Henry's decision. They would thus support him against the attempts of the Pope to remove him. Thus was born the English reformation. <br />This book is interesting as it combines the human drama with a realistic examination of the political and religious issues around the break with Rome. <br />After the break Ann Bolyn did not last long. Henry had her executed and his life then began to decline. He only achieved a measure of happiness with two more of his wives,  with two more of his wives, one who died and the other who outlived him. He died a fat overweight and embittered man.	2001-01-13
2144936:US	52147775	R2AVQ86S91M4CH	0844626538	209053371	Wagner As Man and Artist	Books	3	0	16	N	N	Interesting portrait of a flawed genius	Richard Wagner is an important figure for a number of reasons. He is the composer of the Ring Cycle of Operas, Tristun and Isolde and the Maestersingers of Nuremburg. His music at one point was seen as the intellectual pinnacle of Opera.  In more recent years his reputation has faded and a good deal of his early stature has been seen as the result of remorseless self promotion.<br />Wagner is of German origin and worked as a conductor writing in his spare time two operas which were not successful. His first success came with Riezi his third work. He began to estalish impressive credentials with The Flying Dutchman, Tanhauser and Loehengrin. <br />Wagner had a powerful intellect and was a theatrical innovator. He was the first one to darken the theatre to increase the mystery of the performance. He wrote a large number of essays and academic works which are now unreadable arguing for a new form of art which he described was music drama. Prior to Wagner Operas had been broken into arias, duets, and ensemble pieces. The feel of an Opera was a collection of different tunes. Wagner argued that a Music Drama should flow and he developed the use of musical signatures to represent characters and moods. He also increased he size of the Orchestra and its importance in communicating the message of the Drama. <br />Wagner as a person was reprehensible. He stole money refused to pay back loans and stole the wife of his greatest disciple. He was also vain, anti Semitic and personally unpleasant. Despite this he has always been seen as one of music's towering figures. <br />Newman is a disciple of Wagner and he has been seduced by the myth. His book is close to that of adoration rather than a dispassionate account of his life. Never the less it is an interesting work.	2001-01-10
2144979:US	52147775	R13HYGB84QCU5N	0873481445	422164822	My Life: An Attempt at an Autobiography	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Not great history but readable autobiography	Leon Trotsky was a Bolshevik revolutionary who helped overthrow the Provisional Government and to institute the rule of what was to be Communism in Russia. He joined the Bolsheviks late just prior to the October revolution prior to that he had been a Menshevik. As a Menshevik he had been prominent in the 1905 uprising and had been one of its key figures.<br />Trotsky was a journalist but he was an inspirational speaker. He was one of the most important players in the coup which resulted in the take over of power in 1917. He turned out not only to be a talented revolutionary but he founded the Red Army and was able to ensure victory of the Soviet regime in the Russian Civil War.<br />After the war he was generally thought likely to be the successor of Lenin.  He however expected the leadership to be given to him on a platter. His rivals Kamanev, Zinoviev and Stalin were more cunning than him and ousted him from power. He traveled he world and eventually settled in Mexico.<br />Trotsky became one of the Soviets most ardent critics and developed a theory that it had spawned a new form of &quot;&quot;bureaucratic government&quot;. He wrote tirelessly and tried to set up a communist movement in opposition to the Stalinist model. In Russia Stalin used his existence as a basis for creating a fictitious opposition and murdered thousands of suspected &quot;Trostkyites&quot;. <br />Trotsky was not only a figure of importance but he was a skilled writer and his autobiography is well written and in parts both touching and amusing. It however gives a somewhat sanitized picture of a violent period in Russia's history. The use of terror and the role of security services are downplayed. <br />The book however is easy to read and gives a insight into the thought process of the revolutionary mind.	2001-01-10
2145712:US	52147775	R3EITLNU6Z5UPA	0671680706	262476124	Bomber Command (A Touchstone book)	Books	5	62	63	N	N	Great re-evaluation of a major campaign	This book is a history of the British Bomber Command. The horror of world war one led the British to build a strategic air force as a means of avoiding the sorts of casualties faced in that war. It was hoped that by using air craft Germany could be made to surrender. <br />This book is an examination of the failure of that strategic concept. In the first days of the war the British tried a daylight raid on Bremen naval yards. It was generally thought that bombers could get through in daylight due to their speed and defensive armament. This turned out to be a false assumption and a large number of the British Bombers were shot down. Further raids confirmed the vulnerability of unescorted bombers and from that time on it was decided that British Bombers would fly only at night. <br />For some months bombers flew out at night and tried to bomb various military and industrial targets. The bombing was so inaccurate generally hitting farmland and forests that the Germans were not able to even work out what the intended targets were. The British carried out evaluations and found that only a small percentage of bombs were falling within miles of the targets. <br />As a result a change in strategy was adopted and that was to bomb the German civilian population. The reason for that was that cities by comparison were easy to find and the use of incendiaries could lead to destructive fires which could destroy housing stock.<br />The only problem with the strategy was that it resulted in the deaths mainly of the elderly women and children. The structure of German cities was such that the burning and bombing of cities only had a marginal effect on industrial production. (The situation was different in Japan where industry was dotted throughout cities and the fire bombing led to the collapse of industrial production in that country)<br />The German night fighter effort was reasonably successful against the British Bombers so that the casualty rates of British air crews was very high. The book argues that in general terms the campaign was a poor use of resources and had limited effects until near the end of the war. By late 1944 the German air force was practically destroyed and allied bombers by that time had such a preponderance that they were able to destroy the transport network and to destroy production. <br />The book is well written easy to read and a fascinating look at a topic that has been dominated by myth makers not truth seekers.	2001-01-10
2147222:US	52147775	R3E8AIIJ8PDWJR	0345298063	451774652	Peter the Great: His Life and World	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Good some parts are more like a novel than history	Before Peter the Great Russia was a backward kingdom. The predominant power in the north of Europe was Sweden. It controlled territory in what has become the Baltic States. Russia had not incorporated modern military technology and the power of the Czar was limited by the power of the nobles. <br />Peter as a young man narrowly escaped death at the hands of his fathers bodyguard. These were a hereditary class. On taking power he had them killed.  He grew up with a keen desire to destroy the old system. To do this he had to re-make the entire Russian order. What he did was to create a table of ranks which meant that everyone in Russia had a defined legal position but owed the state obligations. This enabled him to increase the revenue available to him and to start to build a modern army.<br />He introduced the flintlock into Russia to replace the matchlock. He hired Europeans to train and drill his army so that it could compete with the European powers. He then started a war with Sweden. Initially Russia suffered a number of defeats but eventually he was able to defeat the Swedes at the battle of Poltva and remove them from Northern Europe. He also moved the capital of Russia to the Baltic creating he city of Petrograd.<br />He created the state which conquered one of he largest empires of all time under his successors. <br />A book on this subject could not fail to be interesting. Peter's life however was like something out of a soap opera. One of the more interesting parts is how he coped with finding that his wife was not a virgin when he married her and he also executed his son. He was clearly an alcoholic and some of the accounts of his diplomatic missions are highly amusing. <br />Although not an academic history a fascinating account of a time in history which most have forgotten.	2001-01-09
2148156:US	52147775	ROIPQAV65DDJ	0679764437	113906857	The Private Life of Chairman Mao	Books	5	130	140	N	N	Highly recomended	This book opens with one of the most hilarious opening chapters of a book that I have read. Mao has just died and in what had become a tradition for Communist regimes his body had to be preserved to be kept on display. The problem was that on one knew how to preserve bodies. Calls were made to Lenin's Tomb and to the display in which Ho chi Min was kept all to no avail. It appeared that Lenin's mummification had not worked well as his nose had fallen off. A substitute nose had to be put in place. The feedback was to ring America as they were good at that sort of thing. A call to America suggested filling the blood stream with formaldehyde. There was a debate about how much to put in and it was decided to put in double the advised amount to make sure there were no mistakes. Mao after all was important and heads would roll (literally) if his body started to decompose. Huge amounts of formaldehyde were pumped into the body. Unfortunately it started to look like the Michelen  Man. The assembled doctors realised that they had to do something so that they decided to massage the body to pump out the excess. The only problem was that during the massage process part of Mao's face broke of. This had to be hurriedly repaired using wax. A General came in to look at the body and looking at the face wanted to start a murder investigation. <br />The other chapters can't keep pace with this frantic opening but it is a batman's biography of one of China's most important leaders. The author was his doctor for most of his later years and gives an account not just of the politics of Mao but of every aspect of his life. <br />The author's role was to keep Mao alive and to fend of disease. This was not easy. Mao for instance refused to clean his teeth. As a result his teeth were covered in a sort of green coating. Although Mao liked to swim and (his residences) he never liked to wash. Mao was sexually predatory and large numbers of young women went through his bed. He picked up a numberof sexual diseases and refused to be treated for them and thus spread them to his companions. <br />The book however is more interesting than a list of scandals. It describes he mechanics of power and the court that Mao ran. The author was there constantly. He was used by Mao as a source of gossip and as such perhaps learned more of his subject than most physicians.  The book describes the way that Mao's favourites would circle around him drifting in and out of favour and how they would be used by Mao so that he could remain at the centre of power. <br />The book is not only important as a close source about one of histories (perhaps regrettably) towering figures but is fascinating to read. It has the grim fascination that a work of fiction can never have as you know that the events unfolded just a short time ago.	2001-01-08
2150269:US	52147775	RW3O5B43E39JJ	0844739731	735911629	Character and Cops: Ethics in Policing	Books	3	12	14	N	Y	More a text book than a book for the general reader	This book appears to be used by police academies in training police. It seems to be more of a textbook rather than a book for the general reader. <br />Police forces throughout the world are at risk of having certain problems. There is always some pressure for police to accept bribes. Police can also slide into habits of using excess force and some times other problems can occur such as simple laziness. One of the problems for any police command is thus to ensure that these problems are either eliminated or minimized. <br />This book talks about the sorts of reasons why police become corrupt and urges police to develop morale character. One of the chapters for instance looks in part at the question of whether police should accept free cups of coffee from restaurants. On the face of it such an offer would seem a simple measure of gratitude from a member of the public to underpaid officers. The author however indicates that often in such situations the offer of even a coffee may lead to an expectation of something in return. To warn customers of the restaurant instead of giving them parking tickets. To be around if the restaurant has problems. Such a process can lead to police accepting the idea of quid pro quo's and entering into other arrangements. This chapter goes on to explain the mechanics of corruption and why even non-corrupt officers will remain silent in the face of corruption. The police force is a cohesive unit whose members will from time to time face situations of real danger. The need to depend on others can lead to officers falling into the habit of not rating so that they will have support in any dangerous confrontations with criminals. <br />One of the strengths of the book is that it is filled with thousands of examples in which police can face pressure to do the wrong thing. These examples are carefully chosen and no doubt would in a class setting be valuable for trainee officers.<br />Other chapters, obviously again intended for class discussion rather than being definitive in themselves are disappointing. One chapter looks at the question of drug enforcement and examines arguments for changing the current policy of prohibition. Although the author presents both sides of the argument with fairness there is no real discussion of the empirical reality and the costs of the policies. His approach is one based on morality and rights rather than looking at the operational problems of policing drugs and the cost of imprisonment. In addition he puts the dilemma as an either or choice between legalization and probation. He seems to be unaware of harm minimization strategies.  Another chapter that touches on positive discrimination is also disappointing. <br />These criticisms are perhaps churlish, as the book does not seem to have aimed at being one read by the general public. No doubt a reasonable text book but not something which would contribute to the debate on how to structure police forces to deal with problems and violence.	2001-01-06
2150722:US	52147775	R1UMARCVUGFFVQ	0843904933	920017776	Memoirs Ten Years and Twenty Days	Books	5	16	22	N	N	An insight into naval command	Karl Doenitz was the mastermind of the German U-Boat Campaign in the battle of the Atlantic. He was a fanatical Nazi and his loyalty to Hitler led to him being named his successor and he rang what was left of Germany for a few days prior to surrender. <br />His memoirs are well written interesting and clearly the work of an intelligent man. Doenitz was a officer on U-Boats in the first world war. In that war the convoy system had defeated the U-Boats. Anti submarine techniques were ineffectual but the concentration of merchant ships in conveys emptied the seas of ships and meant that most U-Boats were unable to find targets. In the inter war period the British developed ASDIC a sonar system which enabled them to locate submarines under water. The invention of ASDIC made the British confident and as a result the naval agreements negotiated with Germany in the thirties allowed Germany to construct submarines. <br />Despite this Germany decided to give only a small priority to submarine construction favoring the development of a battleship fleet.  At the outbreak of war there were only some 30 submarines in service. Germany's naval construction had been predicated on a war in 1942. As a result the surface navy was small and it only had 4 battleships by 1941. It became clear quickly that the U-Boat was a potent weapon. <br />Doenitz who had risen to command the U-Boat arm worked out the strategy to make the U-Boat a success. His strategy was to have the U-Boat used as a surface weapon at night. U-Boats were difficult to see and could slip past escorts and sink ships before they were detected. He further developed a tactic which set up a patrol of boats which acted as a picket line and allowed him to direct boats to intercept conveys as they were found. <br />The book is fascinating as it reveals the development of U-Boat tactics and the miniature of the process of running the U-Boat war. Doenitz describes the training process, how many boats he had to have for those purposes, the design of the optimal boat, problems with torpedoes and the ebb and flow of war. <br />The problem with the book is that it only gives one side of the campaign. Doenitz himself never really learnt the reason for his defeat. <br />Technology was one of the big reasons for the German defeat. By 1942 the Allies had started to employ radar which allowed them detect U-Boats shadowing conveys and in conveys. As the Germans developed techniques to detect radar the Allies developed tighter band radar to avoid detection.  Radio detection techniques also allowed them to locate U-Boats to avoid them or to sink them. The use of Ultra allowed the penetration of the U-Boat cipher and allowed re-routing of conveys. In addition there was a continual development of weapons technology with the development of hedgehog depth charge systems, Very Lights and Contact fuses. <br />The best book on the U-Boat campaign is Clay Blair's magnificent two-volume study. Despite that this book is a fascinating portrait of one of the more important German commanders in the war. It is also a good picture of the mechanics of naval command.	2001-01-06
2150751:US	52147775	R1DY5Q6K5UOWAB	0385420536	626095980	Adolf Hitler: The Definitive Biography	Books	1	53	143	N	N	Worst Biography of Hitler available	John Toland is a journalist who has written a number of rather large books on the war. He more recently has published a book on Pearl Harbor suggesting that Roosevelt may have allowed the Japanese attack to proceed without warning the pacific fleet as a means of bringing the United States into the Second World War. His historical opinions thus are not mainstream.<br />This book was seen in its day as significant as he portrayed a more human Hitler. This was on the basis of doing a large number of interviews with people who knew him when he was younger. The early section of the book thus tries to portray Hitler as a bit of a hippie of his time a poetic critic of society. It shows him going to the Opera, talking to his friends about it and some of the day to day life of his years in Vienna. A number of people speak of him as being an interesting conversationalist and so forth.<br />The book is quite long being close to 900 pages. Only a small portion of the book is devoted to the war some 280 pages of the total. The way that the book is written even makes the amount of information contained within those 280 pages a lot less than you would get in a normal 280 pages of a history.  When Toland writes he does not write of a series of events but rather he talks of characters in the drama conversing, their reactions and so on. This means that the amount of facts contained is small a lot of the book is atmospheric padding.<br />A number of critics have suggested that this book is a apologetic for Hitler. To some extent it would seem to be the case. The book fails to discuss the horrors of Germanys occupation policy in the sort of detail that other books do and if a reader was to read only this book he would not have the flavor of what happened. The book mentions the murder of the Jews but it does not discuss the reality of Hitler's war aims and what they involved. That is the destruction of Polish and Russian Society by the murder of its intelligentsia and the reduction of those societies to a countries of serfs.<br />The discussion of the military issues is extremely superficial and there is no in depth discussion of Hitler's military role or his relationship with the German General Staff. The writer focuses little attention on the Eastern Front and expresses little understanding of the history of the campaign. He focuses mainly on the D Day landings and the follow up. No doubt because he has written a book on the battle of the Bulge and would be familiar with it.<br />This is probably the worst biography of Hitler available. It is however easy to read. If you want to read about Hitler here are better books.those societies to a countries of serfs.  <br />The discussion of the military issues is extremely superficial and there is no in depth discussion of Hitler's military role or his relationship with the German General Staff. The writer focuses little attention on the Eastern Front and expresses little understanding of the history of the campaign. He focuses mainly on the D Day landings and the follow up. No doubt because he has written a book on the battle of the Bulge and would be familiar with it. <br />This is probably the worst biography of Hitler available. It is however easy to read. If you want to read about Hitler here are better books.	2001-01-06
2152024:US	52147775	RSAWMK6WZRUVQ	0671426826	279102168	Sideshow	Books	5	12	15	N	N	One of the books which destroyed Nixon	This is a book which describes the destruction of Cambodia. During the Vietnam war the Americans thought that a large portion of the supplies and infantry of the regular units of the North Vietnamese Army were moving into South Vietnam by the use of the Ho Chi Min trail. The trail was a series of roads which rang parallel to South Vietnam though neutral Laos and Cambodia. In reality it seemed that until the events of this book most supplies for the Viet Cong and North Vietnamese Army were actually shipped by the Soviet Union through Cambodia.<br />Both Loas and Cambodia were neutral in the conflict and the United States faced a problem in getting them to stop the movement of troops and supplies through their territory. <br />The United States used the CIA to fund a private army in Laos to fight against the Pathet Lao the indigenous communist movement. In Cambodia a coup was organised to remove the government of Shinouk and to replace it with Lon Nol. Once that was done Lon Nol gave permission for the United States to bomb Cambodian territory and later for the South Vietnamese Army to mount armed raids into Cambodia. <br />The air raids were immensely heavy and dropped bomb loads which were similar to the entire tonnage of bombs dropped on Germany in the Second World War. The combination of the bombing and the coup led to the collapse of Cambodia's social fabric. Large numbers of peasants moved off the land to escape the bombing and swelled the capital. The American actions strengthened the hand of the local communists the Kyhmer Rouge and they started to win the civil war. This in turn led to more refugees. Towards the end the Lon Nol government was reduced to total dependence on imported food supplies flown in by the United States. I the end the Kyhmer Rouge were victorious and turned out to be one of the most murderous regimes of the century. (Some claim that on a per capita basis they were the most vicious in the 20th Century a good century for murderous regimes)<br />This book is an expose of what is a serious blot on the foreign policy record of the United States. It was a significant book at the time as a range of the actions carried out against Cambodia were illegal. However unlike some of the other tragedies of the last century the tragedy of Cambodia seems to be fading into the background.	2001-01-05
2153980:US	52147775	R3U2U80SUMYHO1	0761507183	487592432	Stalin: Triumph and Tragedy	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Readable historically significant	There have been a number of biographies written in the west about Stalin the Soviet dictator. This is the first Russian book that is not simply a piece of hackwork. The writer has had full access to all Soviet archives. These archives had been kept from all other writers. <br />The writer was a red army general and the general expectations from the west were that his work would be of poor quality. This book was written with the approval of the Soviet General Staff before the complete collapse of communism. Volkogonov had been a prolific author but his previous works to use the words of the New York Review of Books &quot;none of his previous works had hinted at independence, rigor or critical thought.&quot;<br />It was thus a surprise to find that the book departed form the party line and showed independence from the ideas of the old Soviet State. During the writing of the book the author examined thousands of files in which Stalin either ordered the murder of Soviet citizens or agreed to them. The writer's father was in fact one of Stalin's victims and he found out the details of what had happened during his research. After finishing the book he joined Yelstin's government as indicative of his break with the past.<br />Stalin was for his early life a fringe figure of the Bolshevik movement. He rose to prominence as he organized a large number of armed robberies that proved important to the parties' finances. Around the time of the revolution he became a trusted associate of Lenin. After Lenin's death Stalin entrenched himself in the rather unglamorous job of running the bureaucratic apparatus of the Communist Party. The other contenders for leadership took more glamorous positions. Stalin basically was able to stack the organs of power with his men and he seized power murdering his other rivals. <br />Initially Stalin was seen as an economic moderate. He had supported the continuation of a private agricultural sector. By the late twenties and early thirties he decided on a policy of force industrialization. To pay for the imports that were necessary he had to export huge amounts of agricultural products. To do this he introduced collectivization of the farming sector. This was bitterly resented by farmers especially in the Ukraine and Stalin murdered around 3 million farmers by starving them to death. <br />The forced industrialization of Russia proceeded at a breakneck pace with growth rates of around 5% a year. All of the growth however was going back into expansion of secondary industry. This meant that his regime was unpopular and only kept in power because of its security apparatus. In 1934 Stalin's likely successor Kirov was murdered. This set of a number of purges or the random killing of communist party officials. It would seem that the reason for this was to forestall opposition in a desperately unpopular regime. Just before he war some 40,000 army officers were liquidated in further purges. Again these were clearly aimed at keeping the army from opposing the regime. <br />In 1941 Russia was invaded and the first few months were a disaster with some 3 million Soviet troops being captured and the loss of about half of European Russia. Despite this colossal reversal Russia was able to recover and defeat Germany and to the enslave Eastern Europe for forty years. <br />Russians in considering their history prior to Volkogonov have accepted Stalin's crimes. They have however suggested that he has an important place in history as the industrialization in the thirties turned Russia from the weak power which had succumbed to Germany in the first world war to the superpower which went on to dominate the world for forty years. Secondly Stalin's apologists have suggested that his rock solid tyranny was able to keep together Russia in a time of crisis and in the end not only saved itself but to destroy a tyranny far worse. <br />Volkogonov in fact attacks this myth and suggests that the purges and Stalin's actions in 1941 lay atthe heart of the military defeat. <br />The book contains no new surprises such as revealing if it was Stalin who killed Kirov. It also does not allow us to quantify Stalin's crimes in any more detail. It is however a readable biography of one of the most significant figures of the twentieth century. The tragedy of the last century is of course that its three most significant figures have been criminals.	2001-01-04
2154258:US	52147775	R14M9B4XCQ8LQR	0679600116	705442339	Ulysses (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	1	21	51	N	N	Failed Literary Experiment	Isn't it about time that people were honest about this book? It is a work of its time rather than anything of lasting interest. <br />We all know the background, at the turn of the century the art world was a kaleidoscope of new ideas and trends. In art there was Czanne, Seurat, and Picasso. In music Scriabin was experimenting with the melding of music and light. <br />Artists were experimenting with form rather than looking at content. Sometimes these experiments worked other times they led to a dead end and were forgotten. <br />Ulysses is an experimental novel, one that uses the form of stream of consciousness. The form is at the expense of its readability and clarity. What happened with Joyce's experiment, it limped through Finegan's Wake which is so impenetrable it barely rates as a puzzle and died.  Ulysses as an experimental art form is a dead end, and with good reason.<br />The sorts of things that made and make literature great are the sorts of things that Joyce rejects with his experiments in form. Literature is related to the content rather than the empty vessel of form.<br />This of course is not to say that Joyce was without talent. It is just a shame to see that his talent was wasted as he became immersed with the fashions of the time.	2001-01-03
2154479:US	52147775	R21D8XLBGUKXRU	0441783589	242880671	Starship Troopers	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Old but still good for kids to read	I remember reading this book when I was very young. It was thought to be so right wing that another book called the \\"Forever War\\" was written to refute its ideas.<br />Robert Heinlen was a soldier who served in the Pacific in the second world war. The combat scenes in Star Ship Troopers are similar to some battles in the pacific. The first one is set on a tropical planet with lush vegetation. The last battle is similar to Iwo Jima. The book conveys the sense of urgency and perhaps fear that must have been felt by servicemen of the United States faced by a fanatical and up to late 1942 successful enemy.<br />The enemy in the book are a species of insects who unlike the film use modern technology. The war is one in which mankind and the insect enemy fight a war of extermination. This again replicates the fighting in the pacific with its brutality and the take no prisoners approach of the Japanese and Americans.<br />About two thirds of the book deals with the training of the main character and a description of a futuristic military society. In that society only war veterans can participate in the political process. The book also celebrates what is clearly the American basic training used for infantry as a character building exercise and as vital in the war effort. It was the celebration of these \\"military virtues\\" and the futuristic political system which led to it being criticised as fascist. Its ironic in a way as Nazi Germany for instance used training regimes for its armed forces that encouraged more individual initiative and for more devolved responsibility. The training in this book is more what Frederick the Great would have used for his Grenadiers.<br />It was a strange experience to re-read the book after 20 or so years. The strong points in the book is the brooding atmosphere through it of a society in danger. Of the need to create an army and of a society just winning in a desperate struggle to keep the enemy at bay. It conveys what it must have been like to live in Britain during the Blitz or perhaps more accurate in the Soviet Union in 1942. The action scenes are well done but they only amount to a small part of the book.<br />The political issues seem to have passed away somewhat now. It seems to be a book of its time rather than having any real message for how things should be. Or at least a message that really speaks to anyone. I remember as a very young person reading this book in a couple of days. That is surely what Science Fiction Book are about anyway so four stars.<br />.n like to live in Britain during the Blitz or perhaps more accurate in the Soviet Union in 1942. The action scenes are well done but they only amount to a small part of the book. <br />The political issues seem to have passed away somewhat now. It seems to be a book of its time rather than having any real message for how things should be. Or at least a message that really speaks to anyone. I remember as a very young person reading this book in a couple of days. That is surely what Science Fiction Book are about anyway so four stars. <br />.	2001-01-03
2155151:US	52147775	R209AKYEBC4C8M	0671794248	153869120	Who Stole Feminism?: How Women Have Betrayed Women	Books	5	19	28	N	N	Controversial but readable	This book is an attack on academic feminism. What it says is that in the 1960's women were clearly oppressed in a number of ways. Betty Friedman and Germaine Greer argued a program that was based on equal rights for women and equal access to all opportunities offered by society. Prior to them women had been pushed out of education and restricted to the bottom level of the employment ladder. These disadvantages of course were only part of a complex problem. The position of women meant that they had little power in relationships and had no image in popular culture apart from being ornaments and love objects. <br />By the 1980's, a large number of those battles had been won and women were starting to move into higher education and higher employment. Women of course had not achieved true equality and men predominated as they still do in higher positions of management in companies and in Government. Films continue to be written in which the main protagonists are male.<br />Sommers argues however that in recent years Feminism has been hijacked by a group who have aims which are very different from the original mainstream feminists. Unlike the earlier feminists who battled for the good of all women, Sommers argues that the new group's ideology mainly has the effect of benefiting a small group of &quot;true believers&quot;. The benefit is the creation of a number of academic courses and other bureaucratic jobs held by a small number of middle class women. <br />She argues that the new wave of Feminism has created an ideology of a patriarchal state  based on the flimsy evidence of some academically questionable surveys. <br />It is thus no surprise that this book has created a bit of a stir. It also seems that Sommers has been active in Feminist politics and has done her round of the talk shows prior to the release of the book. She is probably regarded as being on the right of that movement.<br />From the point of view of someone who is outside the debate the book is certainly interesting. Her attacks on the methodology of a number of important and much quoted surveys appears to be devastating. <br />Probably a lot of people won't like the book as it challenges a number of assumptions which are an important part of peoples lives. Never the less the book is well written contains passion and it supports its arguments with a methodology which rises above that used in normal social discourse.	2001-01-03
2157208:US	52147775	R1Y7EXML5BJH95	0140271694	551695850	Russia's War: A History of the Soviet Effort: 1941-1945	Books	2	27	29	N	N	Readable but superficial	Richard Overy is the author of the interesting and provocative work &quot;Why the allies won&quot;. Which is an examination of the broader issues around the comparative strength of the Germans and the Allies at critical points in the Second World War. He is thus no fool a deep thinker and a person with an encyclopedic grasp of the period.<br />This book is however a companion to a series of film documentaries which were produced by British Television to dramatize the course of the war on the Eastern Front. The book as such reflects this and it has a strongly narrative structure rather than an analytical structure. The illustrations in the book interestingly enough are freeze frames from newsreel footage.  <br />The books promotional material suggests that the book is the first full length portrayal of the war from the Soviet side. This in fact is not the case Erickson's &quot;The Road to Stalingrad&quot; came out in 1985 and Glantz's &quot;When Titans Clashed&quot; came out in 1995. Both are superior works using extensive Russian material. The promotional claim is odd as both these books are cited in the bibliography. <br />The main focus of the book is on three main battles, Barbarossa, Stalingrad and Kursk. Backhand Blow, Operation Mars are not really discussed and the battles from 1944 on are discussed in a summary way. The book is about the same length as Glantz's but were as Glantz uses words in a sparing way this books use of description means that it has far less content. <br />The narrative structure tends to state points simply and to try to say things in a dramatic way. This may contribute to its readability for some. All in all a readable book but in reality it is a film companion and nothing much more.	2001-01-01
2157340:US	52147775	R1W2LGPM0GEVJG	0140284583	436220225	Stalingrad: The Fateful Siege: 1942-1943	Books	2	30	35	N	N	Good as an introduction only	This is a readable simple and superficial book. Although this may seem like a criticism but, the reality is that superficial books have their place for people who are first approaching a subject and don't want to read a vast technically written tome.<br />This book is a combination of some secondary sources plus a bit of primary research. The author has indicated that the one thing that he has found which was not generally known was the very large number of Russians who were used as auxiliaries and helpers in the Stalingrad Campaign. Due to troop losses a number of these Russians appear to have become combat troops with the Sixth Army.  Apart from that insight the book summarizes longer works such as Ericsons &quot;the Road to Stalingrad&quot; and  Glanz's &quot;When Titans Clash&quot;. The author then gives the book a more human dimension by quoting a range of other sources about the minutia of the campaign. Soldiers letters, discussions between generals as things start to happen and the like.  Other reviewers have spoken about the books readability and all of that is true the book is easy to read and for a person unfamiliar with the material it is no doubt an engrossing account of a dramatic event which was important in determining the outcome of the war.<br />The faults of the book relate to its portrayal of the military aspects of the campaign. The author fails to pick up on a number of points. The major one is that the Germans had no idea of the Soviet force levels and the number of reserves available. If they had been aware then the advance so far into Soviet Territory and the splitting of the invading force into two were serious mistakes. The depth of the advance made the supply of the army at Staligrad almost impossible. At the time of the encirclement the sixth army had very limited stocks of ammunition and petrol. Once the Sixth Army was encircled there was no way it could break out as it had no supplies. Its collapse would lead to a loss of the forces in the Caucuses. The decision to stand was thus in reality the only rational one available.<br />The author tends to accept the German Generals self serving portrayal of themselves in their memoirs. That is that they opposed Hitler in this period. The reality is that the German Staff only started to have problems with the regime when defeat became closer. The failure of the Stalingrad operation was not because of Hitler's interference in operational strategy but the flawed nature of the whole plan. None of the German General Staff opposed the operation at its inception.<br />The author also has not read some other relevant material such as Glantz's &quot;Zhukov's Greatest Defeat&quot; which described how at the same time that the Germans were being defeated in Stalingrad the Russians were mounting another massive operation against Army Group Centre which was defeated.<br />Despite these quibbles the book clearly is of interest to some and serves as a good introduction to an important event in the history of the last century.the Caucuses. The decision to stand was thus in reality the only rational one available. <br />The author tends to accept the German Generals self serving portrayal of themselves in their memoirs. That is that they opposed Hitler in this period. The reality is that the German Staff only started to have problems with the regime when defeat became closer. The failure of the Stalingrad operation was not because of Hitler's interference in operational strategy but the flawed nature of the whole plan. None of the German General Staff opposed the operation at its inception. <br />The author also has not read some other relevant material such as Glantz's &quot;Zhukov's Greatest Defeat&quot; which described how at the same time that the Germans were being defeated in Stalingrad the Russians were mounting another massive operation against Army Group Centre which was defeated. <br />Despite these quibbles the book clearly is of interest to some and serves as a good introduction to an important event in the history of the last century.	2001-01-01
2159874:US	52147775	R1SXEIWYNIOW9B	0312262418	452669690	Tutankhamun: The Life and Death of a Pharaoh	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Pretty Average	The writer of this book is a Christine Mahdy who taught herself to read Egyptian inscriptions at an early age and has worked cataloguing material found in at archeological sights. Part of the book is to explain how we have come to know Egyptian history. It would seem that our histories of Egypt are very much based not on narratives of the past as with Roman or Greek history but rather with reconstruction based on inscriptions placed on public monuments.<br />With major historical figures it is possible to work out a chronology of their reigns and their achievements and failures. This process is a bit hit and miss as it depends on what are in reality a series of propaganda statements by government figures to establish what has happened. There are a number of instances that show the danger of the method. The Pharaoh Ramasses the second fought a large battle against the Hittites at Kadesh. His records show that this was an enormous victory. The fact that after the victory he immediately retreated has raised some questions about what happened and in fact it would seem that the battle was a Hittite victory. <br />The subject of this book is the reign of Tutankahamen a Pharaoh in respects insignificant except for one thing. That thing being that his tomb was discovered almost complete. The fact that Tutankahamen was a non-entity being one of the main reasons that his tomb remained undiscovered till 1922. <br />The reason for Tutankahamen's obscurity was that one of his successors Horemheb tried to remove him from history. Horemheb removed all references to Tutankahmen from temples and public buildings and also tried to destroy the memory of his predecessors Akenaten and Smenkhkare. <br />In the past it has been thought the reason for this related to a religious conflict. Akenaten introduced a new religion to Egypt based on the worship of the Sun. He called his new got &quot;Aten&quot; and he founded a city in central Egypt dedicated to the service of that god. It was believed that religious conservatives reacted against this new cult after Akenaten's death by reintoducing the worship of Amen and by removing all reference to the royal family who had introduced the new god. <br />This book is fascinating as it shows in some detail how we have come to understand Egyptian history. What is shows is that generally stories have been made up based on almost no evidence at all. Previous historians developed a theory of the reign of Arkenaten which suggested that not only did he set up a monotheistic religion but in later life he sent his wife away and lived in an open homosexual relationship with his successor Smenkhkare. The reason for this theory would seem to be some ambiguous wall paintings and nothing else. There would appear to be no real evidence that Arkenaten attempted to suppress or to close down the temples of other gods. <br />Mahdy suggests that the reason for the hatred of Arkenaten was that he was not a competent ruler and that he did not respond to a foreign threat from the Hittites. In fact it is normal in situations in which &quot;legitimate&quot; rulers are overthrown to blacken their name to justify what has happened. In English history one only has to think of the attacks on the reputation of such kinds as Richard the second, Henry the sixth and Richard the third.  Mahdy suggests that the theories Arkenaten trying to introduce a system of monotheistic belief arose not from any real evidence but from the desires of early archeologists who were Christian to see a system of religious belief which would appeal to their prejudices. <br />All this is rather interesting and it shows how shaky is our understanding of a period of history which is ancient and in which we have limited sources. Mahdy then goes on to speculate another theory of the reign which unfortunately like the theories she attacks is just as shaky.&quot;. Her theories seem to have created some interest as there is an investigation being carried out of the DNA of Tutakanhamen's body. <br />The book is readable and an insight into how sketchy is some of our knowledge of the past. The fault with the book is that the theories of the author seem to be not very much more substantial from those she seeks to replace.	2000-12-30
2160316:US	52147775	RW7VQZEFIXSZV	0306807874	40144518	Caesar	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A book that has stood the test of time	Some time ago I read Dodge's book on Hannibal the Carthaginian General. It was an amazing book. For that reason I purchased and read his book on Caesar. This book was originally published in 1892 its author died in 1909.  <br />Although I have only a paper back edition the book is full of maps and line drawings. These illustrate many things. There are drawings of roman military formations, illustrations of how ships worked detailed drawings of siege lines, towers and the like. The work that has gone into the book is simply staggering. <br />Dodge has not only compiled a history of Caesar's campaigns but he has written a treatise on war and how it was conducted towards the end of the Roman Republic. The narrative is fresh easy to follow and has not dated like so many other books from that long ago. <br />Caesar is one of the more significant figures in history. He is known as an author who's works used to be the basis of teaching Latin to schoolchildren. His name initially became the title for the first Roman Emperors. His name became the title of the Russian autocrats &quot;The Tsar&quot; and somewhat later the title of the German Emperor &quot;the Kaiser&quot;. His historical legacy was the end of the Roman Republic and the creation of the Imperial system. <br />His career is remarkable. At the time he first assumed military command Gaius Pompeius (Pompey) was Rome's foremost citizen.  Pompey had cleared the Mediterranean of pirates and had waged a successful campaign in the middle east. Caesar was given a military command of what is now northern Italy and Croatia. He used his army to expand that command conquering Gaul effectively an area that is equivalent to modern Switzerland, France, Belgium and the Netherlands.<br />Dodge describes every battle that Caesar fought in detail. The Gauls had been Rome's enemies for time immemorial. They were brave and talented fighters and their leader Vercingetorix was a first class soldier and a man who was charismatic and ableto raise all of Gaul behind him. They key to Caesar's generalship was meticulous planning and the use of field fortifications. Again and again in his life Caesar was able to beat larger armies though careful planning and well thought our tactics. <br />Prior to Caesar's victories the central authority of Rome had collapsed. The power was divided amongst a small number of eminent citizens who controlled armies in the provinces. Italy was neutral ground.  By emerging victorious from Gaul Caesar had forged an instrument that would enable him to become the sole master of the entire Roman world. His armies who had by this time developed a fierce loyalty to him. Caesar decided to move on Rome and to provoke a civil war with Pompey. <br />Pompey was not only a competent general but had armies in Spain and Greece that were loyal to him. Caesars actions must have seemed at the time foolhardy. However by meticulous planning Caesar was able to emerge victorious. He again used extensive field fortifications to even up the odds against Pompey's troops. After his defeat he went to Egypt had a brief dalliance with Cleopatra and then completed he conquest of the Roman World by defeating the remaining legions loyal to Pompey. <br />Dodges book not only has illustrations to explain each aspect of ancient warfare but he provides clear maps of each battle with marked units so that the text descriptions are easy to follow. He has other larger territorial maps so that one can put the battle maps in context and follow the logic of the campaigns. <br />Older books tend to become dated and generally newer books are more accessible to readers and contain information that has come to light in recent times. Dodges work is an exception to that rule and is still probably the best history of Caesar's campaigns.	2000-12-30
2160524:US	52147775	R85FHWQXYTC1S	0312265697	360270137	Clive: The Life and Death of a British Emperor	Books	2	6	8	N	N	Readable narrative history but not much more	This book is readable and gives a good narrative history of the career of Robert Clive. It is however disappointing. The reason for the disappointment relates to the scope of the book and perhaps it is unreasonable to expect a book of its length (the text is about 380 pages) to cover a subject of such complexity in any depth. <br />Clive was given a number of military commands when England had a number of small outposts on the Indian Coast. The armies were for protection mainly against the French who were also competing in the area. India at that time was broken into a number of independent states which each had vast armies far outnumbering the English. <br />The men commanded by Clive were armed with smooth bore muskets and some cannon. The muskets had a slow firing rate and had a very short range. The armies he fought had some artillery. In each battle Clive was outnumbered by huge amounts. It was common for him to face odds of over ten to one in each battle. Despite the fact that he had no marked technological superiority over his opponents as later imperialists did Clive won each battle and conquered a country that was bigger than France. This book does not really explain how except to suggest that the armies he faced were not efficient combat units. Something which would in the face of what happened seem obvious.<br />Despite the continual mystery of why Clive kept winning the book follows his campaigns and his problems with the English government. The reality is that Clive allowed the English to recover from the loss of the American Colonies and to recover as an Imperial Power. His victories unlike that of Napoleon did not fade away after a short time but allowed England to dominate India for two hundred years. He clearly was one of the most important figures of his age. Whilst readable the biography tends not to scratch the surface and give us the nuts and bolts of the process.	2000-12-29
2162576:US	52147775	RSBMJMRAWM504	0700608990	535506720	When Titans Clashed: How the Red Army Stopped Hitler (Modern War Studies)	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Simply the best	This is now the best one volume history of the German campaign on the Eastern Front in the Second World War. One of the authors is one of the leading specialists on the subject and has written a large number of volumes about different aspects of the war on the Eastern Front. The book is easy to read and has numerous maps that support the text.<br />The reason for the book is that prior to the opening of the Russian archives most historians depended on German material for understanding the campaign. That material was seriously flawed in a number of respects. The first problem was that for the entire war the Germans had very poor intelligence about the size and disposition of Russian forces. The second problem was that a large number of the memoirs of German Generals were self serving and inaccurate. <br />Early histories of the war have seen the reason for the failure of the Russian campaign as a result of operational failures. That is that certain mistakes were made in the conduct of the campaign. A common theme of histories during the 60's and 70's was a belief that if the Barbarossa offensive had been run differently or if the attacking forces in operation Blue had not been separated victory might not have been achieved. <br />This book shows clearly that by the end of the campaign in 1941 the Germans were in serious trouble. They had suffered massive casualties and the forces they could muster in 1942 were far below the army that had started the campaign in both men and equipment. The Russians although they had lost close to three million men had by the end of 1941 built up a force equivalent to the Germans. From that time on they were able to edge ahead in production of equipment and achieve a material preponderance over the Germans. In fact it was probably the failure of the Russian Kharkov offensive that made it possible for any offensive operation in 1942 to succeed. <br />In summary the reason for the failure of Barbarossa was not due to operational problemsbut due to problems with strategy. In 1941 Germany put into the campaign an army of about three million men. Its level of production of tanks and aircraft remained low. In 1944 it was able to increase its army to the level of ten million and to raise tank and aircraft production. By 1944 it was to late as the Russian forces had reached the top of their fighting potential. The forces put into the field in 1941 were not adequate and the Germans were to suffer from massive supply problems. The basis of the commitment of three million men in 1941 was something that the German armed forces felt adequate to complete the conquest of Russia in five weeks. It was only later in the war that the Germans began to realize the potential of their enemy. Again this is territory that Glantz has discussed in his excellent book Stumbling Colossus.  <br />This book lays to rest a number of old mistakes and historical errors. One of the authors has written another volume on Operation Mars so that the book is able to show that this was a serious defeat for the Russians, a defeat that had previously been written out of history.  In addition there is a careful discussion of the Stalingrad campaign which explains in detail that the reason for the defeat are complex and involved the poor logistic situation of the sixth army. The levels of supply made the prospect of a break out from Stalingrad unrealistic.  The book also contains an excellent appendix which outlines the level of troop commitment to the eastern front by the Germans and their casualty levels. It clearly shows the importance of the Eastern Front in the defeat of Germany. <br />It is impossible to praise this work to highly as it is readable well organized and logical.	2000-12-28
2163116:US	52147775	RL948ASWERINA	0141181532	248695390	French Provincial Cooking (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Simply the best	Before Elizabeth David Britain and Australia had no cuisine. Meals consisted of overcooked meat served with three types of boiled vegetables. Garlic was seen as a foreign evil the onion treated with suspicion. Spaghetti was only available in a can overcooked in a flavorless thing tomato sauce.<br />Elizabeth David changed all that. She spent time in the Mediterranean and when she returned to England she began to write books about her time in those sun drenched lands. She was able to convey the delight of a fine tasting olive oil,or the joy of visiting a market full of fresh produce. How the use of flavorings can enhance a dish and bring out the character of ingredients.<br />After Elizabeth cooking stopped being a chore processing in an unimaginative way the same tired old dishes again and again. Cooking began to be something that was fun to do. It could bring pleasure and be simply rewarding to cook. Meals began to be focus points which could bring families together something to look forward to and to enjoy. An interest in food could lead to an interest in the passing of the seasons as vegetables appeared making possible new dishes.<br />Elizabeth's first book was on Mediterranean cooking. This book is on French Provincial Cuisine and outlines what are now known as the sorts of dishes which you will see on most French Restaurants menus. The recipes are explained in a way that it easy to follow although this is one of the older books which does not have the sorts of illustrations of technique which are now the norm.<br />Never the less each chapter is a gem. The section on soups and vegetables is especially good. The book also explains techniques in French cooking if you have note come across them.<br />This book is however more than cook book. It is a passionate introduction to the art of food. The people of Britain and Australia are grateful to its being written as it is one of those books which have changed what happens in day to day life in a way that is quite remarkable. Elizabeth David should be made a Saint.	2000-12-27
2163201:US	52147775	R2RF6UJX2LR1O6	0880013826	524246939	The Book of Latin American Cooking	Books	3	16	27	N	N	Okay	The cooking of Latin American is extremely diverse. Argentina is a large pastoral country and meals are meat based. The Argentines use a range of sauces many highly flavored to complement mea dishes and barbecues. When I have been to Argentina one is struck by how restaurants have huge displays of cooking meat in their windows and vegetables are hard to find. <br />Mexico on the other hand is a country which has a tradition of subsistence based Agriculture. The cuisine is based on the use of corn meal made into a range of breads such that are then flavored by vegetables cheese and smaller amounts of meat. <br />Other Latin American Countries have similarly divergent cuisine's. Rather than have the book broken up into the food from various regions the authors use a conventional structure of breaking up the book into soups, salads meat dishes and the like. Each country will then contribute various dishes. <br />The preparation and flavour types used in the cooking are exotic and outside the tradition of English and American Cooking. That makes the recipes interesting to try and experiment with. All of the recipes are easy to follow and make. The degree of preparation for each dish is also much less complex than say Indian or South East Asian Cooking so that it is a simple book to use. <br />Worth a look.	2000-12-27
2164479:US	52147775	R2QTA7WH7BF9J6	067400163X	797622772	A War To Be Won: Fighting the Second World War	Books	3	15	23	N	N	Readable but superficial	This is a narrative of the operational history of the Second World War. If one examines the bibliography and the references a limited number of secondary sources are quoted. For the Barbarossa Campaign two main books are quoted, &quot;When Titans&quot; clashed by Glantz and &quot;The Road to Stalingrad&quot; by Erickson. What this book does is to precis or to summarize these longer works. The book does not contain any substantial reference to archival material. In a similar way other chapters are based on existing histories of the pacific war.<br />The book is easy to read and can be characterized as a reasonable narrative history of the war. It is a good starting point for people who want an overview of the main campaigns told in a lively and concise way. It also corrects some of the misconceptions that have existed in some earlier narrative histories. With regard to the Barbarossa Campaign earlier writers have suggested that the seizure of Moscow might have led to a successful outcome for the Germans. This book argues that the German Army suffered from massive logistic problems that things probably could not have gone much differently. The book also does not accept the nonsense peddled by the German military that they were all unwitting tools of the Nazi State. This book states what is now the accepted position that the army and the Nazi's were hand in hand.<br />There are some annoying bits. The authors say that the Axis consisted of three countries Germany Italy and Japan. The reality is that the invasion of Russia was carried out by an alliance consisting of Germany, Italy, Hungary, Romania, Finland, and Slovenia. Spain also contributed a division of volunteers. SS units also had volunteers from Norway, Denmark, Holland and France. The invasion of Russia was carried out by a coalition of right wing anti-democratic states. <br />Also in discussing the defeat of the British in Malaya and the Americans in the Philippines the authors trot out some old myths. They repeat the old mantra that the reason the Japanese won these campaigns was because of their air and naval superiority. The authors also say that in the Philippines McArthur had to rely on &quot;native troops&quot;.<br />The German Army had to fight in situations in which they had no air support at all. During the Italian campaign they were able to mount successful defences on the Gustav Line at ANZIO and on the Gothic line. <br />In both the Malayan and Philippines campaign the Japanese army was poorly equipped. They were basically World War One style armies, rifle divisions with supporting artillery. In addition Japanese armies had to live off the land. At the climax of the Malayan campaign the Japanese actually ran out of ammunition and were only saved by the British caving in and surrendering. The reason for their success was the abysmal standard of command in both campaigns. Percival the British Commander in Malaya only experience prior to his command was killing unarmed Irishmen. He strung his forces along the Malaya Peninsular and then watched as the Japanese attacked units individually and destroyed them. He outnumbered the Japanese and the quality of his weapons was the equal if not superior. MacAuthur was arguably even more incompetent. He had been the commander of the Philippines for some years. He was responsible for the development of their army. If it was no good then it was his fault. <br />One of the problems that histories have had in the past is a tendency not to weight the importance of events. After the war it was common to couple together the defeat of the Germans at Stalingrad with that of El Alamien. The reality is of course that the defeat at Stalingrad was a staggering blow that tore open the eastern front left German forces in the Caucuses vulnerable and lost the Germans 250,000 front line troops. The battle of El Alamien involved some 80,000 axis troops with a minority being German and mattered not much at all. In fact due to the allied invasion of Tunis Montgomery need not have attacked at all. He could have waited a few days and Rommel would have had to retreat to avoid being cut off by the Americans.<br />This book tends to make the same mistake. It does not weigh the various campaigns and look at their realistic strategic effect. One of the more interesting books published on the second world war is Second Front Now 1943 by Dunn. It shows how Germany was vulnerable to an assault across the channel in 1943 as they had transferred their reserves to participate in Manstien's  &quot;Back Hand Blow&quot; attack. The allied strategy of invading Africa and Italy was a poor use of resources and allowed smaller German units to tie up allied forces until the end of the war. David Eisenhower makes this point in the biography of his father and shows that Germany was able to occupy Italy after the defection and then to fight one of the more successful delaying actions of the war. An Invasion of France would probably have ended the war in 1943 and perhaps led to a better outcome for Eastern Europe.<br />It would now seem clear that the British strategic bombing campaign was a failure. This does not seem to have been picked up by the authors. They do however make the interesting suggestion that the German U Boat campaign was a failure and should never been attempted. During the war and immediately after most commentators thought that the U Boats had come close to cutting the Atlantic sea routes. One of Clay Blair's achievements was to show that this was not the case. This however was is different from a suggestion that the enterprise was a waste of time. It would have been interesting for the authors to back up their assertion with more material.	2000-12-26
2165047:US	52147775	R1C7KGCUKM27P4	0671869205	680068737	Truman	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Moving	The question who is the greatest United States President depends on the political philosophy of the reader. There can however be little doubt that Truman was one of the most remarkable men to be elected to that office.<br />In reality Truman's rise to the office was a freak. He was a man who had a mediocre career. Initially he ran a business that failed.  He volunteered for military service in the First World War at the age of 33. After the war he worked as a minor elected official nominally called a &quot;judge&quot; but in fact his responsibility was more like that of a bureaucrat. Later in life he became a senator and attracted some attention because of his role on a Senate Committee looking into the war effort. His selection by Roosevelt as a running mate surprised most people and was related to short term political considerations rather than anything suggesting that Truman was of any political importance. <br />One would think that with such a background Truman would have been overwhelmed by the responsibility of office. Yet he never was, faced by difficulties difficult to imagine he mastered the office and with a self-assurance that was amazing set about doing what he thought was right. And in the end just about everything he did was the right thing to do.  <br />After Roosevelt's death he had to make his first big decision and that was whether to use Atomic weapons. Looking at the issue objectively the fire raids prior to the dropping of the two atomic bombs were probably as destructive to human life as the nuclear bombs but that is an easy thing to say in hindsight. Truman had to weigh up the cost of using the weapons and look at if it would save lives. The use of the bombs has been debated but in reality it probably not only saved American but also Japanese lives. An invasion could have resulted not only in the deaths of American servicemen but also it would have been likely that the Japanese military could have killed many of their own civilians as they did in the Marinas.<br />At the conclusion of the war Truman then had to deal with the Soviet Union through the  Berlin blockade and the early years of the cold war. Roosevelt had to fight a war against Germany and Japan. Both of those countries had comparatively small populations with limited industrial capacity.  The Soviet Union had an immense field army that had just been victorious in the greatest land battle of all time. It had swallowed Eastern Europe and China was about to undergo communist revolution bringing the worlds most populous nation into its orbit. Combined with the seriousness of the military threat there were the difficulties of realizing that a former ally was now an enemy. Truman again had no problems in realizing the danger and acting appropriately. Not only was Truman willing to measure up to the Russians he was responsible for the Marshall Plan the basis on which the reconstruction of modern Europe was based. <br />By 1948 he faced his first presidential election. He faced a hostile press and it was universally thought that he would lose. He pulled of the last of the whistle stop elections were his ability to speak to voters and to galvanize them to his side led to a narrow victory. For his last four years he faced a hostile congress. He was then faced by the Korean war and problems with his supreme commander McAurthur. In the end he sacked McAurthur a person with immense popularity and prestige because of his failure to obey orders. <br />Other countries tend to be skeptical of their leaders. The United States has always tended to have a reverence for the office of presidency that exists beyond party politics. Truman is one of the Presidents who stood so tall that his memory is cherished as being an ordinary man who could show that intelligence and decency can get one through.<br />It in some ways would be difficult to write a dull book about such a story. McCullough's book is not dull and it writes about Truman in a respectful and intelligentway. A must read for anyone who is interested in American history or the cold war.	2000-12-26
2165844:US	52147775	R2667WIFYLC3G3	0345346912	155806366	Midway: The Battle That Doomed Japan	Books	4	35	38	N	N	A view from the other side	This is quite a short book that was written by two Japanese one who was a flyer from the Akagi. Although a book of a little over 200 pages the book describes the attack on Pearly Harbour, the cruise of the Japanese carrier fleet in the Indian Ocean and the attack on Sri Lanka, the bombing of Darwin, the battle of the Coral Sea and Midway. <br />The facts around these battles have been explained in a range of other books so that there are no real surprises. What is of interest is the insight that the book gives into the process of Japanese decision making during the war. <br />The authors show that following the victory at Pearl Harbour the Japanese didn't know what to do. The cruise to the Indian Ocean achieved little and used a large amount of their oil reserves. The overall command simply was not able to formulate a plan. Some groups thought of invading Darwin a plan which was shelved. In the end the attack on Midway was decided on. Such a plan put the Japanese miles from home at a considerable disadvantage.<br />The authors go on to show how the arrogance and self-confidence in that attack doomed the Japanese fleet. The failure to properly use sighting planes, the leaving of large numbers of aircraft on deck prior to the American attack.<br />The book is one of the most coherent attacks on the reputation of Yamamoto that I have read. For some reason Yamamoto has had a high reputation with American writers. The record shows that although Pearl Harbor went to plan it was all down hill after that.  <br />The book is readable and evokes the frustration of felt by Japanese fighting men at the shortcomings of their leaders.	2000-12-24
2165939:US	52147775	RND4CL4K75GYW	0805031154	326826823	Mao: A Life	Books	4	13	19	N	N	Life of a tyrant	This book portrays the life of the man who oversaw the conversion of China from a country fragmented into provinces controlled by war lords and a weak Nationalist government, vulnerable to Japan and European Nations to a centralized powerful communist state<br />The book recounts how Mao was born and raised in China when it was still an empire. His school education consisted largely of rote learning, including verbatim recitations of complex Chinese literary classics. Clearly a bright and intelligent child, Mao later became a schoolteacher.  For most of his life Mao wrote poetry, which some have said was hackneyed and others have described as good.<br />As Mao grew older, China descended into revolution and anarchy. While most Chinese became Nationalists Mao became a communist. The belief of communists at the time was that a small conspiratorial party could inflame the more radical sections of the country the workers to bring about a revolution. Held in the spell of this formula, the Chinese Communists tried again and again to inspire workers' revolts, but failed. <br />Mao headed off to the countryside in Hunan in the early thirties, where he organized a peasant army and within a few years controlled an area the size of Belgium. It was clear that the communists represented the most significant challenge to the ruling Nationalist Party controlled by Chiang Kai-shek. To ward off this danger, Chiang organized huge armies to fight the communists. He then launched a series of &quot; bandit suppression campaigns.&quot;  Mao successfully defeated three armies sent by Chiang to defeat him. <br />The fourth army was the largest. German advisors to the Nationalist commanders developed a successful strategy of building a ring of fortifications around the communists.  This web of blockhouses and pillboxes prevented the war of movement and surprise that Mao had turned to his advantage. The Nationalists crept forward day by day strangling the communists. At last they decided ona desperate move of breaking out and marching to north China. This military maneuver was to become known as the long march. On reaching the north, the Communists were eventually saved by the Japanese invasion of China. That invasion forced Chiang into an uneasy alliance that allowed the communists to increase their power and to triumph in the civil war that broke out in 1949.<br />This book is interesting as it fills out the story and adds a lot which explains why Mao developed as he did. Other works have suggested that Mao's military success led him over time to solidifying his position in the communist party and controlling it from the 30's. The reality is different. Despite Mao's success in winning victory after victory in Hunan, he was actually removed from power shortly before the Nationalist offensive that led to the long march by Bo Gu, Zhou Enlai and Otto Braun. He regained power during the long march as a result of the failure of the three who took over from him to defeat Chiang and the enormous casualties that they had incurred during the break out. Even during the time he led the army in Hunan, Mao was subject to a series of crazy orders from his communist superiors in Shanghai. These orders were based on a belief that a workers' revolt was inevitable and sought to try to get Mao to carry out military maneuvers based on a hoped uprising which never occurred.  The fantasy of a workers revolt led to orders to the army which placed in danger of defeat and with no prospect of success. It is perhaps no surprise that later in life Mao distrusted experts.<br />Mao's personal life appears to have been filled with tragedy. His first marriage was arranged and he refused to consummate it. He left his second wife and married a young woman who was a fellow revolutionary. When Mao had started to achieve victories in Hunan, the Nationalists undertook a vicious campaign directed at Mao personally.  They captured his second wife, and although by this time Mao had left her, she refused to renounce him and was publicly beheaded. The graves of Mao's parents were also dug up and desecrated.  During the long march Mao's third wife gave birth a number of times. The children had to be given up to peasant families on the way. In the years to come, after the victory in the civil war Mao tried to find these lost children but was not successful. Of his other children, a son died in the Korean War and his remaining son suffered from mental illness and spent all of his life in a mental institution.<br />The book also reveals for the first time that in Hunan and later after the long march in Yan'an, Mao ordered the torture and execution of large numbers of his supporters. These campaigns of torture and execution were similar to the terror of Joseph Stalin. Party members would be tortured to produce confessions of belonging to opposition groups, despite the fact that any groups named clearly did not exist. Mao's first &quot;terror&quot; in fact pre-dated that of Stalin. This account of Mao's life suggests that the success of the communists in China was the result of an iron discipline based on terror. <br />Mao's career after taking control of China consisted of a long succession of disasters.  For instance, the Great Leap Forward led to a collapse in economic growth.  The forced collectivisation of agriculture and the removal and destruction of the landlord class led to famines in which between 30 to 60 million people are reported to have died. Moreover while the Cultural Revolution led to a collapse of the ruling institutions in China, the army was required to take over management of the State for a time.<br />On Mao's death there was a complete reversal of all his policies by Deng Xiaoping much to the relief of the people. Those, who on Mao's orders, had run the Cultural Revolution were imprisoned. <br />This book is an important portrait of man of importantce but not greatness.	2000-12-24
2165943:US	52147775	R1YW1X3957NYXM	0786866179	725713503	The Naked Chef	Books	3	22	31	N	N	Fusion Food	Cooking books should be fund to read and make cooking enjoyable. This book is the companion piece to the first television series. The author is a good on TV and the recipes are generally good. <br />What I personally enjoyed was the extended section on pasta. It suggests that you should make your own pasta as it is possible to develop a greater flavor range than commercial varieties. The techniques are well explained and easy to follow.<br />From the point of view of the American marked one section which will probably be seen as not quite that interesting is a long section on lamb. It would seem that lamb has a limited penetration of the American market. <br />Still the book is easy to read all of the recipes work except the lamb shanks one. The critical question with a cook book is will you look forward to using it and does it make your food better. The answer with this book is yes.	2000-12-24
2166605:US	52147775	R1WSIXJ8I3T6U8	1551107937	69372581	The Essential Asian Cookbook	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Functional easy to use cook book	In Australia peoples diets have tended to contain to higher level of fat and meat products. This has led to people becoming overweight and suffering from heart and arterial diseases. As a result people have been trying to reduce the fat levels in the food they eat and introduce more vegetable into their diets.<br />Asian food is good for this purpose as it uses smaller amounts of highly flavored meat dishes instead of large slabs of meat like steaks. Thai Cuisine is especially good as the amount of fat used in cooking is very small. As a result Asian Food has started to become immensely popular.  <br />This is an excellent book as it covers a wide range of regional Asian Cuisine. Each section is illustrated with the final product and the directions are easy to follow. Each recipe also has nutritional information. <br />In addition to the recipes there is an introduction which explains basic cooking and preparation techniques. This is followed by a glossary that explains basic Asian food terms and ingredients. Lastly there are sections which deal with preparation of spice pastes and bread. <br />The key to producing Asian food is in the texture and visual appearance of the food. This book shows the key techniques in food preparation and one is able to use the pictures of the finished food as a guide. It is a very easy book to use.<br />The recipes are all authentic. Some cook books tend to remove some ingredients which might offend the palate of some readers such as chilli, fish sauce and the like but this book does not. <br />The only weakness is that some of the ingredients might be a little hard to find in America. A list of substitutes may have been of assistance.	2000-12-23
2166810:US	52147775	R2CK1DR200CEC6	0691019681	649589095	The Open Society and Its Enemies, Vol. 1: The Spell of Plato	Books	5	25	30	N	N	One of the most important ever books	Popper is famous for attempting to shift philosophy from various idealist systems to one of empiricism. He is famous for suggesting that the basis of the scientific method is the falsification of false theories by empirical analysis. He describes earlier systems such as those of Plato as &quot;essentialist&quot; or such that cannot be disproved by experimentation and thus rejects them.<br />Popper's importance is more than just a philosopher. He is a person who was of the twentieth century and was revolted by the development of totalitarian systems. In his view these systems were the product of &quot;essentialist&quot; philosophical systems or ideologies. He favored pragmatic systems in which ideology could be challenged by his method. This work is a work that is one of the most learned and systematic attacks on ideological systems which has been written in the last hundred years. <br />Despite the difficulty of its content the book is readable and simple. Over half of the book is devoted to footnotes. Its exposition of the Platonic and Marxist systems is learned and erudite. <br />In its time the book has been heavily critiqued by Platonists. Ignore such criticism, this book is one of the most important books to be written in the last hundred years.	2000-12-23
2166870:US	52147775	R1DLHZ80ZZDE4L	155110752X	801628470	The Essential Vegetarian Cookbook	Books	4	13	13	N	N	I thought it was impossible great vegetarian food	This book is one of a series of &quot;Essential&quot; books. This like others in the series is well illustrated and explains in simple terms the cooking techniques for each recipe. There is an introduction which gives an explanation of why it is a good idea to incorporate more vegetarian type dishes into your diet. <br />I am not a vegetarian but my partner is of that persuasion.  I thus eat and cook a large amount of vegetarian food. I would like to say that this book has been a revelation. Most other vegetarian cookbooks tend to have dull flavorless recipes with ingredients chosen on ideological grounds rather than on flavor. For some years I actually gave up on using these sorts of books and made vegetarian food from Indian and Middle Eastern cook books. Those cuisines were able to produce food which would look attractive was interesting to eat and was nutritious. <br />I was given this book as a present and started to go through making a few recipes. Each time I made something it would taste great and was generally not difficult. <br />If you have a vegetarian friend give them a copy of this book it will save you from having to eat flavorless black bean stews and alfalfa sprouts when you drop in to visit them.	2000-12-23
2166891:US	52147775	RBBMTFHMFICSR	0805272917	697671771	The Freudian Slip: Psychoanalysis and Textual Criticism	Books	5	5	10	N	N	Great Hatchet Job	This is now quite and old book but despite that it is one of the most effective and amusing attacks on the Freudian system that has been published. <br />It is an examination of the Freudian work &quot;The Physchopathology of Everyday Life&quot;. Timpanaro is a philologist and he uses the techniques of textual criticism to see if he can come up with other explanations to explain Freud's case studies. He is able to suggest simpler explanations that Freud for each case study. <br />The only weakness of the book is that the writer is a Marxist and his conclusion is written in an within an ideological framework.	2000-12-23
2166937:US	52147775	R2BOLDGCLAUSOP	0689707266	765486538	A Taste of India	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Recipes which are not same old ones	This is a book that was given to me some years ago when I was in India. It is not just a cook book but it conveys a picture of India. The book is broken into sections based on India's main regions. Each chapter has magnificent photo's of those regions and a text which describes the cuisine.<br />Each region then has a series of recipes that are famous. Most Indian cookery books tend to show how to cook the sorts of things that you get in Indian restaurants. Chicken Tandoori, Rogan Josh and so forth. This book has recipes which I have never come across before and most of them are interesting and delightful. A lot of them use a limited range of spices and depend on the mixture of their ingredients to develop subtle and interesting flavors. One recipe that was a revelation was an eggplant (aubergine) dish which was cooked and served cold with a yogurt sauce.<br />I live with a vegetarian and one of the reasons I enjoy such cook books are the variety of vegetarian foods that they contain. This book is by no means devoted to vegetarian food but it contains many such recipes.<br />The recipes are in text form but they are easy to follow. If something unusual has to be done such as the preparation of tamarind, the author explains how to do it in a clear and simple way.<br />Some cook books are things that you have on the shelf simply to prepare food. This book is a little more and gives you a feel for the county which has provided the recipes.	2000-12-23
2167085:US	52147775	R1M2GNQL42G1YF	0231063504	463185427	Let History Judge: The Origins and Consequences of Stalinism	Books	4	8	12	N	N	Passion overwhelms the writing	This book was the first in the Soviet Union to treat Stalin in an objective way. Prior to its release Stalin had been the great hero of the patriotic war the father of the country and so forth. Whilst the secret speech by Krushev  had distanced the country from his system scholarship had not taken the step of subjecting his rule to objective analysis.<br />The author was a person who was an opponent of Stalin and prior to the fall of the regime was active in its criticism.  The book goes through the issues associated with Stalin such as the decision to collectivize agriculture, the  forced industrialization, the terror and the handling of the war. The author forms the view that Stalin was an unmitigated disaster. That is the country would have progressed economically better without him, and his handling of the war was catastrophic. <br />It is a good book to read with other western accounts such as Bullocks.	2000-12-23
2167445:US	52147775	R1I5DO75YYW58Z	0394719484	939946784	A Book of Middle Eastern Food	Books	4	11	14	N	N	A little dated but still a classic	This book is now some 26 years old. Modern cook books have adopted a format which consists of a series of illustrated steps which make it easy to produce food. This book is basically text based although it has some line drawings. This puts it at a bit of a disadvantage when following the recipes and trying to work out how the final result should look.<br />Despite that it has qualities which have become rare in modern cook books. That is it exudes a passion for a cuisine which in the 70's was little known in the west. Each chapter has a narrative which are based on the author's affectionate memories of her time living in the middle east. She relates folk tales and old myths and contemporary stories. Her book had the sort of quality that Elizabeth David's books had. That is she portrayed a cuisine and a style of life that seemed exotic but attractive and which people explored. <br />With the preparation of food when a cook has some experience one tends to alter recipes slightly depending on taste and to achieve the sort of texture and thickness one desired. Thus unlike previous reviewers I have not had many recipes not work although this is to say it might not have happened.<br />This book arrived in Australia about the same time that we started to have significant numbers of migrants from the middle east. It started to sell at the time when Lebanese and Turkish restaurants started to become popular.  It enabled people to make hommos, felafels and flat bread at home.<br />To some extent the work of the book has been done as now most of the food products are available in supermarkets. <br />The acceptance of Middle Eastern Cuisine has enriched Australia. In a time in which all of us are becoming health conscious it allows one to incorporate a range of low fat items into our diet which are rich in vitamins and proteins.<br />This book may be a little dated but it will always remain a classic.	2000-12-22
2168158:US	52147775	RIX9G5QX5PW4Q	0451527100	201213691	The Communist Manifesto (Signet Classics)	Books	5	202	239	N	N	A work of historic significance	I remember reading the Communist Manifesto thirty years ago when I was at University. At the time it seemed tedious and impenetrable. Recently I re-read it and was amazed at how clear it seemed and what an effective piece of propaganda it was and how clear was the writing.<br />Reading through the program one realises the distance that has been travelled since it was written. Some of the major planks are the Abolition of Child Labour, the creation of a progressive income tax and Free Education. <br />Perhaps one of its major weaknesses is that Marx was a person who tended to carry a grudge. Thus a third of it is devoted to attacks on some of his contemporary enemies and rivals. These disputes have so long passed into history they are incomprehensible.<br />The modern notion of Communism of course stems not from Marx but from Stalin and Lenin. Marx wrote at a time when the only democratic country in Europe was France. England, Germany and the Austro-Hungarian Empire all had limited franchises and Russia was of course an autocracy.  One of the major reforms he battled for was the introduction of democracy. It was his belief that the implementation of his program would flow from that. <br />Following Marx's death his movement evolved into a parliamentary movement the Social Democratic Party.  Communism as a modern political phenomena dates from 1917 when splinter Social Democrats followed Russia's lead and developed small conspiratorial parties who were committed to the seizure of power by force. Stalinism is an offshoot of this system and is a form of state terror aimed at ensuring the survival of unpopular anti democratic regimes. <br />Reading through the Manifesto one can see the basis of a system which was not only an effective for mobilising political movements, but came to influence intellectual debate for the next century. There is also perhaps a sense of a naive optimism which could not contemplate the sorts of disasters which were to occur over the next hundred years.	2000-12-21
2172106:US	52147775	RZ864A7Z5Z7JA	0895262754	60439061	The Venona Secrets: Exposing Soviet Espionage and America's Traitors	Books	3	47	60	N	N	Material of historical importance slightly dull book	This is an important book but not necessarily a very readable one. The reason has nothing to do with its authors who are skilled writers and researchers. It relates to the subject matter. <br />During the 50's and 60's the Soviets would use diplomatic bags to pass on stolen security material. This material came from their network of spies. When the Soviets Washington Embassy had material that had been obtained and was sent in the bag, it would send a brief radio message direct to Moscow. That message would contain a brief statement that material was on the way and name the agent through a code name. This material was meant to be sent in a code which was impenetrable. Due to some sloppy practices by the Soviets in using code pads the United States was able to break those codes. <br />Venona is thus the transcripts of a large number of short messages which verify the extent of Soviet spying in the United States. The fragmented nature of the material means that the book is not that fascinating to read. It is not full of the cut and thrust of spying. Further the nature of the material that was sent to the Soviets in unknown. <br />Despite this the book is important as it shows that the American Communist Party was involved in espionage and was not just a political organisation. It further shows that Julius Rosenberg was a Soviet agent and that Alger Hiss most probably was also.	2000-12-18
2172885:US	52147775	RDV8GCLSU3U0J	0300066635	189948442	Battle Tactics of the Western Front: The British Army`s Art of Attack, 1916-18	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Good study of the evolution of infantry tactics	In 1916 the British Army launched a huge attack which was latter to be called the battle of the Somme. After a three day artillery barrage over 50,000 soldiers emerged from their trenches and in parade ground formation walked slowly towards the German lines. Unfortunately the artillery barrage had used low calibre shells and as a result the German defenders were unharmed. As the British approached the Germans leaped from their dugouts and started to fire using all the modern weapons of war they had available on the slowly advancing British. The slow movement and concentration meant that within a short time 50,000 men were either killed or wounded. <br />Since that battle most historians writing about the first world war have been little less than contemptuous of the British Military leadership in the first World War. Following the war, memoirs of individual soldiers have described accurately the horror of life in the trenches. Books such as In Flanders Fields and the Donkey's have ridiculed the military ability of Sir Douglas Haig the British Commander in Chief. <br />This book is an attempt to balance the impression which has been created of the British Officer Class as a number of ill informed Dodo's who had a callous disregard for the lives of their men. It examines in detail the battle tactics of the British at Squad and Battalion level. It shows that instead of the army developing a head in the sand attitude to the disasters which were befalling it that most officers were keen to innovate. <br />During the war a number of innovations were developed by the British prior to the use of the tank the innovation most people are familiar with. These included the Lewis Gun (a movable light machine gun) trench mortars and Mills bombs (hand grenades). One of the strengths of this book is that it shows that these developments were noted by British Officers and quickly used. <br />Mortars and Grenades became vital in attacks. The Lewis Gun became important not only in suppressing enemy fire but in holding newly won ground against counter attacks. <br />In fact if one looks at the first World War it is clear that both sides were innovating all the time. After the initial Somme Battles the Germans rejected the use of defensive trench systems in favour of machine gun posts and pill boxes. They then save there infantry for counter attacks. The British and French in turn had to alter there tactics to using artillery as a means of allowing there troops to approach enemy positions instead of expecting it destroy them. In addition the British succesfully used mines burried under the German positions to considerable effect.  <br />All in all the book is interesting and adds to our understanding of the First World War a conflict which in the past has been over schematised.	2000-12-17
2173246:US	52147775	R29EEVSIZJRMKM	0688042686	780375891	Barbarossa: The Russian-German Conflict, 1941-45	Books	3	49	56	N	N	Readable but dated	Alan Clark is a former Conservative British member of parliament who is now more famous for publishing a tell all series of diaries which are both witty and iconoclastic. Barbarossa is a book he wrote in the early sixties and is a history of the Nazi invasion of Russia.<br />The book is a good narrative history of the campaign and one can learn about the ebbs and flows of the military strength of both sides and the key events. The book is now a little dated and probably the best one volume history is When Titans Clashed: How the Red Army stopped Hitler by David Glanz.<br />The reason why it is dated relates to the partial opening of the former Soviet Archives which now allow for a better understanding of what happened. One example of this is the Mars operation, an attack which was launched on Army Group Centre by General Zhukov at the same time as operation Saturn the attack on the Sixth Army at Stalingrad. Operation Mars was a complete disaster. An initial penetration was cut off and the Soviets lost 200,000 men.  After the war Zhukov covered up this failure for reasons of pure vanity. Clark in his history accepts the disinformation which was put out by Zhukov that it was a feint attack to prevent Army Group Centre reinforcing the Sixth Army. <br />Other material has led to modern historians having a better understanding of the Stalingrad campaigns and the Battle of Kursk. In the past there has been a considerable debate about whether Paulus should have broken out from the Stalingrad encirclement. Glanz has shown that this was not a realistic possibility as the Sixth Army was only supplied on a shoe string and had low stocks of ammunition and petrol prior to the Soviet attack. <br />Despite all of this Clarks book is interesting. As most people would be aware after the war the German Generals in their memoirs tried to deflect blame from themselves onto Hitler. Clark was one of the first writers to come to a more objective analysis of Hitler's role. (Although ironically this could be for the wrong reasons. In his diaries he confesses to being sympathetic to the Nazis.)	2000-12-17
2174864:US	52147775	R20ISKX7R5MEPH	0712667482	457040108	Bible in History	Books	1	7	33	N	N	Dreadfull will be hated by Christians and Atheists alike	This is a disappointing and tedious book. This book markets itself as an expose that there was no real link between the history of Israel and the &quot;historical account&quot; of the Old Testament. <br />The author asserts that archeology suggests that it is not possible to prove if there was a King David of Israel, if Saul or Solomon existed. Further it would seem that there were no such people as the Philistines, and that Palestine was never invaded by a desert people as would be consistent with the story of Joshua and the return to the Holy Land. It should be noted that these assertions are not footnoted and one is left wondering the basis for the suggestion.<br />The author of this book goes on to say that the bible stories are not meant to tell history but rather they are sorts of aphorisms or wordplays. Thus Abraham is a word which means father of nations. He was not a real person but a literary device. David means beloved and he was a concept rather than a real person. <br />To illustrate this theory by one of the stories discussed in this book.  In the Bible David and Saul have a falling out. Saul leads an army to capture David. At one point David is hiding in a cave and Saul enters. David could have killed Saul but instead secretly cuts a small piece of cloth from his robe. Later he tells Saul that he could have killed him and gives him a piece of the robe. All is forgiven and David later ascends the throne. The author however sees this story in a different light. The word for a small piece of robe is similar to that of penis. What the story suggests is that David has castrated Saul or that the story has been invented as a pun rather than describing an incident. Nowadays some comedians' routines are based on making jokes about farting or other bodily functions.  To suggest that the writers of the bible were comedians writing ancient penis jokes is not credible. It is far easier to see the story as illustrating David as a heroic and cunning warrior. <br />This sort of attack on the bible is not going to convince anyone. It is effectively a post-modernist look at the bible. That is a series of endless word games rather than an examination of issues of substance. If one looks at the book it has no bibliography and the author only cites biblical texts rather than other archeological or historical works. The suggestions about archeology are not attributed. <br />Religious believers will be infuriated by this book non-believers will be irritated. It is the sort of &quot;academic&quot; work that led to criticism of that genre. Not worth the money.	2000-12-15
2175252:US	52147775	R2L5XOPY7VVO3E	0809093251	478948214	The Third Reich: A New History	Books	5	21	25	N	N	Chilling	This is a fascinating although strange book. Most authors tend to try to have a certain distance from their subjects and to write in dispassionate terms. Burleigh holds nothing back for instance calling Himler a \\"sanctimonious creep\\" During the narrative he comments that most empires no matter how flawed have some positive aspect. They may have art or a form of laws or administration. The Nazi empire however has nothing and its only monuments are some concrete fortifications on the coats of France which are difficult to destroy and some old fragile wooden camps surrounded by barbed wire which are in danger of disintegrating but are kept preserved to show the bestiality of the regime which spawned them. <br />The book again discusses the Nazi's rise to power. The critical element of this was a desire by the right in Germany to destroy democracy for ever. The Nazi's were going to be their tool. They thought that Hitler would be an easy mark. An agreement was made so that the old style non Nazi conservatives would have the majority of cabinet posts. The Enabling act would end the need for a legislature and as a result they would never have to deal with the Social Democrats again. <br />Once Democracy was destroyed the Nazi's never ever again called cabinet meetings so that the conservatives were never able to exercise power. As they had been part of the destruction of democracy there was no way of going back or undoing the bargain that they had made. <br />Hitler was able to buy off the army by killing the leading SA members in the night of the long knives. The expansion of the army through the 30's and the  acquisition of new equipment wedded the army to the regime. In 1938 some scandals with senior army officers allowed Hitler to put in a weak commander in chief and prevented the army from challenging his power. In the 40's the army had become a partner in the Nazi's murderous policies in the Soviet Union and were wedded to the regime.<br />The Nazi's corrupted mostof the German elites in a similar way. With the public service, academics, the legal and medical profession they forced out Jewish people. Other members of the profession were eager to take over the jobs taken by the expulsion of the Jews. These professions were thus corrupted and became committed to the system. <br />The Nazi's created a series of private non state organisations parallel to the organs of state. Thus the police organ the Gestapo was a Nazi organisation as was the SS. Perhaps the most important was welfare and social security. The provision of welfare was made a private Nazi prerogative and as a result \\"undesirables\\" could be denied the assistance of the state. <br />Burleigh continually shows examples of how bullying tactics by the SA and other Nazi thugs were used to keep judges, priests and bureaucrats in line. Such thuggery was of course condoned by police agencies. <br />Buerleigh also points to the eduction system and shows how physical education was given priority over academic subjects and it is his belief that Germany \\"dumbned down\\" during the Nazi period.<br />Apart from the question of the pure horror of the regimes policies they were hopeless and ineffective. During the war most of the Germans war effort came from Germany and France. The occupied Soviet Union produced little and in fact in terms of revenue had to be subsidised from the Reich. The racial policies led to the murder of and displacement of so many millions of people that areas such as the Ukraine which prior to the war had huge outputs of coal and iron produced virtually nothing. In the first year of operation Barabrossa the  Germans captured some 3million Soviet prisoners who were starved to death. This did not include the millions of Jews and Poles who were killed in the same period. Apart from the shear horror of such policies they were moronic in the context of Germany's attempts to utilise such economies for there war effort. <br />This book also puts to rest any theories of the Holocaust deniers. (If such theories were not already so without substance that they do not require answering) It is clear that the murder of the Jewish population was widespread officially sanctioned and not the result of some dreadful accident of people being put in put in crowded camps. Burleigh traces the mad ideology of racial hatred and the growth of shooting, the use of mobile extermination vans and the many other methods used to carry out the Holocaust. <br />All in all not a wonderful book as the subject matter is grim but a fascinating record of the obscenity of Nazism.	2000-12-15
2176628:US	52147775	R1JJUSPDNDYZ68	0198202164	532827417	Callaghan: A Life	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Readable but lacks drama and context	Callaghan was in some ways a pivotal political figure. He not only lead the Labour party to a critical defeat which not only saw the conservatives dominate Britain for a record period but his loss of office led to the destruction of everything he stood for. That is the union movement, Britain's place as a manufacturing nation and the notion of the labour party being a working class movement. <br />The writer of the book has been absorbed by Callaghan's career and has come to like him (as did most of the British Electorate). His biography thus lacks a sense of the tragedy of Callaghan's life and the failure of his Prime Minister Ship and the desolation which resulted. <br />Instead we get a picture of a man on the right of the labour movement who was a decent man and tried in his political career to stand for what he thought was right.  <br />A readable biography which looks to much at the man and perhaps not enough at the political context.	2000-12-14
2180142:US	52147775	R2N1ZCJRMMHI73	0312205511	724985102	Ice Station	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Good mindless escapism	The author of this book is in some ways a fascinating character. He loved action adventure movies such as Star Wars. He realized that in any film there are limits. You can do so much with special effects, you have so much budget. With a book though there are no limits. It was his ambition to write books that are like the most high produced action moves ever made. He wasn't able to get his first book &quot;Contest&quot; published so that he published it himself. That book became something of an icon and will be republished soon. Ice Station is his second book. <br />As a read it is hard to put down. It contains non-stop action set in Antarctica. The main hero is an American Marine squad leader who with a band of colorful characters rather like a 1940's war movie has to battle killer whales, mutant walruses. French and British Commandos. <br />One of the interesting things about the book is that it does not fall into the pattern of using one of the normal run of &quot;bad guys&quot; which tend to be Arabs or Colombian drug lords. The opposition comes from counties normally in the American alliance. Reilly's next book was a little disappointing as it was set in a historical period and the various inaccuracies and plot devices became a bit more apparent. <br />This book on the other hand being set in Antarctica can be read with minimal reality jarring. It is a masterwork in the category of books to read when you need to make time go such as when you are on a plane or a bus and you are looking for pure entertainment.	2000-12-11
2183222:US	52147775	R1BYXA0F8SQBN7	0140288503	189891237	Black Hawk Down: A Story of Modern War	Books	3	7	20	N	N	Readable but not objective	The book is about an incident in the peacekeeping mission of the US forces in Somalia. In broad outline a number of elite soldiers a ranger force attempted to kidnap some Somali civilians....<br />From reading this book one gets the impression that the whole exercise was deeply flawed. The rangers did not seem to be able to connect with the local population at all dismissing them as &quot;Skinnies&quot;. The Rangers described a small gauge German automatic pistol not as a pistol, but as a &quot;Skinnie Popper&quot;.  The story the Rangers tell is of an adventure in which the enemy is hardly human more like aliens in a science fiction movie. This is despite the fact that the US had been in Somalia for some 10 months. One wonders what was meant to be achieved by the kidnap of individual leaders. The reality seemed to have been that Somalia had fragmented and that there was no defined single opposition to the peacekeepers, rather there was a myriad of factions. One would have thought that if the Rangers had succeeded in their kidnap it would not have ended the conflict as another rebel group would have sprung up.<br />One also wonders about the military logic of landing people from helicopters in urban areas remote from support when the local population were equipped with hand held rocket launchers. This sort of incident was surely the sort of thing that was likely to happen.<br />The author interviewed some of the Somali's including a member of Adid's faction and another who he describes as a mercenary. The first describes how previous raids by the Americans had not been well directed and led to civilian deaths. This made it easy for Adid to demonize the Americans and to make resistance to them popular. The second Somali describes his own role but it is not clear if the resistance was organized or largely spontaneous.  Most of the book however relates to the American side of things.  Occasionally the author has his Somali informants speak not as normal people speak but has them doing sons of the desert imitations. He has his informants saying things like &quot;they dropped from the great birds in the sky&quot; rather than using normal expressions. Other language by the Rangers is reasonably derogatory of the Somali's speaking of firing at &quot;swarms of excited skinnies&quot;. <br />This incident in fact would objectively be seen as a big victory for General Adid . Against well led highly trained troops a number of poorly armed civilians have defeated a major power and forced them off the African continent. This view of things the author fails to pick up on till the very end of his book. One would be interested to see how Aidid was able to mobilize support when the country was collapsing but this the author does not explore. One also wonders at what the leaders of the Rangers were trying to do and if they thought through their strategy. The impression the book gives is that the Rangers and their leaders lived in a boys own type adventure and had little comprehension of the complexity of the real world.Despite that they are clearly disciplined and brave men. It seems that their leaders were poorly equipped to undertake such a mission and the one person who comes out of the story with some positives is President Clinton who realizes when to cut his losses and get out.<br />Despite all this the book is gripping and easy to read.	2000-12-08
2183254:US	52147775	R97A6DCCV9ZA4	0156007819	919236623	Eucalyptus: A Novel	Books	1	13	22	N	N	Tedious	This book is simply painful nonsense. A man demands that his daughter's suitors identify large numbers of trees on his farming property before one of them can win her hand. Many suitors turn up and fail in their task. The woman in question is said to have her face covered in black moles yet her beauty attracts men from as far away as New Zealand. At the climax (this word is used loosely) of the book one man is able to slowly reveal the names of the trees. At a the same time a tedious bore tells thousands of stories so lacking in interest and punch lines that any reader must be tempted to gnaw his arm of because of pure boredom. <br />The book seems to be set in the fifties as some of the characters have been through the Second World War. Even in the fifties country girls wouldn't allow their father to sell them of in an arranged marriage. No father would be so obsessed with trees that he would see it as the true indication of the man for his girl. In fact one would imagine that some medical professionals would be willing to put the father in a small hospital to rest and receive medical treatment.<br />The characters in the book are all two-dimensional and have no connection with reality. None of them talk about what normal people talk about, that is their jobs their aspirations their football teams or the latest film they have seen. Instead they tell stories. The father is meant to be some sort of farmer. Anyone who knows farmers knows that their jobs are backbreaking and time consuming. That most of their conversation and interest is in their work. With this character it is impossible to work out what he does or what sort of farm it is. He is a creation of a city living person who has no knowledge of the reality of farm life.<br />The book is meant to be a fable. However most fables have characters in them that at least have some contact with reality. They have passions aspirations feel greed jealously. The characters in this book are simply pale poorly observed stereotypes of an author who sees people in a superficial way and from a great distance. Give it a miss, god knows how it won and award.	2000-12-08
2183523:US	52147775	R26A6ZZXHYD09J	067977338X	92351517	Perjury: The Hiss-Chambers Case	Books	3	5	14	N	Y	Good but a bit long winded	What was this all about? In July 1948 the Democrats had controlled the White House for sixteen years. In the previous elections the Republicans had gained control of Congress, this allowed them to dominate the various committees. One committee the House Committee on Un-American Activities had some success in the previous year inditing some Hollywood identities over communist based issues. It now hoped to be able to find some links between the communist party and government as a further way of advancing the Republican Cause. That is by showing that the &quot;liberals&quot; and the communists were hand in hand, it would be possible to discredit the Truman administration. <br />Whittaker Chambers of journalist who was a self-confessed communist was called to give evidence about his associates when he had been in the party some ten years earlier. In evidence he named Alger Hiss as a fellow communist. Hiss had been an important bureaucrat at one time having a role in organizing the Yalta talks and after that organizing the United Nations. By 1948 he had been eased out of government because of security concerns but he was the head of the Carnegie Foundation a prestigious position. If it could be proven that he was a communist then it was something that would embarrass the Truman administration..... <br />The main attraction of the book is that it is written at some distance from the events. The main problem that it has is rather than telling the story in a brief succinct way it attempts to develop an epic by interweaving the biographies of Chambers and Hiss into the narrative to illustrate something or rather. Thus it tends to go on and on at some points with grand points illustrated by colorful literary outpourings rather than focusing on the legal issues and the political context. An account of the trial and evidence would have taken about half the length.	2000-12-08
2186374:US	52147775	RKQ7Q5ERKV89S	0060930535	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Best novel I have read in years	The book is about Nathan a damaged man. During the war Nathan was a marine and he suffered an injury during the Philippines campaign. His injury meant that he was hospitalised and thus saved from the Bataan Death March something he irrationally blames himself for. To overcome his guilt he becomes a missionary to the Belgian Congo, not for the Baptist Church of which he is a member but as part of the Belgian missionary structure. The coming independence for the Congo has made it hard for the Belgians to find missionaries.  <br />Nathan's inner demons prevent him understanding or coming to grips with the world and the village in which he preaches. His predecessor was a Catholic Priest who unlike Nathan studied the people in the village and got to know the villagers as friends. One of the unforgettable scenes in the novel is when this former priest returns and talks to Nathan's wife and daughters. He reveals the village head not as a caricature sitting in front of his house wearing glass frames without lenses, a figure of fun, but as a responsible man who tries to run the village in a fair way and to deal with the issues faced by its people. The local witch doctor  is a compassionate wise man who listens to the woes of the villagers and tries to help them by giving sensible advice. In fact the witch doctor feels sorry for Nathan and has a far greater understanding of him as a man than Nathan has of any of the villagers. The Catholic priest unlike Nathan tried to work out the way of the village and to develop a bond with each member. Because he was able to reduce the incidence of wife beating he became popular with the women of the village and made converts.<br />To Nathan the natives are savages not humans and he can only rave at them. A few people come to his services they are the people who are shunned by the village such as lepers. Nathan has no idea of why even these people come. He just has a sense of failure, something he can't understand as his faith suggests that he should be successfully. <br />The mechanics of the book are to have the narrative carried by the wife and daughters of Nathan. The interlocking narrative gradually gives us a picture of the village and the reason for Nathan's failure and his growing madness. As he descends further into his own selfish world his family are left behind to suffer more and more as they are left in a world that is disintegrating. The only possible critism of this book is that the stories of the daughters is perhaps a little unrealistic as they are so perceptive. This however is the most minor of critisms.<br />I have never read anything by this writer before but the writing seems effortless and the intelligence and grasp of the real world is amazing. It is also pleasing to see a novel written about something important rather than the sensibilities of the middle class.	2000-12-06
2188089:US	52147775	R7B7I5Y9L2SWL	0575057955	27456315	The Demjanjuk Affair: The Rise and Fall of a Show-trial	Books	5	16	17	N	N	High quality and instructive	John Demanjuk was his the headlines when he was stripped of his citizenship and sent from America to Israel to stand trial for war crimes. It was thought that he was a prison guard known as \\"Ivan the Terrrible.\\" This is the story of his trial and the appeals which followed it. <br />The writer is a Israeli Lawyer who had considerable experience in the use of identification evidence. He volunteered to assist with the representation of Demanjuk. Another lawyer from America had the major role in the trial. <br />The author is a man of considerable personal and moral courage. His decision to represent Demanjuk led to him being criticised heavily and he was also seriously assaulted. In this assault acid was thrown in his face and as a result he suffered permanent eye damage.<br />At trial Demanjuk was found guilty despite the strength of evidence being highly questionable. The author however was not satisfied with this outcome and went to Russia to research material to establish the innocence of his client. <br />This research showed clearly that the real \\"Ivan the Terrible\\" had died during the war . This occurred when prisoners rebelled and killed him. It was thus clear that not only was the evidence against Demanjuk questionable, but in reality he was clearly innocent. <br />Despite this the Israeli appeal court kept him in custody for some time deciding if it would find him guilty of an alternate charge of being a concentration camp guard at another camp. This was despite the fact that such a decision would have been questionable due to the nature of the extradition proceedings. <br />The book is not only the product of a brave and skilled lawyer it is a valuable illustration of the sorts of reasons why court cases can go wrong and the innocent punished. Highly recommended.	2000-12-04
2188224:US	52147775	R2FJCDGJ317V7U	9810081251	971123852	Snaring the Other Tiger	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Another example of justice going off the rails	The behavior of the Japanese was so appalling during the war that there was immense pressure for them to be punished for what had happened. The desire for retribution created questionable decisions in a number of cases. General Tomoyuki Yamahsita had conquered Malaya and was one of Japans more successful military leaders. Late in the war he was responsible for the defense of the Philippines. The reason he was put on trial and executed related to the treatment of Phillipino civilians prior to the siege of Manilla. Detachment of Marines under his command raped and killed large numbers of innocent civilians before fighting a bloody Defence of the city. The incident was a horrendous one but the reality was complex. Yamahsita had decided that the best way to resist the American forces which had superiority in tanks and aircraft was to retreat to the hills in North Luzon and to fight a guerilla war. He ordered his units to carry out those orders but the marine units in Manilla rebelled and declared that they wanted to fight for the capital. In there view a retreat would lead to a loss of honor. <br />At his trial these facts were not in dispute. Yamahsita however was convicted and sentenced to death. The rational was that as the commander of the Philippines he had a responsibility for all of the units nominally under his command. This extended to rebellious units who were defying his command. His execution has been viewed by Japan as a miscarriage of justice and an example of judicial murder. <br />Ian Ward has written a book about the trial of General Takuma Nishimura the most highly ranked Japanese officer tried by Australia. It suggests that again justice may have miscarried.  <br />The background to the incident is that of the Parit Sulong Massacre. On January 22 1942 units of the Australian 8th Division retreated from Parit Sulong leaving in a hospital some 150 badly injured men. What happened was that Japanese soldiers dragged these 150 men from their hospital. Theywere then shot some who survived the bullets were bound with fencing had petrol poured on them and set them alight. One man Lt Ben Hackney escaped as he had not been tied to the others but was later recapturec.  During his captivity Hackney decided that the perpetuators of this act should be brought to justice. Other prisoners suggested that he write down what had happened so that he would be able to give evidence after the war. His memory of the incident was that a high ranking Japanese General had spoken to the men who carried out the massacre directly prior to the incident and he assumed that he was responsible for giving the order. That man was identified as General Nishumura. <br />The trial came down to a simple question. Had General Nishumura ordered the death of the captives or had it been an un-authorized act carried out by some of his subordinates.  The prosecuting authority did not call witnesses but relied on depositions. The Defence simply called Nishumura who gave evidence that he had not made any orders for the prisoners deaths. The case was finished within a day and was something of a record for a capital case.  As the subordinate officers were not called they could not be cross examined. <br />In a case such as this there would normally would have been considerable cross examination. It was the practice in these sorts of trials to give a considerable sentencing discount to such witnesses for instance in this case they would avoided the death penalty. Witnesses have a lot of reasons to lie and to implicate others.<br />The author of the book however raises further material of relevance. The investigation of this case was Captain Godwin. Godwin had been a prisoner of war and during his confinement had been tortured and starved. He lost 75% of his body weight when a prisoner. It seemed that he developed considerable hatred for his captors as a result. <br />He prepared the case against Nishumura. During his investigation he came across Lt Seizaburo Fujita. Fujita freely admitted to being the officer who ordered the deaths of the Australian prisoners. He was not arrested and it would seem clear that the interrogation of Fujita was poor and carried out in such a way to ensure finding material that implicated Nishumura rather than looked at the case objectively. The statement taken from him appeared short and coached. Other material he gathered appeared to have been summarized and edited to remove important discrepancies between witness statements. Further stole a document from the Japanese archive to stop it going into evidence. It was a Japanese report by the officer who carried out the massacre that to some extent assisted the Defence case. <br />The Defence in Australian war crimes trials was provided by Japanese Civil Lawyers who had limited experience in criminal trials no knowledge of Australian Law and whose living arrangements made it difficult for them to consult with other lawyers. (They were detained as prisoners)<br />After Nishumura was was found guilty he was sentenced to death. His lawyers then returned to Japan and interviewed the witnesses who had given the depositions which had resulted in conviction. All of them said that Godwin in taking the depositions had told them what he wanted them to say and made threats that they would be arrested if they did not say the right thing. Affidavits from these witnesses were not successful in getting a retrial. Clearly if the lawyers representing Nishumura had been able to prepare the trial properly by obtaining this evidence prior to the trial the outcome would have been different. <br />Ironically one of the Tribunal members who heard Nishumura's case was hospitalized immediately after the hearing. It would seem that he was probably insane during the proceedings. <br />All in all if the author is correct this trial is one that brings no credit on Australia.	2000-12-04
2191255:US	52147775	RXPRKAS33COLS	042516098X	71891417	Hornet's Nest (Andy Brazil)	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Not up to her usual high standard	Patricia Cornewell made her reputation of a series of murder mysteries featuring a medical examiner Fay Scarpata. These books were dark and brooding and had a sense of realism no doubt because they were. Cornwell worked in a medical examiners office and would have had access to the mechanics of autopsies and murder investigations. <br />Her earlier books were not only good to read but were important. They were part of a wave of detective novels which lifted women from decorative parts to being at the centre of the action and in control of events.<br />This book is a departure from these books and does not use Scarpata as a character. The book also a different style of narrative and tries to blend humor into the story telling. There is one central mystery that, of yet another serial killer. Despite this the book has a fragmented narrative structure. That structure deals with the lives of three characters, two high ranking female police officers in their forties and the other a young male journalist who plays the role once reserved for females. That is a Mills and Boon love interest who has the main characters having their blood pressure increased with sexual passion.  The stories move around and interconnect and involve a sort of buddy relationship between the journalist and one of the police officers. The plot mechanics are that the journalist is assigned to cover the beat. There are early disagreements but over time they develop help each other and develop a relationship. One can imagine that the book was written with a film deal in mind.<br />The books is not nearly as good as the Cornwell's earlier efforts. The humor is particularly painful. For example there is one courtroom scene in which a judge called Bovine enters with her herd. (Bovine means cow get it yuk yuk a pun) The police want a certain outcome and are able to do it by keeping the judge on the bench when she wants to urinate. She becomes upset and does what they want. Cornwell's other books at no point attempt to be light hearted and this book struggles when it tries to be light hearted. <br />Crime novels generally tend to be right wing. The reason for it is relates to the mechanics of plot construction. Authors want people to cheer for the main characters who are the police or detectives who solve the crime. Criminals are painted in a way to lessen any sympathy for them and to get the reader cheering for the police. <br />Whilst one can understand that this underlies the structure of any crime novel, there is often a variation in the realism portrayed. Some of them will speak about some of the real issues the poverty and despair in areas in which crime occurs, police corruption and incompetence.  Other novels tend to have the realism of a Batman comic.  This novel tends to fall more into the Batman comic class presenting a simple message with simply drawn evil villains. <br />Despite all this it is an easy book to read and ideal for plane and bus trips. My daughter loved it.	2000-12-01
2191700:US	52147775	R3639VI97A97W2	0674885252	168947879	Thomas More: A Biography	Books	4	5	15	N	N	Readable and fair	Thomas More is mainly of interest to Catholic historians he was made a saint in the 19th century some three hundred years after he died. He briefly became a broader symbol of civic courage due to the success of Robert Bolts play a Man for all Seasons. For some years Bolts play was on school syllabuses and it was also made into two films. Nowadays Bolts play comes across as somewhat dated and More has drifted into obscurity.<br />The writer of this book is a Catholic and is sympathetic to Moore. Never the less his work is one of the better written as he looks at the warts as well as the virtues of his hero. More was and important political figure being a Member of Parliament and the Chancellor in the Government of Henry the Eighth.<br />During his time of power he was involved in the persecution of religious dissent and was responsible for preventing the importation of bible into England.( At the time it was also illegal for people to read the bible in English.) Some writers have suggested that Moore had instruments of torture in his house and oversaw personally the examination under torture of some Lutherans. Moore also wrote extensively condemning religious dissent and these writings evidence a passion that almost suggested an unbalanced mind. Marius discusses these issues which have been put in the background by other writers and were not mentioned in Bolts play.<br />His discussion of the trial and scandal over the death of Richard Hunne is first class. Richard Hunne was a dissenter who took court action to prevent the payment of a church tax. He was arrested by a Catholic bishop and died in circumstances which suggested that he had been murdered. At the time the death was the talk of London and created tremendous sympathy for the dissenters. Moore in his writings attempted to cover up the incident and it is to Marius's credit and integrity as an author that he shows that this was little more than propaganda.<br />Marius never the less admires Moores decision notto take the oath of royal supremacy. It was this that led to his death. Despite this the book is one of the finest and most thought provoking lives of Moore.	2000-12-01
2195393:US	52147775	R2YKVAPNW2OCH6	0394747909	190968724	Huey Long	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	Great Political Biography	This is a fascinating book about a controversial political figure who is now probably largely forgotten. Huey Long was a politician from Louisiana. He initially trained as a lawyer and although young he had a remarkable record in that profession. He then won election to a regulatory commission and used it as a stepping stone to being governor of the state. Prior to Long the regulatory commission had done little but he attempted to use it as a means of increasing state revenue and controlling big companies. He was able to turn it into an effective body despite only being in his twenties when gaining a position on it.<br />Long was seen at the time as a populist and a radical.  The issues he fought for however would now seem main stream. He was elected on a platform of providing free schoolbooks to children and in surfacing the states roads. (At the time he was elected only some 600 miles of Louisiana's' roads were surfaced.) Other projects he was involved in were the construction of bridges in especially to allow commercial access to New Orleans the upgrading of its port and the provision of natural gas to city dwellers. In addition he also spent funds on education and opened a medical school to increase the number of available medical practitioners. One of his achievements was to expand University Placements in such a way that poorer students would have access to higher education.<br />His interest in education extended to attempts to provide equality of opportunity in public schools. The quality of education varied from district to district and he set up an equalization fund in an attempt to overcome the problem. He also set up adult literacy classes and reduced adult literacy amongst both white and Afro-Americans substantially.<br />During the depression he kept highway constructions projects going and these employed large numbers of people. He also personally intervened to protect banks from closing and Louisiana only lost seven banks in the period a very low number.<br />A range of these projects required revenue. Louisiana was at the time when he became governor a state with a very small revenue base. Long started to expand the revenue base by using regulatory powers to tax mineral extraction and goods movement. His changes led to the richer paying more tax.  Prior to his time most income came from a regressive property tax. During his period of government expenditure doubled as the state took on responsibility for infrastructure.<br />As a result Long was strongly opposed by the political establishment of the state. During his first term he was the subject of an impeachment hearing. It also seemed that some business channeled large sums of money into the hands of his opponents. He was vilified in the press and subject to two inquires when he was elected to the senate.<br />Often radical politicians know little about the reality of power and its dynamics. They are elected to power and have little understanding of the opposition that they will face and hope that the utterance of a few cliches will not lead to the passing of a program or solid achievement. They assume that decency will be met by decency and are often disappointed. Long however was an absolute realist and from the moment of starting a political career he realized that he had to create a power base and to destroy the old power structures of his state. Prior to Long Louisiana was part of the old democratic South. It was a one party state controlled basically by a wealthy elite in New Orleans. Their view of the role of government was keeping the Negro's out of the system and not taxing big companies.<br />Long destroyed this group and built his own political machine. This was not easy and he had to fight every inch of the way against entrenched interests. He had amazing political toughness.<br />Towards the end of his life he was elected to the senate and was attempting to develop a radical movement so that he could become president. His platform was &quot;share out wealth&quot;. He wanted to limit individual personal wealth to $1m and to redistribute sums above that amount to the poorer members of society. This was his means of dealing with the depression.  He was assassinated in 1935 and if he had not been killed he might have either won the presidential election in 1936 or else split the vote ensuring a republican victory.<br />The book is quite long being over 800 pages but is easy to read. Some of the material is hilarious. For example in the 30's it seemed that one of New Orleans major banks might collapse due to rumors about its financial status. Long organized a bail out package from President Roosevelt. The problem was that there would the time interval of a day before the money would arrive. Long decided that the only way out was to declare a holiday so that the bank could close for a day prior to the money arriving. The only problem was that the day in question the 4th of February was an unremarkable day in American History. He had historians from a local university up all night trying to find some event to celebrate on this proposed holiday. At last they found that President Wilson had broken diplomatic relations with Germany on that day some 17 years ago. The holiday was proclaimed and the bank was saved.<br />The book is fascinating and it is about a remarkable figure who towered like a colossus in the history of his state. It is also a book about the reality of political power and is illustrative of how hard vested interests will fight to prevent political change.ot;share out wealth&quot;. He wanted to limit individual personal wealth to $1m and to redistribute sums above that amount to the poorer members of society. This was his means of dealing with the depression.  He was assassinated in 1935 and if he had not been killed he might have either won the presidential election in 1936 or else split the vote ensuring a republican victory.  <br />The book is quite long being over 800 pages but is easy to read. Some of the material is hilarious. For example in the 30's it seemed that one of New Orleans major banks might collapse due to rumors about its financial status. Long organized a bail out package from President Roosevelt. The problem was that there would the time interval of a day before the money would arrive. Long decided that the only way out was to declare a holiday so that the bank could close for a day prior to the money arriving. The only problem was that the day in question the 4th of February was an unremarkable day in American History. He had historians from a local university up all night trying to find some event to celebrate on this proposed holiday. At last they found that President Wilson had broken diplomatic relations with Germany on that day some 17 years ago. The holiday was proclaimed and the bank was saved.<br />The book is fascinating and it is about a remarkable figure who towered like a colossus in the history of his state. It is also a book about the reality of political power and is illustrative of how hard vested interests will fight to prevent political change.	2000-11-28
2200683:US	52147775	R25X8M6PT1KT5X	0521336708	550848579	The European Miracle: Environments, Economies and Geopolitics in the History of Europe and Asia	Books	2	23	41	N	N	Interesting but not great	A sort of precursor to the brilliant book Guns Germs and Steel by Diamond. This book is by an Australian academic E.L.Jones. It seeks to explain why Europe a backward area of the world in the 1300's came to be the strongest by the 19th Century.<br />The weakness of the book is that it tends to generalize and talk about Europe as a whole. The author makes the interesting point that Asian and Islamic Civilizations although militarily powerful were not economically advanced. The wealth of individual peasants was low and the concentration of wealth in the autocratic rulers of such places was made possible because of a wide base of oppressed peasants. Europe although starting out from a poorer base had in general terms more affluent peasants and its countries were better able to take advantage of economic growth when the technologies came along.<br />In trying to explain why this was so the author looks at a wide range of factors. It would take a long time to list them but there is a lengthy examination of a wide range of factors including the absence of parasites because of the colder climate in Europe and the greater political freedom.<br />The problem is that Europe was not really a uniform entity. Different bits of Europe advanced and became wealthy for different reasons. England and the Netherlands developed extensive trade empires that made both countries very wealthy before the technological developments of the industrial revolution.  Russia although backward was a country that expanded and from the time of Peter the Great increased its dominion by conquering a land based empire.<br />Contemporaries had no doubt for the success of these countries. They believed that the acquisition of territorial empires provided a basis of wealth for the home country. For this reason countries as diverse as Germany, Japan and the United States started to acquire empires by the late 19th and early 20th centuries.  The reason for the success of the various European countries varied. Russia built up an autocratic state aimed at being able to field a large army. This was done by Peter the Great who changed the entire social system of land ownership to create obligations for military service. In England the acquisition of a maritime empire led to a strong fleet and a strong merchant class.<br />It is thus hard to put down the success of Europe to any common causes. Each European Country was dynamic and each developed different systems the more successful of which generated wealth and power. The less successful such as Poland were absorbed by the more successful.<br />Whilst the book is not perfect it is an interesting read. However Guns Germs and Steel is the best book on the topic.	2000-11-23
2202141:US	52147775	R3IE1O1N09S9VW	0679729453	933385853	The Path to Power (The Years of Lyndon Johnson, Volume 1)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Best Biography ever	This is the best biography that I have ever read. It covers Lydon Johnson's early life up to his decision to enlist in 1941after losing an election for the senate in Texas. The portrait of Johnson could be called a warts and all portrait all thought it consists mainly of warts. The author has spoken to everyone who knew Johnson and has not hesitated in recording every negative thing that he ever did. The book outlines his boasting as a young man, his unctuousness and his greed and ambition. <br />The story of the young Johnson is very much like the movie &quot;Revenge of the Nerds&quot;. He was a person who was ungainly and in the normal course of things a person who would be rejected by most people. Through hard work and greasing he forged a political career. <br />The book however is not only about him. It is a portrait of politics in Texas at the time of his growing up. The book is full of rich characters such as &quot;Pappy O'Daniel&quot; who started out as a country singer and went on to become a governor after the success of his radio show. The description of the normal farm tasks carried out by women prior to electrification and  the importance of electricity in improving  the daily life of ordinary people is one of the most moving and impressive that has been written. <br />This book reads like and a novel and you can't put it down. It is also strange that Johnson a person who appears to be totally without principal or moral character is the President who made the most courageous decision of any presidents. He ended the Jim Crow system in the south, something which led to the end of democratic domination in that area and the rise of the republicans. It was a decision which had no political gain and seems to have been made simply because it was right. <br />All in all a great book and one that cannot be recommended to highly.	2000-11-22
2202603:US	52147775	R342O7V66EDB5	1565844866	228620908	One Hundred Years of Socialism: The West European Left in the Twentieth Century	Books	5	9	13	N	N	Empirical History at its best	Communism was an invention of Lenin. It was based on the notion of a small conspiratorial political party seizing power and achieving radical social transformation often flying in the face of popular will. <br />Socialism was an invention of the Bernstien, Bebel and others. It involved the achievement of a democratic franchise, the use of trade unions to achieve worker rights and state intervention to achieve social equality. This book is a history of West European socialism in the twentieth century.<br />After the war socialism or the mixed economy was accepted by even conservative and centre parties. From the 1950's to the early 80's the doctrines of John Meynard Keynes and a belief that the state should intervene to iron out the problems of the free enterprise state dominated government.<br />From the 1970's to the 1990's things began to change. In retrospect the basis of the consensus over how to manage the economies in the 50's and 60's was not based on  a successful economic doctrine but on a long boom.  The oil crisis led to stagflation a phenomena thought impossible by Keynsians. By the late 1970's all governments began to jettison what had been central aspects of economic certainty. The fist to go was the governmental responsibility for demand management and the maintenance of full employment. By the end of the 1990's most governments had dismantled exchange controls and were allowing the free movement of capital in and out of their countries. Public utilities were being sold off and more and more traditional areas of government were being handled by contracting out. <br />This book is a history of the rise, decline and fall of socialism in Europe. The author appears to be a committed socialist but the book is dispassionate and objective. It contains thousands of facts and figures including voting trends, taxation rates and material on economic performance. It is a serious analytical analysis of a hundred years of practical pragmatic politics. As such it might lack the populist flair of some more stringent ideological tracts but is a fascinating account of real history.<br />It would seem that despite the current ascendancy of &quot;Economic Rationalism&quot; the old polices had positive outcomes. Most European countries have less poverty than the United States a country that has always been resistant to liberal ideas. Further European countries appear to have better working education and health systems. Further some of the core policies of Bernstien such as a free and open franchise and the importance of education have become firmly established by all segments of society. <br />This book will not doubt become a classic and should be read by all interested in either history or politics.	2000-11-21
2210509:US	52147775	R1TI62PNRJ0Z5V	0393049949	762531115	Hitler: 1936-1945 Nemesis	Books	5	119	138	N	N	Good book but not fun to read	This is the second and concluding volume of Ian Kershaw's biography of Hitler. It takes up the story in 1936 when Hitler started a policy of rearmament followed by territorial expansion. <br />The major problem in reading this book is nothing to do with the author who writes with considerable skill. It has nothing to do with the material in the book that includes updated material and a perspective, which is more in line with reality than earlier books. The problem is that Hitler was such a boring self centered and self-pitying person. After 1943 when Germany started to suffer defeat after defeat he withdrew from most social intercourse with other people. He suffered paranoid delusions that he was being continually betrayed and would eat by himself and bore anyone senseless about what a raw deal he was getting. <br />By this time Hitler spent most of his time directing the German military. He was not involved as was Stalin with day to day control of his part or directing industrial production. The others dealt with in the book are generally military commanders. Most of them have the moral depth of a dried out puddle and their main complaint with Hitler was that he seemed a bit common and low class.  <br />Early biographies of Hitler were influenced by the memoirs of German Generals. In addition early histories of Nazism were influenced by the times. After Hitler had gone the west faced a far more serious opponent in Joseph Stalin. There was an urgent need to incorporate West Germany into European Defence.  It thus became convenient to shelve off responsibilities for what had happened in the war to Hitler and the SS. Books written by German Generals had the aim of white washing thier reputations and placing the blame on Hitler for the defeat of Germany and its racist policies. These memoirs led to earlier histories of Germany absolving Germans for crimes of the time. More recent books such as Hitler's Willing Executioners have sought to show that the crimes of the regime were broadly embraced. That every little village in Germany was willing to put up signs insulting Jews and to force them out. Kershaw's book spares no punches and shows how the German military totally embraced Hitler's plans for the destruction of Russia reducing it to a rural appendage of Germany. <br />Since the war has become more distant the phenomena of revisionism has come into being. That is suggestions that the genocide of the Jews did not take place and that Hitler had a limited role in it. <br />Kershaw's tries to rebuff these theories and discusses the Holocaust in the light of there allegations. The book clearly shows that the destruction of the Jew's was Hitler's responsibility. It does however suggest that the policy was arrived at in a different way than normally was thought to be the case. That is that rather than they're being a specific order at a certain point that the Jews be eliminated the policy evolved. The background to the policy was Hitler who never seemed to make a speech that did not centre on racial hatred. He continually spoke out against &quot;Jewish Bolshevism&quot; portraying communism as the work of Jews. The killing of Jews in a systematic way seems to have started on the Eastern Front and grew out of the killing of Communist Officials. The police units who had the responsibility of killing communists started to routinely kill Jews at the same time. This led in turn to the establishment of the extermination camps. Kershaw shows that the decision clearly would have been referred to Hitler. The way that he does this is to show how all other decisions involving the execution of significant numbers of people were referred to Hitler. Hitler made decisions about the continuation and ceasing of the euthanasia programs for instance. At the same time Hitler was eager for such decisions to be verbal ones rather than written decrees to avoid the repercussions of such decisions. <br />One is continually struck by the degree to which therewas sympathy for Hitler's program in every part of German society. Racism was deeply part of German life and there was never any trouble getting Germans out to beat up some innocent Jewish people or to break their shop windows and to steal from them. Courts, police, the army and all other instruments of government embraced the Nazis with excitement and passion. There was never a moments hesitation or sympathy for the Jews, Poles Russians or any of the victims of the regime.<br />With regard to the military history of the period he demonstrates that the German Army were generally supportive of Hitler and his strategy up to 1944. This support not only included his strategy by the means by which it was to be achieved. Prior to the invasion of Russia Hitler had decided to destroy Russia as an entity. He wanted to kill all members of the communist party and to reduce Russia to a nation of peasants. He aimed at not only shooting all communist officials but he wanted to destroy the major cities of Leningrad and Moscow. The higher ranks of the German Army were totally behind this policy as shown by another recent book Hitler's War in the East by Muller and Uebershar. They lectured to their soldiers on the need to kill Russian officials and that the war was one of extermination. Hitler's Generals and large numbers of Germans were believers in a racist nationalism. <br />As a book this two-volume study is no doubt the definitive biography of Hitler and has incorporated recent developments. It is however not a pleasant read.	2000-11-14
2213053:US	52147775	R1YNFACOSK309V	0393029182	819499836	Engage the Enemy More Closely: The Royal Navy in the Second World War	Books	2	13	19	N	N	Good price dated book	This is a book written by Correlli Barnett who has written quite a large number of books and he is famous for a work called &quot;the Desert Generals&quot;. The Desert Generals was a sustained attack on the reputation of Field Marshal Montgomery and if nothing else was quite amusing. This book is a history of British naval actions in the Second World War and perhaps lacks the laughs and descends a bit into a boys own account of the operations .<br />Barnett comes across as a is a bit of a whinger. He starts out by saying how dreadful it was that British Governments of all political persuasions did not spend money on the navy after the First World War. My god they only kept thirteen battle ships in commission. And in 1922 those peaceniks signed the Washington treaty that limited the number of battleships to a 5:5:3 ratio with America and Japan.  <br />Sometime later all this doom and gloom is repeated when he describes a number of engagements between the Italian Fleet and the British Mediterranean Fleet. The Italian Battle Ships had been built after the war and thus were able to go faster than the British Ships and to avoid battle. Barnett then goes on to lament that if Britain had spent money on its navy things would have been different. <br />What makes all of these statements unbelievable is his descriptions of the numerous actions in which aircraft were able to reduce modern battleships to sunken heaps of scrap iron. At Taranto some less than twenty old slow Swordfish by planes were able to put the Italian battle fleet out of action. The Prince of Wales and the Repulse were sunk in a few minutes by Japanese land based bombers.<br />If Britain had engaged on a huge program of naval construction in the twenties it would have built a fleet of battleships. The development of air power meant that the only function left to battleships in the Second World War was as target practice for carrier planes. The two largest and most expensive battleships in the world the Mushasi and the Yamato both went to the bottom without sinking a thing. Yet the cost of building battle ships was enormous. With the steel out of one battleship you could build 20,000 tanks.<br />Italy was a country that rearmed in the 20's. When the Second World War came around its planes were slow poorly armed biplanes. Its tanks were glorified armored cars and it had no anti tank weapons of note. Using this ancient equipment Italy went on to lose battle after battle. <br />Britain rearmed at the right time. Its fighter aircraft were able to match the German equivalents. Its new battleships were armored better than the German and Italian equivalents and it built aircraft carriers unlike Italy or Germany. Despite this slightly critical note these ravings which tie together the main narrative the book is not that bad.<br />The stuff on the battle of the Atlantic is so so being rather dated and opinionated. The author appears not to have read Clay Blair's definitive two volume treatment of that subject &quot;Hitler's U-Boat War&quot;. (This book would seem to have been published prior to Blair's) The book's main strength is in describing the Mediterranean campaign. <br />Barnett tries to be a bit sensational in suggesting that having the empire was a bit of a waste of time and that those remote colonies Canada, India and Australia did not really put into the war effort. He then goes to suggest that the African Campaign was a poor use of resources.<br />The basis of saying that was to show that the Germans generally ran the African theatre on a shoestring and that the British put in huge quantities of men and material and spent most of there time getting beaten. Whilst this is true it is hard to think what else the British might have done. If they had landed forces in France the excellent rail system would have allowed the Germans to concentrate forces and to cream them. Africa was from the British point of view a sensible place to launch a campaign because of the problemsthat the Germans had in supplying their forces.  It allowed the British to feel as though they were doing something whilst the Russians set about winning the war.<br /> Despite the authors complaints it would seem that successive British Governments adopted a balanced and sensible approach to rearmament. The major problems they had, the fall of France and Singapore were not due to poor preparation but due to dreadful generalship.  A readable but dated book but at a very reasonable price.	2000-11-12
2220884:US	52147775	R3VYFWFX6O5IX5	0385260326	287129497	The Trial of Socrates	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Who thought Issy could have written this	This is a book by that old Stalinist Issy Stone. Stone wrote it in old age teaching himself Greek to do it. The end result is fascinating. <br />Even nowadays philosophy teachers will bore anyone silly if given the chance to tell people how Socrates was a champion of individual liberty. How he is a model that can be looked up to today and he was brought down by the mob.<br />Stone shows that Socrates in fact was a political conservative. Athens at the time when he lived was a democracy. It had an &quot;empire&quot; which in fact was a series of allied states that had a democratic form of government. Sparta  it opponent was the head of a series of states which had aristocratic governments. As the battle between Athens and Sparta went on they would battle over cities and territories of Greece. If Athens was successful in taking over a city, democracy would be introduced. If Sparta did an oligarchic form of government would be put in place. <br />In the end Athens lost and Sparta imposed on it an aristocratic government called the thirty. This government summarily executed a large number of the democrats and many more had to flee in exile. Eventually this government was thrown out and democracy was restored. It was after the restoration of democracy that Socrates was put on trial and executed. Stone goes through the record and shows that the reason for his execution was that he had taught the young aristocrats. That is the group who had collaborated with Sparta and who had betrayed their fellow citizens. <br />In fact if one reads the works of Plato, Socrates disciple one can see that he was profoundly anti-democratic and favored government by an un-elected elite. Socrates rather than being a champion of liberty was just an ideologue for the rich and should be a role model for an autocratic state such as Czarist Russia rather than being relevant to modern society. <br />The book is short well written and reads like a detective story. A must read for anyone with an interest in philosophy.	2000-11-05
2222735:US	52147775	R1TBRJ9YA2EQXA	1860463363	73161141	Russian Revolution 1899-1919	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Good but flawed	Piper is a political conservative who has written a number of books on Russia. This is part of a two-volume history of Russia covering the years 1899 to 1924. <br />The fist 600 pages of the book are excellent and give a profound understanding of the old regime and how it worked. The discussions about the role of Germany and its support of the Bolsheviks in the last months of 1918 are fascinating and something which has not been discussed before in previous books about the period. <br />Where the book seems to go of the rails somewhat is in the last few hundred pages. Piper's view of the Bolsheviks is that they were committed to an ideology that was abhorrent to liberal democratic values and that the seeds of the Stalinist State were sown in 1917. His last few chapters rather than looking at history is a detached way tries to show repugnant features of the regime and to suggest that this was what was to come. <br />What most would agree happened in Russia around this time was that the Czarist state collapsed in 1917 due to the unpopularity of the war and problems in supplying the principle cities with foodstuffs. This occurred against a context in which some peasants were eager to seize land. Pipers description of this period is fascinating. He describes in some detail how the old Czarist state lacked the means of oppression. The numbers of police were small. <br />After the collapse of the autocracy a strange interim regime was set up consisting of a dual authority of the parliamentary system and a system of committees which had spontaneously arisen called &quot;soviets&quot;. The failure of the new parliament to end the war allowed the Bolsheviks to stage a coup and  take power. <br />Within a short time the Bolshevik regime was threatened by a number of things. Villages were refusing to supply grain to the cities, a series of white or royalist armies started rebellions in different parts of Russia. Former prisoners of war revolted in Siberia and seized control oflarge portions of it. Against this background the Bolsheviks imposed an authoritarian state based on terror. Food was expropriated for the cities, people were killed not because of criminal behavior but to terrify potential enemies of the regime. <br />At the completion of the civil war the nature of the regime changed. The state remained autocratic but allowed peasant ownership of land. Industry and Trade remained in the hands of the government. This change was known as the new economic policy. Following the death of Lenin there were debates in the leadership about what the way forward should be. Trotsky favored a policy of forced industrialization but the &quot;conservatives&quot; Kamanev, Zinoviev and Stalin favored maintaining the NEP.<br />Stalin eventually won the power struggles to take over the state and then reversed course. Instead of continuing with the NEP he forced the farms into collectives. The reason for doing so was to enable the state to seize large amounts of produce and to export them so that technology could be imported to the basis of growth. This policy was resisted by the peasants and met with absolute brutality. Millions died as a result of Stalin collectivization policies.  At this point Stalin's position as head of state was inherently weak. Anyone who would seek to remove him would have had tremendous support. For that reason Stalin instituted the random killings of party officials to paralyze them and to cower them to his will. This process became known as the terror. In addition a series of trials took place in which factory managers and bureaucrats were charged with &quot;wrecking&quot; when accidents took place or factories failed to meet production targets. <br />In looking at the history of the Soviet Union most would agree that the Bolshevik state as instituted by Lenin was anti-democratic, based on coercion to maintain it, used random terror to maintain itself and was repellent to liberal democratic values.<br />The difference isthat most would see the move by Stalin to industrialize as something which qualitatively changed the nature of the state from being an authoritarian one to a totalitarian one.  The changes made to Russia were simply incredible. Stalin had far greater power than other dictators such as Hitler or Mussolini. (And in fact the state showed that it was more resilient than those two models.)<br />Piper however suggests that rather than the Stalinist state in the 1930's being a profound state from that of the 1920's is part of a continuum. In his last chapters he discusses the excesses of the Leninist state and tries to argue that Stalinism sprang from them logically. <br />This is no surprise and in fact Piper has written a book about property and its importance in establishing rights and a political process which prevents the move to extremes. However the last two chapters discuss measures of the state without looking at the context in which these changes occurred and as such this part of the book suffers for it.	2000-11-03
2222935:US	52147775	RLV9KHNHOBE5E	0879091320	566630039	Contemporary Architectural Drawing: Residential and Commercial	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Highly readable	This is a short book of a little over a hundred pages. You can read it in a couple of hours. It was first published in 1845 and is the early life of its author. <br />The book was written against the debates that raged in America over slavery. The writer an escaped slave lectured for some years against slavery on speaking tours. Advocates of slavery suggested that he was a fraud and to intelligent to be a slave. The book was written to prove the truth of his claims and background. <br />Douglas appears to have been the result of a liaison between his master and his mother. No one knows for sure as his father never acknowledged him. One realizes how evil the institution of slavery is that it could so warp the feelings of a natural father so as to allow a son to live the life as a slave. <br />The institution was clearly a degrading one. In one house Douglas was fed by cooked corn being dumped on the ground, he and other slaves would have to scoop it up with simple utensils and eat it. Clothing was rationed so that each slave would be given a pair of pants and two shirts a year. Children were only given shirts. One of the cruelest aspects of slavery was that slaves were prohibited from education. It was thought education would be at variance with their state and lead to rebellion. <br />Douglas describes how the institution could lead to random cruelty. One master is described as shooting a slave who refused to obey an instruction. He did so as a calculated act to ensure that in the future he would be obeyed. Although killing slaves was against the law he committed the act only in the presence of other slaves who were not permitted to give evidence in law courts. <br />Douglas was placed in a household in which a woman taught him how to read. The women's husband found out and the lessons stopped. Never the less it seemed to be the start of Douglas's refusal to accept his status. Somewhat later Douglas was put into the care of a notorious pastor. The pastor had a reputation as a slave breaker. After considerable humiliation Douglas confronted the pastor and rebelled against his authority. It was normal in such circumstances for people to be publicly flogged. The pastor however refused to have Douglas flogged. Not because of any religious feeling but over a concern that if a slave in his care was seen to beyond his control then his living as a slave breaker would be at an end.  Douglas decided after this that he would try to escape to the north. After some initial failures he escaped and became one of the leading spokesmen against slavery.  <br />The book was written at a time when large numbers of Americans argued strongly that slavery was a benevolent institution aimed at providing a benefit to the &quot;uncivilized Africans.&quot; It is hard now to believe that such a debate would have taken place.	2000-11-03
2224551:US	52147775	R3OFF7Q2BZV8NI	0140296271	928300055	Hitler's Pope: The Secret History of Pius XII	Books	2	9	12	N	N	Interesting Issue So So Book	Hitler's Pope <br />This book is an attack on the reputation of the Pope Pius the XII. The book is of some topical interest as there are currently moves on foot to make Pius a saint, something that is being resisted by Israel and some members of the Jewish Community. This led to the setting up of the Catholic-Jewish Historical Commission to examine the record.<br />The book makes the following allegations:<br />(a) Pius as a Papal diplomat was involved in a policy of developing bilateral relationships with a number of governments to increase papal power. The treaties which were the result  led to a weakening of democratic forces in a number of countries and allowed reactionary governments to triumph.<br />(b) Pius was involved in the decision of the German Catholic Party to support Hitler's Enabling Act the instrument which ended democracy in that country and was the basis of the Nazi state. Further he was also involved in the decision of the party to go out of existence and thus a check was removed from the Nazi government.<br />(c) That Pius refused to speak out except in the most obscure way to protest against the killing of the Jews. This decision was probably the result of Pius's anti-Semitism.<br />(d) That Pius had the opportunity to save Jews in the war. There are two instances that of Rome and Hungary. In the first case Pius did nothing with regard to the second he did little.<br />(e) Pius developed cordial relations with Croatia a German puppet state which was not only involved in criminal actions against its own population but  was clearly committed to overt anti-Semitism. <br />The book fails to establish the first two allegations but makes a strong case for the rest. Pius became pope in 1939. Although he was an important official it would seem clear that the previous pope Pius the XI had been responsible for the policy of developing treaties with conservative states which allowed for papal control of church appointments in exchange for a withdrawal from politics. The slightly hysterical and sensational tone of the book is illustrated by an early suggestion that Pacelli (the future Pius XII) by negotiating a treaty with Serbia over its Catholic population before the first world way may have so inflamed Austrian sensibility that  it was one of the factors which led to the war. This of course was clearly wrong. <br />With regard to the concerns about the silence of the church during the Second World War the facts however seem to be beyond question. The Pope made one statement condemning the Nazi policy of genocide. That was a vague statement in 1942 that did not mention the Jews by name and was non-specific in the extreme. Apart from that nothing was said. Cornwell the writer suggests that  this could be due to Pacelli's personal anti-Semitism. He  quotes a letter written by Pacelli just after the war when he was living in Germany. Pacelli lived through a workers rebellion and had some contact with the leftist elements when they tried to take his car. In the letter Pacelli writes about the rebellion in a way which was typical of the time. That is that there was a close relationship between Jews and Bolshevism. The letter is reflective of stereotypes that would have been at home in a Nazi publication. (Pius's racism is also supported by his request to the Americans not to garrison any black troops in the Vatican.)<br />It is however hard to believe that this was the deciding reason why the Pope remained silent during the Second World War. The church at that point was in a difficult position. In Mexico in the twenties a left wing government had persecuted it and made being a priest punishable by death. Germany under Bismark had tried to crush the church as had the French republic. Pius would have known that if he had actively spoken out that their could have been repercussions. He personally could have been arrested and probably more importantly for him the institution that he had devoted his life to the church couldhave come under threat. These sorts of dilemmas probably provide a more convincing reason for his silence than crude anti-Semitism. <br />Never the less the Church is meant to be more than a boys club or a political party. It is meant to do things that are right rather than which will lead to it surviving. Cornewell in fact quotes a number of examples of how some active opposition under the Reich was successful. As late as 1944 a number of demonstrations by the spouses of Jewish people in Berlin led to the release of 2,500 Jews. The protest by some church members also led to the winding back of some of the campaigns to execute mentally impaired people. As Cornwell argues half of the German army and one quarter of the SS were Catholics. A more active policy by the church may well have led to significant numbers of Jews being saved.<br />In fact the Catholic-Jewish Historical Commission has recently refused to give Pius a clean bill of health and has requested access to more material from the Vatican archives. <br />The book is somewhat sensationalized as is illustrated by the title. It would be hard to suggest in reality that Pius was Hitler's man but a title such as that sells copies and generates publicity from the church. Never the less it raises some real questions about a man who seems to have fallen far short of the high requirements of his office.	2000-11-02
2255423:US	52147775	RJOPZCNDYWFBY	0140239502	285853061	Lost and Found: Heinrich Schliemann and the Gold That Got Away	Books	3	5	8	N	N	So So	This is another book about the life of Heinrich Scheilmann. Scheilmann was a German who made a vast sum of money as a merchant selling indigo a sort of blue dye. He developed an interest in Greek culture and set out to prove that the events described in the works of Homer were true. <br />He traveled to Turkey and sought out the sight of Troy using Homers descriptions in the Illiad. He certainly found the remnants of an old city and in it gold. Scheilmann is a man for whom truth was very much a theoretical concept rather than something that would guide him in day to day life. He hid the gold from the Turkish authorities and smuggled it to Greece. Some have suggested that he may even have planted the gold himself to give greater credence to the city being Troy. One thing is certain and that at this point in his life he was a dreadful archeologist. The key to archeology is the careful removal of soil and the mapping in detail of the objects found. Scheilmann simply had his men dig looking for things such as treasure and throwing everything else away. For this reason he has been seen more as a vandal than anything else. <br />This book tries to rehabilitate his reputation and show that he was an important figure in the discovery of Greek history. The author basically argues that after his first dig he began to use people with skill on his digs and to do things more carefully. He returned to Troy on a number of occasions and in later digs was more careful and systematic. He also dug up at least three other sites of major importance. <br />The reality is that if all of the sights he dug at had been left untouched until now we would probably have had a better understanding of our past. Never the less Scheilmann's life is one of fascination so that the book is one that is easy to read. The last chapter is about the fate of the Gold that was found at Troy. During the war it was seized by the Russians and was kept hidden until recently. This section of the book although topical has a tacked on feel to it.<br />The book in the end reworks old material and does not really say much more than has been said in the past. If you have not read any other books about the topic it is a readable and light weight treatment of the topic.	2000-10-07
2261083:US	52147775	R3V7GE3IEZ6XN8	0446364401	866749923	First Blood	Books	3	6	21	N	N	Okay Escapism	This book was the basis of the first Rambo movie. The Rambo films were classic pieces of right wing propaganda, which were popular with conservatives in America. The second Rambo movie was about Vietnam. It was a piece of revisionist nonsense that tried to develop a stab in the back legend as a reason for United States defeat in Vietnam. The third Rambo movie dealt with Afghanistan and had a strong anti Soviet message. <br />It is thus a bit of a surprise that this book is rather a left wing effort. Rambo is a trained commando who has learnt to kill. In Vietnam he has been captured by either the North Vietmanese or Viet Cong and been tortured. Although he escapes and makes his way back to the American lines he has a nervous break down. At the start of the novel he is a vagrant wandering around a number of small American towns. A sheriff who is drawn as reasonably sympathetic character tries to run him out of town. Rambo keeps coming back into town and he is jailed for 30 days by a lazy JP on trumped up vagrancy and resist arrest charges. Rambo snaps at the prospect of being confined. He kills a deputy and breaks out of jail and runs to a wilderness area. He is able to arm himself with a weapon and uses his combat skills to pick off the police who pursue him. <br />The book is thus about the negative effect of war and how it can destroy the lives of individuals. Rambo effectively is acting on automatic pilot rather than being responsible for what is happening. <br />On first being published the book sold quite well and was put on some school and university courses. Over time as the issues of the Vietnam war have become more less relevant it has apparently been taken off courses and is sinking into obscurity. Despite this it is not a bad read and it is content is somewhat at odds with the spirit of the movies	2000-10-03
2273497:US	52147775	R2WTNN6CO9MAJW	0375402497	864507735	Why They Kill: The Discoveries of a Maverick Criminologist	Books	1	22	46	N	Y	A few cliches and a lot of padding	This is a book by an a writer who makes his living out of writing populist non fiction books. He has sixteen previous efforts. This book is a very artificial effort and shows how writers such as Rhodes can milk a fairly minor academic study into a sensational three hundred page book. In the 70's a sociologist Lonnie Athens did a study of a number of criminals in a high security jail. This study became a slim book of some 100 pages postulating a theory of why some people become violent criminals. <br />What Rhodes did is to look at the life of Lonnie Athens. Athens grew up poor in a family in which there was violence. He had a difficult career as an academic not being given a permanent tenured position. Rhodes intertwines a somewhat dramatized account of Athens life with a description of his theory. Rhodes then further pads out his book by discussing the lives of some prominent personalities and tries to argue that these discussions &quot;prove&quot; Athens theories. <br />Athens theory is that &quot;Dangerous Criminals&quot; are a defined group created by certain patterns of violence in their early life. In brief if a person is introduced to violence early and learns to use it to achieve their ends then it can be part of their mechanism of achieving life goals. The proof of this theory is some twenty-three interviews. Athens wrote to a number of jails asking to interview violent inmates. It seems that prison staff picked a number of subjects who seemed to be &quot;Violent and Dangerous&quot;. No doubt in the United States Journals of Criminology there are many discussions of Athens methodology focusing on his small sample range and the mechanism of selection which would be biased towards non typical cases. <br />The interviews were carried out by Athens when he was comparatively inexperienced as a criminologist. It would seem that he was overawed by the prisoners he spoke to and on some occasions scared of them. One can imagine that there would be a range of motivesfor prisoners to either kid him along or to try to shock him to amuse themselves. <br />The attraction of Rhodes discussion of Athens theories relate to the implications for policy. In most other countries outside the United States it would seem clear that murder as a social phenomena is seldom a thought out act. Most murders occur as a result of spontaneous confrontations of young men with other parties. These confrontations usually are accompanied by alcohol or drug use. The use of weapons can increase the effects of violence. It is also clear that murder and violence is closely related to social disadvantage. For example in Australia a country in which Aboriginal people are the most disadvantaged group they have the highest rates for committing murder and for being victims of murder.<br />Most countries thus see the key to reducing murder a policy of reducing the availability of weapons. Thus it is possible to make laws to prevent people carrying knives and other weapons and to have police regularly search young people for weapons. In Europe and Australia gun ownership is restricted and the movement of guns is regulated to keep them out of the hands of young people and criminals. These things have led to much lower homicide rates in Europe and Australia compared to the United States. The United States has always been resistant to restrictions on firearms. In addition most Americans are resistant to measures which redistribute income. A theory of violence which suggests that policies of social engineering will not be productive are thus attractive.<br />   The notion of seeing some as &quot;Dangerous and Violent&quot; instead leads to policies of longer prison sentences as a means of keeping people out of the community. <br />The ideological objections however are the least important criticism of the book. The internal logic of the book does not hang together. Rhodes tells the stories of a number of semi celebrity characters and tries to tie them into the categories that Athens sets up. One of the stories that of Mike Tyson fits into the categories. Tyson grew up on the streets and learnt to fight to protect himself to make a living. He was first a street tough and later a professional fighter. It is clear that violence became imbedded in his personality and that he had problems shaking free of it. <br />One of the other examples however bizarre. Cheryl Crane was the daughter of Lana Turner. She stabbed and killed the one of her mothers partners this led to a famous trial and she was acquitted.  It would seem that Cheryl was the victim of rape by one of her mothers previous partners. The person who she killed was also violent and was threatening her mother. As Cheryl was a child at the time the action would seem clearly to be self-defense. The way the trial was run was a little different. It was suggested that the fatal stabbing could have occurred because of the movement of the victim on to the knife held by Cheryl. The reality of course was that in the 1950's it would have been difficult to tell the full truth in a trial. What happened to Cheryl is something that would now be accepted. In the 1950's the reality of child sexual abuse was not accepted. All this of course is something of a distraction. Cheryl in her life seems to have committed one violent act which was clearly self defense. That of course means that she was not a criminal. What her life is doing in the book is unclear.<br />In conclusion a wordy and poorly argued book based on a slim and rather valueless study, written to sell a few copies to people who want their conservative views legitimized.	2000-09-23
2276931:US	52147775	R1IRITFNI2JJ0W	0393319601	185361414	The Safeguard of the Sea: A Naval History of Britain 660-1649	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Readable and informative	In 1540 England was a minor power. In previous centuries England had been one of the great powers of Europe. This strength had been based on the  possession of large chunks of French Territory. The Hundred Years War had  expelled England from all territories in France except for Calais. Henry  the VIII of England attempted to reverse the trend by increasing the annual  revenue spent on war from a level of 2% per year to 9%. To do this he had  to seize the property of the Catholic Church and a by-product was the  English Reformation. Despite his efforts England remained a second rate  power. <br />In the reign of Elizabeth the First England started to build up a  navy. In the reigns of Elizabeth and Charles the first, the expenditure on  the navy was reasonable. It hovered around 2% of the revenue of the nation.  Within fifty years from the death of Charles the first England had again  become a great power due to the wealth that it gained from the control of  the seas. <br />This book describes how all of this happened. The development  of the navy in the time of Elizabeth was to some extent an accident. The  war with Spain led to the development of privateering. This led to an  expansion in the English Navy that was self-financing. <br />As England  developed its navy it started to develop a technical edge over Spain the  leading naval power of the age. This was due to the need to develop  techniques that would allow the English to be successful pirates. The  English pioneered the use of fast multi decked gun ships with a hire rate  of fire. The success that could be made from piracy led to the expansion of  shipyards and the ability to produce ships. <br />This book is an interesting  historical survey of the time and the early development of England's Navy.  The only slight negative is that it is the first of a four part naval  history of Britain. The author thus feels obliged to give a blow by blow  account of English naval development even in times when the in reality  England had no navy and might from time to time rent a few ships. The early  chapters can thus be a little bit of a drudge. This slowness is more than  made up by the later chapters and an especially interesting examination of  naval tactics in the Elizabethan error. A must read for anyone interested  in either naval history or the history of Great Britain.	2000-09-20
2297516:US	52147775	R2BKOBXYUYZZE1	1559705205	852164092	The Unholy Trinity	Books	1	3	9	N	N	No Stereotype left unexplored	The book is a love affair come mystery involving a English Journalist and an Italian Magistrate. They look into the mysterious death of a left wing  police and find a vast conspiracy involving a new fascist movement and the  Vatican.  <br />The book has an English Character who is a hero. The Italian  Characters are the sorts who cheat on their wives drive badly and still use  hair grease. The characters when they go out to eat Minestrone soup, and  Gnocci and drink Chianti.  They don't have soup eat pasta and drink wine as  Italians no doubt see themselves doing. The English character is the hero  and the Italians are the comedy relief.  <br />The action takes place not in a  city but in a first century travelogue. Thus as characters wander around  being shot at by evil right wingers and evil priests they do so against an  author describing the places in which the action happens as one of the  seven hills of Rome in which the wealthy lived in the time of Caesar or a  building was one that an emperor used as a storehouse. One would imagine  that the author has never been to Rome but has written the book from a  travel book after watching some 1950's American movies set in the city.  <br />The plot is pedestrian and would no doubt infuriate Catholics as it  recycles the sorts of things mentioned in the recent book &quot;Hitlers  Pope&quot;. All in all a rather sub fabulous sort of book.	2000-09-03
2340642:US	52147775	R20CM806YR13LC	039471380X	130109456	The Best Defense: The Courtroom Confrontations of America's Most Outspoken Lawyer of Last Resort-- the Lawyer Who Won the Claus von Bulow Appeal	Books	5	37	41	N	Y	An arcane process made fascinating	The author of this book is a law professor who does appellant work part  time. Unlike the cut and thrust of jury work appeals have generally been  seen as dry rarefied and uninteresting. The author however writes in an  entertaining and self deprecating way which brings the process alive. It is  one of the most enjoyable books written about the law that I have read for  some time. <br />The author also writes about the cases he loses. So many  books by advocates focus on the success and are about self grandisment.  <br />Overall the impression given is how much of a dogged slog it is to  achieve justice in the American System and how much calculation and thought  has to go into every strategy and move. One of the amazing things in the  book is how the author is so critical of a number of judges and how willing  he is to make those criticisms. <br />It is an excellent book which shows the  many flaws and weakness of the American justice system.	2000-08-03
2400942:US	52147775	R2AFS39HOOA5GK	0312230796	93948639	Crimea: The Great Crimean War, 1854-1856	Books	3	28	32	N	N	Reasonable	In the past the Crimean War has been seen as similar to the First World War, a comedy of errors in which uncaring generals sent brave men off to die. Recent literature would suggest that the Crimean War in itself was not  so extraordinary but rather it became an important symbol. The reasons for  this was that the war took place when England was run by a limited number  of aristocrats. In the next few years the franchise would broaden and more  people would be allowed into the positions of power in society. The Crimean  War was used by those on the outside of political society to ridicule the  competence of their social betters.  The army at the time was dominated by  men who bought commissions rather than being promoted on competence. Some  of these leaders such as Lord Cardigan were objectively hopeless. Others  had some mild talent.  <br />The war was also one of the first to be  photographed and to have war correspondents reporting back home. The war  itself had a limited number of battles and these occurred fairly quickly.  The operations then settled down to a prolonged siege of the port of  Sebastapol. The war correspondents thus did not have a lot to write about.  What they did observe was the failure of the British government to  adequately supply their men. Newspaper stories about soldiers without tents  and no wood to warm themselves during the Russian winter started to be  written.  <br />The provision of medical services was appalling and one of he  heroes of the war was Florence Nightingale. She later was to be known as  the lady of the lamp although in reality her strengths were not as a nurse  but as an organizer and bureaucrat. <br />The book is a rather strange one. It  is quite long but it deals with most of the major battles of the war quite  quickly. It also fails to look at the political context of the war and why  it became a potent symbol for those who would change British Society. Still  the book is easy to read and it covers the other military actions in the  war outside the campaign in the Crimea.<br />The overall impression however is  that the conduct of the war although lamentable was perhaps not quite the  disaster that has been presented in previous works.	2000-06-27
2467699:US	52147775	RU42J3XDWK2J1	0804116954	922358906	Spearhead for Blitzkrieg: Luftwaffe Operations in Support of the Army, 1939-1945	Books	2	10	11	N	N	Very Average	After the Second World War German military personnel were interrogated by Americans about their experiences on the Eastern Front.  The reasons for this was to provide intelligence for a possible war against Russia. These  studies must have recently been made public as there are a number of them  released in book form.<br />The author of this book or more correctly the  author of a series of documents in 1953 which were made into a book is a  former Luftwaffe Lieutenant General.<br />The book is a rather dry discussion  of a number of aspects of using aircraft in support of an army. Most of the  book is devoted to talking about reconnaissance planes and is rather dry.  The rest of the book looks at the use of aircraft for the direct support of  army operations. The author indicates a number of things about the tactics  of the Luftwaffe in the war. He indicates that the biggest success of the  German Air force in the war was the use of planes to prevent movement of  troops to and away from the battlefield. The use of places to attack  infantry positions in general was not as successful and he is critical of  the use of larger aircraft in this role. The editor of the book in fact  makes an interesting point about allied operations in Western Europe after  the Normandy invasion. By that time the allies had complete control of the  skies and &quot;tank killer&quot; aircraft roamed far and wide. It seems  that although during the war claims were made that vast numbers of German  tanks were destroyed by aircraft the reality is that very few were. This  strengthens the authors view that the main role of aircraft was to prevent  the supply of troops and their movement. <br />Towards the end of the book the  author bemoans the fact that Germany created an air force that was designed  to support its army. In Britain and the United States a strategic air  forces of heavy bombers was created with the role of destroying the  productive capability of the enemy. The author argues that to destroy a  factory will destroy far more tanks than can be done by an equivalent use  of force on the battlefield. This view was something which was echoed by  other Luftwaffe generals including Galland. The reality is however that the  Germans had created a strategic air force they would not have defeated  France in 1940	2000-05-21
2521722:US	52147775	R3C53P6L4Q7YPB	0198219687	647932945	Rituals of Retribution: Capital Punishment in Germany, 1600-1987	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Well written entertaining history	This book is a history of the death penalty in Germany. The book starts by describing an execution in 1616. That execution was the breaking of a man by he wheel. What was involved was the tying of a man to a scaffold and  using a large wagon wheel to break all of the bones in the body of the  condemned man.<br />The book charts the gradual move away from the use of  such punishments by German Civil authorities. The reasons for it were  complex. In the 17th Century there were heavy religious overtones  associated with executions. This led to them being accepted by the victims  and society generally. By the 19th Century one of the major reasons for the  end of public executions was the behavior of the condemned. They would  mimic the public officials, declare their innocence and the like. There was  also concern that the public had started to sympathize with the condemned.  (This however does not seem to have occurred to the extent that it did in  Britain. Most of the German States were well regulated and authoritarian.  The death penalty was generally reserved for more serious matters. In  Britain a police force was not created until the 1830's. The death penalty  was thus used for a range of comparatively minor offences such as theft.  This led to outbreaks of sympathy for the condemned. In Britain public  executions had to be moved to secure areas in London and later were carried  out in private.)<br />In Germany after the enlightenment a number of  intellectual currents led to changing attitudes which cut down the number  of people actually executed. Thus the development of an awareness of mental  illness, the realization of the link between crime and the bread prices led  to a realization that crime was not the result of a free moral  decision.<br />The book takes the history through the unification of Germany  and the NAZI period up to modern times.<br />The book is well written  entertaining and a must for anyone who has an interest in criminology and  the history of the criminal law.	2000-04-21
2643052:US	52147775	R23LWQ0JC1RF9G	0306806541	718801342	Hannibal	Books	5	69	77	N	Y	History as if written yesterday	Dodge's book was written over a hundred years ago. The author has traveled around the battlefields of the second Punic War and tried to work out from the existing historical sources what really happened. Dodge was an army  officer who served in the American Civil War. As such he knows the  difficulty of moving large bodies of men, of supplying them with food, the  difficulties of feeding horses and keeping them in good condition. <br />The  book establishes the greatness of Hannibal. Very little is left to tell us  much of what Carthaginian civilization was like. Coins and sculpture  suggest that the Greeks heavily influenced it. We know that Carthage was an  oligarchy and that it was a city that traded extensively.<br />It seems that  it was probably a city that depended on slavery to produce its agricultural  produce. This led to Rome having a pronounced advantage in the conflicts  between the two cities. Rome had a sizeable peasant class who were  integrated into its civil life. The Roman peasant class formed the basis of  its armies. Rome as well had built up a coalition of allied cities some of  which shared the benefits of citizenship. This meant that in any conflict  Rome was able to put in the field 750,000 soldiers. In addition it had  considerable economic power. Thus in the first Punic war Rome was able to  build a number of fleets to challenge the Carthaginians at sea. The  Carthaginians did not have a large class of landed peasants who could be  mobilized and they depended on mercenary armies. The history of Carthage  prior to their first war with Rome was not a history of military  brilliance. Carthage had considerable problems in maintaining their control  over about a third of Sicily fighting a large number of wars with the Greek  city of Syracuse. <br />Rome in addition to being able to raise large numbers  of men had developed a superior military unit. The predominant military  unit prior to the rise of Rome was an infantry formation called he phalanx.  This was a Greek invention. Heavily armored men would stand shoulder to  shoulder and advance in a mass. The phalanx was effective in crushing the  more lightly armed Persian troops during the time of Alexander. The Romans  developed he legion. Its troops were armed with a short stabbing sword  rather than a spear. Each soldier stood further apart than the phalanx. The  formation was more flexible and the more spread out nature of the Roman  formation allowed them to outflank the more compact Greek formations.<br />The  twin advantages of a large population meant that Rome would over the next  400 years win wars even when poor generals led it. It had a military  organization that was would work even with generals of limited talents and  if something went wrong the Roman state could put army after army into the  field. The decline of the Roman empire occurred when the military  organization of the state changed and peasant levies gave rise to mercenary  armies.  <br />It would seem that Hannibal's father Hamilicar was an extremely  competent military commander. He fought a guerrilla campaign against the  Romans during the first war. After the peace he put down a mercenary revolt   in Africa with numerically inferior forces. He then went on to conquer  Spain. The reason for conquering Spain was to provide an economic base for  the conquest of Rome. His son Hannibal fought in Spain to consolidate his  fathers conquests.<br />Hannibal's war with Rome is remarkable in many  respects but the one which Dodge explains is that it was a private war. The  Carthaginian State did not really have the resources to finance a war with  Rome. The enterprise was based on revenue from Spanish mines as were most  of the infantry. Spain was in effect the personal property of Hannibal. He  made a decision to attack Rome and Carthage agreed this decision to as it  did not mean that they had to contribute much to the war effort.<br />Hannibal  realized that to defeat Rome he would have to break up the Roman  confederation. His strategy was to invade Italy and by winning military  victories to prize away Romes allies. <br />In the end the scheme failed. Rome  lost army after army but she was always able to raise more. In the end the  Romans held Hannibal at bay while conquering Spain and cutting off the  chance of fresh troops. Hannibal had to retreat to Africa were he was at  last beaten at the battle of Zama. Rome triumphed and went on to rule most  of what is now Europe for 800 years.<br />Dodge rates Hannibal as one of  antiquities greatest figures. Although in the end his career was a failure  the challenges he had to face were immense. Alexander the Great inherited  an army and faced enemies of much less caliber and steel than Hannibal did.  Caesar was born into the Roman empire and was given command of armies which  Hannibal could only dream of. Hannibal's  achievement's were immense. He  fashioned with his father a private state sufficiently rich to enable him  to raise a private army. That army he trained and honed into one of the  finest of its age. He won spectacular victories over  what was to be the  strongest power in Europe for hundreds of years. His campaigns were far  sighted and he had enormous talents in keeping together for over ten years  a mercenary army made up of many different peoples. In Italy he was one of  the first to create an intelligence network to monitor the movement of  Roman armies and to anticipate cities which might be willing to change  allegiance to his side. Despite these many talents there is a limit to what  an individual can do when faced by a nation. <br />Dodges book is readable and  in its own way fascinating. His own war experience gives him a much richer  understanding of the campaigns and the maneuvers between the battles. The  histories which still survive are those written by Polybius, Livy and  Plutarch. Dodge is of the view that Polybius had a grasp of military  matters which Livy and Plutarchlacked. He has to reconstruct the movements  of the various armies to get a real picture of what was happening. <br />All  in all a fascinating book which conveys the nuts and bolts reality of  warfare in the ancient world.	2000-02-08
2645507:US	52147775	ROLYI1O1F1XW0	0895264307	515286099	Goldwater: The Man Who Made a Revolution	Books	2	8	50	N	Y	Interesting man dumb book	Barry Goldwater was a politician who wrote a book called the conscience of a conservative. It proposed a number of positions which were popular in the extreme right wing of American Politics in the 60's. Barry stood against  Lyndon Johnson in 1964 and was trounced. <br />After that he continued to be a  senator for many years. As he grew older his economic ideas remained  unchanged but he never joined the rest of the right as it moved to be  concerned with Abortion and civil decay as witnessed by the growing  acceptance of homosexuality.  Goldwater as a person seems to have been  honest open and in his personal qualities admirable.<br />The author of this  book is a conservative. He believes that Goldwater was perhaps something  that he was not. That is a casual factor in the shift to the right of  American politics. A far more convincing argument for America's shift to  the right is Lydon Johnon's civil rights legislation which changed the old  south from a one party democratic province to a two party state. Added to  this were the problems that Jimmy Carter had as a president.<br />Goldwaters  ideas for America in 1964 were just dumb. (Which is not to say that the man  himself was dumb. The world is a complex place and to work out solutions to  political problems is never easy) He supported the continuation of a policy  of states rights. This policy meant in practice not using federal power to  achieve integration. It is clear that Goldwater was not a racist and his  commitment to this policy rested on his ideas of government rather than on  the true place of Black Americans. His policy however would have delayed  the end of segregation for ever. The Jim Crow political structures in the  South disenfranchised those voters who would want change.  Further he  believed that American should fight a conventional war against Vietnam to  end the Vietnam war. Further that bombing should be used against Hanoi and  civilian infrastructure. Such a policy had the very real danger of  involving China in the conflict. His political instinct also lacked  sophistication. He was a person who had been elected in Arizona a small  state. He had no real idea of the sorts of compromises that were needed to  achieve higher office. Of course his refusal to compromise were part of his  charm to his supporters.<br />The book is interesting as it is about an  interesting man. However the writing is so insular it is annoying.  One can  understand the author may not like the moderately left wing governments  that had been in the 50's and 60's but to call them socialist or big  spending lacks an understanding of what those terms mean. In Sweden the  government controls some 65% of the GDP. The Labour Party of England in the  40's nationalized the steel industry the coal industry and all of public  transport. The United States has never had a either a Labour or Socialist  Party. Trade Unions were restricted in their activities to the 30's.	2000-02-06
2655171:US	52147775	R1BK51L0QTLRX9	0060929081	900958788	Dereliction of Duty: Johnson, McNamara, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the Lies That Led to Vietnam	Books	3	39	51	N	Y	American Hubris	This book is one of the school in looking at the Vietnam was that \\"America could have done things better but\\". <br />Before discussing the thesis of the book lets look briefly at the war. Before the 1950's it had been easy for  European Powers to conquer colonies with fairly minimal use of military  power. The forces used by the Dutch, the English and the French were small  although well equipped and well trained. Without going into the wrongs and  the rights what went wrong in Vietnam.<br />What happened initially was that a  local communist insurgency developed in South Vietnam. North Vietnam  supplied its weapons using a port in Cambodia. The South Vietnamese Army  (ARVN) was for whatever reason unable to deal with this insurgency. The  United States sponsored a coup to change the leadership of Vietnam. Shortly  after it started to send combat troops to fight alongside the ARVN and to  use its air force to bomb targets in North Vietnam. The United States thus  had a strong military force, which had at all times total air superiority.    It should not be forgotten that the army contributed by the United States  combined with the ARVN was an enormous force which at all times had  technological superiority over its opponents.<br />Due in some degree to the  success of the United States tactics and in other parts to the adventurism  of the Tet Offensive the local insurgents the Viet Cong were defeated in  the main by the end of the 60's. The North Vietnamese were able to keep the  war going by deploying units of its regular army. The North Vietnamese  regular units were able to infiltrate through Laos which at that time was  in chaos and through Cambodia which was officially neutral. The casualties  suffered by the North Vietnamese were staggering. The United States were  not able to stem this flow despite hiring a mercenary army in Laos and  sponsoring a coup in Cambodia to bring to power a government responsive to  its interests.<br />Although the United States could have won a conventional  war against North Vietnam an invasion would not have been possible. It is  clear that China would have intervened as they did in Korea and they could  have won a conventional war against the sort of United States forces that  could be deployed in this sort of adventure.<br />The war showed that bombing  was limited in what it could achieve. North Vietnam was a peasant  subsistence economy. It was not a complex industrial nation and bombing  would only really be effective if it was aimed at civilian targets. This  would have been repellent politically. Taking all of these things into  account it is hard to see in retrospect how the United States could have  won the Vietnam war as long as North Vietnam was willing to pay a big price  to keep the war going.<br />This knowledge however derives from hindsight.  Johnson, McNamara and the others involved in turning of this conflict into  an American war would not have known the immense price the North was  willing to pay to win the war. In 1964 it was clear that a bombing campaign  would cause considerable damage to the North setting back its economic  growth. It was also clear that the commitment of ground forces would cause  enormous casualties to the insurgents. Normally that would have been enough  to win such a war.<br />Now what this book is about is a criticism of the  political process that led to the war. The criticism is not one related to  the morality of what happened but rather it criticizes civilian  decision-makers opting for a policy of \\"Graduated Military Pressure\\". This  doctrine is really a short hand description of the process that was used in  the Cuban missile crisis. McNamara had played a role in this American  triumph and wanted to try the same strategy. That is to make a series of  demonstrations including air attacks commitments of troops till the other  side gives in.<br />McMasters suggests that the attraction of such an approach  was it allowed a slight of hand by which Johnson the President could  initially win office and later concentrate government resources on his  Great Society Program. He suggests that an assessment by the Joint Chiefs  of staff suggested that to win in South Vietnam an army of 500,000 would be  needed and that it would take five years.<br />The problem with the book is  however something which comes out as an undercurrent in a lot of American  foreign policy writing. That is the myth of American omnipotence. That is  that if there is a loss or a set back, rather than such a thing being  perhaps inevitable it is due to a mistake or a miscalculation. Thus after  the take over of the communists in China in 1949 Truman was accused of  losing China, when it is clear that America simply would not have been able  to prevent it.<br />This book falls into the same trap of suggesting that in  the mid 60's it would be possible to make a clear prediction about the  outcome of the Vietnam War and to develop a measured military policy. There  simply wasn't as the critical variable the response of the North Vietnamese  and how much punishment they would be willing to take was not  clear.<br />Despite the problems with the basic thesis of the book it is an  interesting work based on detailed analysis of recently available material.  A must read for anyone interested in the subject.	2000-01-30
2688969:US	52147775	R18GBES6VHB5C8	0520218590	942857327	The Barbarian Conversion: From Paganism to Christianity	Books	5	15	18	N	Y	Clear well written and non doctrinal	Although the Roman Empire slowly disintegrated its religion Christianity was able to live on and to be accepted by the states and tribes who conquered it. This book is a description of the process.<br />The author  shows how the process was a complex one and depended on  range of factors  not just the mechanics of individual conversion. The reality was that  Christian missionaries achieved conversions by winning over the kings and  leader of the various new groups who conquered Rome. The basis of this  varied from case to case. Sometimes conversion was the result of success in  battle or a cure. Sometimes the wife of a king may have been the vehicle of  conversion. The critical thing was that once a king was converted to  Christianity all of the old ideas and beliefs were stamped out. This  intolerance led to the success of Christianity as there was no religion  that could replace it until the rise of Islam.<br />The history of conversion  is thus replete with early chroniclers telling proud stories of the  destruction of sacred groves, the burning of idols and the conversion of  temples into churches. The early success of the church was thus based on  the power of the state to suppress any dissent.<br />The write of the book  appears to be a Christian who at the end concludes that the conversion of  Europe created in the medieval feudal state a well run and compassionate  social apparatus. It is thus surprising that some who have read the book  found that he was somewhat biased.<br />The book is based on enormous  scholarship and gives a the flavour of the time.	2000-01-07
2689009:US	52147775	R1ARJKQCJD31MY	0395701015	509709654	To the Gates of Richmond: The Peninsula Campaign	Books	5	13	19	N	Y	War as farce	At the start of the Peninsular campaign General McClellan the Union Leader had an overwhelming force at his command. Not only did he have more men than the Confederates but he had more and better weapons. Despite this he  was fearful of defeat if he simply moved his army from Washington to  Richmond.<br />He thus evolved a complex scheme to move his forces by sea  close to Richmond and instead of fighting a battle try to involve the  Confederate forces is an engagement similar to a siege.<br />After the initial  leader of the Confederacy was injured General Robert E Lee was given  command of the their armies. He developed a risky plan of having General  Stonewall Jackson take part of his army and to attack the Federals from the  rear. To do this he reduced the size of the forces that he had facing  McClellan. The plan should have been a disaster. Jackson got his orders  confused and didn't turn up for the battle. The Confederates suffered high  casualties.  Instead of moving to take Richmond by pushing through the  weakened forces in front of him, McClellan decided to retreat. No one has  been able to provide a rational explanation for this bizarre decision. It  seems that he either suffered some form of breakdown or was delusional.   This caused the loss of enormous amounts of material which had his army had  to leave behind.<br />General Lee then pursued McClellan fighting two more  battles. Both battles were poorly thought out, badly run and should have  led to the ruin of the Confederates. Luckily they were fighting a general  incapable of rational decision making.  Gaines's Mill was a battle in which  Lee won at a significant cost a minor tactical victory but in which the  Federals were able to keep their army intact. The second battle was  Glendale in which the Confederates were beaten off again with heavy  casualties. If General McClellan  had simply left his army were it was  there is no doubt that General Lee would have continued to destroy his  armies withmore poorly coordinated ruinous attacks. The Federals could  then have walked into Richmnd. General McClellan however was a general so  poor that he was probably personally responsible for the Confederacy to  drag on for four more years.<br />Following these battles General Lee was able  to develop as a general and he in future battles was to ensure that his  orders were clearer and that his subordinates followed his commands. With  numerically inferior armies he was able to beat larger Union armies as long  as they were lead by incompetent generals. Things fell apart when General  Grant was put in charge of the Union armies and the contest became one of  material.<br />This book captures the detail of the campaign and its  ridiculous and comic elements. With so many civil war books there is a  tendency to try to write myth or to make the characters heroes. This book  simply tells it as it happened. It is a readable book and impressive work  of historical scholarship and a book to destroy some of the myths of the  past.	2000-01-07
2751654:US	52147775	RHKPP5PCJ3H7O	0195114485	581723860	Hate Crimes: Criminal Law and Identity Politics (Studies in Crime and Public Policy)	Books	5	6	9	N	Y	Sober well reasoned	This book is a clearly written and well researched discussion of the notion of \\"Hate Crime\\". It clearly shows that the tendency of some states in the United States to pass hate crime legislation is a poor response to a  complex phenomena. The authors show that in fact hate crime has been  declining and the passing of laws probably lead society to become more  divisive.<br />The statistical material suggests in fact that there has been a  decline in prejudice over time and that current criminal laws handle issues  of social conflict in an adequate way. The setting up of hate crime units  and the passing of laws has achieved little and used scarce  resources.<br />Hate crimes it would appear are an issue that is pushed by  parties of the left in the United States. (Perhaps more accurately parties  of the not so right). This attack however is not some piece of political  rhetoric based on a political position but a clear inditment of poorly  worked out social policy.	1999-11-20
2762967:US	52147775	R21UX1TPFA16XJ	0891415149	847186536	Inside Hitler's Headquarters	Books	2	17	29	N	Y	Limited Historical Interest	The book is one of a large number written by German Officers after the war. All of these books were of some interest but had one fatal flaw. That  was that the germans had little knowledge of what was happening in Russia  and the dynamics of its defence. Most books from this time tend to have a  common theme. Masses of Russians coming from every where and it was all  Hitlers fault.<br />The book has large slabs of Hitlers dialogue in it. This  was fairly interesting. The inclusion of the dialogue was included to show  his irrationality. The reality is somewhat different with Hitler appearing  from time to time a bit obsessed but in general terms having an idea of  what was happening and a quick mind for detail.<br />The book fails at times  trys to limit the armies responsability for a number of war crimes  including he order to execute without trial Russian party officials. This  part of the book lacks any conviction.<br />The book is of some historic  interest but scholarship has passed it by.	1999-10-29
2766712:US	52147775	RZAPQUO8BLK2	0812885198	213140720	German Army 1933-1945	Books	1	16	28	N	N	Badly Oudated	This is one of those books that rely on German sources and has not had the benefit of looking at Soviet material. It thus has a good deal of trouble  understanding the real balance of forces for most of the war. The only  mention of the Soviet strength is a discussion at the start of Barbarossa.  This leads to a number of errors which repeat those made by German Generals  in their memoirs and discussions of the conflict. For instance at the  battle of Kursk the population available to the Germans (more accurately  the German led alliance which invaded the Soviet Union) was in excess of  those available to the Soviets.In the book the author goes on at some  length at the hoards of troops available to the Soviets. By the battle of  Kursk the Soviets were using armour as a substitute for infantry. This  beinforced on them by huge losses that they had suffered.<br />The book  follows the line of the German Generals in suggesting that Hitler made a  number of decisions which led to a loss of the war. These decisions are the  failure to entrap the British Army at Dunkirk, the Failure to order a  retreat from Stalingrad, and the tendency to go over to a war of attrition  after 1942. In reality the failure was due more to the failure to increase  the production of war material prior to 1944. Further there was no attempt  to make important weapons such as anti tank guns available to the allied  forces. The inability of the Romanians and Italians was due largely to  their poor equipment.<br />The book also make a large number of errors. In  much of it the author describes at length how the German Army depended on  horse drawn transport. Something which was true. However he suggests that  it would have been more sensible for the Germans to equip their panzer and  motorised divisions with large numbers of trucks. More recent books have  shown clearly that the available amount of petrol produced by the synthetic  oil process and the Romanian Oil fields barely produced enough to keep the  largely horse drawn army going. In discussing the siege of Stalingrad the  author suggests that it was illogical of Hitler to not allow a break out of  the garrison. Stalingrad was only supported by one railway. Prior to the  Soviet attacks the Germans has been expending what supplies came in. If  they had tried to break out they would have had no fuel for their armoured  vehicles and no ammunition. If they had have broken out they could have  been hunted down on the Russian steppe. This would have led to their speedy  end and the loss of the armies in the Caucus.<br />The book sadly is very  outdated.keep the  largely horse drawn army going. In discussing the siege of Stalingrad the  author suggests that it was illogical of Hitler to not allow a break out of  the garrison. Stalingrad was only supported by one railway. Prior to the  Soviet attacks the Germans has been expending what supplies came in. If  they had tried to break out they would have had no fuel for their armoured  vehicles and no ammunition. If they had have broken out they could have  been hunted down on the Russian steppe. This would have led to their speedy  end and the loss of the armies in the Caucus.<br />The book sadly is very  outdated.	1999-10-24
2774727:US	52147775	R2292UHPLV8W78	0849911818	134226775	The Face That Demonstrates the Farce of Evolution	Books	1	25	49	N	N	Silly	It is hard to understand why some want to see evolution as such a big issue. Christians would be  better of letting it go and fight other battles. This book illustrates how pointless it is. If you reject evolution  you have to reject 1. The theory of continental drift 2. The big bang  theory 3. Carbon dating 4. Most contempory Geology 5. Most modern theories  relating to the universe<br />The only people who fight evolution are those  who have no knowledge of the implication of what they are doing. That is  rejecting most of what is our modern understanding of the world.<br />Religion  can exist with evolution but when it rejects it, it puts itself in luny  land.	1999-10-12
2775696:US	52147775	R3CFIQYF8BCAS4	0804116989	920519732	Fighting in Hell: The German Ordeal on the Eastern Front	Books	1	15	21	N	N	Dissapointing	After the war German Generals were de-briefed at length over a range of subjects. These included their fighting techniques use of weapons and their war with the Soviets. The aim of these sessions was to be able to improve  the efficiency of the United States Army and to get some idea of the  fighting strength of the Russians. This book is a collection of the  interviews with German Generals. They are a series of essays on a range of  topics. The major problem with them is that during the war the Germans  themselves has little real idea of why they lost the war. <br />This comes  through in these essays. There is an impression of somehow having lost  against the mongol hoards but little real understanding of the relative  strengths of the forces and why the Soviets were able to resist the Germans  and to then achieve a numerical preponderance. The essays also reflect the  prejudices of the time with lots of discussion of the Asiatic mind and an  approach that led to thinking being based on race.<br />The book is thus  disappointing as it is fragmented bound by its time and lacking in any real  insight. (Except for one interesting fact and that was that the Germans had  to use vegetable oil as a lubricant on their weapons as normal oils froze  in the Russian winter)	1999-10-10
2796446:US	52147775	R2JU1SMVOFQETJ	0195104692	606576595	Malign Neglect: Race, Crime, and Punishment in America	Books	5	11	13	N	Y	Great	The United States is one of the richest countries in the world. Despite this it does not have a universal system of health care or a level of income support for the poor associated with most developed nations. Its  criminal justice system is unusual as it still retains the death penalty,  routinely executes people who would be regarded as juveniles in other  countries and also executes mentally disabled people.<br />Michael Tonry has  written a book which looks at the fairness of the criminal justice system  and how it affects Afro Americans. The number of Afro Americans in the  overall population in the United States is some 13%. They now however  represent a majority of the population who is imprisoned. These figures  alone rather flatter the reality of the situation. The Afro American  community is split into an affluent group and an underprivileged group. One  of the points that Tonry makes is that of that underprivileged group some  80 of males will be charged with a criminal offence. A huge proportion of  that group will be jailed.<br />The reason for this is the war on drugs. In  1988 faced by a decline in the use of drugs and a stable crime rate  President Bush announced a war on drugs. This involved the transfer of  tremendous resources to policing the creation of tough penalties mandatory  penalties and the removal of discretion from the courts. In the United  States low level drug traffickers who would get a penalty of around 6  months in Australia routinely get penalties of 7 years. The effect has been  a tripling of the prison population. <br />Studies of drug use in the States  show that white people and Afro Americans abuse illegal drugs at around the  same rate. It is difficult to police drug use in the white community as it  occurs indoors. The poorer sections of the Afro American community live in  crowded conditions and buy their drugs on the streets. It is thus far  easier to arrest the poor. Thus the major effect of the war on drugs has  been amassive increase of low level Afro American drug offenders being  imprisoned for longer and longer periods. The cost of jail construction has  been massive and in some states is greater than the higher education  budget.<br />The political basis of the war on drugs was the use of the   Willie Horton case to destroy Michael Dukakis in the 1988 presidential  campaign. Willie Horton was an Afro American who had been jailed for  violent offences. He was released on a furlough a type of leave then  permitted by the state of Massachusetts. Horton brutally raped and murdered  a woman and the fact that he was released whilst completing a sentence was  used by Bush to suggest that Dukakis was soft on crime.(Despite the fact  that the program had been up to that time routinely successful)  Since that  time American politicians including Clinton have emphasized their toughness  on crime. <br />This book is well written and contains a depth of statistical  material which makes it compelling. The sense of outrage is palpable on  each page. It is short some 200 pages but the depth of its research and the  clearness of its arguments make it a must read.	1999-09-05
2863250:US	52147775	RWKKL2UWZ1TFM	0440215269	627647641	Soldat: Reflections of a German Soldier, 1936-1949	Books	2	10	18	N	N	Sanitised	The book is the story of a German artillery officer in the second world war.  Perhaps the most interesting part is the account of his time in a soviet prison camp after the war ended.  The author describes how he was  asked questions for some five years and learned not to implicate himself in  anything which would be seen by the soviets as a war crime.  The book gives  the impression that it has been written to convey a certain message. The  author thus talks of the war and distances himeself from the various war  crimes.<br />This is not really believable as the way that the germans killed  the jews and the communists on the Russian front was the sort of thing that  would be hard to hide.<br />The book contains little insight into the way that  the german or the soviet army worked in practice. This is perhaps due to  the author being injured for a good proportion of the war and doing  training for a good deal of the rest.  There are better books around.	1999-05-22
2881681:US	52147775	RTBKYYHKJGQXB	0805048359	931287047	Crime and Punishment in America	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Interesting but lacking in substance	This book is a rather valiant attempt to argue against the tide.  The thesis of the book is that the United States of America is involved in a bizaree social experiment.  That experiment is to create a grossly unequall  society and to see if it can be kept together with a draconian law  enforcement system.<br />The author tries to argue that crime is the result of  social inequality and not the &quot;break down of the family&quot; as  suggested by conservative comentators.  This part of the book although  probably true is not that well argued.  Better are the sections which  correct a number of myths in America about the criminal justice system.  Those myths suggest that the system is soft and that most criminals in  custody are dangerous.  Both nonsense of course.<br />The book is readable and  I read it in a couple of hours.  Still no doubt most Americans will read  Rush Limbaugh rather than this more interesting work.<br />The tragedy of  America is of course that most of its citizens tend not to be interested in  other countries and have little knowledge of other social systems.  This  lack of knowledge blinds them to how serious a moral choice is made when so   many people imprisoned because of social inequality.	1999-04-20
2883127:US	52147775	ROIS08O7AD3V5	0700607641	613918428	Arming Against Hitler: France and the Limits of Military Planning	Books	1	4	38	N	Y	Not so good	In 1940 using a plan designed by General Manstien Germany attacked France.  The campaign cut off the French from their Belgian and English Allies who were forced to retreate or surrender.  Germany was then left to conquer a  much reduced opposition.<br />At the time it was thought that Germany  outnumbered the allies and had vastly superior weapons.  After the war it  was found that the allies in fact outnumbered the Germans and that most  German weapons were either inferior to or at most equal to the  allied.<br />This book tries to argue that the preparations made by France  were a factor in the French defeat. It is hard to show that this was the  case. The book parallels a debate which took place in German conentration  camps during the war.  The French Military tried to put the government on  trial for betraying the nation and letting France be defeated.  Blum the  prime minister of France was able to show how he had given the army  everything that it wanted.<br />France lost the war not because of the size of  its armies or the weapons it had but because of the stupidity of its  military leaders.<br />The book simply fails to look at France in the  context of German rearmament.  If it did it would show that the French  program was ratinal and adequate.<br />All in all not worth the money.	1999-04-18
2885263:US	52147775	R3GGPRH4GUGH72	0671751506	171253589	The Way Things Ought to Be	Books	1	29	74	N	Y	Not as good as one hoped	Although not conservatively inclined I looked forward to reading this book as I thought that it would be like P J O Rourke, witty bitting and funny. In Australia we do not get Mr Limbaughs program but its reputation is  considerable and the author is said to be something of a wit. It was thus a  disspointment to labour through the book.  The writers background is  apparently that of a disk jockey.  Most of the book is rather anecdotal and  all over the place. The jokes are laboured and long winded.<br />The  attraction of the book is hard for an outsider to see.  It probably says  something more to people caught up issues. To a non American it just seems  to be another &quot; I don't want to pay tax and anyone who wants me to  show some social responsability is a commie&quot; type tract.	1999-04-14
2885325:US	52147775	R14EV1Q3RSDVSO	1580800572	907408910	Bowfin: The True Story of a Fabled Fleet Submarine in World War II (Classics of War)	Books	2	10	11	N	Y	So so	Prior to reading this book I read another submarine book &quot;take her deep&quot; by Galantin.  The author of that book had served on a submarine the Halibut and told in a vivid way of his time on her. The book was  fascinating.<br />Bowfin by comparson was dissapointing.  The writer is either  a historian or journalist who simply has written a book based on some  secondary sources.  It makes rather dull reading. Another weakness is that  the unlike &quot;take her deep&quot; there is no real effort to work out  what had really happened during the combat patrols.  One example of this  was an encounter in which the crew of the sub thought that they sank a  battleship. Galantin did a fascinating reconstruction to show that the ship  sunk was probably a destroyer and illustrates in some detail why mistakes  such as that were made.<br />In Bowfin the author makes no real attempt to  look at the reasons why post hostilities evaluations of sinkings were  different from those claimed in the war.<br />In sum give it a miss there are  better books.	1999-04-14
2886594:US	52147775	R1ORN3PVEMGQFU	1565302028	139066340	America's Toughest Sheriff: How We Can Win the War Against Crime	Books	1	25	93	N	Y	Weird	The title suggested that this would be a action based expose of a dynamic law enforcer.  Instead it turned out to be a book about prison policy.  The writer is apparently a sheriff and they have some control over local jails.<br />Most of the book is a description of how the author wanted to keep  more people in jail but he had a shrinking corrections budget.  He  basically set up a concentration camp for low level offenders. (More  serious offenders appear to have been kept in a normal jail)<br />The author  has purchased a series of tents and set up a wired perimeter.  Around this  he has a few guards, enough to keep people in but not the normal number you  would have in a prison.  To complete the economy measures he has reduced  the amount of money spent on food.  The average cost of meal provision is  30cents. To be able to have such cheap food the author has to purchase food  that is not for sale on the normal market.  Meat sausage that has turned  green and the like.<br />The writer has then spent most of his time showing  news reporters from current affairs shows around his new prison.<br />All of  this could only happen in America.  Some of the book is humerous in a  bizarre way.  Thus the author restricted the types of films available to  prisoners.  He for instance was keen for them to see promotional material  for conservative politicans.  He allowed the prisoners to see one  &quot;drama&quot; a corny old film called &quot;Old Yella&quot;. This film  is about a loyal dog which dies in the end role.  The author was of a view  that this was a touching and moving film.  The prisoners however thought  that the film was so bad they cheered when the dog died.  The author to pay  them back banned all &quot;drama's&quot;. I'm a bit with the prisoners on  this issue.<br />The author basically seems to be a person keen on publicity  and is willing to use the vulnerable, prisoners in his care to achieve his  ends.	1999-04-12
2891783:US	52147775	R19O34API29AZ1	0571199275	438957874	While the Music Lasts: My Life in Politics	Books	2	5	8	N	Y	So So	This book is rather hard going for someone who is unfamiliar with the history of the author and the politics of his state.  It is however readable despite these problems.  <br />It is not entirely clear what if  anything the author stood for in his time in politics.  The main discussion  in the book concerns the authors opposition to the busing issue.  Whilst to  people outside America busing seemed a socially progressive move one can  understand how it would have disrupted a local community and how there  would be opposition to it.<br />The writer however is a good hater.  With the  busing issue and with his conflict with Alan Desrhowitz he can certainly  dish out the abuse.  In doing so he tends to lose the reader as it is not  clear exactly has led to the torrent of abuse.<br />It would appear that the  author was also a &quot;controversial politician&quot;.  A good deal of the  book is devoted to discussing various corruption scandals and putting  forward innocent explanations of various things.<br />It is a shame that the  writer does not put in more background so that the readers who live outside  the north east of the United States know what he was going on about.  If  the book contained that information it would be a valuable insight into a  colorful and interesting character.	1999-04-04
2895579:US	52147775	RJIAEMDCJGBFC	0679600841	748295604	War and Peace (Modern Library)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great	Clearly a classic which today reads as easily as a popular novel.  Easy to read but yet a vast portrait of pre-revolutionary Russia.<br />That being said the periodic discussions of Tolstoy's theory of history which from time to  time are inserted amongst the novel are, let us be frank are silly boring  to read and out of place.<br />The book however is a rarity.  Anyone can read  it with pleasure and come away richer for the experiance.	1999-03-28
2905351:US	52147775	R37EPOSK5BTAER	046505711X	122798525	The Pity Of War	Books	2	18	21	N	N	More essays than a book	This is a rather strange book.  It is like a series of essays on various aspects of the First World War.  The author aims at dispelling several of what he sees as myths about the conflict.  These are (1)That Militarism played a big part in the war breaking out. (2)That the war was popular  (3)That Germany wanted the war (4)That Germany used its economic resources  badly in the war (5)That starvation led to the collapse of the central  powers (6)That fighting men found their life intolerable<br />Some of the book  is interesting and well argued.  Some of it now is reasonably well accepted  generally.  For instance a number of commentators have accepted that the  weakness of Germany was one reason for the war.  Russia at the time of the  war was completing an armaments program and a railway system which would  bring its armies to Germanys borders within a short time. War for Germany  in 1914 was seen as regrettable but better than facing a much stronger army  in a few more years.The arguments about the amount of money that each of  the nations spent on arms is interesting. The author suggests strongly that  if any country was obsessed with the military it was France rather than  Germany.<br />Other parts of the book are less well argued.  It is clear that  the war led to a mixed response from those who fought in it.  Some such as  Ernst Junger found it the most important experience in their life.  In  England it has generally been accepted that the high casualties brought  widespread disillusionment. The book tries to argue that most who served in  the war either enjoyed it or where not to negatively effected.  To do this  the writer lists a number of books that came out of he war which were  jingoistic and patriotic.<br />This however is superficial.  Germans emerged  from the war feeling reasonably positive about it. They had generally been  successful. After the war large numbers of Germans joined the Friekorps  units putting down left wing rebellions and trying topreserve the German  borders against the newly independent states set up after the war.  The  allies however had spent most of the war losing.  <br />If one reads any  account of the Second World War the it is clear the effect that the First  had on military thought.  Canada who as a dominion sent the largest  contingent to Europe in the First War refused to send a significant number  of troops in the second.  They instead assisted England by the provision of  convey escorts.  England itself built up its air force as an alternative to  fighting a land war in Europe.   If one reads the biographies of English  military commanders there was a real fear of putting their men through the  sorts of experiences that they as junior officers had gone through in the  first war.<br />The book is interesting to anyone who is familiar with the war  but would probably be incomprehensible to someone who picks it up as their  first book on the war.	1999-03-10
2907499:US	52147775	R2JXG2VRWOG57Z	0785807225	651894524	Lost Victories: The Military Genius of Stonewall Jackson	Books	4	17	19	N	Y	Good but	This book is another revisionist attack on the reputation of General Robert E Lee.  It suggests that Lee missed opportunities to defeat Northern armies most significantly at the battle of Chancellorsville. It further  suggests that Stonewall Jackson had developed a greater tactical skill than  Lee and had developed a &quot;plan&quot; which would have allowed the South  to defeat the North.<br />That plan was a recognition that due to the  invention of the rifled musket frontal attacks on defended positions would  lead to defeat.  For the south to win it was necessary for them to invade  the north, but not to seek a military victory by attacking a northern army.  Rather it would be necessary to move north and to force a defensive battle  on terms that favor the confederacy.<br />The central argument has some  interest.  It would seem clear that Lee's career was aided by facing in the  main not just timorous but incompetent opponents. One wonders in his  various successful battles such as the Seven Days and Antiem what sort of  disaster would have befallen him if his opponent had not run away at the  point when they could have achieved victory.<br />The suggestion that another  general could have done better is harder to believe.  The Federal  government had large numbers of troops that were generally dispersed.  The  dispersal of the armies assisted the confederates in fighting battles in  which they were not overwhelmed.  A move to Washington however would have  seen a concentration of such force it is hard to believe the southern  armies could have been victorious.<br />The book however is well written and  in approaching the topic from the way it does it forces the reader to think  and learn more about the American Civil War than most straight  chronological narratives.	1999-03-06
2907926:US	52147775	R2FGIRJ0HN804Q	0471120413	703288759	The Battle for Okinawa	Books	2	16	21	N	Y	So So	This book is to say the least a slim volume.  The text by Colonel Hiromichi Yahara is perhaps 180 pages of double spaced text.  The book is padded out by 30 pages of after battle interrogation and some commentary  and explanation by Frank Gibney.<br />The parts which are written by Yarhara  are interesting but in no way could be called a history of the battle.   They are more a memoir of his memories of it.  His role was that of a staff  officer.  He spent most of the battle behind the lines in various command  caves.  The book is a description of his arguments with other officers  about the proposed strategy for the defense of Okinawa. He believed in a  slow defense of attrition.  Other commanders advocated heroic but suicidal  attacks.  <br />In the end after the failure of a number of suicide attacks  which compromised the ability of the Japanese garrison to fight a campaign  of attrition Yahara was able to run things his way.  The battle ended as it  could only have done in a Japanese defeat.  The cost for the American  invaders was high.  The success of Yahara's strategy was such that it  probably contributed to the decision of the Americans to use nuclear  weapons against Japan.<br />The book is interesting as it gives an insight  into the Japanese command system but is in no way a history of the battle  for Okinawa.  Yahara had little idea of what was happening on the American  side and no idea of the progress of Kamikaze raids on the American fleet.  While interesting it is in no way a good introduction to the campaign for  the general reader.	1999-03-05
2908796:US	52147775	RJNW4PG3402BO	0275948943	980896958	Hitler's Nemesis: The Red Army, 1930-1945	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	A classic	This book is an important piece of scholarship which is based on Russian and German primary sources.  It seeks to look at the Red Army and why it was able to defeat the Germans.  Conventional histories have relied on the  myth that Germany, a smaller country than the Soviet Union was in the end  overwhelmed by hoards of poorly armed Soviet troops dying as they attacked  the superbly trained but numerically weaker German Army.<br />Dunn shows that  the victory of the forces of the Soviet Union was something that was  unexpected.  In 1942 Germany not only controlled all of Europe but also 60  million Soviet citizens. The Germans had a far greater pool of labor and  industry to draw on.  Rather than the Soviets having vast reserves of  manpower by 1943 they had to reduce the size of infantry regiments as they  ran out of troops. They key to Soviet success was not the numbers of men  but the increase in the number of tanks and other equipment in Soviet  formations which were used as a substitute for men. This was made possible  by the Soviet command economy that was able to divert almost all production  to the war effort.  This contrasted to Germany and its allies who  squandered its resources up till 1944 by which time it was to  late.<br />Dunn's work like his well researched &quot;Kursk Hitlers  Gamble&quot; is a vital book for anyone wanting to understand the true  nature of the second world war and why Germany lost.  A must read.	1999-03-04
2911049:US	52147775	R2K9E32NWO1L45	0029250951	944111135	War and the Rise of the State	Books	1	14	32	N	Y	Schematic and Superficial	This book is rather schematic and develops a number of rules that it then tries to use to explain the development of nation states.  Generally the feel of the book is that it is a rave based on secondary sources.  The  absurdity of the book can be seen in its discussion of totalitarianism. It  suggests that the way totalitarianism comes about is through five steps.   These are:<br />1 An all out industrial war which enlarges the size and  authority of the administrative apparatus of the state.( This happened in  Germany but it didn't in Imperial Russia.  Russia had been an autocracy  prior to the war.  If anything the mechanisms it had set up to control the  state weakened and collapsed.  This led to the revolution of 1917. ) 2  Military defeat causes the collapse of the traditional regime.( You would  have to agree with that.) 3 The disintegrative effects of way destroy or  substantially weaken civil society.( Russia never had &quot;civil  society&quot;. It was a large rural country with a small elite living in  cities. Germany was a more complex society.  However it emerged from the  war a democracy.  It took 15 years for that to collapse.  One would think  that the depression and the fear of communism might be relevant to the  support of Nazism rather than the collapse of civil society.) 4 In the  resulting power vacuum mass movements capture the enlarged bureaucratic  center and form a new regime using an organizational structure and approach  to politics modeled on an army at war.( In Russia the communist had to  create the Red Army the Checka and other means of repression. In Germany  the instruments of repression were initially the SA and the SS. This is  thus wrong) 5 After capturing the state, the new regime centralizes power  and atomizes all opposition society for war.(Yes in Russia no in  Germany.)<br />Anyone who is familiar with the history of the Soviet Union and  Nazi Germany will be aware that both countries had a very different  character and history and neither will fit into this model.<br />The Soviet  Union initially tried to run a command economy but faced with the collapse  of the country introduced the New Economic Policy in the 20's. This meant  in practice private ownership of land but the state ownership of industrial  enterprise.  The state at this time could if anything be described as  reasonably fragmented.  It was not dissimilar to the old Czarist regime,  which as an autocracy had controlled the development of secondary industry  to provide armaments.  In the late 20's the Soviet Union did a complete  U-turn on this policy and decided to Nationalize all land and to set up  collective farms.  The reason for this policy was so that the state could  export the agricultural surplus and use the income to industrialize.  This  policy meant a huge decrease in the standard of living of farm workers.  Such a policy was met with fierce resistance.  The resistance led to  repression and the deaths of millions of farm workers especially in the  Ukraine.  It was at this point that the Soviet Union became a strong  centralized authoritarian state. Prior to that it had been an authoritarian  state but not a strong and centralized one. In addition to building up a  strong base of secondary industry the state also built up a large modern  army.<br />The development of central structures meant that during the Second  World War, even despite the loss of huge amounts of territory the Soviet  Union was able to out produce the Axis countries in war  production.<br />Germany unlike the Soviet Union was a wealthy country with a  large industrial sector.  After the First World War its constitution was  that of a Federal Republic.  Following the passing of power to the Nazi  Party something which was accepted by the traditional elite's of the  country there was little marked change to the country. An authoritarian  political structure was set up and dissidents imprisoned but power was  decentralized into a number of Gauls. Nothing at all happened to the  industrial structure of the country. Prior to the war the only real  economic policy was some government spending on roads which led to the  achievement of full employment. In the late 30's the country engaged on a  limited armaments program which was similar to that of Great Britain.  <br />One of the problems faced by Nazi Germany was its inability to harness  its own economy and also that of its allies to the war effort.  Thus in  1941 German industry was only working 9 to 5.  Private motor vehicles and  Refrigerators were still being produced. The output of aircraft was so low  that Germany's total of 3,000 aircraft in service was never exceeded  despite the fact that both the United States and the Soviet Union had by  1944 20,000 aircraft available for service in Europe. In Germany, there  were simply no strong central organs except those of state repression.  <br />The book is highly artificial in the way that it tries to fit complex  reality into simple schema.  Give it a miss.	1999-02-28
2911162:US	52147775	R1QQ7ANHL78XEV	0679753036	349762134	Soldiers of the Sun: The Rise and Fall of the Imperial Japanese Army	Books	2	5	15	N	Y	Superficial	This book is readable but rather superficial.  The key to understanding the development of the Japanese Army from the 30's on was that most of the resources of the country went into the Navy.  The equipment of the army was  thus out of date and more that of a First World War force.<br />The army  realizing its inferiority in equipment hoped that bravery and  &quot;dash&quot; would assist in the defeat of western armies.  This worked  in the first hundred days of the war but not afterwards.<br />In discussing  the issues the book gives a general history but does not look at the nuts  and bolts of army training and organization.  It also fails to look at the  practical problems Japan had in running a war with such a limited  industrial capacity.<br />One annoying part of the book is a weakness of many  American authors to try to make the Philippines Campaign a glorious part of  American military history as opposed to the inglorious defeats of the  British in the Malaya Campaign. The book even makes a historical error in  suggesting that the loss of the bomber force was due to &quot;bad  weather&quot;. The reality was that MacArthur refused to let them take off  to bomb Taiwan.  Give it a break.  The Japanese in the Philippines campaign  were outnumbered.  They won because of the incompetence of the Philippines  armed forces. <br />In the Philippines Campaign as in the Malaya  Campaign  forces opposing the Japanese would retreat for fear of being surrounded.   Later in the war it was found that victory could be achieved by holding  fast.  The Japanese were so poorly supplied that they would simply run out  of ammunition. <br />In all a readable but superficial book.	1999-02-27
2915270:US	52147775	RIRHRIBRFB73H	1557500436	940665962	Bombers Versus Battleships: The Struggle Between Ships and Aircraft for the Control of the Surface of the Sea	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Easy to read history of the development of Navel Air Power	This book is a history of the development of air power from just before the first world war to the battle of Okinawa.  The author apparently was involved in three of the battles as a gunnery officer and pilot.<br />The book  examines the subject by focusing on 20 battles in which air forces battled  with navel elements.  Its discussion ranges from the Battle of Midway to  the attacks on the Malta conveys.<br />The book is immensely readable and its  author has a detailed knowledge of the scholarship around these battles.  The book is interesting as it discusses a number of issues not covered in  popular works such as the nature of anti-aircraft fire in the various  navies and also the fire control and direction systems. Well worth a read.	1999-02-20
2918334:US	52147775	R1M4FAOQ04G5P4	0870211927	605402174	Kaigun: Strategy, Tactics, and Technology in the Imperial Japanese Navy, 1887-1941	Books	5	49	54	N	Y	Fascinating	Kaigun Strategy is a book that I had a lot of trouble putting down.  This is perhaps strange for a book which discusses things such as the development of dry steam as a more efficient mode of propulsion, change in  the composition of steel as it related to battleship construction and other  very technical subjects.  In a way the book said a lot about the Pacific  War that had been said before.  Yet in a way it was as startling revelation  of the development of Japanese Society from the Meiji Restoration to the  end of the second World War. The book is a discussion about the development  of Japans Navy.  Until 1945 the Japanese spent the staggering amount of 27%  of their national budget on the navy.  The reason for this lies with the  now forgotten writings of Admiral Mahon.<br />Mahon was an American who in his  day was as famous as Marx and Lenin.  He wrote a history of sea power a  book that argued that the reason for the wealth of great nations was the  control of an empire through control of the sea.  The Japanese were  converts to his doctrines and being an island power thought that the key to  the national destiny was the acquisition of empire.  Kaigun Strategy is a  study of how the Japanese Navy tried to develop a navy that would give them  preponderance over that of the much stronger American Navy.  The book goes  into great detail about how the Japanese studied the most modern technology  to develop a numerically inferior but well trained modern Navy.  The belief  in empire and  the need to ensure oil supplies put Japan on a collision  course with the United States of America.<br />The end of the war has led to  Japan sheathing the sword and seeking to build up a strong economy.  This  has led to Japan becoming one of the richest and strongest countries in the  world.  How more productive that has been rather than putting most of the  national wealth into a Navy which ended up on the bottom of the sea.<br />The  book is fascinating at showing that whilsta large amount of Japans  planning and development showed tremendous skill and intellect, at the same  time ridiculous errors were made. Thus whilst Japan build up a modern fleet  and air wing it failed to:  Adopt a convoy system during the war or to arm  enough destroyers with sonar equipment to protect its merchant marine.   Did not realise till after the war started that there were not enough  tankers in the possession of Japan to move enough oil from its new  possessions to keep both the navy and industry going.  Made no attempts to  develop code breaking in the way that its Axis Partner Germany and the  Allies did.  Were not able to adopt the strategy once it became obvious  that the war was evolving into one of attrition rather than a single  decisive battle.<br />The book is a fascinating one and shows how the history  of nations can be molded by the history of ideas.	1999-02-14
2918578:US	52147775	R1VH9JPUYVO8D2	0679452516	769314299	The Turnaround: How America's Top Cop Reversed the Crime Epidemic	Books	3	6	13	N	Y	Interesting in what is unsaid	This book is a ghosted autobiography of Bratton.  The writing isn't as bad as some of the reviewers have suggested.  It is a book that can be read in an evening.  The strategies suggested by Bratton are now well known and  have become the flavor of the month in the United States. To keep a  neighborhood presence and to prevent the development of crime, rather than  to react to the commission of more serious crime.  To use technology to  focus on problem areas and to maximize the police resources. <br />Bratton is  very much the sort of person who once in job does not seem to accept things  but rather wants to change things around so as to achieve different  results.  The interesting things are in a way left unsaid. Bratton joined  the Boston Police Force after a three month stint in Vietnam as a Military  Policeman.  He relates how Boston at that time had significant corruption.   Further a large number of police officers were lazy and avoided work.  In  the book there is not the slightest suggestion that Bratton as a junior  police officer did anything about these things.  In fact the first real  outrage in the book is a passage about how outrageous it is that people  urinate in the street, use language and so forth. One of Bratton's claims  to fame is his focus on what has come to be known as zero tolerance  policing. That is the belief that by preventing low level crime  neighborhoods are protected from the development of a criminal culture.  Such an approach has angered some groups in the States as it is argued that  such policing styles are targeted against disadvantaged people.<br />The  failure to act against other police in his early career is something, which  is easy to understand.  He as a junior police officer would not have had  the power to alter entrenched patterns of behavior and he would have ended  up in another profession.  If some one such as Bratton was not able to act  against corruption in his early years one can understand the immensity of  the problem.  Bratton is clearly and intelligent man with considerable  drive and one who is committed to honest policing. His powerlessness as a  younger man shows the importance of developing ways to ensure that police  culture is monitored so the community can be protected.	1999-02-14
2921403:US	52147775	R1F50IMTVAK7TE	0684838575	520140173	Shiloh: The Battle That Changed the Civil War	Books	2	7	17	N	N	Sort of Interesting	A book telling of the battle from the Confederate side.  Some bits of it are interesting, for instance it dispels the myth that there was a wide disparity in the quality of the armaments of the two sides.<br />However the  focus on the confederate operations to the exclusion of those of the  northern army  makes it difficult to understand the total action. The  author also continually refers to Beauregard as the &quot;Creole&quot;  rather than by his name.  This is somewhat bizarre. Still easy enought to  read but not one of the life changing my god I now understand it all books.	1999-02-09
2927089:US	52147775	REKB43ZZD31TR	0340573481	796438741	The First World War: Germany and Austria-Hungary 1914-1918 (Modern Wars)	Books	5	25	27	N	Y	An excellent book	The First World War destroyed the old imperial system that had governed Europe. Prior to the war central Europe was dominated by the German Empire,  the Austro-Hungarian Empire and Imperial Russia.  As a result of the war  these countries were torn apart by social revolution with Communism taking  control in Russia and Fascism in Germany. <br />Herwig in his stunning book  explains why.  The stunning incompetence of all of the participants in this  conflict were breathtaking.  The military incompetence of the  Austro-Hungarian Empire was such that they had lost close to one million  men in the first year of the war. However conventional histories fail to  look at the way countries managed their economies. Neither Germany nor  Austro-Hungary were able to feed their populations during the war or even  turned their mind to it. <br />The war years were a time when the normal  people in those counties slowly starved to death, suffering from a range of  diseases brought on by poor nutrition to witness their husbands and  children taken away to die in huge numbers at the front.<br />The book is a  stunning inditement of all of the great powers of the time.  The First  World War is the first cause of a lot which has gone wrong with this  century.	1999-01-29
2930322:US	52147775	R1U1ADDQEUW8UM	0809000105	215449177	Influence of Seapower upon History	Books	5	12	13	N	Y	A book as important as Marx's Capital	The work of Admiral Mahon is now largely forgotten.  With the passing of empires his doctrines became obsolete.  He discussed the history of the British Empire in its struggles with France prior to the napoleonic period.  He was of the view that the possession of a large fleet with secure bases  was the key to retaining a large empire. An empire in turn was the key to  the wealth of nations.<br />His writing contributed to the development of the  German navy at the beginning of the century and indirectly to the tensions  which led to the first world war.  The history of Japan between the wars  was characterised by a whole hearted adoption of his ideas.<br />An  examination of his work is a key to understanding much of what happened in  the twentieth century.	1999-01-24
2938060:US	52147775	R33F6GOKMVV7SD	0700608761	523851535	Stopped at Stalingrad: The Luftwaffe and Hitler's Defeat in the East, 1942-1943 (Modern War Studies)	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Interesting new information	The reviews of this book are uniformly good.  The one interesting thing which the other reviewers have not alluded to is an examination of the importance of oil in the German and Soviet war effort and an analysis of  the reason why Hitler struck off towards the oil fields in at Baku.<br />The  discussion of this subject made it possible to understand the dynamics of  the tactics and one can now realise how close the Germans came to victory  even though their forces were much weaker than in the previous summer.	1999-01-10
2938642:US	52147775	R2V5UPJ3M5UJOX	0275957330	895894820	Kursk: Hitler's Gamble, 1943	Books	5	19	19	N	N	A great work of history	This is an interesting and challenging work.  Rather than write a conventional military history of the cut and thrust of battle the author tries to analyse  the forces prior to the battle and to calculate the  realistic position.  Previous historys have not done this.  The reason for  that was that previous historys depended on German sources for a narrative  of the battle.  The Germans at the time of the battle had little idea of  the strength of the Soviet forces or the fact that even if this battle had  succeeded there were five armies ready to plug the gap. Dunn points out  that Soviet histories of the battle have been based on these same German  accounts.  They have only differed in who they have made the hero's and  villians.<br />Through examining the strength of both armies, Dunn clearly  shows that the German army was doomed from the start.  His work goes  through Soviet and German sources to work out actual casualty rates for  each part of the battle.  He finds that several of the accounts are wrong.   The Soviets for example did not fight heroic last-ditch battles losing vast  numbers of men.  They in fact defended the Kursk position in an elastic way  not losing many men at all.  Further Dunn examines the German tank losses  and finds that most accounts until now have wildly overestimated the German  losses.<br />Some of the Amazon Com reviewers have been disappointed with this  book. The reason for that is that the book is not what they expected.  The  reality is that the work is fascinating in its detail and is a fine example  of a &quot;method of history&quot; which aims at understanding the truth of  an event rather than looking at the legends.	1999-01-08
2941142:US	52147775	RNT6VBKU5Q9XQ	155850723X	440973700	Old Soldiers Never Die	Books	3	12	23	N	N	Fascinating but flawed	There is little doubt that MacArthur as a young soldier in the first world war was a brave man.  Later at West Point he tried to remove the rather barbaric initiation practices which had been part of the initiation of  young men.  In later life he went on to administer Japan following its  defeat and contributed to the development of a nation which successfully  adopted a democratic constitution and put aside its militaristic past.   These achievement's make MacArthur an important figure.<br />This book however  greatly inflates his military reputation.  After his retirement from the  American military between the wars he was put in charge and given the role  of creating the Philippines armed forces. When the Japanese invaded the  Philippines in the first year of the Pacific War, MacArthur's forces were  five times as strong as the Japanese.  Not only was he not able to prevent  the Japanese landings and advance but he organized a retreat of his own  troops to a position in which there were not enough food reserves to  continue resistance for any period. Whilst his large army suffered defeat  after defeat inflicted by the small and poorly armed Japanese Army he sent  of telegrams which dishonestly bragged of non existent battles and  victories. Later in the war he achieved considerable success. This was due  to having well supplied American and Australian troops who fought against  Japanese troops who were cut off from supply and who fought short of food  and ammunition.  Most were infected and suffering from malaria. His  military reputation did not derive from what he did but the need at the  time for hero's to be created to inspire the troops and to keep the home  front happy.<br />This book is interesting and readable.  MacArthur perhaps  because of his faults is an interesting figure and his life is in some  respects more colorful than that of a figure of fiction. The writers of  biography usually pick a subject because they are impressed by it or have  some love for it.  This tends to lead them to be blind to the faults of  their subject. This book is fascinating although it is taken in by the  legend that MacArthur made for himself.	1999-01-04
2942246:US	52147775	R11ME34W3M5IDG	1859841953	348831162	The Making of New World Slavery: From the Baroque to the Modern 1492-1800	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Extremely Valuable	This book although by by a writer from the left is a well researched well-written survey of slavery. Without emotion it explains how slavery, something which had practically ceased to exist following the collapse of  the Roman World was re-created to provide labour in colonies of the new  world.<br />It describes the setting up of the trade occurred and how it  operated in practice.  The brutality, the mechanics of how slaves were  obtained how they were sold, what they did as slaves.<br />The absence of  passion makes the book an even more powerful indictment of the institution  of slavery.  It describes how in most of the colonies slaves were over time  worked to death.  In Brazil, the usual life expectancy was seven  years.<br />The book is challenging as it raises questions about the origin of  our societies and seriously challenges the notions that European Society  was either civilized or Christian.	1999-01-03
2942315:US	52147775	RTHXMRCAUV2M9	067440419X	791879764	Hitler's Justice: The Courts of the Third Reich	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Great	This book is written in a slightly dry way and is probably meant for an audience of lawyers.  It is however written with passion and fire.<br />The German Judiciary, prior to the First World War, had been a servant of the  monarchy.  Muller describes how between the wars, the judiciary was hostile  to the Weimar Republic, and gave very light sentences to right-wing groups  who were charged with treason, following attempts to overthrow the  democratic government.  <br />After the Nazi party took power the courts  became the willing servants of the regime.  Muller notes that all but a  tiny percentage of Judges and prosecutors had joined the Nazi party.  The  removal of Jews and former communists from the German bar and courts was  accomplished without a whimper of protest. In fact German bar associations  supported such moves by making it an ethical crime to practice with a  Jew.<br />With the promulgation of laws aimed at removing the civil rights of  Jews and protecting the German race, the courts bent over backwoods to  increase the scope and effectiveness of such laws. Muller quotes countless  examples.  One case relates to the court's approach to dealing with  &quot;Jews&quot; convicted of having sexual relations with  &quot;Germans&quot;.  The existing laws allowed only for a term of  imprisonment is such cases. However, courts on their own initiative, would  use provisions which allowed the death penalty to apply to repeat offenders  to condemn  Jews and Poles who had sex with Germans.  Muller quotes one  example of a young man who was unaware that he was in fact Jewish.  He had  a number of liaisons and it came to light that his birth records showed  that his grand parents were &quot;Israelites&quot;.  The court hearing the  matter decided that as he had a number of relations he should be sentenced  to death. Muller quotes a number of case where the courts were criticized  by the Nazi party itself for being overtly harsh. The language of the  Judges was filled with the invective of anti-Semitism and the racism of the  time. <br />After the war, some Judges tried to excuse their behavior by  suggesting that if they had failed to co-operate with the government they  would have faced serious consequences. Muller in fact examined the record  of all Judges and found one who refused to impose the Nazi laws. He was  simply retired.  Muller has convincingly argued that the members of the  German Judicial System were enthusiastic supporters of National  Socialism.<br />The book is enthralling reading and is strong evidence for the  proposition that what happened in Germany was not because of the Nazi  Party, but a coalition of the parties of the right, who had a common  perception of the world.  The Judges indeed were some of Hitler's willing  executioners.	1999-01-02
2943166:US	52147775	R2XMYQZIT4RBPE	0340613165	639605800	Pregnable Fortress - A Study in Deception, Discord and Desertion (Teach Yourself)	Books	1	3	5	N	N	Paranoid Drivel	The author of this book seeks to explain the fall of Singapore by relating it to the existence of traitors and espionage.  Thus the initial landings in the north of the peninsula at Kota Bharu are said to have been made  possible by a spy who tipped off the Japanese as to when the British planes  were on the ground. This allowed the Japanese to destroy the planes with  ease and thus advance down the Malayan Peninsula, backed by the superiority  of the Japanese Army Air Force.<br />Such a suggestion is pure nonsense.  If  an agent tipped off the Japanese as to what was happening at an air base,  the lead time to send over an attack was hours.  The Japanese planes were  at this time based in Indo-China.  As the attack of an air field was  something which tends to happen in war time, it would be the mark of a  competent military commander to take some precautions about it.<br />Further,  the notion of control of the air in a campaign being critical, should not  be accepted at face value.  The German Army in the Italian and European  Campaign fought against overwhelming allied air superiority.  However, they  were able to resist against numerically superior forces with considerable  success.  <br />The Malyan campaign after all, saw an invasion by a Japanese  Army which was smaller than the Allied Forces.  The Japanese also had a  limited supply of ammunition and heavy weapons. At the time of the  surrender of Singapore the Japanese had in fact run out of ammunition and  were considering a retreat so they could re-supply.  The surrender, to say  the least, surprised them. <br />The fall of Singapore is to be explained by a  combination of the courage(or as it was called at the time - fanatism)of  the Japanese Army, the intelligence of its commanders, and the incompetence  of the allied command.<br />This book adds nothing to the history of the  period but muddies the waters by a series of bizarre, paranoid allegations  about espionage and agents.	1999-01-01
2943186:US	52147775	RGDPIDIMTGMR0	0300061323	426661364	William Tyndale: A Biography	Books	5	36	38	N	N	A great book	St Thomas More is a man who is still remembered today and is the subject of plays and films.  William Tyndale was his opponent.  It was Tyndales ambition to translate the bible into English.  To do this he learnt Greek  and Hebrew. It is said that as he left England he told a cleric that if god  spared him to do his work  &quot; even a boy driving the plough shall know  as much scripture as you.&quot; Tyndale did not complete his work but his  new testament and his first five books of the old testament formed the  basis of the King James Bible. His translation contains phrases of sublime  beauty which have become part of the language. (For example &quot;the sale  of the earth&quot; and &quot;there were Shepherds abiding in the  fields&quot;.) <br />Tyndales achievement in making a bible available in  English has been of enormous importance in the history of England and  America.  The family bible was a proud possession of families, it was a  tool by which children could be taught to read and write.  On Sundays  families could read it to sustain their faith and to learn.<br />At the time  Tydale undertook his project it was illegal in England to have a vernacular  copy of the bible.  He had to travel to Europe to undertake his work.   Tyndale was in life a kind man who never advocated violence and was  regarded as of high character even by his enemies.<br />He has in modern times  been largely forgotten. Ironically his enemy Thomas More is nowadays  remembered rather than Tyndale.  The book by Daniell illustrates why this  is ironic.  More was in reality a much less sympathetic character. He was  involved in the suppression of the bible, the arrest and punishment of  heretics and strongly advocated execution of his religious opponents.	1999-01-01
2943913:US	52147775	R3SFV489QJ7NXL	0393040178	27174518	The Wealth and Poverty of Nations: Why Some Are So Rich and Some So Poor	Books	1	8	27	N	N	Disapointing	This book compares very poorly with the entertaining and well thought out Guns,Germs and Steel.  Landes book is a anectodotal ramble.  It contains little in the form of a central thesis or argument.	1998-12-30
2951169:US	52147775	R1FK56P7HWON7K	0393315568	588150650	God's Chinese Son: The Taiping Heavenly Kingdom of Hong Xiuquan	Books	2	12	14	N	N	More of a story than a history	This book was rather disappointing.  The subject matter is potentially fascinating.  The problem with the book is that it gives a broad narrative of the development of the movement but it does not discuss the nuts and  bolts of how the movement spread and how it operated as a government of a  very large part of China.  The military victories and losses are alluded to  but there is little discussion of the tactics used, the sorts of weapons  and why in the end, the movement was defeated.<br />The Taiping Rebellion  showed the fragility of the Manchu dynasty but it is not clear from reading  the book why this was so or what the attraction of the rebellion was to  those who converted to it.  In all the book was a disappointment.	1998-12-12
