62514:US	52160649	RZ2SOGVA3TL12	0679813446	253293295	The Black Stallion Returns	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Bred for War--or for Racing!	<br />        After a mysterious attempt on the Black's life by an unknown one-armed assassin, Alec is shocked to meet an Arab sheik who claims to be the true owner.  Regretfully surrendering the horse he has trained and loves dearly,  Alec expects to spend a gloomy summer before his senior year. Conveniently for all concerned racing owner, Mr. Volence, agrees to take both trainer, Henry and the devoted youth abroad to seek better bloodlines for his stables--and incidentally search for the Black in distant Arabia. <br /> <br />      Plunged into an exotic world of desert, treachery and bloodlust Alec and his party set out for a remote mountainous region where the Sheik reigns.  Alec soon learns the price of betrayal, where blood demands blood, and the great race--held every 5 years--will soon be run. Befriended by a local orphan youth named Raj, Alec's party is abandoned to their fate in the desert, then rescued by a young but suspicious chieftain.  How can Alex reach the elusive Sheik and convince him to sell <br />or gift him the magnificent Black?  What will it take to end the bitter feud between rival sheiks?  How can an American boy acquire the desert skills necessary to survive and win respect in a hostile environment?  This sequel is every bit as exciting as the first book in the series, with hope for future stories, as it explores the wonderful and unique bond between boy and horse. <br />	2005-09-10
104029:US	52160649	R2BJP2ODIM4Q0R	0440400023	281609656	The Voyages of Doctor Dolittle	Books	3	11	12	N	N	Champion of Animal Rights	This 1922 childhood classic by Hugh Lofting is related by 10-12 year old Tommy Stubbins, the son of a poor cobbler.  Totally swept up in the new science of Natural Studies, Tommy rises from client (with a wounded squirrel) to apprentice, despite his parents' reluctance.  From the moment the boy meets Dr. John Doolittle of Puddleby-on-Marsh Tommy's life will never be the same; he will experience the natural and geologic wonders of the world as he accompanies the learned Dr. Doolittle on voyages of exploration.<br /><br />Respected as an eminent Naturalist this middle-aged bachelor keeps a veritable menagerie in his home and in his private, backyard zoo. Animals truly love this man because of his kindness and compassion, his medical skills, plus his generosity with his time, talents and modest resources. But there is a more compelling reason for his zoological success: this man can actually Talk with most species of the animal kingdom!<br /><br />  Eventually Tommy finds himself onboard a newly-purchased ship called THE CURLEW, as the Doctor embarks on a voyage of discovery and rescue across the Atlantic. Seeking a mysterious, floating isle called Spider Monkey Island, and the vanished Long Arrow--an unappreciated naturalist in his own, Native American world.  The pair enlist the aid of Bumpo, an African prince who has studied in England.  But it is the Dcotor's devoted animal companions who prove invaluable, on both sides of the ocean: Dab Dab the housekeeper Duck; Jip the dog; Chee Chee, the African chimp; Polynesia, the brains of the outfit; and Miranda, the exotic messenger bird of paradise.<br /><br />  Tommy faithfully records these incredible experiences for generations of children (of all ages) to enjoy: the trial of a man accused of murder in a Mexican mine; a wager about bull fighting on a Spanish island; stowaways and a shipwreck; rescue of trapped Indians; a war and reconstruction--white man style;  Indians buried alive; the dilemma of the white man's burden, and a fantastic submarine, trans-Atlantic crossing.  Lofting includes a mild satire on British institutions, food habits and climate.  Yet he offers a serious sub-theme of the role/effect of White man upon native cultures: is it morally necessary to \\"Civilize\\" native cultures?  This delightful fantasy is easy to read and this 1950's edition offers curious pen and ink sketches typical of the early 20's-a true Kid Klassic!te man's burden, and a fantastic submarine, trans-Atlantic crossing.  Lofting includes a mild satire on British institutions, food habits and climate.  Yet he offers a serious sub-theme of the role/effect of White man upon native cultures: is it morally necessary to \\"Civilize\\" native cultures?  This delightful fantasy is easy to read and this 1950's edition offers curious pen and ink sketches typical of the early 20's-a true Kid Klassic! <br />	2005-08-19
136105:US	52160649	R34VR9MNN1JAOR	2011676304	253662152	Antigone, de Jean Anouilh	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Obeying Remorseless Destiny in Ancient Thebes	(This review refers to the Bourdas ediiton in French.)    <br />Anouilh's 1947 tragedy about Oedipus' doomed family proves <br />more than mere translation from the ancient Greek.  In order to maintain literary integrity this French ANTIGONE is bound to  <br />follow the fateful storyline of Sophocles, yet Anouilh develops interpersonal relationships in new veins.  Creon argues with his stubborn niece by presenting new or subtly different reasons for her to acquiesce to his compassionate logic.   <br /> <br />     A contemporary touch is evident in the costuming, as the Bordas edition includes photos from two productions-scorning or modifying the use of Greek costume.  Mocking the rule of Verisimilitude, Anouilh's dialogue is interspersed with various anachronisms, which may rattle or delight the audience: pockets, cigarettes, evening clothes, a rifle, knitting, playing cards, bars, drinking coffee, a cotillion. <br />   <br />    Despite the best efforts of man, the timeless tale unwinds like clockwork: Creon is obliged to sacrifice his niece to his own harsh decree. Antigone, deaf to all appeals of reason and sentiment, remains unshaken in her fatal course.  Not even the proven treachery of her worthless brothers can sway her from her self-proclaimed fate.  Oedipus' family relives its ancient curse, since for Anouilh, Man is helpless against the gods, including the gods of their own perverted Pride. <br /> <br />   Anouilh's Chorus steps over the threshold of mere commentary in this version; it actually seeks to persuade Creon to a new course of action.  As in Sophocles the major bloody and tragic events take place off stage-being reported to the audience by guards and messengers.  The nobility of the royal family is starkly contrasted by the coarseness and pettiness of the guards, who address their king as \\"Boss.\\"  Of the two princesses Ismeme shows euqla loyalty and devotion to the younger girl, with her pale skin and resigned attitude, who has chosen to defend her brother and defy her uncle.  The actor who delivers the long, expository Prologue is reminiscent of the Stage Manager who introduces all the characters before the action begins.  <br /> <br />   With its deep philosophy of personal integrity and royal honor, of inevitable doom and the depth of childhood impressions, this version of the Greek tragedy will be appreciated, applauded and analyzed by serious readers of all ages. <br />  <br />	2005-08-02
144213:US	52160649	R35IZCSJ74K4VU	0573616639	886626229	Three Sisters: a Drama in Four Acts	Books	3	0	3	N	N	Dreams and Follies in old Russia	Obliged to move from their beloved Moscow to a provincial town in turn-of-the-century Russia three sisters feel stranded in this cultural and social backwater.  They dream of a new life eventually back in Moscow, but readers sense that they are trapped by their circumstances-and their own poor or inevitable choices.  Is it not natural that man finds the grass greener elsewhere?  Struggling with impending spinsterhood, Irina and her younger sisters, Olga and Masha, still regret the death of their military father-who prized education for all four of his children.  Privately they deplore the gambling excess of their brother, Andrey, from whom great things were once expected.   <br /> <br />    AC peoples this four-act play with many characters whose first and middle names are frequently repeated (as if they were naughty children).  The presence of the military has great impact on the little town, both economically and socially.  Can there be life After the regiment?  A baron and a doctor court two women; a young marriage is threatened. What to do with an old nurse who requires more care than she can now give?  All these mechanizations are interspersed with plans for a better future, plus the intermittent philosophizing of certain characters on the value of Work versus Leisure in human life.  <br /> <br />   A disastrous fire and an impending duel add elements of drama and tragedy to this work, which explores the ludicrous aspects of human nature from the viewpoint of characters who take themselves quite seriously.  How will these sisters, formerly accustomed to a life of aristocratic ease, sort out their emotions and their prospects?  Is it all in vain or are people  permitted to choose and even be proactive in creating their own destiny?  A fascinating peek into pre-revolutionary Russia by one her premier authors. <br /> <br />  <br />	2005-07-28
149156:US	52160649	R1E2HTUDTTX4U5	0451526007	828074003	Showboat: Tie In Edition	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Timeless Influence of THE RIVER	Ferber's timeless story of love, ambition and family dynamics remains as compelling today as when it first appeared in 1926. Providing an imperious yet insidious backdrop for the three main female characters, the mighty Mississippi River exerts its curiously compelling influence in the lives of Mother and Daughter, while the granddaughter remains indifferent to its fluid appeal. Yet the role of the theatre and the lure of the stage entice three generations of women related to Captain Andy.<br /><br />  Andy Hawks, past amateur actor and avid riverboatman,<br /><br />braves his wife's horror and flounts her Puritannical authority by purchasing the Cotton Blossom--a floating theatre which plays to a variety of audiences in river towns all along the Mississippi and its tributaries. With childish delight he refurbishes the boat and assembles both a crew to run her and a troupe of actors to perform on the fluid, yellow trail.  Prim and stern Parthy, his New England school-marmish wife, is scandalized but gradually succumbs to the charm of ruling the galley and becoming housekeeper-not to mention keeper of the Morals for the ungrateful members of the troupe.  Reluctantly over the decades, she grows to revel in her new role as successful businesswoman.  Despite lack of deep love for her dead husband, she maintains his dream, as does his only daughter, Magnolia.<br /><br />  The story opens with the birth of tiny Kim Ravenal, named for her proximity to three states, but successive chapters are entirely devoted to flashbacks which serve as detailed exposition. Ferber's use of time (both backward and forward) is as fluid as the milieu in which ten-year old Magnolia revels.  Never so comfortable as on her father's floating home and theatre, Magnolia proves \\"truly  splendid\\" when she enjoys a long-delayed Homecoming.<br /><br />  Each mother has trouble with her daughter, since two generations can trace certain traits and talents from unyielding Parthenia Ann Hawks, who even resisted the advance of Death-- the Conqueror.  Presenting a kaleidoscope of family relations SHOWBOAT depicts Magnolia and her father's childlike conspiracy for joy; Magnolia's ultimate defiance of her mother; Kim's acting in loco parentis for her own mother, both as a young girl and later as a successful actress.  Three marriages are paraded before readers, who are left to choose which one reveals the most tenderness and love.<br /><br />  Magnolia Hawks Ravenal grows to maturity after she leaves the<br /><br />safe environment of the Cotton Blossom, as she proves a steadfast and loving wife and mother.  She comes of age when she realizes that home is truly where her heart has always belonged.<br /><br />A captivating read for everyone 16 and up.	2005-07-25
199137:US	52160649	R2P0AGCELV5PQ4	0486264645	489174445	Heart of Darkness (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Seeking Ivory and Moral Excellence	Conrad's brooding 92 page novella about an extraordinary man involved in 19th century ivory trade still mesmerizes contemporary readers.  Introspective Marlow, a sea captain who is fatefully fascinated by blank spots on a map of Britain's 1890  empire, insists on seeing the dark continent for himself.  Through the influence of a female relative in a \\"sepulchral city\\" in Europe, he receives the desired appointment-which eventually proves a nightmare.   Hired by a competitive and exploitive company Marlow congratulates himself on his ability to explore a long river as a steamboat pilot.   <br /> <br />     Marlow's dream of personal glory soon pales beside the related exploits of the Company's legendary Kurtz, whose larger-than-life influence instills awe and dread in all white men, the natives from whom he obtains tusks, and even two dissimilar women.  Privately determined to meet and judge this prodigy for himself, Marlow sets out into the deep, gloomy and lowering heat of the interior.  But Africa is jealous to give up both her ivory and her insidiously noxious influence over \\"civilized\\" white men. <br /> <br />    The story opens painfully slowly, as a chastened Marlow recounts his African adventure to three passengers on a ship awaiting the tide in the Thames. Readers gradually realize that Marlow's personal dream has devolved into a personal nightmare which will haunt him all his days. Ignoring the subtle, then more obvious warnings, Marlow plunges eagerly into his African enterprise, confident in his own abilities to survive and prosper.  As the pace of events and revelations increases, however, we realize that Marlow is in imminent peril-not only his person, but his very soul.  How can he salvage himself when so many others have sold out or sacrificed their morality? <br /> <br />     Despite the delayed stage entrance of the compelling figure, this is really the story of an enigmatic figure named Kurtz who possesses a remarkable ability with words, yet isdriven by his own private demons to amass the most ivory of any of the Company's agents.  Ah, but at what price?  Why do men either worship or despise him?  Marlow privately offers to serve as the impartial judge of the man's arresting character.  A legend in Marlow's mind before they ever meet, Kurtz inspires reverence in the natives, envy in other managers and lasting passion in two diverse women. <br /> <br />   But has Kurtz succumbed to the irresistible form of jungle fever, whereby white men sell their souls as a result of prolonged heat, exotic settings and barbaric native customs?  Marlow awaits the grand encounter with frenzied eagerness-predisposed to honor this trading prodigy.  The title refers both to the dark milieu of interior Africa itself--which seems to suck the life and moral health out of white men--as well as to the Kurtz's own private torment re his narcissistic power and mania for Company glory.  Introspective Marlow barely salvages his own moral sanity, but in Europe proves doggedly faithful in preserving Kurtz's reputation intact.  A compelling read based on Conrad's own Congo experiences, which might have served as a warning to many individuals contemplating life and lucre on the Dark Continent.   <br />  <br />	2005-06-19
219837:US	52160649	R2U0C7YZDKRFJG	0449206521	419016493	Tales of the South Pacific	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Passion and Penance in Paradise	Mitchener's World War 2 collection of short stories remains as vibrant and compelling in terms of human interest today--as when it was written.  Alternating between the logistics of war with personal suffering and joy, these stories present the reader with a composite of life and death in tropical paradise. Characters popularized in the Broadway musical, South Pacific, appear in several stories in this fascinating patchwork of passion and pathos.  As all emotions prove more poignant in a backdrop of war, the inner conflicts of personal desire and frustration touched responsive chords in both post-war and contemporary readers.   <br /> <br />   Mitchener's themes include frequent references to racial prejudice which was rampant in still-insular America. As well as the devastating effect of prolonged heat and limited space in Westerners.  Throughout the book runs the thread of the Allies' gradual reclamation of the Japanese-held islands, culminating in the strike on Kuralei, with its the shocking toll of life.  As the ubiquitous narrator pays a respectful visit to the new cemetery, this collection draws to a gentle close, yet Mitchener's unforgettable characters live on in our literary memory. If nothing else this book reveals the tremendous debt we owe to the brave men and women of the armed services. A sensitive <br />yet historically-accurate masterpiece, for readers of all ages. <br />	2005-06-01
252209:US	52160649	RH6QE84GMOY0O	0060809027	131839195	My Friend Flicka	Books	3	11	11	N	N	Learning responsiblity in frontier Wyoming	Rob McClaughlin runs his horse ranch with military precision, where he is respected by both the men and his horses.  In the late 30's Ranching is difficult in the wilds near Laramie, due to the extreme unpredictability of nature--wild beasts as well as weather.  But Rob just can't understand or appreciate his younger son, 11-year-old Ken, the family day- dreamer.  Every time the boy turns around he costs his father money and horse ranching is not a lucrative business.  Pressed by increasing debt, Rob loses patience with his younger son, but is reluctantly persuaded by his wife, Nell, to give the boy a colt, so he can start learning responsibility. Certainly Not as a reward for academic and ranching failures, but as incentive for the boy to adapt to a practical lifestyle. <br /> <br />       Given his choice of any colt on the place, but repelled by the barbaric custom of gelding, Ken decides on a filly, and not just any filly either. He Would pick the offspring of Rocket, the loco mare--arousing his father's disgust and even anger.  Finally realizing the futility of keeping any of the Albino's erratic offspring, Rob ships them all off the ranch, adamant to include Flicka (whose names means \\"Little Girl\\" in Swedish) in the equine purge. Tortured by fears that Flicka may prove loco like her dam--despite her coloring from her sire, Banner, Ken is eaten up with fear over her eventual loss, for people shoot loco horses.   He quickly came to identify with the filly, to see himself,like her, as not quite fitting in on the ranch, which only makes him love her all her the more.  Even Nell, the wise Missus of the ranch, realizes that Ken's psyche is somehow linked to that of the hotly debated little filly.  <br /> <br />       Although nominally a children's classic, this book devotes over 100 pages to setting up the exposition and exploring the father-son conflict before Boy finally meets Horse.  Ken is aware of Flicka long before she comes to know him, but she hasbeen a wild yearling under a wild mother for so long; perhaps she will ultimately prove loco like Rocket.  The story is atypical--more like an adult novel with a child protagonist.  Readers gain insight into both of Ken's parents, who are called by their first names; we learn their thoughts and dreams, as we inevitably sympathize with the boy who years to impress his father and to have a colt of his own.  The drama of the final chapters is very intense, for Rob does not permit animals which have no future to suffer long.  Can a boy's Love alone save the dying pony he adores?  Can a spurned filly turn the tide in a boy's own protracted illness?  Only wise Nell seems to understand how their lives are intertwined, that each can help save the other. But will this maternal insight come too late for Rob to countermand the order for Gus to shoot Flicka?  An interesting and dramatic read for kids of all ages. <br />  <br />	2005-05-05
271446:US	52160649	R3L62VKZGQF15I	0689714858	772618615	Brighty of the Grand Canyon (Marguerite Henry Horseshoe Library)	Books	4	18	20	N	N	His Free Spirit Haunts the Canyon	Set in the Grand Canyon during Teddy Roosevelt's presidency this charming tale introduces readers to an unlikely animal protagonist: a wild burro who lives alone, but has been partially tamed by kind men.  Rescued first by the Old Timer, then from a cougar's wounds by the North Rim's resident lion-killer, Brighty experiences the gamut of human behavior toward animals and each other: from the absurd, the selfish, the ambitious, and even the criminal.  As the only witness to the evil schemes of a thieving murderer, Brighty relies on his own natural instincts which warn him about vicious Jake Irons.  <br /> <br />    Ruthless Irons murders the kindly and trusting prospector in order to obtain his copper mine.  The sheriff frets for several years that the heinous crime goes unsolved and that the murderer remains unpunished. But Uncle Jimmy Owens' moon-lily tea helps trick a confession from the cruel scoundrel-with Brighty as a non-verbal but wary witness.  Even in his lonely pilgrimages down to Bright Angel Creek the burro has many adventures on his own; he even crosses the Colorado River twice on a bridge which he helped men construct.  Will he one day prefer to live <br />with his own kind as king of the herd? Or Be satisfied to be honored and befriended by human beings?  Teddy Roosevelt looms larger than life as his personality is interwoven with Marguerite Henry's fictitious characters.  For it was this charismatic president who devoted his efforts to setting aside the wilds of the Grand Canyon in the form of a national park. <br /> <br />      Readers rejoice at Brighty's free spirit, which is said to prance through the gorges and trails which he cut en route to his beloved North Rim.  This gentle burro epitomizes the youth and vigor of the primeval canyon-showing how humans and animals should cooperate to preserve America's natural wilderness.  Delightfully illustrated by Wesley Dennis, this book is for outdoors enthusiasts and animal lovers of all ages. <br />  <br />	2005-04-19
292171:US	52160649	R1W2THDQFXJ5X4	0020199856	737772058	The Love of the Last Tycoon	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Betrayal of a Demigod	Fitzgerald's last novel--left unfinished due to his heart attack--presents darker themes than his masterpiece, The Great Gatsby.  Told by Cecelia, the 18-year-old daughter of a studio hotshot,and alternately by an omniscient narrator, this story depicts the glory days of the Hollywood studio system, where producers were America's new royalty.  Egos collide, budgets quail and the earth quakes at the dawn of the Forties, when the country was threatened by the red menace of Communism. Not even Hollywood was immune from the birth pangs of unionism and pre- McCarthy era political paranoia over the secret revolution of the masses. <br /> <br />   The protagonist is 44-year-old Monroe Stahr, a successful and powerful producer whose insight re movie-going America usually proves correct.  Having a hopeless crush on this associate of her father's Cecelia gradually realizes that her workaholic idol has fallen in love with a mysterious lady--a British Cinderella raised completely outside the glittering purviews of starlets and gossip columnists.  The tragic affair between the mogul and the lovely Kathleen (who resembles his beloved dead wife) is doomed by her prior commitment to an American man, her humble past and Stahr's own failure to take decisive action at critical moments in their poignant relationship. <br /> <br />    The completed storyline may be deduced from Fitzgerald's extensive notes for each chapter,plus his conversations with associates. Health concerns plagued both Stahr and ultimately Cecelia--presaging the author's own private medical battle.  How frustrating for him (and his alter-ego) to be snuffed out while yet so productive and mentally alert.  It would be curious to see how contemporary Hollywood might finish this story if made into a movie.  Like rats caught in a maze of their own devising, the characters are trapped by weakness and vanity,  while naively convinced of their own personal or business power.  As evil schemes corrupt backstage Hollywood,filth and crime trickle down to ultimately contaminate even the once idealistic Stahr.  Tragically he did not live long enough to impress the  man on the beach: that movies Were worth attending. THE LAST TYCOON proves a starkly grim but gripping tale of searing emotions at the end of the Depression era. <br />  <br />	2005-04-02
306829:US	52160649	R3DQBALNXZ9BP9	0670841803	785392906	Peter Pan	Books	3	8	13	N	N	The Boy who would not Grow Up!	Sir James M. Barrie's tale of the boy who was eternal youth has delighted children (and kids of all ages) for several generations-even inspiring a live television special in the 1960's.  Opening in the night nursery of #14 (street unnamed) in London, the tale introduces readers to the Darling family: Father, the proud bread-winner and keeper of the check book; Mother, who is all maternal solicitude for her 3 children. The household also includes a nanny (a Saint Bernard named Nana) and a pert little maid, Eliza. When the Darlings go out for the evening (only as far as #27) Father locks up Nana outside, thus leaving the children unprotected from their own imaginations and the private agenda of fantasy boy named Peter Pan. <br /> <br />   Accompanied by his mischievous fairy companion, Tinkerbell,  <br />Peter flies through the nursery window-to hear the end of a story and to retrieve his shadow.  Once awakened the children are eager to explore Neverland with their exciting new friend, who obligingly teaches them how to fly--though Tinkerbell is jealous of Wendy and plots her undoing.  Without a thought for the panic and remorse of their parents, the children depart for the Island of Neverland, where they experience many dangerous adventures with the Lost Boys, Redskins, Pirates and wild animals. Even the mermaids cannot be trusted.  There is a surprising amount of violence in this tale, with two attempts at poisoning and considerable shedding of blood. <br /> <br />       Barrie stresses the importance of a Mother in the lives of children; even the pirates wistfully would like to keep Wendy for their mother.  A mother can darn holes and tell such wonderful bedtime stories-besides looking out for the health and general well being of her family.  This is contrasted with the selfish, carefree attitude of children, who naturally do not consider their parents' feelings.  Peter in particular is fearfully cocky about his ability to function superbly without maternal support-all this with just his baby teeth!  Making a virtue of never growing up, Peter vows to never attend school, work in an office or wear a top hat; he proceeds on his merry way, crowing with delight at his invincibility, heedless of the number of feminine hearts that he is breaking meanwhile.   <br /> <br />     The character of James Hook, once a private school gentleman-scholar, is more complex, since he is tormented by traditional ideas of good and bad form.  Perhaps his ultimate fate is a reprieve from his lifelong struggle between the Pirate and the Gentleman. A charming children's classic about Youth, Joy and Freedom from responsibility, this story never fails to entertain! This edition is enhanced by the superbly fanciful illustrations. <br />  <br />	2005-03-21
310849:US	52160649	RKAKWY4JLA5IA	0803281781	504302360	Little Britches: Father and I Were Ranchers	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Building a Charaacter House	When his New England family is obliged to move out to frontier Colorado at the Turn of the Century, Ralph Moody quickly delights in the western lifestyle. But before the 8-year-old boy can start taming horses and herding cows, he has many hard lessons to learn himself along the difficult road of life, in order to build the walls of his \\"character house.\\" <br /> <br />        The Moodys rent land and a rundown shack on the flatlands outside of Denver, but they must struggle for economic and physical survival in a never-ending series of battles against Nature, the Gold Panic, accidents, his father's weak lungs and the vicious water hogs at the head of Bear Creek.  Ralph's own impetuosity and sneakiness land him in trouble, often requiring his parents' ingenuity and patience in meting out deserved, but character-buildihng, punishment.  The seemingly incorrigible boy is a source of both pride and despair to his hard-working, honest parents, who strive to prevent their offspring from losing their gentlemanly upbringing in the wild Colorado boonies.   <br /> <br />     Ralph must come of age in the family's first three and  years as Westerners.  He meets an old Indian named Two Dog with whom he establishes an immediate and lasting, though rarely verbal, friendship. He confesses his \\"crime\\" to the tall, tough Sheriff of Fort Logan, though he never tells Mothers that he did so in a saloon!  He idolizes a friendly cowboy named Hi Beckman, who teaches him invaluable lessons about training horses and cows, plus stunt riding  and even how to shoot a gun.   <br /> <br />      But it is Ralph's relationship with his adored Father which proves the core of this heartwarming story.  Father doesn't say much, but he provides his son with serious advice for a healthy, decent life.  Being promoted to Partner by his father is a great joy to Ralph, who at 11 and  was accepted as a man in many ways.  LITTLE BRITCHES-Ralph's nicknamed given by his cowboy mentor-is a a wonderful, warm,and interesting story, for kids of all ages!          <br />	2005-03-18
310851:US	52160649	R3PL3ITY952ACB	0140431020	997478219	(Lady Susan / The Watsons / Sanditon)	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Misress of Artifice	LADY SUSAN: First of Three Austen Novellas   <br /> <br />    Unlike Austen's usual sweet-young-thing heroines, this title character appears as the antithesis of what we expect from a literary heroine.  Perhaps the author sought to instruct or to edify female readers by presenting a thoroughly vain and heartless woman of thirty-something. Her reputation as a Flirt and Coquette (despite being widowed a scant four months) precedes her wherever she visits.  Lady Susan is very attractive to men of all variety, from the too young to the too married.  Mistress of subtle flattery and artifice she makes a tour of gullible or suspicious hosts, families, missing no opportunity to disrupt domestic harmony in order to pamper her feminine ego. <br /> <br />      Written as an epistolary novel of 41 letters the story is presented without benefit of the usual exposition, which may cause readers some confusion, until the evidence of actions and her own admissions reveal the truth about the protagonist. Heartless mother towards her helpless 16-year-old daughter Lady Susan Vernon relies on one faithful female friend for support in her naughty schemes, but even that friend's husband has forbidden her presence in his home.  The choice of best friends must be instructive as to one's real motives and character, so let this prove a cautionary tale for young widows and ambitious mothers. As Lady Susan torments her hostess, Catherine Vernon, and her susceptible younger brother, Reginald, in this curious novella, Austen provides insight into the feminine machinations of 19th century Society. <br />  <br />	2005-03-18
329545:US	52160649	R2GFGC5FMJ3WPH	0140390286	40037118	The Blithedale Romance (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	"Chronicle of Failure and Bet rayal"	Hawthorne's third novel, THE BLITHEDALE ROMANCE, combines <br />diverse elements such as mystery, passion, social reform and philosophy-even a ghost story--all blended into a delightful literary patchwork.  Set in mid 19th century Massachusetts this novel was inspired by the author's personal sojourn at Brook Farm-an experiment in Socialism and communal living--where he shed the trappings of polite society in order to become an instant farmer in a noble cause.  Although he drew upon real life personalities of the 1850's for inspiration, his work was intended to be read and enjoyed as fiction.  Despite the obvious parallels between Hawthorne and his protagonist, Miles Coverdale, readers may savor the storyline at face value; while Hawthorne was actually engaged during his time at Brook Farm, Miles remained a \\"frosty bachelor\\" all his days, despite his last-line confession.   <br />  <br />    Functioning partly as narrator and as Greek chorus passive Miles arrives at Blithedale Farm on a snowy evening in mid April, eager to begin his the great social experiment which would benefit all mankind. There he meets his similarly-minded new brethren and sistersbut the undisputed queen at the farmhouse is a beautiful, stately woman known as Zenobia.  A sudden, insistent pounding at the door heralds the arrival of a shaggy bear of a man, the reformer Hollingsworth, bearing in his arms a precious burden: a pale, fragile girl, Priscilla, who requires their communal compassion.  From that dramatic moment on Miles' mind and heart become entangled in the curious and mysterious affairs of these three.  In fact Miles does not bother even to name the other social reformers.  He devotes the next months of his life to private sleuthing and speculation on the enigma of these three individuals, although a few peripheral outsiders intrude on Blithedale's fragile harmony.   <br /> <br />  Unlike Hawthorn's previous novels, this is first-person tale; thus, we do not witness events whereMiles himself is not present.  Despite the high-minded social motivation of the zealous reformers, personal passions cannot be prevented, nor can their effects on others be denied.  Miles undergoes several transformations of opinion and feelings for the three who fascinate him. Unable to escape their mysterious intrigues even in Boston, whence he retires to reconsider his purpose at Blithedale, he is obliged to witness their private machinations in the real world. But who will prove the hero to rescue Priscilla from her hateful life of stage deception?  Is kindly Miles up to the task?  The dramatic climax of Zenobia's betrayal was based on an actual lugubrious experience of the author's. The novel provides rich insight into the struggle for Women's emancipation in the 19th century, as well as thoughtful judgment on the difficulty of establishing an agrarian Eden on earth. <br />	2005-03-03
354349:US	52160649	R2THPN825MFGMI	0679813438	235012080	The Black Stallion	Books	3	4	8	N	N	Bonded for Life	Walter Farley takes readers on a literary whirlwind in this exciting story of a boy and his horse in the mid Forties.  HIS, not by legal possession, but rather an ownership born of mutual cooperation for survival.  Washed overboard from a tramp steamer near the Mediterranean, Alec Ramsay (12-14) was saved from drowning by clinging to a rope around the neck of a mighty black stallion, who was also plunged into the sea. Long weeks spent on a tiny island forged a loyal and lasting bond between the <br />sunburned boy and the wild animal--who was never intended for <br />corrals and civilization.  With patience, perseverance and respectful love Alec gradually tamed the suspicious animal, who ultimately permitted him to ride bareback. <br /> <br />     Finally rescued they reached Rio and then were shipped back to New York city, but Alex had been given a vision of the Black's future: he wanted to race the magnificent animal on a real racetrack, to share the glory of his Arabian heritage.  Countless obstacles were thrown in his way including parental reluctance, lack of money and time and the Black's own fighting spirit.  But the greatest hurdle would prove the lack of papers documenting his lineage.  Besides the Black had to be king of the herd and would always prove too wild to race with dignified, high-toned thoroughbreds.  Can an old jockey and an untried boy pull off the biggest racing coup in US history?  This is great fare for horse lovers! <br />	2005-02-10
359298:US	52160649	R38OYE0B0JQ6FP	037575718X	972217952	The Return of the Native (Modern Library Classics)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Restless on the Heath	Hardy's timeless classic about a romantic pentagon is set on England's Egdon Heath in the mid 19th century. Those raised on the heath view it comfortably as homespun landscape, but newcomers consider it desolate, bleak and even hostile.  For this heath  with its mysterious rainbarrow is a curious juxtaposition of ancient ways and relics with more \\"modern\\" lifestyle.  Romance blooms and fades, then erupts in relentless waves--resulting in inevitable tragedy.   <br /> <br />     The tenuous emotional stasis of two men and two women is thrown out of balance by the arrival home of its native son, Clym Yeobright. Returning after several successful years in the diamond business in Paris this philanthropic young man cherishes a dream of opening a school for the folks in the port of Budmouth or even locally for the common heath dwellers. <br /> <br />    But other strong-willed and tender-hearted young residents of the Heath have their own private agendas: Wildeve, engineer reduced to innkeeper, is fatally attracted to Eustacia Vye;  Diggory Venn, the quietly observant reddleman, harbors hopeless devotion to Thomasin Yeobright.  Lastly there shines the dark-haired wild beauty, Eustacia, who longs to depart the Heath for cosmopolitan world centers where she will be appreciated and sought after.  Meanwhile Clym's mother secretly hopes for an alliance between the cousins. Clym's homecoming proves the catalyst which ignites deeply emotional events, maternal anguish, and spousal grief.  Would it have been better for all the main characters if he had remained longer abroad, instead of providing fodder for local gossip?   <br /> <br />   Despite the apparent disparity in the external circumstances of Hardy's characters and modern readers, we are gradully drawn in by his deft maneuvering of the simple, direct plotline.  Helplessly we are ensnared into the complex interactions of his main characters.  Sometimes indifferent, sometimes reflecting the moods of humankind, Nature provides an everpresent back drop for the mummers of life to perform their eternal roles of misguided love.  One of my all-time favorite novels, this classic will haunt readers because of the stark honesty of its passion.  Like the heath moths drawn irresistably to Eustacia's flame, the characters must act out their pretermined roles, while casual humanity (Greek chorus-like) can but look on with awe, as they--like us--contemplate the mysterious forces of the human heart. <br />	2005-02-06
374825:US	52160649	R3BXZ4GKAV9NYC	0316769487	862964341	The Catcher in the Rye	Books	2	3	7	N	N	A  PREPPY'S PRIVATE BREAK	Don't let the title fool you into thinking that this slim novel is about baseball or even agriculture.  Set against the nostalgic backdrop of World War II as it was winding down, CATCHER presents a series of flash backs from the 17-year-old protagonist, who is housed in a mental facility in California.   Holden Caulfield at 16 is hardly a heroic type; rather he's a poor little rich kid who's just been expelled from his 4th boarding school.  The entire 213 pages consist of Holden's non-stop personal revelations about himself, his family and his fellow students.  Rarely requiring sleep or even sustenance, this whacked-out kid rambles during 100 pages to recount just one 24-hour period, leaving readers somewhat bewildered and breathless. <br /> <br />    For various reasons Holden decides to leave Pencey Prep several days before their official Christmas break starts-thanks to cash from a generous grandmother.  Taking a train to NY City-where he was raised-he tries to make it on his own for four days, before shamefully returning home to admit yet another academic debacle.  During this time, when he drops below the parental radar screen, he experiences a series of social and physical adventures-most of which prove unsatisfactory or unsavory.  His fertile brain spews out unceasing commentary on Life, plus those kids and adults who crossed his path; he dips ever deeper into flash backs about his previous schools.   <br /> <br />     Salinger's style of verbal gushing is easy to read-chatty and conversational, in fact--but the frantic pace can exhaust his readers.  The way Holden abuses his body results in several bouts of illness for him, but his deepest wound may prove the death of his brother during the war.  Were it not for the loyal devotion of his little sister, Phoebe, Holden might not be able to hang on his sanity as well as he almost has.  He wonders if he needs faddish Psychoanalysis.  Shrinkage is what he eventually gets, but is that the only path to the fullrecovery of his delicate psyche? <br />     <br />    In the mid 80's one Ferris Bueller took a Day Off-- perhaps inspired by Holden's mid-Forties private break with reality.  Contemporary teenagers may not sympathize with his anguished pilgrimage to escape the phonies of this world.  CATCHER proves a grim roller coaster ride through the thought processes of a disturbed youth, who makes a point of honor to be NOT HOME-alone. <br />	2005-01-25
389876:US	52160649	R2WMO3WW4TDWPD	1893337049	870877643	The Lyon's Crown (Lyon Saga, Book 5)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Jewels in Jess' Crown	Completing the LYON Quintet, which offers alternative theories about the fate of the \\"lost\\" colony of Roanoke, CROWN provides an emotionally-satisfying conclusion to the adventures of Jess Archarde.  It is the year 1612 when Jess' three half English-half Native American children arrive by ship in the young colony of Jamestown.  Suzanne, William and George were sent away by Jess, also known as Little Bird, from peaceful Croatoan Island.  This was the desperate act of a mother to protect them from the smallpox epidemic which claimed her beloved husband, Akaiyan.  To soften the sudden loss of maternal guidance, Jess enclosed many pages of her journal for her daughter to read and remember, for she had pledged to oversee her younger brothers.  (First-time readers to the series will recap Jess' struggles and joys as an English girl, transplanted across the ocean.) <br /> <br />    Although safe from the epidemic, Suzanne and her brothers are not joyously welcomed by the harassed and fearful colonists.  Master Robert Ashbury, an old admirer of Jess, had promised them hospitality should the need arise, but his shrewish wife is resentful of a household of strangers (which includes a clinging widow with 3 youngsters).  Treating them as little more than unwanted and inefficient servants, Mistress Ashbury recognizes something different in Suzanne' features and carriage.  Her suspicions increase until she is openly hostile about their Indian heritage, for these colonists live in frank fear of the natives.  How will Jess' children fit into this world, where their native heritage is grounds for stoning? <br /> <br />     The author has skillfully interwoven authentic colonial history with an interesting story about her fictitious heroine and the second generation.  Readers aged 10-15 should enjoy the entire series, for Jess' probeles and Suzanne's dreams can be understood by all.  Deeper themes are hinted at as well; racial relations, possible fates of the lost colonists, andthe role of a mother are subtly mentioned.  The LYON series will educate as it entertains, hopefully inspiring further, future study about America's multi-ethnic past, focusing attention on Tidewater <br />Virginia and the outer islands.   <br /> <br />	2005-01-13
406220:US	52160649	R1RZXV3BC5NHD8	0375759174	569473707	Northanger Abbey (Modern Library Classics)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	The Education of a Proper 19th Century Heroine	This early Austen novel about a society girl's coming of age reads easily with its considerable dialogue, despite the presence of extensive historical vocabulary.  Definitely of greater interest to girls than boys NORTHANGER ABBEY introduces readers to 17-year old Catherine Morland, a nave but morally-honest well-bred young lady.  Invited to the fashionable watering hole of Bath by the Allens--kind neighbors serving as hosts and chaperones, Catherine is delighted at this  opportunity to seek Adventure away from her calm country home. <br /> <br />     Volume I presents Bath in high season where Catherine is formally introduced to and socializes with two families: the Thorpes and the Tilneys, who reveal stark social contrasts among the upper class.  Mr. John Thorpe, a friend of her brother's, quickly attaches himself to Catherine, but his vanity, arrogance and deceit soon displease and eventually disgust her.  His sister, Isabella, however, proves a dear and immediate friend, <br />at least during most of Catherine's sojourn in Bath.  Soon after she meets the distinguished Tilney family: a stern General, a son who is a Captain, a sweet and modest sister, Eleanor, and the cadet son, Henry.  Vol. I concludes with Catherine receiving permission from her parents and the Allens to spend several weeks at the Tilney homestead, a former Abbey. <br /> <br />     Eager to explore a real edifice which might have been the setting for a Gothic novel, Catherine is thrilled at this extended invitation.  By this time she is very fond of Henry and hopes privately that romance will bloom in the quiet, dignified setting.  Unfortunately she expects the worst horrors as a result of her dedicated reading of Mrs. Radcliffe's novels, for <br />where no mystery exits, Catherine is determined to discover one.  Volume Two describes her gracious reception at Northanger, but she soon feels certain to have stumbled upon a secret family shame or even horror.  Her imagination may be running away with her, but the General's odd behavior seems to confirm her growing suspicious of dark deeds surrounding the death of the late Mrs. Tileny.   <br /> <br />   Suddenly, without any explanation, the domineering General orders Catherine thrown out of his home-defying all the rules of hospitality and decency.  Henry is not present to protest, so Catherine is dispatched alone--in ignominy and secret tears--back to her unsuspecting family 70 miles away.  This tale chronicles the most turbulent year in Catherine's young life, but how much is to be blamed on her excessive devotion to Gothic novels?  Or is there a truly sinister plot undermining the hopes of the young lovers?  JA uses her characters as mouthpieces to express her decided opinions on the role of fiction, literature and history.  This is Austen-lite, with hints of her future work, where her heroines prove better judges of their acquaintances ans their own hearts.   <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-12-31
413176:US	52160649	R1EUK4OOOBMTC4	0141301155	959905089	Charlie and the Chocolate Factory (My Roald Dahl)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Seeking a Decent Kid	Dahl's delightful story about the lucky children who found five Golden Tickets has captured the imagination of kids of all ages since 1964. Charlie Bucket is a thin only-child who lives in poverty with his adoring parents and 4 old grandparents.  It's bad enough to be nearly starving all the time, but he has to pass by Willy Wonka's world-famous chocolate factory to and from school every day!  Suddenly the nation is swept by Wonka- mania; a newspaper announcement creates a buying frenzy to find the five-only special invitations for a private tour inside the mysterious locked gates. The prize also includes a lifetime supply of candy! If anyone deserves to be included, it is surely our Charlie. <br /> <br />     Curious little Willy Wonka has many marvels to share and his own unique method of child therapy, which he subtly works on the four other (bratty) children who are also ticket holders.  Join Charlie and his beloved Grandpa Joe as they stare in amazement at the hidden wonders inside Mr. Wonka's fabulous chocolate factory.  Who are those tiny workers who produce the world's greatest candy?  How does Willy Wonka try to reform the spoiled kids and what incredible surprise does he have in store for the one decent kid in the bunch? Although different from the movie version, this book is the original Golden Literary Ticket to an unlimited feast of rich imagination! Not to mention a cautionary tale to children who indulge in various excesses. <br />	2004-12-25
413520:US	52160649	RF1I14C2VNAFB	0316161837	994425195	The Citadel	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Bringing  him back to Blaenelly Standrds	Set in the 20's and 30's of Britain, this fascinating novel<br /><br />recounts the evolution of a young Scottish doctor embarking upon his career.  We follow his struggles from the mines of Wales to posh London and beyond.  Committed to helping mankind, hard working  though of modest means, Andrew Manson arrives fresh out of medical school--with all the enthusiasm and idealism of youth.  Eager to dedicate himself to improving the lives of his rustic patients, Andrew dedicates many hours to private study in his chosen field of lung disease.<br /><br />  But young Andrew is buffeted by fate for many years; although lucky in his choice of a life partner (school teacher Christine Barlow), he encounters opposition at every turn--from his employers, institutions, quacks and busybodies.  Each move promises to be an upgrade, but he is rarely permitted to enjoy the change for long.  He does meet a few decent young men in his travels, but he gradually chafes under the system which perpetuates greed and ignorance-the medical establishment in general, to which Cronin refers as the Citadel.  Only a fool-hardy person would seek to attack such a mighty establishment, for the GMC can always strike a doctor off for misconduct-real or perceived.<br /><br />  Cronin's style is highly readable, with much dialogue and interesting plotting.  In fact he offers teaser sentences of woe as unexpected foreshadowing in the last paragraph of chapters which seem to end well.  We witness the erosion of Andrew's ideals as he falls victim to the wealthy lifestyle of London's West End milieu. But the more he gains in the eyes of the world, the less he cherishes his faithful, patient wife.  Chris struggles in her own private torment, desperately seeking to ally him with old and true friends, who might bring him back to the standards of their early marriage, when they were poor but very happy.  Which path will the would-be medical reformer ultimately choose?  Will the Citadel shut him out or crush his humanity at the end?  A wonderful, timeless classic.r crush his humanity at the end?  A wonderful, timeless classic. <br />	2004-12-25
440169:US	52160649	R5VOSZLWS65P1	0440416248	598744483	Frozen Summer	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Always Time for Neighbors	<br />    Twelve-year-old Remembrance Nye (Mem to her family) seems clumsy and more a burden than a helper when Mama gives birth to a baby sister in their primitive one-room cabin in the wilderness of Western New York State in 1816.  But Mama is terribly homesick for her family in Connecticut; she all but ignores the pitiful baby in her private anguish. Gradually Mem realizes that her mother's mind is at risk; Mrs. Nye wanders in and out of reality and sobs in loneliness because her pioneering husband forced her to sacrfice all the comforts of home for the  <br />loneliness and social desolation of the Genesee Valley. <br />  <br />     The odd weather with sudden freezing spells and even snow in June echoes the family's sense of doom.  Many pioneers assume that blame God is meting out just punishment for sinners everywhere, thought a few suggest it was Ben Franklin's tampering with the flow of electricity which precipitated such disaster, as crops are lost and famine looms as a grim possibility.  How can Mem balance caring for an infant sister whom her mother seems to reject, assume all the woman's chores of tending house and go to school as well--for she wishes to become a school teacher herself someday?   <br /> <br />     Not all strangers are as dangerous as the local busybody, but the worst threat to the family is the instability of Mrs. Nye.  Mem comes of age that frozen summer, when the crops fail and she loses the benefit of maternal contact.  As one kind neighbor explains it: the only way to survive in a frontier settlement is through cooperation and charity toward one's neighbors, even those you don't really know.  It truly takes a community to raise one child.  At the conclusion of this solemn historical novel the author explains how she came to write this story, sharing her research into the causes and reactions to the frozen summer of  1816.  A sobering read for anyone studying the early Eastern frontier. <br />	2004-11-30
455500:US	52160649	R36MAKEEGS7WWD	0312080735	136014351	The Dead (Case Studies in Contemporary Criticism)	Books	3	19	24	N	N	An Evocative Christmas Evening	Set in early 20th century Dublin this short story was the last in a collection called The Dubliners by native son, James Joyce.  Despite the mournful title there is no murder nor mysterious death involved in this seemingly simple piece, set in an old-fashioned Society home during the Christmas season.  Instead this proves an introspective tale from the viewpoint of middle-aged Gabriel, favorite nephew of his respected aunts who host an annual dinner party.  The role of music and performers is debated among their many lively guests.  <br /> <br />     Gabriel's required speech during dinner praises the Irish tradition of warm hospitality.  But something causes his wife, Gretta, to hark back to her girlhood and her first love--whose poignant memory threatens his plans for connubial bliss in their hotel room.  Delicate as the snowflakes which blot out the city landscape, barely plotted with delicious hints of unexpressed emotion, The Dead transports readers to a different gas-lit age, where beauty and grace are subtly exhibited and passionately sought after.  Joyce reminds us that music possesses the power to evoke the past and serve as a catalyst both for pain and pleasure.  This may be read in one sitting, but don't miss the author's other reminiscences. <br />	2004-11-15
462385:US	52160649	RG3AV80AUGZNJ	0064400581	482061124	Julie of the Wolves (HarperClassics)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	The Struggle for Survival on the Tundra	This story of survival on the Arctic tundra will hold the interest of boys as well as girls, despite the fact that the protagonist is a 13-year-old Eskimo girl. Part One describes the life Miyax endures when she finds herself alone on the tundra as autumn approaches.  Realizing that she is dependent on a wolf pack, she lies quietly for hours to observe all their social interactions, so that she can gain their trust and ingratiate herself into the pack as if she were a cub. She respects and grows to love the fearless leader, whom she names Amaroq. Identifying all the members of the pack she focuses on the young Alpha male cub, Kapu--so named to honor her lost father, Kapugen. <br /> <br />   Part Two is flashback; how she and her father became separated when she was a little girl; how she was raised in an Americanized village, where she became Julie Edwards.  Having acquired a pen pal in San Francisco and been forced into a teenage marriage with a mentally-retarded boy, Julie decides to flee so-called civilization and escape on the wild tundra, to reach the coast and catch a ship--working her way to San Francisco.  Her odyssey involves hardship, loneliness and remembering the Eskimo ways taught by her father: to live in harmony with nature and respect all living things; to kill only <br />for food or self-preservation.  The long winter months alone force her to examine her ideals.  <br /> <br />  In Part Three she must choose her path several times over: hardest of all is to leave her beloved wolf pack, without whom she would have died many times over.  But where will she find a true family and sense of belonging to the land: with Amy in San Francisco, with kind Eskimos in a village, or with whites who cater to the tourist trade?  This story quickly grasps the reader's interest, for it is truly a tale of survival on three levels: against the elements; survival of the infant self to remain her own person; and against the encroaching American civilization which threatens to destroy her Eskimo heritage, for <br />it has already seduced one dear to her heart.  Which path will Julie-Miyax choose; how will she find happiness and self contentment as she approaches womanhood?  <br />	2004-11-09
463509:US	52160649	R350M8L03WCLVF	006052779X	121564266	Charlotte's Web	Books	5	1	2	N	N	How to be a Best Friend	E.B. White's tender classic remains a favorite for those of us who grew up in the fifties-for friendship and self-sacrifice are timeless virtues.  Eight-year-old Fern Arable begs her father to spare the life of the runt of a litter of pigs, whom she lovingly names Wilbur and treats as a baby.  Finally being sold to relatives on another farm, Wilbur has an easy time at first in the lower section of the Zuckerman's barn, but he gradually decides that his life is still empty, for he needs a special true friend.  He fears he will die of heartbreak over his loneliness-not realizing that his destiny as a pig is to be fattened for a Christmas butchering. <br /> <br />      This delightful tale chronicles the special friendship which is extended to him by a talented gray spider named Charlotte, who undertakes as her personal mission to save the life of the gentle young pig.  Obviously she has to deceive the Zuckermans into believing that their pig is too remarkable to kill.  Because she is such an excellent writer, she uses her web to advertise Wilbur's best features-which is considered a miracle.  Meanwhile Fern sits quietly in the barn and listens to all the animals' conversation, though she does not participate.  Naturally her mother is worried about this tendency to prefer animals to her peers.  Revealing many human characteristics, the animals work together (or not), boys will be boys, until the final farewell.  Wilbur is not the only one to shed tears at the spider's brief life cycle, but hope is renewed each spring.  This is a wonderful read-aloud story, for children of all ages. <br /> <br />	2004-11-08
475187:US	52160649	R177AG6S6GPEL1	0971880107	298059673	Wild Animus: A Novel	Books	3	1	13	N	N	Seeking the God of Fire and Ice	This gripping novel takes readers on a psychedelic trip from <br />Berkeley's student chaos to the untamable slopes of Wrangells in Alaska.  Brought together by a campus riot Sam and Lindy quickly become a passionate couple, thanks to sex and LSD. This union of soul-mates ultimately causes him to abandon his former friends and his clinging family.  Animated increasingly by a desire to seek out the spirit of the Ram, Sam renounces even his name to morph into Ransom.  He yearns to imitate the golden-horned ram in his native habitat, to cast off the confines of human habitat in order to fully experience the wild animus of a Dall ram.  Perseverating in this new identify he forsakes both career and the world, tramping ever northward--eventually dragging loyal and passionate Lindy with him.  <br /> <br />   This hot-blooded tale is set in the icy indifference of a volcanic wilderness.  The story of drug-induced dementia and a gradual release of his grip on conventional civilization chronicles the gradual disintegration of both Sam's body and his mind. Assuming a new name along with his new Ram persona, Ransom demands increasing trust and loyalty from his devoted young wife.  No sacrifice is too great in his spiritual lust for union with Animus in the crater.  How much must Lindy give up to please her obsessive ram-man; is it fair to view her as the personification of an entire wolf pack? <br /> <br />    Ransom unwittingly wins a few converts to his self-destructive lifestyle, with his primordial ideals and idolatry of Nature.  Zealous unto the destruction of his dearest human desires and aspirations, Ransome remains hell-bent on his self-imposed quest for union with Animus.  He is only at peace with himself when he is living out his dream, gradually rejecting <br />his own humanity in favor of four-footed hallucinations.  The only way he will achieve Ecstasy on the mountain is to prove himself a willing--even joyous-- martyr to the god of Fire and Ice. <br /> <br />This novel is clearly for male readers who can identify with a bold anti-hero, a man willing to sever his bonds with humanity, who chafes under the shackles of conventional civilization. This book will surely provide inspiration for those yearning to develop a \\"Passion for the molten heart.\\"  <br />	2004-10-28
478307:US	52160649	RYOZ8WPJ6L7X0	055327449X	303683311	The Illustrated Man (Grand Master Editions)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	For Armchair Explorers	Bradbury reigns as the quintessential craftsman of sci fi literature in the 50's.  This anthology represents stories which were published in several periodicals, mostly set in the distant future.  The locale ranges from Earth to Mars and Venus, or just anywhere out in space.  We witness Invasions from both points of view: Earth being invaded and Earth men as the invaders.  He presents different ways Earth men use the planets, as well as the concept of Christianity in alien worlds.  Some tales deal with time travel and a few would make wonderful \\"Twilight Zone\\" episodes.   <br /> <br />     The introductory tale, which provides the name for the anthology as a whole, is grimly completed in a brief Epilogue.  A traveler in what might be a Depression era encounters a strange man along the dusty road and offers to share his supper with him.  He winds up spending the night in the open with this weirdly decorated man, who admits that he is shunned even by carnivals-where freaks are usually welcomed. His entire body is covered with colorful and bizarre tattoos--which he has spent a lifetime trying to remove.  What is the curse of these odd illustrations, which cause normal men to send him away or rush off screaming in horror? <br /> <br />   This is Vintage Bradbury, who inspired a generation of sci fi writers.  His fantastic imagination and knowledge of human behavior combine to produce entertaining trips to realms of fantasy and science fiction.  After the odd sightings and rumors regarding Roswell in the late 1940's, America was poised on the frontier of space exploration.  Thus Bradbury's anthology and an armchair provided readers with their own rocket ship to the skies.  Although these tales precede the term \\"Astronaut,\\" this author will effortlessly launch you into astral realms of fancy and the inner sanctum of the human soul.  Fortunately the innate qualities that make us Human are still present even in the 22nd century.  <br />	2004-10-25
489863:US	52160649	R1B6LFP02KFRHM	0140367055	766816231	The Extraordinary Cases of Sherlock Holmes (Puffin Classics)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Patchwork of Criminal Intentions	This Penguin edition of Conan Doyle's deductive logic contains  8 mysteries-7 of which are serious crimes-solved brilliantly by Victorian London's genius sleuth, Sherlock Holmes. These exploits have been faithfully recorded by his friend and ally, Dr. Watson, who also resides at 221-B Baker Street.  Doyle's literary style includes the following elements: ample dialogue, a detailed denouement which fills in all the loose ends, and occasional personal touches.  Watson appears at <br />times as bewildered, disappointed, deductive in his own right,  <br />and truly concerned for Holmes' physical and mental health. Sherlock is presented as a man of personal honor and unflappable integrity, compassionate toward victims while ruthless toward criminals, and in one tale very human-delighting in the praise and recognition from Justice professionals.  In addition he rarely extracts a serious fee for his services. <br /> <br />    The settings for these 8 mysteries range from six in the country to two in town.  Holmes is sought out by clients in four tales, while he actively helps the police in the other four; one <br />mystery he stumbles into while holiday. Most of these crimes involve cruel murder or bizarre death; two concern precious gems and one delves into English history.  Readers will find a cypher in one tale and a multi-generational puzzler in another.  The knowledge of Geometry will prove valuable on a treasure hunt.   Realizing when he needs a little help from his \\"irregulars,\\" Holmes even relies on the keen nose of man's best friend.  Delightful literary fare by the foremost detective in cases that <br />baffle the pros and boggle the mind. Scotland Yard applauds his amazing brain and fertile imagination! <br /> <br />	2004-10-14
489903:US	52160649	R14LAMBHMGEREI	0743272935	412606618	The Good Earth (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Seeking Domestic Peace	Pearl Buck's second book, THE GOOD EARTH, established her reputation as a novelist and earned her a Pulitzer Prize.  Opening in feudal, pre-Communist China the story chronicles the life and labors of Wang,the Farmer, who never wavered in his belief that the rich and eternal land would provide for them all<br /><br />and sustain his family for generations, if properly respected and tended.<br /><br />  Young Wang receives a plain, common slave for a bride, from the rich house of Hwang in town.  This unassuming but street-wise woman bears him sons and daughters, keeping his modest home clean and well provisioned.  Over the years they endure drought, two massive floods, and roving bands robbers, but Wang<br /><br />shrewdly purchases land whenever he can, as the great House falls on evil times and prefers the opium cure to land ownership.  Despite all natural and manmade disasters Wang draws private comfort from the quiet pride that he possesses ever<br /><br />more fields, and the thought that his sons will inherit the fruit of his labors and farming wisdom.<br /><br />  Alas, passions and jealousy relentlessly rip his domestic peace to shreds many times in the ensuring 40 years, as Wang misjudges the emotional needs of those nearest him.  He himself introduces disharmony and disrespect when he installs a courtesan into his family.  Bound by traditions which honor and respect older male relatives, however worthless and nasty, Wang fumes at being snared socially by the protecting presence of his conniving uncle and violent nephew.<br /><br />  Yet Wang emerges victorious and wealthy, thanks to his careful planning and planting, first buying, then renting out the precious land.  Having gradually created his own great house, he is finally known as Wang, the Rich Man.  But no man or single family can combat an entire revolution, of which he understands but little.  His fortune rises to a high tide when he is able to move his entire family to town, into the very house of the now fallen Hwangs, before whom he once cringed. Like the original old Lord, he proudly gave one of his slaves in marriage to a common farmer.  Still he chose to spend his declining days back in the humble earth homestad, in order to be close to his roots and his land.  For Wang realized that his greatest treasure-as well as the family cemetery--lay in the good earth.f the now fallen Hwangs, before whom he once cringed. Like the original old Lord, he proudly gave one of his slaves in marriage to a common farmer.  Still he chose to spend his declining days back in the humble earth homestad, in order to be close to his roots and his land.  For Wang realized that his greatest treasure-as well as the family cemetery--lay in the good earth.        <br />	2004-10-14
502347:US	52160649	R3QE6LLJETJI3N	0451528018	671217915	The Hound of the Baskervilles: 150th Anniversary Edition (Signet Classics)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Hounded by the Family Curse?	Sherlock Holmes is approached by a concerned doctor from Devonshire, in this longest and most famous of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's mysteries.  A novel in its own right, this tale of the macabre murder on the moor (which houses a desolate prison) takes Holmes from London to the dreaded Grimpen Mire-treacherous with pockets of quicksand.  But nothing will deter the famous Victorian sleuth from helping an innocent man discover the truth about the family legend.  Is it really a hound from Hell or something more worldly which threatens to wipe out the Baskerville family?<br /><br />  Even Holmes expresses reserve about taking on the devil himself, for he admits that this foe is as vicious and clever as any he has encountered.  Forced to go undercover, Holmes delegates faithful Dr. Watson to guard the new baronet at Baskerville Hall, with serious instructions to send regular reports of all he uncovers to him in London.  Doyle's style includes lenghty dialogue, unrealistically long and detailed letters, with alternating slow and fast pacing; the interesting denouement, where all lose ends are explained, occurs curiously two months later.<br /><br />  THE HOUND OF THE BASKERVILLES proves vintage Victoriana, where Holmes' mind proves as fertile and agile as the master criminal's elaborate schemes to defraud the true heir.  Holmes uses both his \\"irregulars\\" and Scotland Yard to help him achieve justice on the moor.  If this is your introduction to the sleuth who resides at 221-B Baker Street, be sure to enjoy an anthology of his fascinating and deadly short stories.	2004-10-03
504303:US	52160649	R213Z5M5N737NZ	0451526279	569473707	Emma (Signet Classics)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Manipulating Affairs of the Heart	Genteel society in early 19th century England proved resourceful in conjuring up their own rural entertainment.  Dinner parties, amateur musicales, cards, charades and balls provided indoor amusement, while picnics, local excursions or taking the waters in fancy resorts took the restless upper crust out of doors. Lacking telephones and even telegrams Austen's characters relied on local mail delivery by their servants or trusted in the efficiency of the British Post to bring detailed, epistolary news into their information-starved lives. <br /> <br />  While the men discussed politics and their farming interests, most ladies devoted great mental and verbal energy to schemes for romance-encouraging or quashing. The fair sex plotted and surmised about their neighbors and relatives'affections for one another.  In true Victorian style pregnancy was hushed over, but village gossips took great delight in pondering such weighty matters as one's birth, social station and probable inheritance. <br />In addition the whims of older relatives must be humored at all cost, since they held the of purse strings which could make or break the success of a young person's suit.  Marriage after all was still more in the interest of the parents than for the sake of actual love. <br /> <br />  Twenty-one-year old Emma Woodhouse is the younger daughter and mistress of the home of her elderly father.  Having recently lost her young governess/companion to marriage, Emma undertakes a new social challenge: to mentor in her turn 17-year-old Harriet-a recent graduate of a local boarding school.  The plot revolves around Emma`s subtle attempt to mold Harriet's immature heart in certain directions, indicated by insincere behavior on the part of various young men.  Having frustrated what she considers an inferior proposal on Harriet's behalf, Emma gradually learns that she has meddled too much and caused needless unhappiness.   <br /> <br />   Several young couples court and become engaged in thecourse of this light novel, but all is not as it seems on the surface, due to a secret engagement and surprising twists of Cupid's darts.  Harriet's heart is easily swayed by suggestions and appearances--without direct, verbal confirmation--so it is Emma who matures the most.  She has long been sensitive of the good opinion of her 31-year-old neighbor, Mr. Knightly, who on two occasions finds it necessary to reprove her thoughtless behavior.  What does she care, since she has already declared that will never marry-which would mean deserting her doting but  <br />doddering father. <br /> <br />  This novel is Austen-lite, though in extensive format (over 400 pages), with many long letters which fill in the off stage action--which proves to be wherever our Emma is Not present.  The heroine's own tender heart is swayed first by this man, then by another. The advent of young persons into the village of Highbury is welcomed by local society-ever appreciative of newcomers to the social mix.  Inside these pages one encounters the typical village gossips and snobs of course, who make everyone's business their private agenda.  Ah, how will these impetuous young persons sort out their feelings and <br />relationships?  Especially without antagonizing or distressing their elders?  EMMA is almost a sly treatise on early Victorian social and moral restrictions, delightfully disguised as a novel. <br />	2004-10-01
521819:US	52160649	R2H3FMHCKM1HZN	0345311485	12581581	On the Beach	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Facing the End of the World	Shute's 1957 best seller about the grim danger of nuclear war which stalks man's very existence will shake up the most complacent reader.  Written during the Cold War, it is a stirring plea for sanity among governmental superpowers, for they alone have the dreaded capability to actually destroy the world.  Yet the plot develops with sincere concern for the Human aspect of this horrific catastrophe.  Starkly chilling the story chronicles the last six months of Life on our planet for the people living and stationed in Australia-the southernmost section, near Melbourne.  By the time the novel opens, nuclear war has wiped out human life in the entire Northern Hemisphere; it is just a matter of time before global winds shift patterns to carry the radioactive cobalt particles into the Southern Hemisphere.  Annihilation by gradual but inexorable Contamination, which is our own fault!. <br /> <br />   How humanity copes with impending and inevitable death make a sobering tale; each character demonstrates his/her own foibles, suffers denial phases, and invents ways to deal with  the end-not only of their own lives, but all human kind on the planet.  Readers will mourn not just the character whom we come to care about, but also the needless and painful fate of man.  The animals would survive longer, but eventually succumb to the poisoned air, water and vegetation.  By the time Earth would again be habitable (20 years hence) there would be no humans alive to enjoy or revive it.  Not because of an alien invasion or an act of God, but because of our own arrogant and bellicose stupidity.  <br /> <br />     Dwight Towers is the highest ranking US Naval officer, currently commanding one of the last two submarines; still considering himself married and a family man, he does everything by the book-Navy to the end.  Australia has ordered native Peter Holmes to serve as Liaison Officer for Dwight as the ship explores, with great circumspection, the remains of the deserted US and other coastal area which have gone silent.  Peter's wife, Mary, is concerned mainly about their little house in the country and their young baby.  Her girlfriend, Moira, is invited to a party to help keep Dwight occupied; seems it's difficult for Northern Hemisphere types to keep their cool in Australia, where life still maintains some degree of normalcy.  John Osborne is a scientist assigned to check the levels of radiation during the two-month recon cruise, though he would much prefer to enjoy his private pride--a Ferrari--while he sill can.  One by one our friends succumb to death by radiation sickness--many opting to take a cyanide pill calmly in their favorite settings.  One of which proves to be on the beach. <br /> <br />    This terrifying cautionary tale reveals man's futile attempts to salvage the future which he unthinkingly destroyed; <br />the dark plot development focuses on the last efforts of humanity to preserve the dignity of the species and its once bright accomplishments. <br />	2004-09-14
524499:US	52160649	RYPO6B8SNU8S1	0345341341	609595829	Battle Cry (#2) (Robotech)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Protecting the Secret of Protoculture	Second in a quartet featuring the First Generation of humans <br />to battle the gigantic Zentraedi, BATTLE CRY continues the romantic saga of Rick Hunter, a daredevil flyboy, and Minmei, the teenage singing idol.  Rick's seemingly cool commander, Lisa Hayes, has is developing a hate-love relationship with him as well-further confusing the cocky hero. Promoted to Lt. with his own two subordinates in tow, Rick has more serious issues as the evil aliens plot to trap the earth ships and destroy our home planet. <br /> <br />      The action is fast-paced, as diabolical schemes are cleverly foiled and clever countermeasures cause confusion on both sides.  These Micronians are unpredictable, which makes things even more interesting for Breetai and the Zentraedi warlords.  The mighty SDF-1, which had crashed on Earth at Macross Island, has been retrofitted for its new human-sized crew and the unexpected 50,000 civilians aboard this floating city. But the Zentraedi live in terror that the Micronians will discover the secret of their size and technology: protoculture!  This sacred element remains hidden somewhere in the traveling fortress.  Of course all the ships can reconfigure in various forms, if you remember Transformers-those popular toys of the 80`s. <br /> <br />   This is pure escapist reading, with no obvious moral message, but it is fun.  Just what is the secret link between the monster race, their hinted-at Robotech masters and the folks of Earth?  Keep reading the entire series to learn the shocking truth! <br /> <br />	2004-09-12
525570:US	52160649	R14DT7HQ6BMHEI	0742626512	781789529	Tales of Unrest (Collected Works of Joseph Conrad)	Books	3	9	13	N	N	Probing the Murky Waters ot the Soul	his anthology of 216 pages provides an excellent introduction for new readers to Polish-born Joseph Conrad, who deftly paints on an English canvass.  Having selected five of his tales the editors present readers with settings in both the exotic tropics of Malaysia and Africa, as well as the chilly social milieus of socialite London and pastoral France.  Perhaps the editors chose the word UNREST for their title, because all the protagonists experience psychological malaise from a diversity of causes. <br /> <br />      KARAIN.  This Malay chieftain feels cursed by his past, so he desperately seekst a new English charm to ward off his fatal stalker. <br /> <br />     THE IDIOTS.  A simple French peasant couple are cursed by bearing children who are severely mentally retarded. <br /> <br />     OUTPOST OF PROGRESS.  The title is sheer irony, since a useless African trading station is run by two ineffectual English agents. The men are pursued by their failed pasts, general laziness, incompetence, extreme heat and company indifference. <br /> <br />   THE RETURN.  A young socialite husband returns home to discover a note from his wife, explaining that she has left him for another man.  In this most psychological of the tales, the wronged husband undergoes a series of intense emotions and decisions, ultimately defying the very Society he represents. <br /> <br />   THE LAGOON.  A native is pre-grieving the death of his beloved wife, unburdening his soul before his only white friend.  Although this represents Conrad's first published short story, curiously it concludes this particular anthology.  Prepare to explore the murky waters of the human heart and soul. <br />	2004-09-11
535733:US	52160649	R2KPZUIHER6YXW	0787118125	654798971	Red Prophet (Tales of Alvin Maker)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Indian/White AWars in a  Revised America	<br />  Card's second novel in the Alvin MAKER series (see SEVENTH SON) <br />Focuses more on national events than the simple tale of the boy, Alvin Miller, in early America.  In this alternative world, religion proves but one of many factors directing men's lives: superstition, folklore, and forces undreamed of by most men.   The Unmaker is stealthily at work, rending more than any Maker can create or restore. Folks have special talent too: to ward, to fend and to hex, and to doodlebug.  A Spark can set fires with his mind; a Torch can predict the future, or several possible versions. How will Alvin be expected to help mankind?  <br /> <br />    In this revised geographical North America many forces are working viciously for war, with only a few urging peace.  The Indians themselves (called Reds) are divided on this epic controversy as two brothers seek to attract increasing numbers of their own people to their respective causes; one to unite <br />all Reds to fight the white men and drive them back across the sea; the other to live with whites in peace..  The Prophet has his visions and his duty, as does the war leader, but they both come to respect the ten-year-old boy who senses the greensong of the land beneath their feet, who learns to walk in Indian ways. <br /> <br />    Meanwhile the French and English struggle for control of the New World, where Americans exercise their fledgling democracy.   This tempestuous mix is further poisoned by the personal schemes of Governor William Harrison and Senator Andy Jackson, with their own private agendas of power and revenge.  How can a mere boy keep the feuding agents apart and stave off Red massacre?  The day Measure and Alvin set of for the lad to become an apprentice blacksmith begins a year of incredible personal growth for both the Miller boys.  How can all 4 dedicated protagonists prevent the carnage of Native Americans?   <br />&#60;P&#62; Master storyteller Card has woven a fascinating tapestry on his literary loom, with the warp of Fantasy and the woof of History, connecting all with the shuttle of Superstition.  Readers who delighted in Alvin's growing awareness in the first novel will eagerly await his entrance after the start of this second book.  Darkly brooding, emotionally riveting, this book is for adults of all ages to savor. <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-09-01
536256:US	52160649	R2X15ZX4MVTZKI	0486292797	939784012	Humorous Stories and Sketches (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Patchwork of Tales by the Bard of American Humor	<br />   This delightful anthology of just 74 pages contains gems by the genius of truly American humor, who catapulted our literary style to international recognition.   Finally, a master explains what makes American humor unique: it's not the subject Matter, but the Manner in which the humor is expressed-quite differently from the English and French styles.  This is an excellent edition for beginners in the Classics as well as in American literature in general; the stories range in length from only five to twenty pages.  <br /> <br />     The editors have chosen a variety of settings and topics in this literary patchwork of Twainiana; from California's Gold Country with its famous frog-jumping contest, to a newspaper office in shoot-`em-up Tennessee. Twain explains the dangers inherent in regularly visiting a barber shop; he reveals his earliest attempt at Civil War soldiering; he includes the mystery of a stolen elephant, solved by the competent mind of a New York City Inspector.  Not everything is totally amusing, however, as he delves into literary realms as well; he blasts the underserved fame of James Fenimore Cooper, and concludes with earnest advice to writers how to render their stories Humorous--not just funny, witty or silly.  This collection is Vintage Twin in a slender package.  Kids of all ages should read and enjoy this book; it will only whet your appetite for more Twain fare! <br /> <br />	2004-09-01
570404:US	52160649	R3C4ZXQVLGQL2Y	0140435190	377095114	The Pursuit of the Well-Beloved and the Well-Beloved (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	13	13	N	N	Atonement By Marriage	This novel, which depicts a young man's lifelong search for the feminine Ideal, represents the latter end of Hardy's literary output, as he was turning to the poetic genre.  First appearing in serialized form in the London News in 1892, this story was written between Tess and Jude.  By the time it assumed final book form in 1897 it had undergone extensive revision.      It is the heart-wrenching story of a passive native of the Isle of the Slingers, just south of London (accessible via a railroad causeway.) The three major sections of the novel are chronologically spaced twenty years apart, featuring the protagonist at 20, 40 and at 60.  Young Jocelyn Pierston courts Avice of the Isle, but her delicate refusal to meet him one night on the beach inadvertently precipitates his flight with another young woman, whom he was courteously trying to help in a storm. The plot offers frequent instances of coincidence, bad timing, and poor choices causing inevitable misunderstanding.  Fate seems to provide the wrong mate at crucial junctures in his life, and that of the three women he courts.  It is almost <br />ridiculous and pathetic that Pierson attempts to marry the daughter (and even the granddaughter) of the woman to whom he first spontaneously proposed.  There are distinct undercurrents interwoven in THE WELL BELOVED as well: the bond between the sculptor's Hands, striving to recreate in stone the perfection which his Heart desperately seeks in various female forms.  There is also the interplay of Rock: the granite island, his artistic medium and his steadfast determination to seek the Ideal Woman for the rest of his days versus Water: Ocean water which tirelessly seeks to reduce the granite to pebbles, salty straits which provide a psychological barrier between islander and mainlander; Well water so crucial to village life; and lastly the Tears of a woman abandoned, guilty of selfishness or wed to a battering husband.  This Native often returns to his <br />island home,to find surprising changes on the Isle of quarries and masons, yet he is perplexed to discover that some things are timeless.  He has achieved artistic recognition as evidenced by being named an Academician, yet he privately is tortured by the Curse (his deepest secret) of his all-consuming quest for the Ideal. The only way Pierston can be freed of 40 years of bondage to heartache is to accept the fact that he has lost all chances of claming an Avice as his bride.  Unfortunately this emotional freedom is purchased at the cost of his talent.  Will he merely fade into the granite twilight of his native isle, a sadder but wiser old man who recognizes his physical limitations and accepts the ravages of time?  A thought-provoking read, lightly based on the author's own situation, concerning the eternal yearnings of the human heart. <br />	2004-07-31
572884:US	52160649	R14UBLWNFR1FKR	0606116303	271701857	Misty's Twilight	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Three-in-One Pinto Talent	This charming story takes place long after Misty's death, but the spirit of this famous Chincoteague pony lives on-inspiring another generation of horse-loving children and adults.  Down in Florida on Stolen Hours Farm Dr. Sandy cherishes a dream: to travel to the coast of Virginia to purchase <br />some Chincoteage ponies of her own. Captivated by the MISTY book and nationally-beloved story about the little filly of Pony Ranch, she drags her unenthusiastic kids along--returning home with four ponies in her trailer. <br /> But she pins great hopes on Sunshine, a direct descendant of Misty. Working with a wise and generous horse breeder she envisions a special blend of Chincoteague and Thoroughbred.  The result is a pinto spitfire filly whom she names Twilight.  But which course will be best for <br />Misty's lively great-granddaughter?  Should Sandy train her to be a Cutting horse--facing cows and bulls-or to be a Jumper in the show ring, or to learn the noble art of Dressage?  This spunky blend of both equestrian worlds is eager and willing to try all three paths to fame. <br /> But many years later Sandy realizes that Twilight has an even greater challenge; to help people realize the value of preserving a place for the wild things.  This talented pinto will serve as a \\"symbol of what Nature has to offer us.\\"  A pleasant read for horse-lovers of all ages, this book reminds us of what we stand to lose if we fail to honor the Misty's legacy. <br />	2004-07-29
579585:US	52160649	RO5H9M7WMCRQZ	0881035041	759617064	Two Years Before the Mast (Pacemaker Abridged) (Pacemaker Classics (Prebound))	Books	4	7	7	N	N	The Toughest Cure	Sailing out of Boston to reach the California coast in 1834 proved a daunting proposition even for seasoned sailors, but young Richard Henry Dana felt up to the challenge and signed on the PILGRIM all the same. Not because he was passionate for life on the sea, but as a result of his doctor?s orders.  Prolonged study at Harvard has damaged his eyes, so the brave young men undertook a two-year odyssey which included two trips around deadly Cape Horn.  One of the first lessons he learned was that a sailor?s work is Never done.  Now a captain?s authority is a absolute on shipboard, but few of this captain?s decisions and actions were perceived as just or humane. <br /> This readable edition provides an excellent introduction for elementary students to the glories of American classics; this version offers generous amounts of dialogue with little of the  introspection of the original.  The onboard action moves along at clipper-ship pace.  Dana even enjoys a cross-cultural experience as he learns to speak Spanish and observes the customs of the natives of Alta California under Mexican rule.  <br /><br /> Enhanced by excellent brown and white illustrations of Dennis Dierks, this book will interest young readers, who will barely be aware that they are learning about the difficult cow hide trade in the declining days of the California missions.  Dana realized the importance of trust between the officers and crew on a ship, as well as the camaraderie between ships on two mighty oceans. Surviving both natural and human disasters Dana returns home able to recall in vivid detail the events of his transformation from a Green Hand into a true Salt!  <br />	2004-07-23
581672:US	52160649	R3SAVW38HBS32X	0064403823	968448497	Old Yeller (HarperClassics)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Saving Lives on the Texas Frontier	<br /> <br />     This 1957 Newbery Honor book grabs the reader?s interest from the very start.  Teenage boys on the Texas frontier grew up mighty fast?if they survived the dangers of wild animals, Indians, weather and geographic isolation.  The Coates clan is facing several months of separation, for Papa will be away with the other men from the Salt Licks settlement on an 800-mile cattle drive to Kansas.  <br /> <br /> <br />      Fourteen-year-old Travis suddenly must assume the role of Man about the Cabin during his father?s prolonged absence.  More than chores fall upon his young shoulders as he sacrifices play time for the good of the family.  He begs Papa to buy him a horse of his own, but his wise father assures him that he needs dog even more.  Travis learns the bitter truth of that statement several times over when the family adopts a yellow mongrel with his own means of survival. <br /> Resentful of the thieving brute at first, Travis grudgingly admits that Old Yeller, as they call him, sure has is paws full saving their lives?when he?s not  <br />up to some mischief himself.  But soon the settlement will face its most serious threat with the plague of dreaded hydrophobia.  How will Travis handle the peril of Rabies on his own?  Gipson?s narrative is full of dialogue and fast-paced plotting, which includes occasional foreshadowing.  A real page-turner which <br />explores the bond between a young man who discovers man?s best friend.  This is a story of both physical and emotional survival--for kids of all ages. <br />	2004-07-20
590652:US	52160649	R2H9H7X5Q7C2C7	0451524357	907195620	Complete Fairy Tales of Oscar Wilde	Books	3	14	17	N	N	Gems of Social Reform	This version comprises all 9 of Wilde's fairy tales, which were<BR>originally published as two separate anthologies: THE HAPPY PRINCE (5 tales) and THE HOUSE OF POMEGRANATES (4). At least three of these tales have appeared as individual storybooks with colorful illustrations: The Happy Prince, The Selfish Giant and The Star Child. The stories in the first collection are shorter and more likely meant--on the surface at least--for younger readers.  <br />  The gifted son of literary Irish parents, Oscar<BR>Wilde was steeped in fantasy and Irish folklore. Exposed to the talents of raconteurs during his youth, he naturally developed an interest in the supernatural and appreciation for a well-turned phrase.  He was fascinated by the power of specific words to evoke ideas, as well as visual scenes.  His style includes a vast vocabulary and the frequent use of ironic wit to express his themes: self-sacrifice for Love or Art; disgust for the arrogance of the Court or High Society; the crucial need for reform for the suffering lower classes; the sacred duties of Power; the need for compassion from humanity in general; casual ridicule for the pendantry of teachers, lecturers and editors.  The writer's craft was a particular target of his sardonic humor, for he used his pen like a sword.  <br /> No institution or personnage was immune from his rapier wit and social scalpel. Some of Wilde's stories start with a promising plot, then seem to spin off into a tale within a tale. This editon includes 19th century style b/w illustrations, which will captivate young readers. Although he wrote some stories to amuse his own sons, Wilde did not limit his literary audience to young children. Keep a dictionnary handy--not so much for Victorian vocabulary, but as an ecyclopedia of the affluent. This is social criticism disguised as fantasy literature--with great flair!	2004-07-14
602755:US	52160649	R2GHHFVOUCDRZW	0553159925	62393161	Mississippi Bridge	Books	3	3	4	N	N	When Whites were Slaves to Prejudice	Taylor's grim novella of Depression tragedy highlights the gross racial injustice rampant in rural Mississippi. Narrated by a decent and likeable white boy, the simple storyline proves both painful and powerful. Ten-year-old Jeremy is mostly a passive spectator, observing the subtle and flagrant ways that whites treat free blacks. He notices the mixed crowd of travelers who are waiting for the bus from Jackson, but on this rainy day there are more folks who want to ride than seats. <br /> How does the arrogant bus driver handle this situation?  Wading visually<BR>through the heavy dialect readers quickly enter a dark world<BR>of the deep South's shameful past.  Despite his Pa's vicious temper and belligerent attitude toward black people, Jeremy's behavior serves as a moral bridge between the feuding races. Can one small boy show his elders the way to true social democracy?  Because it is chapterless this lttle book rushes headlong towards its dramatic catastrophe, but who is to blame--if any person or race is? Can centuries of social discrimination and exploitation be avenged or expunged in one natural disaster? A riveting read.	2004-07-05
617085:US	52160649	R2N55XC6R9LYHD	0140432620	374464565	Daisy Miller (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Cutting Out Daisy	American Society in the mid 19th century operated under a strict<BR>code of moral values, which were scrupulously observed while traveling abroad.  Responsible women were constantly on the alert to protect young ladies from predatory Europeans, for it was a recognized international scam to marry American money. Society dowagers and conscientious mothers artfully contrived to both Exhibit their eligible daughters and yet Protect them--their reputations as well as their persons.  (To be culturally honest, there were some American girls who went abroad seeking to marry Titles.)  <br />  This novella in two parts is narrated by a pleasant and decent American youth who has been living and stuyding in Siwtzerland for some years.  Instantly charmed by a very pretty American flirt, whose precocious little brother he's just met, the naive protagonist seeks every legitimate means to make her acquaintance and enjoy more of her company.  Miss Daisy Miller certainly turns heads abroad, but she is playful and coy--enjoying the game of tormenting her beaus. <br /> The plot progresses as the unnamed hero gradually realizes that his divine Daisy does not radiate a positive reputation, for hostesses in Switzerland and later in Rome begin to shun her. Adding insult to inury, they actually warn him about her.  How can he compete with her latest conquest, a handsome and indolent Latin Lover? Daisy ignores all sincere attempts to deflect her from her headstrong course of social ruin.  Her mother seems utterly indifferent to her daughter's fate--demonstrating ineffective parenting skills with her horrid son as well. All of which leaves readers wondering how naive, stupid or shallow this socialite truly is.  Like the governess in James' TURN OF THE SCREW, Daisy projects conflicting opinions about her personality. What terrible price will she pay for toying with men's hearts and flaunting social customs abroad? This comes across as a serious cautionary tale.	2004-06-24
623416:US	52160649	R1VT4FKBFNTOJX	0440904196	798277940	Are You There God? It's Me, Margaret	Books	2	2	12	N	N	Tug of War over Religion	Margaret Simon dreads leaving NY city to move to a town in NJ, where she will start in a new school.  Making friends does not prove to be a problem after all, plus her entire 6th grade class<br />has to break in a brand new teacher. Still there are two underlying themes which cause her great concern: one is the slow growth of her body into maturity. She and the other Pre Teen Sensations obsess over filling their bras and getting their periods. (This book is definitely not of interest to boys.)<br /><br />The serious issue, however, is her dual religious heritage. The only chld of a Christian mother and a Jewish father, Margaret is a pawn in a tug of war on the part of her grandparents in the opposing camps.  Her parents prefer to raise her to be Nothing--calmly assuming that she wil be able to make up her mind as a young adult without any guidance from either of them.  Meanwhile Margaret carries on private conversations with God in her own mind, confiding to him as if by phone--begging him to reveal himself to her and reminding him to help her body mature. When<br />she has a big fight with God over a grandparent disaster, she stops talking to him. The author does not resolve Margaret's religious dilemma.  How will she make up with God--if she still believes in him? There is also a more subtle theme about not believing vicious gossip about people you don't really know.  Also a mild warning about the issues of pre teen posturing and snobbery.  A good read if you are entering 6th grade.	2004-06-19
631257:US	52160649	R11S2HV6FN2N9P	0460878883	374464565	Daisy Miller	Books	3	1	1	N	N	On a Collision Course with Disaster	American society in the mid 19th century operated under a strict set of moral values which were also scrupulously observed while traveling abroad. Responsible women were cosntantly on the alert to protect young ladies from predatory European males, for it <BR>was a recognized social scam to marry American money. Society dowagers and conscientious mothers artfully contrived to both exhibit their elegible daughters and yet protect them--their reputations being as precious as their persons.  <br />  This novella in two parts is narrated by a pleasant and decent American youth who has been living/studying in Switzerland for some years.  Instantly charmed by a very pretty American flirt, whose precocious little brother he's just met, the naive progtagonist seeks every legitmate means to make her<BR>acquaintance and enjoy her company, before his schedule removes him from her delightful presence. Miss Daisy Miller certainly turns heads abroad, but she is playful and coy--happily aware of the game of having beaus.  The plot progresses as the unnamed hero gradually realizes that his divine Daisy's behavior does not promote a positive reputation. Hostesses both in Switzerland and in Rome begin to shun her--and to warn him.  How can he compete with a handsome and indolent Latin lover? Alas, Daisy ignores all well-meaning attempts to moderate the terrible talk behind her back.  How can her sincere admirer prevent her from rushing headlong into social ruin?  Which leaves readers wondering how naive or stupid or shallow the lady really is.  As in James' TURN OF THE SCREW, this heroine projects a conflicting personality, producing two contrasting viewpoints about her attitude. What terrible price will Daisy pay for toying with men's hearts and rejecting her national code of morality?	2004-06-13
633857:US	52160649	R2ROVY6DMCOP8S	0528876872	364554107	Sea Star Orphan of Chincoteague	Books	3	3	4	N	N	The Myrtle Cure	Although author Marguerite Henry had not envisioned a sequel to MISTY, she found herself touched by the real plight of a tiny orphan colt whose mother had died at Tom's Cove.  Those plucky youngsters, Paul and Maureen Beebe, make the ultimate sacrifice: they decide to sell their beloved Misty in order to finance their uncle's education at Seminary. But when the Lord cloes one door, he often opens a window somewhere else.  In this case the starving little type whickers his way into the children's grieving hearts, giving them something positive to work for: finding him proper nourishment.  <br /> If you enjoyed MISTY OF CHINCOTEAGUE, you will love this tale as well.  There is more of Grandpa's blustery horse sense--for children, as well as for the animals on Pony Ranch.  It is also a treat to experience <BR>Grandma's warm support for empty stomachs and aching hearts.  Readers will relive the excitement of the roundup on Pony Penning Day, as the firemen of Chincoteague hold their annual fund raiser (capturing and selling the wild ponies of Assateague Island to Mainlanders). This year a movie crew is on hand to film the tumultuous events.  The conflict of human versus equine will is played out on a salty stage of splashing waves off the Virginia coast. Sea Star will quickly capture your interest, along with world-famous Misty. A light, heart-warming read for kids of all ages.	2004-06-11
640868:US	52160649	RXSOJIM93FFSD	0140177388	713608567	Cannery Row	Books	3	15	16	N	N	Doing Something Nice for Doc!	Steinbeck's starkly realistic portrayal of Monterey's 1940's working class offers universal appeal as a 20th century classic.<BR>Although light on female characters this medium-length novel presents a kaliedoscope of social dynamics--a tribute to the fluctuating relationships among the denizens of this social jungle. Readers are introduced to a veritable rogue's gallery of secondary characters:  a suspicious grocer named Lee Cong, who does daily battle with his shifty customers; Mack, the smooth-talking hustler and creative genius of the gang who squat at the Palace Flophouse; Dora, the community-minded madam with orange hair and a heart of gold; Frankie, the mentally defective teenager who adores Doc; the Malloys who live in a rusty boiler in the empty lot.  Plus the eerie old Chinaman who flip-flaps his way to the sea at sunrise and sunset.  <br />  But it is the character of Doc who proves the catalyst in this literary milieu, for most of the residents genuinely respect him. A  dignified marine biologist, Doc runs the Western Biological<BR>Laboratory, which supplies marine specimens all over the country. This middle-aged man with his trimmed beard represents<BR>culture and class on Cannery Row--which do not prevent him from<BR>being generally admired, thanks to his quiet stocisim and<BR>compassion toward those in need. <br /> When Mack and the boys decide to do something nice for Doc--like throwing him a surprise party--everything goes awry; their best of intentions culminate in physical and social disaster--for both hosts and honoree. The plot is a loosely-woven thread of the sincere but bungled efforts of Doc's true friends to thank him for being the heart of their sardine community. Despite the few short chapters (seemingly unrelated) near the beginning, readers gradually recognize the direction of Steinbeck's rambling narrrative. This literary stream of communal consciousness proves both interesting and tender, thanks to the fragile and unpredictable human element. This book is Heart with a View.	2004-06-06
653638:US	52160649	R3AELQHF7EXBRP	0140184953	459703484	The End of the Affair (Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Hating or Loving Sarah--and God	Greene's introspective novel relates the personal anguish and the interplay among the characters in an intensely romantic triangle. Set in postwar London this story chronicles the desperate love affair between Maurice Bendrix--a jealous novelist--and Sarah Miles, the wife of a mild-manned civil servant. Readers must judge if she is faithful to her lover or too free with her body and her heart, for such painful issues torment the protagonist.<br /> Unfolding in greater intimacy through<BR>the use of the first person, THE END OF THE AFFAIR is not written in strict chronological order. We bounce between the present and war-torn London, with little literary help as to the time frame. The author even presents one scene from the perspective of both characters. Also several chapters consist of diary entries, which serve to clarify--or further confuse--the past for the tormented novelist. <br /> Bendrix is somewhat passive, though he can be goaded into action, especially when it comes to playing the sleuth about Sarah's latest affair. It is naive, trusting Henry, however, who seems content to suffer in silence.  Through curious twists of fate the two men--once rivals--bond over Sarah against the true common enemy: God. While not overtly religious this novel reflects a strong undercurrent of the Man versus God conflict. What did Sarah really want in the end?  How best can her adoring men respect her wishes?  <br />  After having made a desperate vow to God to spare Maurice's life, Sarah is torn between resentment<BR>of God (for denying her feminine fulfillment in the desert of her life), and a secret desire for spiritual intimacy with her creator. Can a childhood baptism into Catholicism suddenly &quot;take&quot; decades later?  Why was she seeing both a priest and an atheist on the sly? How long can Bendrix maintin his disgust for the greatest passion of his life, whom he has never gotten over?  The battle for Sarah's heart is pursued vehemently<BR>by the two former rivals--who are adamant about what they consider best for her.  Is this a novel about revenge or religious vindication, with its love-hate motif, inextricably interwoven between illicit courtship and foiled schemes? Just what are the limits of our responsibility to those whom we profess to love until death? This modern classic proves a captivating, thought-provoking read.	2004-05-26
666750:US	52160649	R31S7HODV8N9RC	0451526341	380925201	Animal farm: A Fairy Story	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Aping their Betters	Orwell's 1946 &quot;Fairy Story&quot; and political masterpiece offers a<br />timeless warning about the dangers of a totalitarian state.  Unfortunately the all-too-human nature of the animals who engaged in this egalitarin experiment are destined to recreate<br />the inevitable abuse of absolute power: lust for still more power, greed for material comforts, plus the surprising and<br />unrestrained cruelty toward the other animals who were naive enough to trust their leaders for protection.  And worst of all--the tendancy of the other farm creatures to behave like sheep by not raising their collective voices to protest the rampant<br />deception.<br />  The characters in this novel are animals who behave in a painfully human manner. Although the ideologies of Socialism and Communism are not specifically named, the effects of revolution are terrifyingly familiar from recent 20th century<br />history.  Old Major--a wise and repsected pig--calls the animals of Manor Farm to an evening assembly. Outlining his dream of a more democratic and benevolent lifestyle for all farm aniamls, he<br />instills in them the idea of rebellion, which will be followed by an almost utopian existence.  The emerging leader pigs under him devise the Seven Commandments, which should provide for general peace and prosperity.<br />  Alas, after his death his two successors, Snowball and Napoleon, vie for power. They maniuplate both the facts and the written ideas to their own private purposes of self-aggrandizement.  Suspicion, paranoia, deceit and cruelty define the new age of porcine rule. Animal dissidents are converted, silenced or removed, as the memory of actual history is gradually lost in a haze of clever rhetoric and retribution.<br />  One by one the rights of the hard-working animals are stripped away or distorted for Napoleon's private agenda--the dream of a peaceful retirement is forgotten. Worst of all, the revised rules permit an oligarchy to sink to human vices; eventually the rulers become barely distinguishable from the humans they vowed to shun. Orwell raises the nagging<br />question: were the animals better off under drunken Jones, the tyrant, than they are under one of their own?  Whether you consider this novel a fairy story, a fable where animals and humans can communicate (zoomorphism) or a cautionary political essay disguised as fiction, ANIMAL FARM has earned an honored place in literary history. Its sobering view of the effects of dictatorship will expand and warn thoughtful minds. His style flows as easily as absolute power corrupts; the plot captivates readers and maintains our interest from the start.  Beware the excess of human vice!rs become barely distinguishable from the humans they vowed to shun. Orwell raises the nagging <BR>question: were the animals better off under drunken Jones, the tyrant, than they are under one of their own?  Whether you consider this novel a fairy story, a fable where animals and humans can communicate (zoomorphism) or a cautionary political essay disguised as fiction, ANIMAL FARM has earned an honored place in literary history. Its sobering view of the effects of dictatorship will expand and warn thoughtful minds. His style flows as easily as absolute power corrupts; the plot captivates readers and maintains our interest from the start.  Beware the excess of human vice!	2004-05-16
671769:US	52160649	R1IMRZQQPNCEB8	0590360353	994570967	Midnight Magic	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Medieval Intrigue--Concocting Mystery	Set in medieval times in a fictitious kingdom, this story reads easily, with a pace that moves as swiftly as superstition in a dank castle. Despite the young protagonist's distinct lack of sleep, this tale is characterized by an abundance of dialogue and many plot twists.  Elementary readers will delight in guessing who is to be trusted and who is not, as conspiracies abound concerning the throne. <br />    Ten-year-old Fabrizio is the devoted servant of an old and<BR>respected magician named Mangus, who was previously forced to recant his sorcery and is now living under house arrest.  Summoned to the castle under dark and stormy circumstances both master and boy immediately feel dread in the presence of the King's most influential minister, Count Scarazoni.  The nervous King commands Mangus to use his dark arts to free the young princess from the cursed haunting of a ghost.  The midnight apearance of this wispy spectre has been seen by others as well--causing the superstitious King to demand an end to these ghostly visitations.<br />    But Mangus has sincerely given up all dabbling in Magic,<BR>despite the King's recent order.  How can a man who does not believe in ghosts confront one and lay him to rest?  What does this spectre want of the Princess anyway--this slender girl who seems to have two personalities?  Should Fabrizio trust the princess or the friendly kitchen boy?  Or No One, since spies are lurking everywhere?  How many hoaxes are being perpetrated in the castello?  A delightful Castle Who-Dunnit, MIDNIGHT MAGIC stresses the true magic of friendship and loyalty.  A fun read for kids of all ages.	2004-05-11
693681:US	52160649	R1Z4CTJADHVNHM	0684804441	987000028	The Snows of Kilimanjaro and Other Stories	Books	3	18	19	N	N	Death and Drink, War and lllness	The editors at Scribners have chosen ten of Hemingway's short stories for this Paperback edition.  Set both in America and<BR>abroad, the subjects of these tales deal with some of his favorite--albeit morbid--literary interests: death, drink, war and illness.  Possibly influenced by Anderson's anthology, WINESBURG OHIO, the author actually chooses one character, Nick Adams, to appear in several unrelated stories. Ranging in length from 3 - 33 pages these stories are the offspring of the imagination and morality of a Man's author. His protagonists include a solider, boxer, gambler, game hunters--even simple waiters.  Set in Africa, Italy, France and the Chicago environs, this collection will transport readers back to the era of the Lost Generation, when personal choices were often painfully wrong, resulting in social and moral disaster. Vintage Heminway, with subtle hints of his interest in suicide.	2004-04-24
704783:US	52160649	R155L5RIEN0NNV	060600999X	123674996	The California Gold Rush	Books	3	6	6	N	N	The Nugget that Founded a State!	{This Landmark series features American history for young<BR>students, including 12 topics ranging from the Salem Witch Trials to D-Day.} <br /> In 19 short, easy-to-read chapters the author sketches the fascinating outline of the discovery of gold, providing interesting descriptions of the various routes taken by feverish prospectors--from all over the world--to reach the California coast.  She includes the methods used to find &quot;color&quot; and authentic details of life in the mining camps--about the miners' gritty work to their Sunday entertainment.  <br /> Learn why James Marshall, the white man who first discovered gold at Sutter's Mill, and Augustus Sutter, the wealthy Swiss land baron in Spanish California, did not proift from the spectacular event. Find out why many men became rich, but Not by digging or panning gold themselves. Savor the excitement as gold fever swept the globe, resulting in statehood in just two years! This is a fun, non-fiction read based on historical facts, presented in a format which will appeal to elementary and junior high students.	2004-04-15
718317:US	52160649	RYPYU6USC4MDL	0590425390	212447337	Kneeknock Rise	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Clinging to Superstition	Young Egan is traveling by chandler's cart to the distant village of Instep, to enjoy their annual fair, where he will<BR>stay with relatives.  (The setting is deliberately vague as to country and date.) But the guests and tourists expect much more than a delightful day in the country with special foods, games and craft booths. They want mist, rain and a big storm as a lugubrious prelude to the audible terror who dwells at the top<BR>of a mound called Kneeknock Rise. (We assume that the people are so traumatized by the wizard that their knees together in fear.) <br /> It's not just the knees of children that knock on stormy nights, either, for the local adults place various charms to ward off the malevolent skulker who might come too close to their comfy homes. Obviously no child or adult has ever dared to confront the monster in his lair; both men and dogs have disappeared forever as a result of their temerity in approaching<BR>the sacred mound in the Mammoth Mountains.  <br /> Taunted by his snobby cousin, Ada, Egan determines to prove himself brave--albeit foolhardy.  He boldly marches up the hill during a storm, to call out the monster and settle this business once and for all. Then would the Insteppers be relieved--released from their probably false bondage of fear! And wouldn't his Uncles and Aunt<BR>be proud of him?  Why, he could actually save the entire village, with any luck!  Little did the naive boy realize that not everyone would appreciate his courage, for legends and superstitous values may have their place in society. Besides, what if the monster slays Him, instead of the other way around?  An old dog offers poor protection for the big showdown. Is it better to be a wise fool or a foolish wise man?  This is a quick, fun read for kids 10-15.	2004-04-05
720182:US	52160649	R1YJ8D4JFPFCLT	0937295043	39387595	Meet Samantha (American Girl: Samantha, 1904)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Victorian Girl with a Conscience	The charming American Girls series introduces young readers <BR>to five different protagonists of various ethnic backgrounds, from five eras in American history. Each heroine has 4-6 short books in her individual setting.  Each book includes historical data and photographs which provide authentic details of that particular time frame.  <br />   Here we meet nine-year-old Samantha, a well-to-do Victorian miss in Turn-of-the-Century America.  Pampered but restricted (in her speech, curiosity, clothing and activities) Samantha interacts with various servants in her Grandmother's home. Then she meets a new, but poor working girl next door--her first real<BR>friend. This is an age when children were supposed to be Seen but not Heard; she witnesses the dawn of women's struggle for  emancipation. This series presents likeable girls caught up in both the historical events and social movements of their day. This is Fiction Plus--a valuable literary concept which offers insight into the contributions of immigrants.  Some themes are universal, regardless of era or nationality, like the dreams and frustrations of growing up, which today's American girls can easily understand.  Fast and light reading which teaches as it<BR>entertains, (...)	2004-04-04
724685:US	52160649	R1XP88M9PWUZEX	0865340943	146165123	Coyote Tales from the Indian Pueblos	Books	3	1	1	N	N	The Pitfalls of Vanity and Trickery	This anthology of 15 cautionary tales for Pueblo children--of all<BR>ages--focuses on the antics and exploits of a typical figure in<BR>the American Southwest: Coyote. Native American Aesop, this <BR>story cycle depicts the protagonist as wily, greedy and vain--<BR>exhibitng the foibles so typical of human beings.  His repeated downfalls and frequent failures are examples of what to avoid or how Not to handle various situations.  In general it is his vanity to improve his appearance, or his greed for other folks' <BR>property or food which result in his deserved come-uppance.<BR>Like these animals' ability to regenerate themselves after fatal disasters, these tales are timeless and universal in their appeal.  Whether variants of one tale or adopted from outside cultures, COYOTE TALES will entertain and enlighten those wise enough to recognize the moral behind the clowning. The excellent <BR>black and white illustrations reveal authentic anthropological detail about the lifestyle of the Pueblo nation.	2004-03-31
726406:US	52160649	R15QA6T1TRSBVY	0440339332	879729113	The Human Comedy	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Home is where the Heart is	Set in California's rural wine country in the mid 40's, this novel introduces readers to the Macauley family of fictitious Ithaca.  A widow with four chidren endures the financial and psychological deprivations of World War II. Gently and lovingly she touches the lives of her brood who are brimming with the<br />excitement of exploring the world--and themselves--with zeal and naivty. Marcus, who plays accordian, is away in the Army, soon  to be sent overseas. Seventeen-year-old Bess is also musical; she and her girlfriend next door sing and play piano, but are restless at the idea of college--it's jobs they crave. While four-year-old Ulysses observes everything that moves in his hometown--absorbing trivia like an eager sponge.<br /> Despite the references to Greek literature, this story is eminently American. The real protagonist is 14-year-old Homer, who comes of age as the temporary man of the house.  His new job as a telegraph messenger brings him into contact with many strangers and painful situations--thrusting him into adult awareness before his boyhood has been played out.  The Unity of Time makes<br />this an intense read: some one hundred pages are devoted to just one day in the life of this family and the members of their little community--a microcosm of Americana and all we hold dear. Saroyan's style includes much juvenile dialogue, interspersed with surprising adult philosophies on coping with life. A tender story of love, kindness and friendship--all blended with humor and pathos, THE HUMAM COMEDY remains a gentle classic for all who<br />have lived in a small town--or wished that they had!	2004-03-30
733245:US	52160649	R13JTON57XCEAI	0060803517	443732169	The Owl in the Attic and Other Perplexities	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Bats in t he Belfry?  Not to worry--just enjoy!	This clever collection of literary oddities will delight all Thurber fans.  Consisting of three parts, the book reads  swiftly, while bringing smiles of amusement.  MR. AND MRS. MONROE consists of multiple tales about a New York city couple in their mid thirties. Each one tries to impress, manipulate or outdo the other in various marital escapades, yet they are sympathethic characters with no evil intentions.  The little Mrs. protects her husband from a predatory female in a truly creative manner. Like Walter Mitty, Mr. Monroe entertains <BR>grandiose male visions in his secret life--both re extramarital affairs and facing burglars.  This section is somewhat sentimental and obviously dated, but definitely entertaining.   <br /> Part II, THE PET DEPARTMENT, was taken from Thurber's column: Questions (presumably but not necessarily from actual readers) and Answers--clearly from the author's non-veterinarian but fertile imagination. His curious pen and ink sketches clarify many obscure pet problems or solutions; the anthology's title was inspired by a query about a (stuffed) owl in somebody's attic.  <br /> Part III is a linguistic gem called A LADIES AND GENTLEMEN'S GUIDE TO ENGLISH GRAMMAR--which I do not recommend to serious foreign students of our language. They will be confused enough without Thurber's well-intentioned advice.  Using ridiculous circumstances to illustrate difficult grammatical problems, traditional errors and embarrassing pitfalls, Thurber dazzles his readers as he attempts serious language instruction for those scribblers who insist on writing over their heads. Undaunted he attacks such stumbling blocks<BR>as Which, Whether and the ubiquitously subline Subjunctive.  <BR>Examining their entrapment capabilities under a microscope, he <BR>dissects them with the precision of his witty scalpel.  Read and be warned: Be sure to keep your notes to absent friends brief but grammatically correct!  (Teaching English was never like this...)	2004-03-25
736847:US	52160649	R36LG8TSEYHZ9	055321439X	895324472	Winesburg, Ohio	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Patchwork of Passions and Delusions	Abnderson's collection of short stories presents a gradually cohesive story cycle about some curious residents of fictitious Winesburg, Ohio in the early 20th century.  Like a literary repertory company, various characters appear in spotlight, then reappear in shadows or the wings of life.  Readers never know who will turn up in what is supposed to be another character's tale.  The faces on main street seem vaguely familiar, since people do not live in a social vacuum.  Many tales include flashbacks about events and emotions which are just now being revealed. <br /> Curiously, many of the odd characters (which Anderson terms \\"Grotesques\\" because they are emotional cripples) turn to young George Willard, a reporter for the local paper--perhaps the author's alter-ego.  Sensing his willingness to listen and his genuine compassion for his fellow men, they slip out of their discomfort zones briefly to share a hidden portion of their lives.  Subconsciously they feel that George can be entrusted with their secrets--passions and dreams which no one in town ever suspected. This young man proves a magnet for the grotesques of Winesburg, since he offers an unspoken promise of future validation of their universal failures and frustrations.  He serves as the keeper of secrets, without passing judgment. <br /> One's first impression is that the book is pessimistic, even morbid, since the author depicts the loneliness and futility of the human condition.  Yet there remains a quiet, underlying hope for the future, as the older generations trust youth to sort out the warped threads of fate and foiled ambition. Is this a fair burden to place on a young man just starting out, expecting him to reweave a finer tapestry? Must he preserve their private goals, even if the world regards the dreamers as queer? Are young people condemned to leave their home town, in order to achieve happiness, success and a sense of self worth? With the focus on George's final days in Winesburg, the last three stories bind and complete this literary composite of a rural, mid western town. Vintage village vignettes, from an author who influenced many more famous American writers.	2004-03-22
742024:US	52160649	R3U9QS8DG7S7JP	0060929847	868213085	Our Town (Perennial Classics)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	It's a Poignant Life!	This beloved classic and most frequently performed of Wilder's dramatic works still charms and captivates--despite the decades since its first production in 1938.  A simple story, kaleidescopic time (both between and within Acts), basic family values and the modest joys of small town life are the literary elements offered to readers and theatre-goers.  Scorning nobles and tradionally heroic figures, Wilder presents ordinary people in the early 20th century--a kinder, gentler time when horses<br />were being phased out in favor of automobiles. But writers will always cherish the natural progression of the seasons of human existence.<br />  Why are audiences fascinated by the normal,<br />typical routine in rural New England; what explains the<br />timeless appeal of this simply-plotted story in three acts: Daily Life, Marriage, Death and Aftermath.  Perhaps we are<br />haunted by the way the Dead (characters in Act 3) speak about and feel for the Living.  Do the residents of the graveyard on the hill reveal painful truths about human life and asperations on earth?  Why do the Dead mock those still living as blind and ignorant?  What are they patiently, quietly waiting for in their<br />peaceful plots?  Is Life just a waste of time, a farce during which we fool ourselves into believing in our own importance?<br />This tale of Americana belongs to all people, regardless of national origin--by virtue of its poignant insight into the human heart.	2004-03-17
755838:US	52160649	R1HAIMUGRDAHTP	006447027X	981105611	The Endless Steppe: Growing Up in Siberia	Books	3	9	14	N	N	Can Exile be a Blessing in Disguise?	Esther Rudomin, an upper middle class girl living in Vilna, Poland, is only 10 years old that fateful day in June of 1941, when her family and many other Jews are abruptly deported by Soviet soldiers.  Horrified she sees her peaceful, happy world being shattered; she experiences shock at not being able to pack her precious photo albums and confusion at being labeled capitalistic enemies of the People.  Under inhumane conditions some 150 Poles are herded into a cattle car, confined there for 6 wretched weeks heading ever eastward, across the Urals, on into the endless steppes of Siberia.  Finally they stagger out into broiling sun, to learn that they will provide slave labor for a gympsum mine.  <br />  No longer a privileged little girl, Esther becomes a lowly deportee for the next five years, struggling with heavy burdens: intense Siberian winters, loss of extended family, hunger, arctic storms, difficult agricultural work, a new language, outgrown clothing, snobby kids and callous adults.  But this plucky girl creates a new life for herslf in this outpost of humanity; she learns to set goals, make friends, win academic respect--to do whatever is necessary in order to Survive. The dream of eventual freedom after the war--to return to her beloved Vilna--motivates and inspires her to endure incredible challenges.  Family values are a priority of course, yet she gradually learns to appreciate and even love the seemingly harsh plains of Russia.  But will she be able to fit in back home, after having been Siberianized? To her amazement she discovers that coming of age, even in exile, can still be wonderful!	2004-03-07
763121:US	52160649	ROV7F4YSNWXYS	0380603926	742020309	When Bad Things Happen to Good People	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Don't Blame God--or  Yourself!	This gem of a self-help book offers real comfort for those who are wrestling with the eternal dilemma of why disasters--especially the death of a loved one--happen.  Sincerely humane<BR>this book suggests how to survive emotionally, once the shock wears off.  Most of us are guilty of speaking the typical funeral platitudes which we have heard many times over--in life, on TV and in the movies and books.  These are the times that try not only men's souls, but also seem to test our faith.  Will this psychological pressure cause us to be crushed by grief and despair, or will it change us into rough diamonds?  <br /> Kushner has walked down this agonizing road himself; now he shares his insight with all who mourn, regardless of religious persuasion.  He assures us that it Is possible to retain belief in a God who &quot;allows&quot; these tragedies to happen.  Hopefullyl we will mature spiritually into people of greater compassion than we would have ever expected possible.  No book can bring back the deceased, but This one makes it easier to accept the loss, by urging us to honor the beloved, instead of indulging in guilt<BR>or misdirecting our anger. Take heart--be true to the memories of those who now live only in your heart.	2004-03-02
770897:US	52160649	R1PR5HBQF755Y2	0140384316	908255406	Waiting for Anya	Books	3	3	6	N	N	What Cost--Self-preservation?	Twelve-year-old Jo is a shepherd boy in a French mountain village near the Spanish border; but his pastoral life is abruptly changed when Nazi soldiers are garrisoned in his peaceful hamlet.   Having worked to help the family during the four years that his father has been a POW, the youth meets a red-bearded stranger in the hills--precipitating excitement, new purpose and great dangers. For Benjamin is hiding with his mother-in-law (a widow with the reputation of a witch), while waiting for his daughter to sneak back home through occupied France.  Jo is stunned to discover that the adult pair are part of an underground railroad, ferrying Jewish children through the country across to Spain.   How can he not help this noble cause, yet how can he keep his humanitiarian activities a secret from Maman and Grandpere?   <br />  The story reads easily with plenty of dialogue, action and increasing tension which culminates in the inevitable confrontation with the enemy.  There is a fine line between Collaboration and making the best of a hateful situation; no one can be blamed for putting a priority on self-preservation. The author provides gentle thematic substrata to the obvious plot; mutual atempts for international cooperation<BR>and even sympathetic understanding.  People are human, after all, with similar values and upbringing, despite the language barrier.  Unfortunately, serious events keep reminding friendly Jo that these soldiers are still the Eneny. This is a good juvenile thriller about French resistance and the Jewish experience.  (Other books with this theme of Resistance to the Nazi invasion: The Little Riders--Holland, Snow Treaure--Norway, and Twenty Plus Ten (also France.)	2004-02-25
779068:US	52160649	R2UG1WKK98FWBA	0590435469	313263124	The Adventures of Boone Barnaby	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Tree House Rules	Set in 90's northern California, over the \\"hill\\" yet vaguely linked to Sillicon Valley, this story of three school boys in a hick town holds the reader's interest--even if you are only kids at heart. The plot revolves loosely around the efforts of the soccer team to earn money for a trip to Australia, while on the serious side, adults cope with the issue of recurring arson.<BR>The conscientious author revives the world of the 60's for his young audience--a world of hippies, drugs, anti-war protest and civil disobedience.  One wonders if he is reliving his own frustrated teenage/college years, or making sure that the lessons of that turbulent era will not be forgotten or ignored<BR>by another generation of young thinkers, for these three boys<BR>want answers and reasons for general world order. <br />  Boone Barnaby comes of age that school year, as several town buildings burn down and the team comes up with an ingenious fundraiser. But when he needs to escape his problems, his favorite perch proves a high branch in a tall redwood, where he can overlook the distant valley, his own little town and even the local prison.  And ponder why little birds fly in flocks...But what do the mighty redwoods and the mini dragonfly have in common?  <br />  Boone's underprivileged best pal, Danny, often challenges the traditional view of honesty with his selfish coping mechanism. Then the new kid, Babcock, is included in their tight friendship-providing new opportunities for lessons in loyalty. Struggling for decreasing parental surveillance, the young protagonist evaluates the actions of his father in the past, as well as his attitudes in the present.  He struggles to understand the erratic and misanthropic behavior of both the town miser and the town drunk. How can a kid justify doing right in a world gone wrong, where few adults seem to play by the rules?  Both boys learn to respect Babcock's House Rules, but how can they be modified for practical life in the big world?  An interesting story despite the threads of many themes packaged along with it.	2004-02-19
791483:US	52160649	R69HN7AX0C9AY	0590422987	968996724	Sarah Bishop	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Trapped between Revoluttion and Superstition	O'Dell's YA novel about Sarah Bishop, an English-Colonial girl caught between both sides of the American Revolution, holds the reader's interest from the start. Throughout 41 short chapters with extensive dialogue we share Sarah's shock and dismay as her world is uprooted by dangerous men with fervent principles--and a few who lack principles entirely.  Neither patriots nor loyalists behave honorably, while British \\"justice\\" in the New World proves a mockery of democratic values.  Blamed for a crime of which she is innocent (except for poor judgment), Sarah is forced to flee society; trusting no one she takes refuge in a cave near the Connecticut border.<br />  This novel offers all three basic conflicts; man against man; man against Nature and man against God.  Eventually Sarah challenges Biblical teaching about forgiveness of one's enemy--with good reasons. Will she ever be reconciled to the loss of her father and brother--torn apart in a civil war under one roof?  Whom can she trust during her wilderness odyssey: a trapper, a storekeeper or non-hositle Indians?  Quakers who are supposed to act as Friends?  Fifteen-year-old Sarah wretstles with serious adult problems as she shuns human society and befriends some wild creatures.  But superstition is still rampant in the 1770's; so eventually this kindly girl will be caught up in the hysterial snare and fervent accusations of witchcraft.  Is there no one who believes in her innocence on both heinous charges, no one to take her side?  The novel leaves the storyline unfinished, so readers must reach or write their own conclusions.  This book offers an interesting tale with valuable survival hints, though the plotting is not tightly woven. When will Sarah emerge as a woman who may dwell freely among people, who has come to terms with God?	2004-02-10
803778:US	52160649	R3OOJK6CAFK5TL	0152008829	40764717	Cast Two Shadows: The American Revolution in the South	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Drawing Strength from her Dual Heritage	It is the summer of 1780 in hot South Carolina--a tense time for plantation owners who must make a serious political choice:<BR>remain loyal to the King or declare for American independence.<BR>The situation at the Whitaker plantation is painful: the father  in a local prison, with threats of being sold in the Bahamas; the young scion of the family off fighting with guerilla patriots; the mother and two daughters virtually kept prisoners in their own home by a pompous British officer who has taken over the place as his headquarters under distant Lord Cornwallis. These red-coated invaders think they can Take or Do whatever they want; no mere Colonial can prevent theft and other war atrocities. <br />  Fourteen-year-old Caroline comes of age that summer, starting on the day she watches her dear friend, Kit, be hanged for foolishly attacking the British--who let his body rot for 3 weeks as a message.  Realizing that she is carrying around the ghosts of several people dear to her inside<br />her head, Caroline aches for peace and simple freedom of movement. But this spunky girl, who always squabbles with her vain older sister, discovers shocking truths about her own origins--that she is the light-skinned granddaugther of a tough old \\"trick negra\\" in the slave quartes. Why would her mother permt the brat of a slave woman to be raised as her own?  What hateful deal was made 12 years ago to keep peace on the plantation?  But could the entire truth prove a dangerous thing?<BR><br />  Acclaimed for her well-researched novels of historical fiction, Rinaldi has recreated the spirit of frustration and defiance by Southern patriots in the latter stages of the American Revolution.  Many incidents in the story were documented, although her characters are her own creation.  Such curious cases as Caroline's double heritage were possible.<BR>The protagonist must draw strength and resilience from both <BR>races, to honor the three people of her true family.  Forced to make terrible adult decisions, Caroline must choose between one race or the other; between her own folks or horseflesh.  This book reads quickly with its extensive dialogue and swift plotting--captivating readers and holding our interest. We agonize with Caroline as she counts up the images huddled shamefully within her heart, while we admire her sauciness and persistence in defying Col. Rawdon, the popinjay whom Miz Melindy loves to hate. Will Caroline ever comes to terms with her her treacherous sister?  More importantly, how can she prove loyal to--and worthy of--her own dual heritage?  This is great reading for teens and adults.	2004-01-31
804733:US	52160649	RXT8P0V74U82W	0817221700	192008413	Whatever Happened to Amelia Earhart	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Heroine of the Skies	This brief biography of America's pioneer lady pilot is excellent for elementary kids.  Blau's text reads easily, plus<BR>the book is illustrated with historical b/w photos.  Consisting of eight chapters with wide-spaced lines of print, the story flows swiftly--capturing the reader's imagination and interest.<BR>Boys will identify with a daredevil who defied the establishment, while girls will realize that Amelia was also a pioneer in women's rights--the right to pursue their dreams based on talent, despite the stereotyping of acceptable female<BR>roles.  She paved the way for future women to reach for the stars. The title itself is haunting, since the fate of this brave aviatrix is not known--0r has never been revealed by either government. Thus the mystery remains--her legend lives on!	2004-01-30
814580:US	52160649	R2KNKD1EKI1HDR	0553212583	363093333	Wuthering Heights (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Pursued by Demons of Despair	Emily Bronte's literary masterpiece proves a Gothic novel of classic proportions, with characters  whose twisted passions etch themselves upon the reader's mind over successive readings. Set in the rugged Yorkshire of her childhood, WUTHERING HEIGHTS depicts a literary canvas of desolate landscape, where Nature ranges from fury in winter storms to indifference to human endeavor. Over the course of three decades we gradually learn the strange personal history between the Earnshaws of WH and the Lintons of Thrushcross Grange.  This grimly violent tale of human passion and supernatural revenge reveals the devastating effect of a dark-skinned foundling lad who is adopted into the family of a kind country squire. With this charitable act Mr. Earnshaw unwittingly introduces restless energy and unbridled emotions into the placid neighborhood--ultimately destroying the decaying dynamics of relations between neighbors.  Genealogies are rewritten as unleashed jealousy threatens the flow of lives yet unborn.<br /> Recounted in extensive flashback sequences by a faithful servant, Nelly Dean, to a recuperating new tenant at the Grange, this twisted story is also taken up by subsequent narrators--since no single character witnesses very event at both houses.  Two gentlemen chose to reside in a remote region, to escape wordly distractions, but the arrival of a young, gypsy-like orphan, Heathcliff, proves the catalyst to disrupt their comfortable social decadence. His passion for Cathy, the wild daughter in his new family, would rule him for life--ruining him<br />for Life itself.  Neither teen could live without the other, although she defied her heart; in so doing she destroyed the lives and peace of mind of innocent relatives and neighbors.<br /><br />Pursued by his private demons of despair Heathcliff knows no peace or valid existence apart from her, tormenting everyone in his intense, constricted social sphere. From foundling to Master, his morose moods and vindictive nature throw a pall upon both houses, as he conspires to control that which is not rightuflly his. All because he was denied sanctioned union with Cathy, his soul mate. Sowing a legacy of vice and despair, Heathcliff privately strives for reunion--not closure--with the shade of his other half. Chasing shadows he morbidly controls the destiny of those involved at Wuthering Heights, threatening to engulf even the detached outsider. A Gothic Classic for all ages.hrow a pall upon both houses, as he conspires to control that which is not rightuflly his. All because he was denied sanctioned union with Cathy, his soul mate. Sowing a legacy of vice and despair, Heathcliff privately strives for reunion--not closure--with the shade of his other half. Chasing shadows he morbidly controls the destiny of those involved at Wuthering Heights, threatening to engulf even the detached outsider. A Gothic Classic for all ages.	2004-01-23
817497:US	52160649	R1BWQ7C4ANRSVY	0679743626	707805727	O Pioneers! (Vintage Classics)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The Price of Keeping the Land	This early Cather novel introduces readers to the majesty and the fury of the untamed prairie, when the mid west was yet Americca's frontier.  It obliquely asks the question: How did the Land shape its people--mainly immigrants from Scandinavia, Bohemia and France--and how did the hopeful settlers, true Pioneers, shape and share the land?  Who ultimately can ever own the prairie; can mere mortals seriously hold the undulating waves of grain in trust for future generations?  <br />  Spanning some 17 years this gripping novel depicts the struggle to tame the midwest by a Swedish family, whose lives intertwine with those of their neighbors. Against hostile and unforgiving nature<BR>the simple tale is spun out: a wise teenage girl inherits control of the family farm from her dying fathr, since she alone of his offspring understands the importance of retaining the land at all costs. Despite interferance by her resentful, short-sighted brothers, Alexandra does just that, revealing vison and <br />determination beyond her years.  For it is thus that she honors the memory of their father, keeping his faith in the ultimate<BR>productivity o the savage land, when many neighbors sell out. <br /><BR>Creating strong female characters--of which the land itself or Mother Nature may be considered a shadowy one--Cather glowingly describes the rugged beauty of the mid west: rolling grasses,<BR>powerful sunsets, intoxicating spring blossoms, with fluctuating, unpredictable weather. A farmer's life is an annual gamble, but then so is any pilgrimmage of the heart. Totally absorbed in running her successful farm, Alexandra does not look beneath the surface; she does not Notice things. Like the illicit love which blooms unbidden between her young brother, Emil, and Marie, the restless married woman next door. Add a wild, jealous husband into the equation and a volatile situation is inevitable.  <br />  Cather's style draws the reader directly into the mindset of her main characters. Recognizing the danger signs before Alexandra does, we tremble with the realization of future emotional turbulence. <br /> The author' use of color to  help us visualize her beloved landscape is remarkable, but most of all we marvel that she depicts the countryside itself as a non-verbal player in the repetitive tale of human stories. In the end readers must decide for themselves who is most to blame for the tragedy--if guilt must be parceled out.  Her grim theme, that Happiness is easier to lose than to find, taints the backdrop of timid hope. The furrows of her novel are plowed and scored with attempts of her characters to &quot;possess a personality apart from the soil. &quot; This seemingly agrarian novel is less about the effect so grains of seed in the ground, than about the grains of love sown in a desperate search for joy in the hearts of the pioneers.  How can Love survive in a barren wilderness?  A true classic of human striving and passion.	2004-01-21
818712:US	52160649	R1HAVUGNMN8YK7	0140389814	476604870	The Long Journey Home: Stories from Black History	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Seeking Freedom--Humanity's Birthright	Julius Lester has written 6 stories about the Black struggle for personal and political freedom--an innate desire in all mankind.<BR>His style is direct and engaging; readers immediately understand and sympathize with the motivation and emotions of the various protagonists, suffering their setbacks and sharing their dreams.<BR>Highly readable this anthology presents a diverse group of settings and eras, all bound together by the natural wish for freedom of movement and the search for personal dignity.  <br /><BR>SATAN ON MY TRACK is party biographical, the story of a blues guitar player, who rides the rails and refuses to put down roots.<BR>LOUIS is also biographical, detailing the events of escape via the Road--the Underground Railroad, that is. BEN explores the difficult relations between races when slaves are raised almost as one of the family.  The narrator, surprisingly, is a personable and fair white man, who may have to choose between an abhorent institution and the woman who is his heart's desire.  <br /> THE MAN WHO WAS A HORSE describes the quiet patience of a Black cowboy, who actually brought in an entire herd of wild mustang singlehandedly. WHEN FREEDOM CAME studies the fate of the suddenly emancipated slaves and how they handled this unknown<BR>social condition.  LONG JOURNEY HOME is as patchwork of diverse<BR>facts about slavery, recounted by an unnamed narrator to his young grandchildren, who are skeptical about tales of the old slave days. The ending is based on an actual account of a mass escape attempt.  The ensemble effect will cause readers to marvel at the tenacity of one race to be free, and the audacity of another race to treat human beings as mere property.  Lester has interwoven Literature, History and Morality in one slender volume, for all ages.	2004-01-20
821163:US	52160649	R2910MQAHPN8HO	0306808404	635715063	The Complete Tales Of Washington Irving	Books	3	8	19	N	N	Mystery and Romance in Rural Settings	(This review refers to the PUFFIN Anthology.) <br /> This Puffin anthology presents five of Irving's short stories--tales of fantasy, legend and unrequited love--all set in rural New York and Europe, orignally published in 1820.  His literary genius<BR>was quickly evident; the elegant style contributed to his <BR>accolade as \\"the father of American literature.\\"  Despite minimal dialogue the author captivates serious readers with his lush descriptions of scenery, bizarre twists of fate or <br />imagination, often interspersed with touches of wry humor.  <br />  Examining the follies of the human mind, as well as the foibles of the human heart, Irving has chosen the following subjects:<BR>romance, ghosts, ambition, naivety, and pedantry. RIP VAN WINKLE and THE LEGEND OF SLEEPY HOLLOW are set in Dutch New York; THE SPECTRE BRIDEGROOM in the forests of Germany. THE PRIDE OF THE VILLAGE takes place in rural, Hardyesque England, while MOUNTJOY returns readers to Yankee New York state. This anthology provides delectable reading for an armchair by the hearth--especially in chilly, hobgoblin weather--by a premier raconteur<BR>and US diplomat.	2004-01-18
822288:US	52160649	RY3B3BY77Q94Q	0786811579	494236881	Doom Stone, The	Books	3	2	2	N	N	What Horrors  Lurk beneath Stonehenge?	Fifteen-year-old Jackson teams up with Alma, a gravedigger's daughter, to investigate mysterious deaths caused by a gruesome prowler around England's famed Stonehenge attraction.  Invited over by his anthropologist Aunt Sarah, the American youth is used to strange occurrences whenever he joins his aunt on some exotic expedition or excavation, but even he is not preprared for the repelling discovery of Skull Face.  <br />  Of course the British military is keenly aware of the secret source of the grisly events on Salisbury Plain; their goal is to reduce public consternation as much as possible, thus hiding the truth about the fantatic creature from the unsuspecting locals. These teenage<BR>sleuths ferret information from odd sources and old parchment volumes in the cathedral library, swapping data with wise Aunt Sarah, who has been bitten and thus confined to a hospital. But how is it that Ramid, as she terms this vicious aberration of Nature, has survived for centuries below modern man's radar screen? How does he just Know things in the computer age? And what strange, malicious bond unites Dr. Cawley and the monster?  Is there no way to stop his rampage of raw evil? What other secrets are festering deep in the bowels beneath the enchanted horseshoe circle of sarcens and trilithons? This is an action-packed YA adventure, which might stimulate research on the various theories of prehistoric Stonehenge.  Chillling, for kids 14 up.	2004-01-17
824721:US	52160649	R8EDU6P5SX78L	0385051646	926511363	Mrs. 'Arris Goes to Paris	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Possession is 9/10 of the Dream.	This delightful little story charms while it entertains, as Paul Gallico makes a case for Anglo-Gallic cordiality.  Mrs. Harris and her fellow Cockney char, Mrs. Butterfield, take pride in their humble work: cleaning up other people's messy homes.  Their weekkly pleasure consists of placing a few pennies on the football lottery: (soccer, to Americans.) What couldn't they buy if they ever won the jackpot?  <br /> Mrs. Harris has become obsessed with the desire to own an exotic gown created by the celebrated French designer, Christian Dior. Not only could she never purchase something so exquisite--she would never be able to wear it!  No matter--she is consumed by the dream of Possession; it would suffice her to know that the cherished gown were hanging safely in her wardrobe.  Casting common sense to the winds, she dedicates three years of hard work and strict economizing--combined with a modest win--in order to travel to Paris in pursuit of her sartorial dream.  <br />  During her weeklong stay in the ciyt of light, Mrs. Harris touches several lives for the better, winning the respect and appreciation of some French citizens. She gradually realizes that they are just folks too--reluctantly discarding decades of anti-French prejudice. After many delays and snafus, she departs with her gown and many grateful gifts, yet disaster awaits this generous<BR>woman back home.  Clever and cute this story offers a refreshing change of literary pace. Social Fantasy for the young at heart.	2004-01-16
824939:US	52160649	R2NJ1ZU6RN30EK	0140345345	559833719	Ida Early Comes over the Mountain	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Stand by your Friends!	When Ida Early tramped over the Blue Ridge Mountains into rural Georgia, she changed the lifestyle of the Sutton family in a dramatic way. During the Great Depression of the 1930's <BR>thousands of folks were jobless and starving. Thus it was no surprise that a raggle-taggle woman should knock on their door, asking for food and work. But this wayfarer blew in like a<BR>cheerful tornado: exceptionally tall and somewhat masculine in habits, Ida fearlessly took over the household, claiming to be a great cook--though some were suspicious about her domestic skills. <br />  Ida proves a breath of fresh air with her eager smile, her willingness to try anything new and blatantly preposterous exploits--tales to match her height.  She quickly endears herself to the 4 Sutton children and their widower father, but two busybody aunts warn of dire consequences if Ida is not dismissed and replaced by someone more suitable.  It's clear that Ida will never be a Lady, but Ida is deeply hurt when the older kids act ashamed of her at school. How can Rardall and Ellen restore her dignity and self-esteem?  Besides, how will the family survive the \\"battleship\\" invasion looming on Thanksgiving Day?  Burch serves up country fun for kids up to 15, with his wacky characters and cleverly-resolved conflicts.  Humorous yet touching, this story points out the dangers of succumbing to peer pressure.  Will Ida Early come back too Late?	2004-01-15
825414:US	52160649	R3DMG91Z2HB254	0380709120	552334396	Henry Huggins	Books	2	5	26	N	N	TO OWN A DOG	The life of the third grade protagonist becomes more exciting when he finds a companionable stray dog; just getting him home via public transportation proves his first challenge.  The friendly mongrel is so thin that Henry dubs him \\"Ribsy.\\" Soon accepted as one of the family, this dog accompanies his new master wherever possible; in fact he even causes many incidents of local mayhem and amusement.  Henry deals with various crises such as lost property, guppy mania, night crawlers, the shool play and a pet show. But a serious threat to their kid-dog<br />relationship destroys Henry's peace of mind, when a boy appears who claims to be the dog's former owner.<br /> This is Lite Reading for elementary students, with plenty of dialogue, juvenile antics and conflict.  This story is enchanced by Lois Darling's cute sketches.  Set in those happy days before kids had TV sets, this ALA notable story explores the joys and woes<br />of pet ownership. No more will Henry need to wish for something<br />exciting to happen!  Hinted themes include the subject of Cheating and the concept of sharing/showing compassion for others. Note to Cleary fans: Beezus and Ramona appear here too.	2004-01-15
827521:US	52160649	R2NJHCD5EMESR5	0399209336	387405103	Homesick	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Proud to be an American	Imagine being the only American student in a British school.  Then imagine being homesick for a country you never lived in.<BR>In this graceful blend of autobiography and fiction, Jean Fritz provides readers with insight into the maturation of--not only a girl--but also a patriot.  Her steadfast private dream is to live in the land of the free.  Set in China during the 1920's<BR>while the Communist Revolution is gathering momentum, HOMESICK shares a girl's observations on the upheaval of the only Society she has ever known.  She endures the zealous violence which is especially directed towards all \\"foreign devils,\\" as well as<BR>suffering the private heartaches of her own family life.<BR><br />  Jean's father works for the Y: the Fritzs' only motivation is to improve the lot of the Chinese people, but national events dramatically disrupt most lives.  Resentful at being stuck on the wrong side of the globe, Jean yearns for her relatives in Pennsylvania, for she has been denied a Yankee childhood.  Nor is she indifferent to the plight of her neighbors; in particular she loves and feels great compassion for her faithful Chinese nanny, Lin Nai-Nai.  The brutality of war is related through a young girl's eyes, while her imagination is trapped bewteen two worlds. Will she become so ensnared in the insidious trap of Revolution that she has to reliquish her dream of living as a true American? If she does escape, will she ever return to that<BR>land of wise-eyed junks?	2004-01-14
830781:US	52160649	R2PLVRKBHIVAR1	014130698X	846043542	Going through the Gate	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Linking the Real and Natural Worlds	Miss Clough, the aged, frumpy teacher in the county's last one-room school house, has an extraordinary reputation in this rural town.  Everyone who has graduated from her 6th grade for over 25 years has experienced something bizarre yet wonderful--never to be discussed afterwards--in a private ceremony behind the school. Down a path and through a special, locked gate, to enter her private region of fantasy. What is this secret ritual--long anticipated but mentioned in tones of hushed awe by the privileged natives?  <br />  Becky and her 4 classmates have waited for their initiation into the adult secrets all year, and now, it's Their turn.  The great day has come! For their Zoological instruction each pupil has chosen a different animal to study: chickadee, frog, cardinal, swallow, and trout--but only with Miss Clough's permission.  In addition they have been training their internal clocks to \\"go off\\" on pre-set demand.  Bossy Penny is Becky's best friend, but the boys seem to shun each other. Tim, a newcomer to town, is very suspicious of all the secrets whispered about Graduation, and resentful that he had to sacrifice his cat.   Mary Margaret is the overburdened sister with too many siblings to nurture. Denied her own childhood, she has little joy in her life and wallows in guilt and is obsessed by sin. The class wavers in loyalty to their admired teacher--is she a witch or just plain crazy?  This story hooks the reader instantly, so that we too are desperate to go through the gate along with the class, in order to discover a new world.  How will the kids be changed; or is it all a great, two-generational hoax?  Delightful Fantasy which will keep you glued to the pages!	2004-01-12
835164:US	52160649	R1RW0DEVF8IMQQ	1555460097	659653689	Herman Melville's Billy Budd,  Benito Cereno, Bartleby the Scrivener, and Other Tales (Modern Critical Interpretations)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Office Without a View	Melville's darkly curious novella about a mysterious new hire <BR>who refuses to leave his place of employment--even when dismissed--is subtly compelling; the conflict is revealed <BR>gradually in small, psychological increments.  This story, which could just as well have been set in Victorian London, is related by an elderly narrator--a lawyer with two regular scriveners (legal copyists) and an office boy.  But the addition of the inscrutable, pallid Bartleby creates a sensation in the small office.  He quietly but simply refuses to do anything but copy documents, eventually disintegrating to not even that. Yet he will not leave; he &quot;prefers not&quot; to do anything but waste time and waste away.  How can his decent, compassionate employer remove the unwanted fellow, without resorting to crass police intervention?  <br />  Melville's unchaptered tale is characterized by with long paragraphs and a rich tapestry of vocabulary. Less a mystery than one at first expects, the simple plot unfolds eventually to comment on the role of humanity. How easy it would be to assuage our collective conscience by institutionalizing the misfits.  This may be the first literary example of Passive Resistance. With no clear cut villain in this seemingly actionless tale, readers are left in moral disquiet, yet this short work provides a glimpse into Melville's dark genius.	2004-01-08
841488:US	52160649	R31IL05ZVA50AX	0062516396	367625457	The Eyes of the Heart: A Memoir of the Lost and Found	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Preserving the Magic Kingdom	Sharing intimate details of his childhood and adult memories--in a kaleidoscope of chronology which requires flexibility on the part of the reader--Buechner offers a gentle autobiographical<br />patchwork of his life. He invites us graciously into the most<br />hallowed rooms of his heart, describing precious objects whose<br />existence and display coalesce into his own personal magic kingdom. We are treated as his honored guests, allowed free access into the privacy of sacred spaces: his home, his family archives and his fluid imagination. He reveals the dreams and feelings, labors and heartache of various family members going several generations back. Not because they were noteworthy in the eyes of the world; instead because he painstakingly acquired the knowledge, and now is willing to share their human<br />experiences with his unknown readers--experiences which just might echo our own.<br /> Mainly the author presents conversations with those dear ones who have gone on before.  He, like us, seeks to know what really Happens after death. Endowing his characters with post-terrestrial information and wisdom, he seeks to calm his fear of the great unknown (and ours) by spiritual rationalization as viewed through &quot;the eyes of the heart&quot;--a quotation from Ephesians. We learn much about his family of course, but also about literature and his favorite authors, such as Trollope. Striving to comfort himself and his readers about those who have been Lost, he assures us that they have also been Found in afterlife by a benficient Divinity--a message which offers desperately-needed peace and hope for those who grieve. This plotless book consists of variations on one theme, so it can not be classified as a novel, yet it remains much more than mere autobiography. I recommend this book for introspective readers who seek meaning in this world, especially after suffering the loss of dear ones.  Take hope--take heart--as Buechner strives to assuage our pain and our fears about the post-human condition.ut the post-human condition.	2004-01-04
883903:US	52160649	RW106WPVKVK5U	0395069475	954858878	Come on Seabiscuit	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Destined for Greatness!	Moody's biographical account of the amazing career of Seabiscuit, old Iron Horse, is both interesting in detail and highly readable in style.  In 1933 the grandson of Man o'War was born, but immediately passed over due to his physical &quot;faults.&quot;  Condemned by a famous trainer and abused by too frequent racing, this gallant animal seemed to shame his rich, equestrian heritage. Yet his career is the story of  courage--true blood will ultimately reveal the legacy of a champion. The gutsy horse who was scorned by most people in racing circles learned to trust the loving, skillful training of a bush league cowboy, which resuulted in a serious power in the Depression era racing world. The hope he inspired in his fans reflected the unquenchable hope of a nation crushed by economic despair. <br />  This is a story of heartbreak and 2nd chances, of beating the odds and fighting an unrelenting jinx. Most of all the power of the spirit--both human and equine--to triumph over unfavorable circumstances and crippling prejudice.  For seven years the unshakable will of Seabiscuit and the unfailing faith of his own-folks (owners, trainers and jockeys) kept this knobby-kneed wonder horse fighting for the fame and recognition he truly deserved. At the age of seven he strode into the record books. Though not a Triple Crown winner, he rode into the hearts of people for all time--the cast off who became a champion! This story will touch readers of all ages.	2003-11-29
897879:US	52160649	R8FHYQN5TM1UG	0394891023	88889261	The Chalk Box Kid (A Stepping Stone Book(TM))	Books	3	9	10	N	N	A Garden is in the Eye of the Beholder	Three burned and sooty walls prove an irresistable lure to a lonely 9-year-old boy. Friendless in a new school in a decaying neighborhood, and disrespected by his unemployed young uncle, Gregory discovers the remains of a chalk factory behind his<BR>cement-filled back yard. Who says he can't have a garden like the other kids in his class--it's in the eye and the heart of the gardener, after all. In this case the gardener is a budding<BR>artist, who wants to recreate the beauty of nature and living things in this--his only private space.  Even his skeptical parents discover that their son has talent, thanks to his conscientious teacher. <br /> Bulla's literary strokes are characterized by short, simple sentences and minmal kid dialogue. The author's canvas depicts a world of pre teen loneliness, peer pressure and the innate need for social<BR>appreciation. But who will prove brave enough to defy the crowd? This is a good book for young readers who have suffered the trauma of moving or familial rejection, with good insight into the artistic temperament.	2003-11-17
898988:US	52160649	R1H0IXEV84ILUU	043404301X	119196861	National Velvet	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Putting the Horse into History	Since its publicaton in 1935 Enid Bagnold's book has captured the hearts of millions of girls and horse lovers around the world. Set in rural England this story focuses on the equestrian dreams of 14-year-old, boyish Velvet Brown--one of 4 blonde daughters of a butcher.  At first glance hers seems an unlikely household to encourage fantasy, with her serious father and taciturn, mountainous mother. But Mrs. Brown was a Channel swimmer in her day; she understands goal setting and overcoming obstacles in pursuit of a personal quest.<br />  In just one year Velvet inherits 5 ponies, wins the Piebald in a village lottery and ingnites a controversy in the National Hunt Club--captivating the imagination of people around the globe.  Her knowledgeable partner in this bold plan to compete (where girls were not permitted to ride) is Mi Taylor. This fellow is her father's helper and a family lodger, but he recognizes both talent and dedication, since his father had been the swimming coach for Velvet's mother.  Will history repeat itself as a second generation encourages youthful ambition?  It's not about<br />the prize money at all; they do it for the Pie!  A classic in daring and determination to follow through on a dream.	2003-11-16
976108:US	52160649	R1IZMSAEBF8UHA	0192834088	76352212	The Warden	Books	3	9	10	N	N	A Man of Conscience	Trollope's debut novel about a man of conscience proved the first of a series set in fictional Barchester. Despite its slow start due to extensive exposition, the story gradually unfolds until the three main characters rush off to London--that great resolver of country crises. There is much internal debate as the &quot;disinterested victim&quot; ponders his comfortable situation. His quiescent conscience slowly awakens to a possible moral injustice, as a result of a sincere lawsuit provoked by an ardent reformer--in tune with 19th century England's mood for social reform.  Two outside forces combine to make Mr. Warding's <BR>existence miserable: the ponderous process of the Law (as represented by Sir Abraham Haphazard) and the unbridled power of the Press (in the person of Tom Towers, that &quot;compounder of thunderbolts&quot;).  <br />  Rev. Septimus Harding at 50 is a mild-mannered Cathedral preceptor, who also serves as warden to a charity hospital for 12 aged men who are no longer able to earn their keep. Far from stealing anything from them, he has acutally increased their daily allowance from his own purse, but the mood of reform which sweeps the nation has caught even Barchester in its pitiless scrutiny.  The press condemns; the young reformer (who is coincidentally the suitor of Harding's younger daughter) sets in motion the legal machinery which will surely topple this 400-year-old Injustice. <br /> Now for the critical debate: does the State have the right to dictate to the Church how it shall spend its monies?  Is temporal authority to tread upon, investigate, and demand reform in sacred matters?  Is there no sanctity of the cathedral Close?  Gentle Harding becomes trapped in the middle of this public debate--his heart smitten with personal pain in case he has inadvertently committed great wrong through merely doing his best for the men in his kindly care.  Bullied by the Archdeacon, his overbearing son-on-law, the Warden embarks on a moral journey to find peace of mind.  His only consolations are his devoted daughter (who denies her own heart in order to remain loyal to her tormented <BR>father) and his aged friend, the Bishop, who is embarrassed but powerless before his pompous son, the Archdeacon.  How can such a public outcry be appeased; how can true justice be done for the old beadsmen? Yet, must a man sacrifice his conscience for<BR>the good of others? <br /> Tropllope warns of the dangers of the pen: both the ruthless Press and the more subtle but effective novelist. It is difficult to stay the course of the pendulum of reform once it has been set in motion, as John Bold regretfully<BR>discovers.  This is a short intense novel of personal conviction and moral courage, a classic for thoughtful readers. The author provides hints into his characters' personalities by their very names, as did Dickens. [One wonders how such a church vs state situation would be handled today. Alabama courthouse.}	2003-09-14
977708:US	52160649	R3HHVDNCGFNQ5F	0440439884	909727634	Island of the Blue Dolphins	Books	3	26	31	N	N	Ordeal by Loneliness	After a series of violent and bizarre events, a 12-year-old native girl suddenly finds herself alone on an islet off the California coast at the dawn of the 19th century.  Her people have been masacred by hostile Aleuts who arrive annually to hunt the sea otter.  Their new chief manages to convince white men to return for the survivors, but she sacrifices her rescue in order to be with her little brother.  When he is killed by wild dogs, Karana must face overwhleming odds of loneliness, gender ignorance and tribal tabus, in order to survive without human companionship for 18 years.  <br />  O'Dell has depicted a realistic and interesting story--one with little dialogue but which holds the reader's attention. Based on acutal fact about the Lone Woman of San Nicholas Island, this tale reveals how Karana came of age without any witnesses; she learned to rely on herself and her pet dog to keep busy, healthy, and safe from human predators.  For almost two decades she carved out a life for herself on this islet, until she was ultimately rescued by Spanish missionaries.  With her departure a Native American<BR>lifestyle vanished into the mists of time, for her entire village had blended in or died out in the intervening years.<BR><br /> Karana battles against hunger, the ocean, wild dogs, and treacherous Aleuts, plus hostile natural phenomena. Yet she  also discovers the value of friendship and man's responsibility to protect wild creatures. This is a good survival tale for boys as well as girls to read, as all humans can relate to the innate<BR>need for socialization. It makes an excellent springboard for discussion of Native Americans, the Spanish Mission system and the fragile balance of cross-cultural shock. Karan kept faith with the Rock.	2003-09-13
980488:US	52160649	R3JOTDCKXLY2T5	0316058432	111842402	Mr. Popper's Penguins	Books	2	5	20	N	N	South Pole Popularity	In the Atwater's dated but daft story an average family in<BR>Stillwater achieves national notoriety thanks to their unsual pets: a dozen penguins.  A modest housepainter and decorator, Mr. Popper has an armchair passion: anything and everything to do with the North and South poles. He has even written to the famous explorer, Admiral Drake. To his delighted amazement the<BR>generous scientist sends him a real live penguin as a surprise gift! Popper is thrilled, of course, but the family and the house must make considerable adjustments to accomodate the tastes and talents of a pro-social but inquisitive bird.<BR>Always dressed in his tuxedo best, the newcomer is named Captain Cook and causes quite a sensation in the quiet town.  <br />  Enahanced by the illlustrations of Robert Lawson (Make Way for Ducklings) this silly story is a cute book for young readers.  Prices and vocabulary seem quaint by today's standards, but kids will enjoy the comical struggle of human-penguin relations. Despite the credit craze of the 30's, the Poppers worry about the terrible expense of extra refrigeration, imported fish and a basement ice rink.  But how can a dozen delightful penguins help with their own room and board? This tale remains a fun read from<BR>a simpler time.	2003-09-10
986477:US	52160649	R44PJ3Y9UPQUY	076534775X	856857613	Seventh Son: The Tales of Alvin Maker, Volume I	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Heavy Destiny at his Watery Birth	Card's first book in the Alvin Maker trilogy lures and quickly hooks the reader into a realm of dark fantasy, set in frontier America. Plunging into an alternative version of our colonial history, the story delineates realistic characters who are trapped in a universe of unexplored and uncharted wilderness--both geographic and moral. Their battle is greater than the usual God vs Satan struggle as denounced from New England pulpits.  <br />  Subtle, mysterious forces focus on the birth of a baby during a river in sudden flood. As the child matures it becomes apparent that he is the pawn of powers greater than even the preacher imagined. Al, Jr. becomes the fulcrum of of a metaphysical tug of war, soon realizing that he has been gifted (or cursed) with special powers as the seventh son of a seventh son.  But how will he use them, since Water seems to be his personal nemesis?  The boy is safe nowhere...  <br />  It's not easy for readers to identify the forces of good and evil in this particular struggle for the boy's soul. His world is layered with superstition, Indian folklore and the immortal forces who maniupulate humans casually in the pursuit of their diabolical agendas. The only thing constanst is that we desire Alvin Jr. to survive, but which side will ultimately claim him in the primordial spiritual battle?  Does he even have a choice?  Protected by his family, a traveling Taleswapper and an unknown girl who can &quot;see&quot; the future (or variants thereof), Alvin at 6 discovers that he has the Knack. Yet he is never safe from the predatory seeping of water or the fluctuating evil designs of his own father, who truly adores him, but is occasionally compelled to harm him.  <br /> Expand your fantasy horizons, by<BR>embracing this different American history--one which might have been--interspersed with Folks who have special psychic talents:<BR>to Fend, to Ward, to Hex for safety, who instantly respect a Torch or a Maker. What on earth--or under--is viciouslyseeking to Unmake creation itself and destroy Christian harmony?  Can one smalll boy the earth?	2003-09-05
988807:US	52160649	R12D004BQ0SBKG	0684800713	781452863	The Sun Also Rises	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Much Ado about Brett	This early Ernest Hemingway novel, set in France and Spain, exemplifies the lifestyle of the not-really rich and the not-yet famous Anglos who chose to live abroad.  Struggling with various literary and amorous challenges in 1920's Paris, several American and British young men decide to play tourist in exotic Pamplona--the annual scene of a week-long fiesta which is highlighted by many bullfights.  This carefree, dissolute crowd takes life as a lark--superficially at least; inevitably, their extravagant nightlife and lush social habits backfire and relationships disintegrate.  <br /> This story of moral decadence is narrated by Jake, a laidback reporter for an American newspaper; he hangs out with colleagues who are trying to write novels.  Mostly however, they are fatally attracted to the<BR>enigmatic but irresistible Lady Brett Ashley, despite her masculine affectations.  Slightly married to an English Lord yet slightly engaged to Mike, she is accustomed to the homage of men, but she finds herself choked by the ardent, unwanted attentions of Robert Cohn--a Jew who does not really belong in their set, despite his Gentile education. We soon realize that poor Jake is deeply in love with Brett himself, yet he generously sacrifices his own ardor in order to facilitate Brett's temporary happiness. He accepts Mike, is amused by the Count, annoyed by Cohn, but sets her up with his newest acquaintance--a handsome young matador. Ah, but whom will the desirable lady ultimately choose?<br /> This short novel reads fairly quickly; many pages consist of dialogue of short quips, making it difficult to keep clear which characters are speaking. This would make a wonderful play, since it can easily be envisioned in scenes. The final section is brief, but anti- climactic, since the leading lady has left the stage.  The subesequent plot is reduced to just Jake picking up the remnants of his dreams. No doubt this literary let-down is necessary to relax the frantic pace, but readers may resent the lack of action. Dear Jake asks no reward for his unselfish catering to Brtett's every whim.  Is there life for mortal men after the<BR>whirlwind of booze and passion in Spain?  One wonders how much of Hemingway's own experiences are included in this novel...<BR>Moths to the flame?  Whether one approves of Brett's antics or not, she proves one Lady you will not soon forget!	2003-09-03
989154:US	52160649	RUHE1WSJYJV6U	0964519305	197979082	The Thinking Machine: Jacques Futrelle	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An American Sherlock Holmes	American Jacques Futrelle (who died on the TITANIC) created a brilliant scientist named Professor Van Dusen--a man so perspicacious that he was dubbed &quot;the Thinking Machine&quot; by his reporter friend, Hatch.  Set in the early 20th century (an era without TV, computers, cell phones or an FBI data bank) these three tales reveal the fantastic mental processes of the super-logical protagonist.  Although Van Dusen is not a professional detective, one wonders if Futrelle was inspired by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.  <br />  In &quot;The Problem of Cell 13&quot; the Professor voluntarily spends 7 days and nights in a high security prison--just to prove that he can escape by exercising his mind.  He actually invites his friends (and the warden) to a dinner a week hence.  In &quot;The Flaming Phantom&quot; he unmasks the THING in a recently haunted house--easily recovering long-missing family jewels.  The short &quot;Silver Box&quot; mystery may be the first literary case of industrial espionage.  Motivated solely by academic curiosity and the joy of mental gymnastics, Van Dusen seeks no reward nor even public recognition.  He is content to remind his astonished admirers that &quot;two plus two always equals four.&quot;  Still, we suspect that he takes private delight in revealing his thought processes and subsequent actions in the style of English detectives who spell out their deductions in the verbal denouement.  Fascinating reading for kids of all ages!	2003-09-03
1000114:US	52160649	R2WV39H9O4VTR9	0848822862	507704625	Don Camillo Takes the Devil by the Tail	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Butting Heads in 50's Italy!	Presenting the eternal stuggle between--well, not exactly Good vs Evil, but Catholicism and Communism, this 4th Don Comillo book contines the delightful political tensions Guareschi created when he introduced readers to his \\"little world\\"--located in the Po River valley.  In 23 mostly unrelated episodes<BR>Don Camillo squares off in passionate battles against: the equally irrascible Mayor, Peppone, as well as with stubborn peasants, gossipy villagers, his own church superiors and even himself. Yet in moments of anguish or crisis he pours out his heart to the Christ on the crucifix in his church, who listens with compasison, speaking so that only the burly priest hears and understands.  Ah, but will he prove contrite or obedient<BR>to the wisdom of his Lord? <br />  Hot-tempered, robust and occasionally self-indulgent (cigars, hunting, his dog) this village priest is as often embroiled in public debates with the representative of temporal authority (the Communist mayor) as in private attacks of conscience.  But don't be fooled by the apparent enmity between these two hard-headed leaders of opposing<BR>views (the Reds vs the Whites); the two stongest men daily butt heads and seek to outdo or discredit each other--which is only to be expected.  Fortunately though, when the chips are down, these two--no longer priest and mayor--demonstrate their true friendship and Christian charity, loyalty and respect.  Though neither would ever admit such human weakness in public!  Guareschi has created a gentle, amusing little world of his own--for children of all ages.	2003-08-25
1034803:US	52160649	R1DO6QVYW4SP9P	0899661742	574940351	Seventeen	Books	4	7	7	N	N	&quot;Nobody's Business is Safe from that Child!&quot;	Small town romance is an uphill battle (and source of public amusement) for easily-smitten seventeens in the 19 teens, when everyone knew everyone else's business--especially the protagonist's bratty little sister. It isn't enough that a fellow suffers the social torments of hell in order to impress a visiting bubble blond--his Baby Talk Lady, but that his pecocious younger sibling makes it her summer business to spy on, tattle on and harrass her haggard brother in his amorous affairs. There is little familial sympathy shown for the young man struggling to beat out the competition to win favor in the eyes of the Most Noble One.  <br />  Tarkington's world is blissfully naive compared with the dangers and pitfalls of 21st century life for teenagers, yet William's emotional battles remain poingnant, as young love (actually infatuation) undergoes daily upheavals. Relatively clueless as to his motivations and private agonies, his parents exist on another plane--as do many<BR>adults in this novel of pre war Americana.  The most original character created is that of Genesis, the dishevled Black town handyman, whose very presence--with his mongrel canine companion---causes William frightful embarrassment. Keeping up appearances is critical, as William foolishly allows Clothes to Make (and Break) the Man.  <br />  The humor comes not only in the pathos of William's extreme efforts and psychological sress, but from the drole style of the narrator's commentary. The story unfolds with little plot but much expenditure of physical and emotional energy. How can William rise above his rivals to capture the heart of the enchanting Miss Pratt in one too-short summer?  This summer is anything but short to the female sensation's long-suffering host, who is soon on the brink of breakdown.  And through all the anguish caused by Lola's invasion of this small town, Jane eats and sneaks and deliberately torments her bother--<BR>alas, she mostly gets away with it, too!  How can a decent fellow court a goddess like Lola, with such disreputable creatures as Genesis and Jane lurking about?  This is a delightful pre Happy Days read for kids of all ages--reminding us of the pangs of young love and foibles of youth. As fresh as when it was written by the author of PENROD.	2003-07-26
1040202:US	52160649	R320PE6LAOQO93	0698116801	857940487	The Matchlock Gun	Books	3	9	13	N	N	Coming of Age in Colonial NY	Edmonds' 1941 Newbery book offers authentic details of life in Dutch New York state--served up in a pleasant format. Children<BR>quickly outgrew the age of innocence on the frontier, when survival for English and Dutch colonists was difficult because of hostile Frenchmen and desperate Indians.  Young readers will enjoy the family dynamics in this tale of personal courage and maternal resourcefulness, which is enhanced by the black/and white (and some color) illustrations of Paul Lantz. Readers of all ages will marvel at the determination of a ten-year-old boy.<BR><br />  When Father Teunis must depart with the local militia, to quell an uprising near Albany, Mother Gertrude forms a bold plan to save her young family in case Indians attack.  Defenseless without the head of the household?  Not at all--thanks to grandfather's old Spanish muzzle-loader over the mantle. Based<BR>on historical fact and family oral tradition, this tale will delight children of all ages. Those were the days when men were Men--and sometimes young boys had to be, too!  This story, in its large, softback edition, remains as fresh as when it was originally penned. Americans can appreciate their tradition of proud, immigrant pluck. Edward's family was here to stay!	2003-07-21
1053946:US	52160649	RKK3YSVOGTMWE	0142300276	462543947	The Little White Horse	Books	3	7	16	N	N	Mistaken Identity--by Moonlight	This 40's fantasy--beloved by J.K. Rowling--might be too <BR>saccharine for the 21st century; it is certain to bore most boys by the end of chapter one.  Uneven pacing makes this tale a difficult read to embrace immediately; the vocabulary is dated and requires frequent trips to the dictionary.  Much time is spent in exposition, with little dialogue in the opening pages, so youthful readers will need great patience until the plot takes off.  The behavior of the 13-year-old protagonist is unrealistic, as she orders her elders about, making decisions beyond her years.  However noble her intentions, can she tame a lifelong villain and convert a confirmed bachelor?  More importantly: can she learn to curb her own temper, which could jeopardize her dearest goals?  <br />  It has fallen to Maria Merryweather--the youngest in a line of unhappy moon princesses--to right century-old wrongs at and around Moonacre Manor. Upon arriving there as an orphan, accompanied by her faithful governess, Miss Heliotrope, Maria immediately loves the countryside, the quaint village and her middle-aged cousin/guardian.  But gradually she discovers family secrets and town legends which transcend generations of pain and desapir. Can one slender girl make amends for past atrocities and more recent insults? And what was the fate of that elusive necklace of Moon Pearls? <br /> Author Elizabeth Goudge has chosen to set her story in the early 19th century, so be prepared for many antiquated words and Victorian objects. Various animals--some with supernatural powers--are crucial to the denoument. One clear, prevailing theme is that of the need for balance and cooperation between the sun and the moon, between both moral and physical courage. A loving couple must complement each other's characteristics, in order to achieve a dignified and sucessful whole.  Intertwining fragments of mythology and Christianity in a curious blend, the story chronicles Maria's quest for the elusive Little White Horse--whoproves not a horse after all!  An interesting book which some may consider a children's classic.	2003-07-10
1064988:US	52160649	R3B2BMQAX7EPYY	006053429X	8023177	Couldn't Keep It to Myself: Testimonies from Our Imprisoned Sisters	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Hope, Freedom and Peace through Journaling	Author Wally Lamb's workshop at York Correctional Facility for Women inspired eleven inmates to commit their memoires of childhood and early adulthood to paper.  This process has proven beneficial to the wounded \\"children\\" locked inside their hearts, as well as to those who seek to understand how they wound up in prison. Once the hurdle of not trusting anyone behind bars was cleared, these eleven women unleashed the floodgates of repressed or anguished memories--relating their personal <br />journeys of trauma and degradation with stark realism.  Yes, it is not easy for those of us with protected childhoods to digest these bitter accounts, yet it is critical to instill compassion.<br />   Learning to trust, to accept responsibility for their own<BR>actions, and realizing that many childhood traumas were Not their fault are major steps in personal catharsis--in coming to terms decades later with how they were wronged.  Gradually these<BR>brave women have been proactive in releasing the shackles of guilt and shame which they forged on the outside.  Author Lamb shares his writing and editing gifts with these women, so that the first-person texts flow with continuity and intention.  This collection of memoires rings true, for many themes prove hauntingly familiar.  This book, with its cover of a broken Mona Lisa composite, should be required reading for all Sociology majors and Social Service workers. Don't read it for mere entertainment, but rather for human enlightenment.  Dare to join the sisterhood!	2003-07-01
1084010:US	52160649	R3LGVBNLMRMIGF	0486284670	187732421	A Room with a View (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	The Florentine Effect	Forster's turn-of-the-century novel about British snobbery opens in the Renaissance mecca of Florence, Italy, where middle-class tourists clash with both passionate natives and judgmental expatriots.  Chaperoned by her prim cousin Charlotte, young Lucy Honeychurch finds herself closely guarded and overprotected in what should be an Italian paradise. Struggling to be reborn<br />--as a living and compassionate being--she is shocked at the rituals of propriety daily served before her naive eyes.  Whom to cultivate, whom to snub, what is and is not appropriate behavior vie for dominance in her gentle soul, as she is obliged to surrender her neophyte will to please demanding elders.<br /> Much worse still Lucy is not permitted--nor does she permit herself--to explore the forbidden territories of her own heart. The examples of unrestrained natives and a bold kiss among the violet-covered hills of Fiesole result in their precipitous departure for Rome, but continue to haunt her memory for a year.  The Emersons (father and son) prove new inpsiration in Lucy's circumscribed social milieu. Against her better judgment she is charmed by their disingenuous manners and the expression of frank feelings.  Inspite of her inflexible upbringing, her mind is fascinated, even if her heart does not feel attached, by the father's unselfish kindness and the son's eager grasp of life.  Their unusual philosophies and behavior throw fresh air into the drafty corridors of contstraint in which she has been reared.<br />  It all starts with the Emersons' courteous offer to exchange their own rooms in the pensione, so that the ladies might enjoy a room with a View of glorious Florence.  It takes Lucy one year to realize that her own life has needed a clear view, which she can only obtain through George Emerson.  Even<br />back in England the Emersons inadvertantly displace two elderly ladies as tenants when they rent a villa near Lucy's home.  How did poor Lucy ever come to be engaged to a boor like Cecil, with his limited world view of masculine control and maternal domination?  Lucy can not imagine him unless he is inside a room, without a view, while he rightly considers her a living view of the world.  Lucy is dishonest in denying her growing attraction to George; both of them individually plan to flee the anguish of frustred, forbidden proximity.  Then there is the ubiquitous poor relation, Charlotte, meddling, bungling, misunderstanding and misdirecting Lucy's little life--Despite the best intentions. Will Lucy realize her error before it is too late?  A quiet, insightful read which will charm students of Edwardian England and the human heart.ke Cecil, with his limited world view of masculine control and maternal domination?  Lucy can not imagine him unless he is inside a room, without a view, while he rightly considers her a living view of the world.  Lucy is dishonest in denying her growing attraction to George; both of them individually plan to flee the anguish of frustred, forbidden proximity.  Then there is the ubiquitous poor relation, Charlotte, meddling, bungling, misunderstanding and misdirecting Lucy's little life--Despite the best intentions. Will Lucy realize her error before it is too late?  A quiet, insightful read which will charm students of Edwardian England and the human heart.	2003-06-18
1099161:US	52160649	R1P1HAJH2UGMZ	0064405850	665251069	Strawberry Girl 60th Anniversary Edition (Trophy Newbery)	Books	3	18	20	N	N	End of the Open Range	Set in the Florida backwoods of the early 1900's this story is one of several books by Lois Lenski with a specific regional flavor.  This author deliberately chose various rural areas of the country in which to live, get to know the people about whom she was writing, make accurate sketches of the objects she found there, and perform detailed research of recent past events.  Featuring the dirt poor \\"Crackers\\" STRAWBERRY GIRL introduces mainstream American kids to such issues as: the struggle for economic survival, the Importance of being a good neighbor;<br />and the rural controversy of Fences versus Open Range.<br /> Many sections of nothern Florida were just emerging from frontier status; it was an era when illiterate and embittered men<br />callously made their own law by indulging in a rampage of selfish spite and anti social behavior. Trouble between the newcomers from Caroliny and the embedded Slaters brews into a life-threatening feud.  The kind Boyer family moves into an old house in the piney woods; Birdie's generous parents show courtesy, hospitality and charity to all, as they try to grow strawberries and make a decent home for their children and an honest living from the untamed land and forest. But the Slaters have earned a reputation for lawlessness; Pa encourages his older sons to be vicious and ultimately vows to drive out the newcomers--one way or another! We pity poor, boastful Shoestring--a youth caught between opposing life styles.  Birdie wants to be his friend, but she she often winds up hating him.<br />  This story is written in local dialect, but readers will quickly get the hang of the slang.  Ms Lenski's B/W illustrations enhance our understanding of the primitive conditions under which her characters operate.  Since parents should model family values and peaceful methods of conflict resolution, Pa Slater's brood proves how white trash self perpetuates. Will anything ever cause a change of heart in that scumbag father/miserable husband?  Will the country ever be rid of his menace and legacy of revenge? Based on many actual incidents, STRAWBERRY GIRL reads easily and will capture the interest of most elementary children. An excellent springboard for classroom discussion about the dilemma of solving personal problems when there is no legal recourse.ill the country ever be rid of his menace and legacy of revenge? Based on many actual incidents, STRAWBERRY GIRL reads easily and will capture the interest of most elementary children. An excellent springboard for classroom discussion about the dilemma of solving personal problems when there is no legal recourse.	2003-06-05
1106167:US	52160649	R3P1JS77Q3265Y	0679409866	569473707	Persuasion (Everyman's Library)	Books	3	3	7	N	N	&quot;TREASURES OF THE HEART&quot;	Published a few years after the acclaimed PRIDE AND PREJUDICE, this novel paints an intimate portrait of country gentry in<BR>early 19th century England.  Describing the social milieus with which she was so familiar, Austen alternates the plot development between modest estates and the seaside resorts of Lyme and Bath. Travel aand communication proved serious obstacles, so letters and notes were the more prized and preserved. Austen weaves a tapestry of strict social customs,<BR>explaining the value of keeping up appearances, of keeping one's place--which was clearly deliniated by time-honored class snobbery and ritual.  Other themes which are quietly included:<BR>be wary of schemers, evaluate the counsel of interfering extended famly, and do not trust superficial impressions.  <br /><BR>Narrated in the usual third person, ths intense story revolves around Anne Elliot, the middle daughter of vain but impoverished Sir Walter. The author might well have chosen to make this a first person novel, since we always know what the modest<BR>protagonist is doing, feeling and thinking. Austen gently ridicules the struggle between vanity and financial reality, as the family's streightened circumstances obliged them to rent out their beloved Kellynch Hall and take rooms in Bath. But where to find suitable tenants for the ancestral home? Their circle includes the neighboring Musgroves, whose son married the youngest Elliot daughter.  Fortunately for the marriageable<BR>girls, their limited horizons are expandaded by the arrival of three young naval captains--one of whom Anne was forced to renounce 7 years before. She represents the first victim of<BR>of the art of familial persuasion. Yet her heart still beats fast at the mention of his name...  <br />  Austen presents many themes and events which also appear in her signature novel; she deftly reveals a woman's intimate understanding of her heroine's private torment.  The social ritual between country gentry is almost ridiculousin their extreme scruples regarding proper behavior--even to their own relatives and in-laws.  Austen exposes the time-honored web of duty an public behavior, even on vacation.  One wonders if the women of Austen's day were taught--direclty or indirectly--to value their own &quot;nothingness,&quot; as Anne puts it.  Is a teachable heart (one that can be persuaded to reason, even in violation of its natural instincts, to be admired in that society?  Or in our own time? Were Austen's women true Victorian ladies or more rational creatures than <BR>male authors of the time generally portrayed them? Anne pounced upon the eternal argument which provoked the denouement: which of the genders is more (or less) &quot;inconstant.&quot;  These and many other soul-searching issues are elucidated in this short novel (225 pages) which should be evaluated by the standards of a by-gone era.  Thoughtful readers must discern for themselves which truths are valid for all times; if they prove universal, then the work is a true classic.  An insightful novel which will appeal to most caring women.	2003-05-30
1107042:US	52160649	R2B442MZYPFAF6	0670586757	220090506	Rabbit Hill	Books	3	13	14	N	N	Nostalgia for Country Creatures	This is a refreshing return to the innocent 40's of children's literature, when Animals talk and behave just like people.  The Hill (somewhere in CT) is abuzz with excitement and anticipation when rumors race through field and burrow that--finally--new Folks are coming!  There will be owners in residence at the old, neglected farmhouse.  Times have indeed been hard for the little animals, who are reduced to a meagre existence and near starvation during bitter winters--merely scavenging off the land in its natural state.  High Time there were real Folks in the house once more, planting and canning! Yet there are potential dangers from the unknown newcomers as well: dogs, cats, Boys, poisons, traps, fences, etc. Most people are determined to protect their produce and flowers from the very creatures who cherish their rights to help themselves. <br />  Robert Lawson presents young readers with a wide cast of characters, ranging in size from mice to a buck. All the animals speak and understand English, which helps in communciation between species, but pales before the astonishing actions of the new Folks, who have to prove either their value or their threat to the Hill society.  Communal democracy is practiced at the annual ritual called Dividing Night, when each family is allotted a certain portion of the vegetable garden for their private use.  If and When the new Folks actuallly plow, plant and tend it properly.  <br /> Father Rabbit is a Southern gentleman who speaks in elegant terms while boring everyone with his tales of the Blue Grass country.  Mother Rabbit proves a stereotypical 40's mom, and Uncle Analdas is the irrascible, grumbling, hot-tempered grouchy relative. Little Willie Fieldmouse is the obliging spy for the community, the eyes for the Mole and the ears for the Hill, as he sits atop a rainbarrel and eavesdrops on the Folks.  The protagonist is Georgie, the clever and likeable son who captures our interest; he is a bit cocky with his knowledge and skills, but can be caught off guard when distracted by artistic inspiration.  He does accomplish a tremendous feat of which his father and uncle proudly boast. <br /><BR>But will these new Folks bring peace and prosperity or deadly hazards to the Hill? The anxious Animals must wait and see through 12 charming chapters of text with pen and ink sketches also by the author.  Having read his famous books in elementary school (EDWARD, HOPPY AND JOE and THE TOUGH WINTER) I was plasantly surprised to discover their enduring charm. For children of all ages, with a quiet theme of showing compassion toward the smaller, wild animals.  Yes, Gardens and Cirtters can Coexist!	2003-05-29
1113849:US	52160649	RDQHL7MMY3Z4E	0689300077	89462899	Jennifer, Hecate, Macbeth, William McKinley, And Me, Elizabeth (Newbery Honor Book)	Books	3	2	7	N	N	Aprpentice Witch!	Despite the title which implies a cast of thousands, this story revolves around the intense relationship betweent two fifth-grade girls, both seeking to be Needed.  Black Jennifer is a loner of a character, while white Elizabeth is new to the neighborhood.  The author refers to Hecate, the head witch in MACBETH, which may stimulate some discussion of Shakespeare's plays.  <br />  On Halloween day Elizabeth is walking through a park, when she spies an old-fashoined shoe dangling from a tree--a shoe  on the foot of a self-proclaimed junior witch. Jennifer never smiles or laughts; in fact this curious girl walks with her head skyward--never at the ground. Her abrupt manner lacks social skills, but immediately fascinates the impressionable Elizabeth.  Unique and possessive, Jennifer decies to make the girl her Apprentice--without even asking if she'd like this honor!  Suddenly Elizabeth must eat certain foods and refrain from eathing others, while leaving food \\"offerings\\" for her mentor.  Is this a clever scam or a serious attempt to achieve supernatural power; they both start collecting odd ingredients to compound a Flying Ointment. How far will this Game be taken? <br />  Totally dominated by Jennifer's will Elizabeth starts acting strangely both at home and in school. Alas, she learns more than witchcraft when she is promoted to Journeyman witch, but must she sacrifice everything that normal girls enjoy, just to win Jennifer's occult favor? Is it friendship or something more sinister which she seeks? What is the attraction of Power over others?  She actually discovers that she enjoys being Different from other girls; that it is exhilarating to behave in a difficult manner, which puzzles concerned adutls.  What kind of underground game has their social symbiosis become, if she has to sneak, lie, dissemble and deny her own personality? Elizabeth is convinced that Jennifer's esteem is worth it all.  It takes a special toad (as in TUCK EVERLASTING) to teach her an important life lesson: that no joy comes from wishing ill on others.  Elementary girls will enjoy this cute BOO! read.	2003-05-23
1125559:US	52160649	R2GTVCAKDNEPC	0027190404	132744818	The HORSE IN THE ATTIC	Books	3	2	2	N	N	The Gift of the Mystery Horse	Contrary to what you might expect, this short book is not a fantasy; rather, it offers the popular theme of the Country Cure, as well as the rewards of historical research.  Readers will receive an easy instruction in the skills of art restortion and the thrill of an auction.  Related in the first person, this <BR>story tells how Caroline became horse crazy at age 11 and why <BR>her family ultimately moved out to the country--where she would more easily afford riding lessons.  <br />  During the renovation of the century-old house which they bought, Caroline discovers a locked trap door into an unknown attic, where she finds several<BR>dusty paintings--long stored and forgotten.  She falls in love with one of a black race horse and eventually hangs it/her in her room, where she fantasizes about having her own horse. This family offers a refreshing change from the usual dysfunctional dynamics one encounters in YA literature. I particluarly enjoyed the relationship between Caroline and her father; they shared a unique bond, as the country helped their outlooks on life bloom.  Clymer also provides a gentle introduction into archival methods and art appreciation. Reads as swiftly as Dark Lady herself!	2003-05-13
1125913:US	52160649	R1PSAU4PMPYQG9	044040942X	727051773	The Battle for the Castle	Books	3	2	3	N	N	TOKENS OF APPRECIATION	William (who received THE CASTLE IN THE ATTIC) is now approaching his 12th birthday, but dreading the townkids' dangerous rite of passage called Jumping the Trains.  Although skilled in tumbling and gymnastics, he feels outclassed by Jason, his best friend, who is both taller and more athletic (on a bike).  He secretly mourns the fact that he is shorter, fearing that his stature will predestin him to failure in the world. <br />  Then William receives a special gift from Mrs. Phillips, his former nanny now living back in England. Although she had promised to destroy the statue of the evil wizard, Alastor, she changed her mind about disposing of the special Token.  This coin depicting two-headed Janus possesses dramatic magical powers. Wiilliam confides the secret of his neglected castle in the attic to Jason, who is eager to make the trek through space and time to reach the medieval world, but not without some modern conveniences: two bikes, a flashlite and;<BR>binoculars.  <br />  Their return is timely, for Sir Simon's realm is threatened by a floating horror; a skeleton ship inhabited by fierce rats. Accompanied by young Tolliver, who learns to ride a bike, and 12-year-old Gudrin, the boys undertake to rid the land of the nauseating rodent meance. But how much can one trust a fool--a court jester named Deegan? Is it wise of Sir Simon to depart for a tournament despite the ominous warning signs, <BR>leaving the castle in such youthful hands?  This sequel is light and fast-paced.  One wonders if Winthrop will consider a third one, before the boys are too old for such fantasy games. Even if she does not, heed crypic messages, trust in feminine clairvoyance and don't forget to treasure your old toys!	2003-05-13
1129722:US	52160649	R31H1KYS1NRD99	0688166776	585088193	The Wonderful Wizard of Oz (Books of Wonder)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	There'sno place like Home!	When young Dorothy and her little dog, Toto, are suddenly caught up in a Kansas cyclone and transported to a magical land called Oz, she meets a variety of unusual creatures: three witches,<BR>a humbug of a wizard, colorful little people (Munchkins) and strange beasts. In this \\"modern fairy tale\\" which dates from 1900, she witnesses other marvels of Nature, as well as the quirks of human nature.  Amazingly this story is still fresh a century later, for it presents the underlying values of friendship, loyalty, keeping one's promises and appreciation of the simple pleasures of home life. <br />  Obviously it is difficult for Americans to visualize this delightful children's classic without being influenced by the cinematography of 1939 Hollywood, especially when Dorothy steps out of her gray world into the dazzling colors of Oz.  Thus her powerful \\"silver shoes\\" were transformed into ruby slippers. Baum actually color-coded the five regions of his strange country, including Ruby which was beloved by Glinda the Good. <br />  We notice the usual elements found in fairy tales: Magic, a quest, things happening in groups of three, instant wish gratification, greed, selfishness and loyalty. Of course the ending presents liteary resolution for Dorothy and her 3 companions--assuming that the power to rule offers personal satisfaction.  There still remains the underlying mystery: what really happened to the Great Oz? Will we met him again in a sequel?  Strictly speaking this is not great literature, yet it remains a treasured, timeless read for children of all ages.  What do You think Oz is up to now?  Anything is possible in the realm of Fantasy...	2003-05-09
1129865:US	52160649	R2RN4SKM6ML7WQ	0886191343	389169381	Shadow in Hawthorn Bay	Books	1	4	5	N	N	Haunted in the New World by her Dark Cousin	This dark fantasy does not approach Lunn's superb THE ROOT CELLAR, but proves an interesting read all the same.  Two cousins in 19th century Scotland, born the same week, grow up inseparable.  Despite their different temperaments and appearance, Mairi and Duncan are two halves of one coin; they vow at age 11 to remain of couple for ever. Then Duncan's family decides to emigrate to Upper Canada, a move which threatens to tear assunder the unique bond that links their destinies.  When the story opens,  Mairi has agonized for four years; can their devotion to each other triumph over ocean, time, distance and death itself?  <br />  Mairi endures the incredible hardships of emigrant travel, as she struggles on her personal quest alone. She has sacficed everything she knows and loves to be reunited<BR>with Duncan.  Unfortunately, the folks in Hawthorn Bay on the St. Lawrence River first treat her as a heroine, then as slightly daft, but they ultimately consider her suspicious. With her spirit talk and dire predictions, even the children turn against her.  Will she be branded as a witch in this Puritannical New World?  Persecuted by worse than ignorant colonists, Mairi realizes that she herself is being stalked by<BR>evil--using Duncan's voice to lure her to disaster. She is terrified of the forest, yet morbidly attracted to a special flat rock which is linked with Duncan's disappearnce.  After her physical and emotional pilgrimmage, how far must she travel to ultimately join him?  Which path will she choose to meet her beloved?  A mysterious read about a brave young woman who wants to control her own destiny.	2003-05-09
1130329:US	52160649	R1SXWZ187MES9F	0689814607	125407637	Saving Shiloh (The Shiloh Quartet)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Learning to Trust	Marty's beloved beagle is in danger again.  Folks in the West Virginia backwoods are mighty suspicious of the resident crank, Judd Travers, the last of a three-generation family known for vicious, anti-social behavior.  This shunned man is notorious for his cruelty to his own dogs and his arrogant hostility towards all human kind. Marty's family has tried to win the man's trust by demonstrating basic kindness and offering tentative frienship--social virtues which have never been modeled or extended to him before. But the compasionate boy discovers that it's a steep, uphill battle to convince diehard<BR>neighbors and townspeople that Judd is honestly trying to turn<BR>over a new leaf.  <br />  Trouble is: Marty himself wavers in his own belief in the man's innocence, when a man goes missing, then turns up dead, during an alarming series of burglaries. The mystery builds as first a blizzard, then a flood, wreak havoc in the hill-country community.  Will Shiloh ever be truly safe from Judd?  Despite all Marty's efforts to convince the man of his sincerity, Shiloh himself is reluctant to set foot upon the man's hated property.  This final part of the SHILOH trilogy takes up one month after the end of SHILOH SEASON. Can dogs--and men--be redeemed after years of negative conditioning?  After all poor Shiloh has suffered, whose turn is it to save him this time?	2003-05-09
1131792:US	52160649	R280LF345KWRAV	0785714731	633634770	The Hideout (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	2	0	1	N	N	Betrayed by Superman Shoelaces	Pre-teen Andy is disgusted with things at home; his mom has remarried Paul (whom he privately calls \\"Paws\\"). His real father is out of reach--not only because he lives in England, but because he is away from home for months at a time on archaeological digs.  The boy's best friend is Leah, a girl who is an avid CB'er.  <br /> Andy gets so fed up with his home life that he decides to run away--which is not hard when you happen to live in San Francisco. Hanging out by the lobby of a swanky hotel, without any specific plan in mind, Andy spots and appropriates the fancy key to a plush, rarely-used suite.  Just what he needs--his own private retreat where he can wait in safety until he can contact his father, somehow, to request plane fare.  But every kid's dream come true--except for Room Service which would blow his Invisible cover--turns into a nightmare.  <br />  Who cares if his mom and step father are worried sick about his disappearance?  Can he exist for three weeks on room service leftovers in the halls; can he sleep and hide without leaving any trace; can he slip through the lobby without being recognized in the same clothes?  Andy never considers the risk of being kidnapped, until the ransom note he writes in bitterness falls into the wrong hands.  Then he must face some hard truths about his own selfishness, his prejudiced view of Paul and his childlike faith in a father who was never really there for him. Elementary and junior high kids will enjoy this story of adolescent resourcefulness and survival on the fringe of adult society.	2003-05-07
1145805:US	52160649	R1LFA3MR1P77VE	0060234830	261336709	Prince Caspian	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Recalled by the Horn!	Only in times of great distress may the true heir to the throne of Narnia sound Queen Susan's horn; its imperious summons must be obeyed.  Our favoite sibling quartet, who discovered a fantasy realm at the back of a wardove (see book one of this extended series) are suddenly whisked away from a railway station, where they are to board trains to their respective boarding schools. Delighted to return to their beloved Narnia, where they ruled for decades (which passed as mere minutes of Earth time), the children are puzzled to recognize<BR>majestic Caer Paravel--but in ruins!  Ages have paased, but human greed, treachery and ambition are never out of style.<BR><br />  Young Prince Caspian, the true heir to the crown, needs the help of the Four Monarchs to rid Narnia of his uncle/usurper.  Even worse, men and talking animals alike doubt the ancient tales about Aslan, the mighty lion from Over-the-Sea, who sacrificed hismelf on the Stone Table to save those whom he loved.  Yet did not die. <br />  Beneath the surface plot and childlike banter among siblings, defenders and scoundrels, SCL has included many references to Christianity--without mentioning God or Jesus.  He also incorporates many mytholgoical creatures, which makes a curious literary blend.  It's a challenge to provide equal action for all four kids, but young Lucy still enjoys a special rapport with her precious Lion. Sadly, this wil be Peter and Susan's last visit to Narnia, since they are growing up. Even Edmund redeems himself after his treachery in the first book, but can you ever truly kill a witch?. PRINCE CASPIAN proves a fast, action-packed read for kids from 12 on up.	2003-04-25
1146302:US	52160649	R1KHJBOKQTC4DX	0060234830	607344832	Prince Caspian	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Recalled by the Horn!	Only in times of great distress may the true heir to the throne of Narnia sound Queen Susan's horn; its imperious summons must be obeyed.  Our favoite sibling quartet, who discovered a fantasy realm at the back of a wardove (see book one of this extended series) are suddenly whisked away from a railway station, where they are to board trains to their respective boarding schools. Delighted to return to their beloved Narnia, where they ruled for decades (which passed as mere minutes of Earth time), the children are puzzled to recognize<br />majestic Caer Paravel--but in ruins!  Ages have paased, but human greed, treachery and ambition are never out of style.<br /><br />  Young Prince Caspian, the true heir to the crown, needs the help of the Four Monarchs to rid Narnia of his uncle/usurper.  Even worse, men and talking animals alike doubt the ancient tales about Aslan, the mighty lion from Over-the-Sea, who sacrificed hismelf on the Stone Table to save those whom he loved.  Yet did not die.<br />  Beneath the surface plot and childlike banter among siblings, defenders and scoundrels, SCL has included many references to Christianity--without mentioning God or Jesus.  He also incorporates many mytholgoical creatures, which makes a curious literary blend.  It's a challenge to provide equal action for all four kids, but young Lucy still enjoys a special rapport with her precious Lion. Sadly, this wil be Peter and Susan's last visit to Narnia, since they are growing up. Even Edmund redeems himself after his treachery in the first book, but can you ever truly kill a witch?. PRINCE CASPIAN proves a fast, action-packed read for kids from 12 on up.	2003-04-25
1148551:US	52160649	R3JVDUIR4VZDDP	067166607X	868968951	Bambi: A Life in the Woods	Books	3	20	21	N	N	Survival in Dangerous Solitude	Salten's 1929 children's story bears little resemblance to the famous animated version; no saccharine tale, this little masterpiece presents the story of the value of Life in the forest.  In his Foreward to the original novel, British author John Galsworthy praises two elements of BAMBI: the realistic depiction of the challenges facing deer and other woodland creatures, as well as the light-hearted style of dialogue and witty comments on human nature.  Translated into English, this literary gem has delighted readers for three generations, truly having earned its classic status.  <br />  Born into a large family of deer, Bambi is not yet congnizant that he is the son of a prince.  More observant and thougtful than the other fawns, young Bambi learns many harsh lessons about survival against Nature, other animals, and most of all Man--described as the ubiquitous, merciless predator with the pale face, HE.  After winning his beloved Faline, Bambi matures over the seasons; but an essential part of his education is provided by his solitary mentor, the old stag. Can Bambi learn enough from him (and other species) to save his family from hated humankind, or will he study merely for his own self-preservation? <br /> Beneath the author's charming tale in which animals act and sound much like the humans they fear, there remains a serious underlying theme: man' wanton destruction of the forest for sport or amusement. Hinting at our moral obligation Salten subtly shames us--and our faithful pets--for blatant disregard or disrespect of nature. Disney's version is fine, but until you have read the original, you don't really Know Bambi.  A story of personal growth and a gentle study in compassion, for readers of all ages.	2003-04-23
1159120:US	52160649	R2XOX1S22YFO8W	0804115761	785795777	A Thousand Acres	Books	3	2	3	N	N	HARVEST OF SHAME AND PASSION	It is the 1970's and a successful farmer has suddenly announced that he will endow his thousand-acre holding, built up over several generations, to his three daughters.  The rural Iowa community is stunned by the news; his irrascible neighbor is immediately suspicious and blantaly critical, while the amazed girls react to the unexpected windfall variously.  Rose and her husband are delighted and grateful; Ginny is unsure what her father's decision portends for her and her husband, but is willing to go along.  While Caroline--the only one who has managed to escape farm life, and Daddy, flatly refuses any share in this agrarian legacy.  <br />  Speculation is rampant about what tyrrancial Larry Cook--never known for his generosity or paternal affection--is up to now.  But local imagination pales beside the narrator's gradual revelation of the sisters' dark past.  As the fertile acres change hands and then are disupted in court, two husbands watch helplessly as the Cook girls' painful, shameful secrets eke out into the light of family knowledge--released from long buried furor, disgust and outright denial.  Could the gift represent hush land to assuage a guilty conscience?  How to appear calm and normal despite the prying eyes and busy tongues of their neighbors? Add to this volatile mix the return of a native son, whose arrival sparks infidelity and jealousy, and readers have a tasty menu of seething passions on the prairie. <br />  Three women cope with qustionable success  to survive their childhood and carve out their own future which their vicious father tried to manipulate for them.  Is there no escape or refuge for sanity as sibling loyalty crumbles?  Does insanity lurk beneath the surface, just like the poisoned well water which caused 5 miscarriages and possbily Cancer?  Starkly brutal depiction of the disintegration of a family whose paternal core was rotten--particularly from the viewpoint of Ginny, who suffered the most in coming to terms with her grim heritage.  No one could handle or resist Daddy, who left a legacy of controversy and abuse. This fast-moving, well-plotted novel will keep adults glued to the pages.	2003-04-14
1176411:US	52160649	R1T5GUNMKTHTK4	006440174X	80628553	Good Night, Mr. Tom	Books	4	19	19	N	N	A Father is Born	Set in pre WW2 Britain this award-winning novel describes<br />the birth and growing pains of affection between two strangers, joined by the bizarre circumstances of war.  Eight-year-old Willie Beech is one of many London kids sent to the country for safety in the late 30's.  Recognizing their children as the country's most precious assets, London parents reluctantly<br />sacrifice the presence of their offspring by entrusting them to the care of country folk.  Paired with Tom Oakley, the crusty recluse who lives next door to the church, the lad arrives terrified of everything: the friendly dog, asking questions,<br />even of smiling.  Expecting nothing, he dares not hope to be recognized as a human being.<br /> Not that he has had anything to smile abobut in his miserable years alone with a mentally- disturbed, abusive mother.  Mr. Tom, as the boy calls him, quickly realizes that the boy is in desperate need of healing: for his tortured body, his twisted mind and his lonely young heart.  As the dour man cares for the sick child (malnutrition, bedwetting, nightmares) he develops an unspoken but deep fondess for the unloved and friendless boy.  Compassion for Willie brings out Tom's long-buried tenderness. It takes many months for Willie's true self to emerge: good country air, tender care of his battered body, cultivation of his active mind, and the boon of natural socialization with his peers.  Gradually sloughing off his urban shell of fear, Willie makes his first friends, learns to read and write, and then discovers his natural talent as an artist.<br />  But these evacuees are only temporary residents of Little Weirwold; we realize that eventual separation and future heartbreak are inevitable.  What happens when their rightful parents reclaim these kids?  This is a heartwarming tale of the transformation of a rejected weakling into a healthy, lively and accepted member of a generous country village.  It is also a story of gradual healing and rejoining of the human race by Mr. Tom, the embittered host--who never came to terms with the death of his young wife and infant decades earlier. We learn many details of Britain's preparation for war and the blitz.  But this story is really about the value of human relationships.  Two separate entities can become a self-contained family unit, but will the authorities permit the boy to stay with the older man, who is no blood kin? Magorian provides touching insight into the mysteries of friendship and the nature of grief, as one abused little boy takes the country cure.  GOOD NIGHT MR. TOM presents readers with an historical setting for contemporary understanding of child abuse issues.race by Mr. Tom, the embittered host--who never came to terms with the death of his young wife and infant decades earlier. We learn many details of Britain's preparation for war and the blitz.  But this story is really about the value of human relationships.  Two separate entities can become a self-contained family unit, but will the authorities permit the boy to stay with the older man, who is no blood kin? Magorian provides touching insight into the mysteries of friendship and the nature of grief, as one abused little boy takes the country cure.  GOOD NIGHT MR. TOM presents readers with an historical setting for contemporary understanding of child abuse issues.	2003-03-30
1190620:US	52160649	R31JDGLEF54COT	0684801221	737092002	The Old Man and The Sea	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Becoming One with Fish	Hemingway's Nobel Prize winning novella (1954) seems starkly simple at first glance: an old Cuban fisherman pits his mind and his body against the sea--in the form of a huge marlin first, then battling vicious predators.  Returning to shore several days later, he sinks in both physical and emotional exhaustion onto the beach--with only an 18-foot carcass to show for his grueling ordeal.  Man catches Fish; Man Loses fish.  Such a plot analysis would prove a pathetic tale--but I suspect that the author intended more than a skeletal storyline.  <br />  In this small book Hemingway has captured the essence of a man who is truly born to catch game fish--a man who recognizes his place in the chain of Life.  Hours--even days--alone at sea provide ample time to consider luck, sin and the mysterious maritime fraternity. Santiago's iron will and prodigious strength are tested to the limits of human endurance. Perhaps the ending is neither pathetic nor even tragic, as one theme may be to respect Nature's right to be itself and man's obligation to fit in with the great plan.  Can man evolve morally enough to recogize his non-human Brothers--wherever they live? A short, intense read with seeminlgy little action, but plenty of mental dialogue and psychological growth, as a fisherman comes of age in his old age.	2003-03-17
1196882:US	52160649	R206DJX7KFH52A	B00005W09O	904914345	Heaven's My Destination	Books	2	8	13	N	N	Misunderstood in the Mid West	Say there, young man: Are you feeling Unfit for Society? Battling with Depression?  Socially persecuted because of your ideals?  Well, take heart because you are not alone!  George Brush has walked down that lonely path in life himself. <br /><BR>Both as playwright and novelist, Thornton Wilder captures the essence of human nature--revealing its hesitant yearnings and poignant humiliations in the daily struggle for recognition in an indifferent world.  Despite the almost humorous cover illustration (Bard Pbx) and occasional outbursts of wit, this story is more pathetic than comic.  George Brush is a young man sure of salvation in the next world, but woefully ill-equipped to cope in this one. Fiercely determined to live a righteous life of voluntary poverty during the Depression, he manages to antagonize or frustrate most of his non-business contacts.  Haunted by an unfortunate romantic incident in his recent past, he feels obligated to make reparations, yet pursues various female acquaintances with overzealous devotion. <br /> George<BR>is considered a success only by his employers, since he proves a competent traveling salesman for his textbooks company. So what is it about this unusal young man which turns normal folks off at first encounter?  Is it his relentless religious discussions, his strict rules of self conduct, or his odd manner of viewing his own role in society?  Somehow he just does not fit in with mainstram America of the 30's.  His road travels are a series of bizarre circumstances and gross misunderstandings which result in brushes with the police and judges--even though he is honest to a fault.  People can't figure out his motives, for it is difficult to put into practice the theories of Ghandhi in the \\"modern\\" mercenary world. The country was simply not ready to welcome this sincere but persistent young man as a regular member, even though he longed for his own hearth.  Can a brutally honest fellow find happiness with the girl of his dreams in rugged, disillusioned America?   <br />  I found the style disjointd, with many loose threads instead of a clearly woven plot; this made the book hard for me to wade through. But the courtroom scene was a delightful section, cleverly plotted  with witty remarks--Wilder in top comic form.  How can poor George find justice in our plebian nation and personal happiness at home?	2003-03-12
1209334:US	52160649	R3111TABHBAT4P	044041542X	670329572	The Islander	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Gifts from the Sea	This little gem can be read in one fascinating sitting; in fact, it just begs to be read aloud.  But read this one slowly--to savor the salty smell of the ocean off British Canada and to <BR>listen to the crashing surf and wheeling seagulls. One must look intently to notice the glistening droplets on a magical gift from the sea.  <br /> Ten-year-old Daniel, an orphan from the mainland, lives on a rustic islet with his taciturn Grandfather. They boy longs for companions his own age, but must rely on his ingenuity, compassion for living things and his affinity with Nature to provide stimulation for the lonely hours. Yet such primitive conditions (no TV, phones or even horses) are ideal to<BR>inspire keen observations along the shoreline.  When he spies a mermaid's comb--obvious at first glance that such it is--his drab existence is changed forever.  This is a wonderful book of fantasy and personal growth to share with kids, from 7-70!	2003-03-02
1211140:US	52160649	RQST7X5OHHNHY	0689851316	824139760	Dicey's Song (The Tillerman Series #2)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Holding on--Reaching out--Letting go	What is the best way to raise and protect your family of 3 younger siblings, while tryng to establish a rapport of love and trust with your crusty grandmother?  These are some of the challenges facing 13-year-old Dicey Tillerman, who has brought her brood to rest permanently (?) with long-lost Gram. But it is<BR>hard for her to surrender her role of Facilitator for them all, after spending months on the road like fugitives that past summer in HOMECOMING.  <br />  Of course Dicey must deal with normal problems as well: budding womanhood, a new school,<BR>demanding teachers, kids who might want to become friends, when<BR>she would prefer to function alone.  How can she handle all this pressure, since she has not had the luxury of responsive or responsible adult role models?  Sammy suddenly gets into fights at school and Maybeth's teacher is concerned that she may have a learning disability. All these issues delay Dicey in the execution of her dream project: to sand and sail an old boat she has found in the barn. Will feisty Gram ever come around and act like she truly loves the Tillerman kids--or does she even like them?  Are they a too painful reminder of her own vanished offpspring?  <br />  How many strangers should Dicey permit to enter their lives, for she is used to keeping the world at bay.  It fell to Dicey alone to shepherd them from a Massachusetts mall (where their mentally-disturbed mother had abandoned them)<BR>down to Connecticut and thence to Virgina's Chesapeake Bay. How<br />can she bear to give up the social and emotional power that was abruptly thrust into her hands at a tender age? How will Gram--with her reputation for being crazy--react to these lively youngsters and their new problems, which may remind her of the painful past? From three who vanished to four who suddenly appeared--it is a journey of soul-seeking and emotional coming of age for Gram. This is one sequel which is truly worthy of the original, but it is easier to understand and appreciate if read in chronological sequence. A thought-provoking book about family dynamics.	2003-03-01
1211623:US	52160649	R1MHK1A09ZW87H	0440496039	335061449	The Wolves of Willoughby Chase (Wolves Chronicles (Paperback))	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Human Wolves are the Worst!	This book will appeal to pre teen girls, since the heroines are two young cousins who survive mainly by their wits and because of their devotion to each other. Three new arrivals at Willoughby Chase--4 hours from London--impact the quiet country estate. On the eve of the parents' departure for sunny climes due to the mother's delicate health, the kindly squire fails to scrutinize the face (and heart) of his distant cousin, one Miss Slighcarp.  This villainess plans to curb Bonnie's impulsive nature and to cower timid Sylvia once the adults leave. We soon<BR>discover that this \\"governess\\" is not alone in her scheme to take over the estate and disinherit the girls. <br />  This delightful book begs to be read aloud; defying the usual genre definition, it charms readers with its style.  Wolves are very much a part of the story, as they were a serious threat to human life decades ago. Roaming in voracious packs, they are a nocturnal menace to children and adults alike. Fortunately we meet two loyal servants and an enterprising goose boy, who bravely step forth to defy Slighcarp and her cronies.  <br />  This book is reminiscent of Dickens, with the strange names of many characters (which might just be personality hints), and the author's shocking expose of harsh conditions in an \\"orphanage,\\" which proves more a workhouse or prison.  The children are resouceful and pro-active--not at all the passive victims which Miss Slighcarp had anticipated. Thus the Deus ex machina ending still satisfies.  I just loved the London cops riding the train to the county, intent to teach the local constabulary their job!  WOLVES is a cute, clever and highly enjoyable read--for kids of all ages.	2003-02-28
1214558:US	52160649	R25S8PBMMG7TET	0689713703	458273594	Caddie Woodlawn (Fiction)	Books	3	22	29	N	N	Pigeons or Peacocks?	Irrepressible Caddie--a tomboy by temperament and with paternal permision--is growing up in the wild woods of Wisconsin in the 1860's.  The despair of her Boston-bred mother and her proper older sister, Caddie is secretly admired by her other siblings. Brave to the point of being foolhardy, loyal to her friends and dogs, this spunky little gal of 11 revels in the company of her two closest brothers, some fairly tame Indians and that scamp, Uncle Edmond.  <br />  Author Brink has woven the girlhood memories of her grandmother, Caroline, into a year-long family portrait, which is reminiscent of Laura Ingalls Wilder's Little House <BR>in the Big Woods. The plot is sometimes hard to discern as the story is spread out over 12 plus months, but the themes ring out with frontier clarity and timelss poignancy: the dignity of womanhood--despite the limited role of girls; the danger of fear-bred ignorance, rumor and racial prejudice; knowning how to value the present and not dwell in a painful past or seek a purloined future. <br />  Although the book consists of 24 chapters with 270 pages, there is much dialogue which makes for fast reading. Of less interest to boys who prefer male protagonists and much physical action, CADDIE WOODLAWN is the natural literary successor to the LITTLE HOUSE series, with more depth and a pleasing balance between scenes of comic relief, crisis and tenderness. The author's personal note is a nice touch, but I was most impressed by her father's beautiful validation for woman's role in civilized society; it was sheer poetry and long-overdue praise for the distaff wing. It reminds me of an old sampler I once saw in my grandmother's attic: \\"The Hand that rocks the cradle rules the world.\\" Sentimental--yes, but a <BR>delightful read all the same!	2003-02-26
1215102:US	52160649	R2QPZU7XRWTTHA	0689714920	67554449	Misty of Chincoteague	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Running with the Wind!	Set on Chincotegue Island off tidewater Virginia, this Newbery Honor book proved the first in a string of kid and horse stories by Marguerite Henry.  The black and white sketches by Wesley Dennis are excellent illustrations, enhancing the story about two kids who dream of taming a wild horse of their own. The story is preceded by a dramatic prologue: how a Spanish galleon foundered during a storm centuries ago, leaving a stallion and his mares free to survive and thrive on uninhabited Assateauge Island.  One theme presented is the natural urge of wild creatures to live in freedom; that a human can never truly tame a wild horse that yearns to run with the wind. <br /> Paul and his sister Maureen live with their grandparents on Pony Ranch, while their missionary parents are away. Excited at the prospect of his first Pony Penning Day--an annual event and popular <BR>fundraiser for the island's Fire Department--Paul dreams of capturing the elusive Phantom--a famous mare on Assateauge.<BR>The siblings work for months to save up enough to purchase the mare.  Paul even projects his goal for the following year: to ride the Phantom to victory in the annual race against the <BR>Mainland favorite. <br /> But neither younster reckons with Misty, the surprise foal and youngest pony to cross the salt water during the Roundup. This curious filly adapts easily to life among humans, but how can the kids raise enoug money to buy Both Ponies?  As charming now as when I read it as a girl, this delightful tale addresses goal-setting, sharing and realizing the rights of wild creatures. Paul comes of age at the story's end--earning the respect of the townsfolk and his grandparents as<BR>This is truly a children's Horse classic!	2003-02-25
1217476:US	52160649	R2YTP2BCBELSWJ	0064405788	456502646	Wringer (Trophy Newbery)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Defying the  Town's Tradtiion of Cruelty	Poor Palmer is absolutely wretched--struggling in vain to delay the inevitable arrival of his 9th and later his 10th birthdays--ages which serve as rites of passage in his small town.  Since no man--much less a young boy--can forestaill the relentless march of time, it is clear that he is ordained to suffer through both normally happy occasions.  The small town of Waymer seems to breed tough kids and callous adults--all hellbent on shooting pigeons at their annual park fundraiser.  Fathers desperately want their sons to start as Wringers--boys of 10 who rush onto the field to finish off those pigeons that did not have the courtesy or sense to die right off.  Of course the loyal sons covet the Golden Pigeon statuette, which is awarded to the year's best sharpshooter. <br /> In this town some kids practice being bullies as young as age five; sensitive Palmer realizes that he does not fit it with this hoodlum crowd he thinks he admires.  He knows in his heart that he has no desire to pretend it's humane to kill the wounded birds.  He has no stomach for such wanton brutality, nor admiration the best shots (like his own father).  But he is tortured by self doubt and an incredible burden of anxiety as the fatal day approaches.  <br /> For Palmer desperately wants to Belong to small gang of rowdies, to have friends, to be respected by the local small fry.  It is such an \\"honor\\"to receive The Treatment--a birthday ritual of temporary maining and great pain, which is only bestowed on lads deemed worthy by a loner bully. So how does gentle but tormented Palmer wind up with a pet--a pigeon of all animals--just before the great day? A pet which he must keep hidden from his parents<BR>and the creeps he reluctantly calls his friends.  How much must he endure and sacrifice in order to preserve his secret pal and protect him from the very real dangers that stalk him--both random and deliberate?  <br />  This is an excellent but grim read, as much for adults as for kids.  Very disturbing, though, with its warning of mass manipulation, which promote violence and numb society's compassionate instincts.  This book encourages kids to confide in their parents and turn to their True friends in time of crisis.  The vague ending will you keep guessing in frustration, like THE LADY OR THE TIGER.  I challenge all readers to digest this one.  Will Palmer be true to his town or to his own conscience?	2003-02-23
1220491:US	52160649	R9SN2KI28CZHE	0064410048	984690333	The Ralph Mouse Collection (The Mouse and the Motorcycle / Runaway Ralph /  Ralph S. Mouse)	Books	3	8	18	N	N	School was Never like This!	Hooray--our motorcycle riding little friend is back,and he's just as spunky and determined to be a Night Rider as ever!<BR>If you enjoyed Ralph's antics when he received his very own motorcycle, you'll be delighted to continue reading his new adventures--this time at school. Also he has new boy to talk to and con into serving as his pit crew, accomplice and general gopher. <br /> Feeling very much unappreciated by his<BR>extensive rodent family, Ralph decides to leave the Mountain View Inn to spend a week at Ryan's school--hey, there's nothing like a complete change of scene to forget one's problems, not to mention, drown a slightly guilty conscience. But one never can  count on the reactions of human beings; instead of being terrified by a live mouse in her classroom, the clever teacher<BR>improvises an entire MICE unit for her students.  Activities include pure biololgy, scientific experiments and literary data entries.  <br /> Unfortunately, her class falls victim to shoddy journalism, which proves a lesson for us all. Even feisty Ralph learns some non-violent strategies to cope with rowdies and bullies.  But tragedy strikes during Ralph's acadeic sojourn; alas, will he ever ride his beloved motorcycle again? Or earn the respect of his family? A darling tale which will entertain kids of all ages!	2003-02-21
1224859:US	52160649	R1UI5LCSYC8S2W	0440414806	159975375	Holes	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Cursed by their Ancestors?	WOW--Summer camp was never like this--fortunately!  How could crooks get away with it all those years: false imprisonment, exploitation of child labor, psychological cruelty, even physical torture and destruction of state records?  Poor Stanley--fat, a social pariah, falsely accused of the theft of some smelly sneakers.  Then sentenced to 18 months of digging holes in a dried-up lakebed in the Texas boonies.  Why, it's enough to make you want to spit! <br /> No one would choose a loser like <br />Stanley Yelnats IV to be the kid to break the system.  Or a gypsy curse. But how long can we blame our ancestors for present problems and our own failures? Can a jinx truly be inherited?  Why are the kids Really up at 4:30 a.m. to dig holes 5 feet deep?  Is more than just \\"character\\" being molded in the desert? <br />  But this social flop will undergo a physical and mental makeover at barren Camp Green Lake.  So how can he make friends among the state's worst juvenile bullies and hoodlums? Stanley's misadventures at this correctional facility will keep readers fascinated predicting future events,  pondering the past, as well as in stitches just trying to interpret the odd clues.  You'll trip over multiple coincidences like discarded dirt mounds, but Sachar's dry wit and generous dialgoue alleviate literary thirst. This book is a delightful winner--for kids of all ages!	2003-02-17
1225457:US	52160649	R2C8U4K2QIO967	0553263218	835646053	The Pigman	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Liberty or License?	I found the cover of the Paperback version somewhat misleading,<BR>claiming that the title character was hiding a \\"Terrible secret\\" and that society would be \\"shocked and hurt\\" by the revelations.<BR>This was definitely a serious book, but Not the heavy mystery which the publisher (Bantam Starfire) proclaimed. The story is both humorous and pathetic--well worth reading, especially for<BR>high school kids, who can relate to superficial conversations and disintegrating relationships with their parents. <br />  Two sophomores who are misfits in some ways team up to play telephone pranks, which is how they meet Angelo Pignati (who <BR>does not raise pigs).  What starts out as a loony, harmless,scam changes into an important and fulfilling relationship for the three of them.  One where it is safe and OK to do silly things--like roller skate through a department store--just for the the sheer joy of being alive and enjoying each other's wacky company. Emotionally-constricted at home, both John and Lorraine find exhilaration in the total acceptance of their personalities without criticism, reveling in this unexpected personal freedom. <br />  Unfortunately they revel too much in the home of the Pigman (their private but respectful name for this gentle soul), who has been both liberal and trusting with his hospitality.  The teenagers realize too late that things can go too far, when their adult friend pays the price for their selfishness and excess. This kindly middle-aged man helped set them free from social bondage--free to be themselves, accepted just as they are, but was the price too high for them all?  Since when is Freedom really free?  Liberty carried to extremes is License. A thoughtful read.	2003-02-17
1226587:US	52160649	R21NZKE1H8231R	0439098262	139963378	The Mouse and His Child	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Problem of Perpetual E-Motion!	Mechanical toys can not move by themselves--must less think,  feel or dream, yet Hobans' father-son performing team proves much more than wind-up toys. Seeking definition, direction and  three-dimensional existence, the mouse child asks his father what they are. The patient father replies that he does not know either, but advises his son to wait and see--hardly a  satisfactory answer for an eager youth.  Their world at first is limited to a toyshop, with its dollhouse and plush elephant.<br /><br />Stoic advice for two wind-ups who are very close--indeed, they are permamently joined at arms' length, so that they can perform an amusing, circular dance--until they run down.  But when they break the Rules of Clockwork, they themselves are broken by careless children and trashed.  Yet that is really just beginning of their sylvan and aquatic odyssey, as they launch forth into the callous world outside the protective Christmas Home.<br />  Besides, the mouse child has a dream: to find a real home and a family of his own, while his gentle father just wants to protect the son.  They will be victimized by various animal riffraff, for they encounter actors, con artists, militia, philosophers and brilliant engineers. Oh yes, there is a ubiquitious human tramp who acts as the Deux ex Machina for the patient pair.<br /> This book contains humor, pathos, surprise twists of fate, noble dreams and crushing defeats as the mouse duo labors in slow motion throughout their inexorable fate, but do they hane the right to choose that destiny or must they accept what the world has decreed for them?  Are they meant to cower in terror all their lives, to depend on others to keep them activated, or to slave for Manny rat, the king of the dump?  How will these long-suffering beings (for they ceased to be mere toys long ago) achieve the dual freedoms of perpetual movement And self-determination?  Do toys deserve the right to pursue their own happiness?  Not really meant for teens only,<br />this thoughtful yet amusing book will both charm and entertain children of all ages.>this thoughtful yet amusing book will both charm and entertain children of all ages.	2003-02-16
1227315:US	52160649	R34YOJ61N8B6BT	0152004114	90030613	Babes in Toyland	Books	3	0	0	N	N	B roadway Operetta's script Revived!	Don't let any of today's youngsters know that this book exists--they would hoot in derision!  Yet this luxury edition of the 1903 musical operetta by Victor Herbert includes some music.  The illustrations by Victoria Lisi will delight the reader as well. This volume has preserved the script and even lists the turn-of-the-century cast.  <br /> This is a sugary tale about stereotyped rich and hateful villain who is trying to force a sweet young thing to marry him.  Many children (and even some toys) help foil the village miser when he invades the sanctity and threatens the innocence of Toyland itself.  The script abounds in terrible puns and a simplistic plot, which would be virtually impossible for modern kids to appreciate.  <br />  Toys and dolls  cooperate with a kindly toymaker to efect a rescue, as the youngsters from Mother Goose Land flee to Toyland, in order to further their dreams and escape their nightmares. Thehe little old Toymaker speaks as the true spirit of Christmas about the importance of bringing joy to young children. Browse this lovely edition whenever you want to return to those ingenuous days of a sinpler era--ah, sweet Childhood!	2003-02-15
1227381:US	52160649	R80YXWTU2L1TR	006440370X	833754261	The Upstairs Room (Trophy Newbery)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Why do we have to become Invisible?	Set in Holland during the early 40's this first person story relates the persecution and hardships of the Jewish community under Nazi occupation.  Ten-year-old Annie resents her decreasing personal freedom, diminished lifestyle, fragmented family and just generally being made to feel somehow odd in her own country. Her people are insulted, restricted, bullied, beaten and sent to \\"work\\" camps. The family unit disintegrates as Mother is hospitalized, Father goes Into Hiding in another town, and the oldest sister insists on making it on her own. The two sisters who remain together resent each other and bicker often. At great risk some courageous Dutch citizens help the persecuted family.  As she contemplates her face in the mirror in the Upstairs Room, Annie wonders if she suddenly looks Jewish.  Why is she, practically overnight, different from her Dutch friends? <br />  She also faces internal struggles during the almost 3 years spent in hiding with Sini (20).  In times of extreme danger the sisters rush into a special hiding place behind a closet, or else play at being moles.  It's not easy for a lively youngster to become invisible, instantly, or for a prolonged period of time.  She rages against her sister, but most of all against the cramped spaces, restrictions on exercise, light and fresh air.  In fact Annie accidentally puts them all (including their generous host family) at risk by her immature behavior. Still the kindly farm family grows to love their girls; after the village is liberated, they all dread the inevitable separation.  This story is true, written by Johanna Reiss to enlighten her own daughters about the human desire to live and enjoy life, as well as to praise the integrity of the Dutch nation. Elementary girls will sympathize with the emotional suffering of the young protagonist.	2003-02-15
1229869:US	52160649	R1ZOJM46GZZRLN	0140367535	977857402	Little Lord Fauntleroy (Puffin Classics)	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Classic Role for Shirley Temple	This story is admittedly sentimental and even syrupy, but admirers of Frances Hodgeson Burnett won't care!  If you've enjoyed The Little Princess and The Secret Garden, you surely will want to read her third famous children's classic. The seven-year-old American protagonist is simply too sweet and good-natured to be true; his widowed mother is a study in patient suffering.  <br /> Suddenly informed that her son is the heir to an Earldom in England, the mother gives up her homeland to restore her son to his rightful legacy. But his crusty old grandfather<BR>(who cast out his youngest son when he married a mere American)  proves mean and selfish-universally hated by his tenants.  Now this unexpected grandson may be his last chance--not only to continue the family name and honor, but more importantly, for the old man's personal growth.  <br />  It's a challenge for American readers to understand the dialogue which Burnett often presents in dialect, while ignoring the distinction between New Yorkese and British peasant slang. Neverthless, this book is a gently told tale which will touch those unjaded readers who remain. The underlying theme may be that of the restorative power of innocence.	2003-02-13
1229879:US	52160649	R332BD4TWBAG2K	0689826796	149486608	Journey to an 800 Number	Books	3	1	2	N	N	World's Best Dad!	Young Max is furious that his mother has dumped him on his camel-driving father for the summer, while she is off honeymooning with a much older husband.  Barely civil to his eager father<BR>because of his vagabond existence and his lowlife companions,<BR>Max learns more valuable lessons on the road than he did at the fancy private school he attends.  <br /> As he makes the rounds of malls, fairs and conventions with his father, Max discovers how to identify Real people from the cons and the snobs--how to sort out the freaks from the phonies. But will he ever become comfortable with the fact that his father is just a regular guy with an usual lifestyle? He struggles to accept a broader definition of Family. A clever story which will entertain middle school readers.	2003-02-13
1231514:US	52160649	R3V5JZ08PRNMWA	0520045610	792802401	Tom Sawyer Abroad and Tom Sawyer, Detective (Mark Twain Library)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Juvenile Argonauts over the Sahara	This book picks up right after the hallaballo has died down from Tom and Huck's triumphal return.  Tom kinda craves notoriety as he competes for the unofficial title of Hannibal's First Traveler.  Kidnapped by a mad inventor Tom, Huck and  Jim<BR>find themselves sailing in a hot-air balloon.  They eventually realize that they are alone over the Atlantic, but when they sight land, it is not Europe!  This first-person story is narrated with youthful zest and slangy vocabulary by an admiring Huck, so that he can praise Tom's leadership skills and power of argument. <br />  The three unprepared argonauts finally understand that they are floating over the vast Sahara Desert, where they experience a variety of adventures--interspersed with juvenile deductions and lively debate.  Their challenges are right out of the Arabian Nights: no magic lamp or genies, but Twain serves up caravans, lions, mirages, warring Bedouin tribes, and a devastating sand storm. All this action is spiced with his wry humor, as he slips in snide remarks about more serious social issues (spoken through the mouths of babes). Although this tale is Plot Lite, there's plenty of lively dialogue, as the boys argue using kid logic, while indulging in youthful dreams of sudden fortune. A fun read with sly social criticism.  But really, Mark Twain--tigers--in Africa?	2003-02-12
1235403:US	52160649	R1E6MHYBGTHDQA	006081246X	965218589	That Quail, Robert	Books	4	48	50	N	N	Five Ounces of Fluff but a Ton of PERSONality	Who would have thought that from an abandoned quail's egg so much personality and affection would hatch out?  Yet that is precisely what happened on Cape Cod back in 1962, as chronicled with love and honesty by the author. What happens when the human world becomes a substitute for Nature?  Is the orphaned wild creature better off with its own kind, or with an adoptive family of a different species?  Readers must judge for themselves in this charming tale about a delightful female quail, misnamed Robert. <br />  Written with humor and pathos by an observant neighbor, who became Robert's Aunt and longterm hostess, this slim volume is a gem about surprising family adjustments.  Human emotions seem to have rubbed off on this impressionable birdling, who rapidly becomes a member of the family--even to requiring babysitters.  You will chuckle and weep over her antics and trials.  How human can a bird get?  Once you spend some quality time with personable and endearing Robert, you will know the truth for yourself!	2003-02-09
1236316:US	52160649	R7DNOOAT6N4NL	0440206324	732720013	The Island	Books	2	0	1	N	N	Seeking Growing Space	Unlike Paulsen's exciting adventure and suvival stories this book is unusually introspective, offering less action and dialogue than may suit most teens.  Still it presents good insight into the difficulty of communication with parents, by highlighting the coming-of-age mystery. Fifteen-year-old Wil Neuton (whose last name might imply a predilection for scientific<BR>inquiry) desperately needs space and peace in order to find himself. Resentful of his father's demands that family move so often, Wil views his father as a selfish tyrant; his mother comes across as a wimpy pleaser.  Typically clueless to Wil's real motives and dis-ease, the elder Neutons are shocked to think that they drove their son out of the house the summer that they moved to Pinewood. Why do adults automatically conclude that all teenagers are in rebellion, just acting out aggression or insecurity, innately resently of adult authority?  <br /> Having<BR>found a small island on a nearby lake Wil becomes obesessed with the idea of exploring it, then camping out there during the summer.  Is he running away from his home situation or is he actually seeking a new environment where he can mature quietly?<BR>His prolonged sojourn stirs up a hornets' nest among the adults of the small communiuty; only Susan, a neighbor girl, calmly accepts the fact that Wil just wants time and privacy to contemplate Nature and get in touch with himself.  Wil is amazed to discover that as he contemplates the animal kingdom, he<BR>gradually begins to understand Human nature as well; he grasps the vailidity of seeing through another's eyes.  If he is permitted to remain on the Island which has become his world, will he emerge more in harmony with his parents--and ultimately, with himself?  This book is for thoughtful readers who are trying to find internal identity, or who sitll wonder when and how they once did find it.	2003-02-08
1236597:US	52160649	RT9LO1X6J7R6O	078680047X	605624851	Guests	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Can Growing up be Rushed?	Moss is an immature youth in a unnamed Native American tribe--still in that awkward stage between childhood and warrior status.  This boy longs to embark on his own Away Time; i.e. a vision quest/rite of passage.  This particular day he resents his family's (indeed, the entire village's) obligation to entertain guests, whose skin and clothing, language and customs are completely alien to all he has experienced. <br /> Suddenly<BR>Moss finds himseslf sulking in the woods; then unexpectedly <BR>trying to impress a misfit girl from a distant clan, who is also seeking solace from Nature and respite from her own family.  Then Moss feels compelled to plunge rashly into the primeval wilderness--totally unprepared for quality Away time.  Does he<BR>seriously believe that he can slip into the woods (or Life) as a boy and emerge some days later to be recognized and accepted as a man?  Can two lonely, misunderstsood preteens find their respective ways back Home?  Will Moss be able to interpret and follow the advice from a matronly porcupine? Despite several un-Indian expressions, behavior and conversations, this short tale is remarkably well told--instantly capturing the reader's interest.  Moss learns important lessons that critical day of the unwanted guests: about hospitality, maturation of the heart and mind, plus the value of a caring family. This book is<BR>good multicultural fare, which reads quickly.  One wonders if perhaps the first Thanksgiving encounter was something like this....	2003-02-08
1238083:US	52160649	R2NKLII0VO08EV	068971534X	255417181	Justin Morgan Had a Horse	Books	3	17	21	N	N	Growing Big Together	I must be romping through my third childhood because I still love this classic equine tale about the founder of a truly<BR>American breed of horse.  I enjoyed it now just as much as when I was young; Henry's story holds up with successive readings<BR>since the human emotions are sincere, and the dramatic events are true.  The young protagonist, Joel, has a passion for horses; as a young man he dreams of finding his beloved, Lil Bub, the first Morgan colt whom no one wanted.  <br />  Even more, this is a story of Vermont--famous for its Green Mountains and courageous patriots--during the War of 1812. Later on in the story we witness a brief but triumphant presidential visit, where the Morgan horse was publically recognized.  <br />  Plenty of dialogue, short chapters and excellent b/w sketches by Wesley Dennis combine to give us a delightful gallop into the Yankee past.  No one knows for certain who sired the \\"little\\" colt, whom only a poor boy could admire, but tales of his racing speed and pulling strength quickly made him a local legend, with farmers eager to get stud rights.  Like BLACK BEAUTY this book is written for kids and horse lovers of all ages.  PS: Because they are so strong and fast,  Morgans are used in the National Park Service.	2003-02-06
1239118:US	52160649	RWUBSLOACBWZC	0440415802	121406524	Summer of the Monkeys	Books	3	10	12	N	N	Can you Help a Wish?	Wilson Rawls (author of WHERE THE RED FERN GROWS)has done it again, in this delightful tale of a poor family from rural Oklahoma in the early 1900's. Fourteen-year-old Jay Berry Lee lives through incredible events and a rollercoaster of emotions as he comes of age, during one unforgettable summer near the river bottoms in former Cherokee territory.  <br />  Much more than a kid-and-his-dog story, this book will make you chuckle and groan with frustration, as Jay and his smart-as-a-coot Grandpa wrack their brains to catch some 30 monkeys which have escaped the circus after a train wreck.  Lured on by the generous reward offer, Jay becomes obsessed with trapping the little fellows--in order to achieve a country boy's dream of his own pony and .22 gun.  But those simian rascals prove too human-savvy to be caught; time and again they outsmart the best laid plans--all because they are protected by a fiendishly clever chimpanzee.  <br /> Then there is Jay's twin sister, Daisy--crippled since birth. Nevertheless she is always cheerful, has a way with animals, tells great stories and teases him mercilessly. Woe to all who fall under her nurturing care, as she dons her Red Cross \\"uniform\\" and goes into high nursing mode! Hey, is there really an Old Man of the Mountains, who can cause good or bad luck to a family?  This is a warm and fascinating read about setting goals, not giving up easily and the value of family relationships. For kids of all ages, especially if you believe in Fairy Rings...	2003-02-06
1240093:US	52160649	R2OHWRYWSQ88UA	0679601228	760470415	The Best Short Stories of O. Henry (Modern Library)	Books	3	11	16	N	N	THE FOUR MILLION CLUB and other shoft stories	...This anthology contains 21 tales set in New York City at the dawn of the 20th century, but also offers readers a bonus of 4 tales set in the exotic tropics of a fictitious banana republic.  O Henry focuses his curious literary microscope on the diverse lives of various residents of this internationally-famous metropolis. Some of his protagonists can claim idle-rich status, but more represent the middle class and many the poverty-stricken milieu.  Indulgent readers will discover the flavor of a past century, rub shoulders with men on the other side of the law, and commiserate with thwarted lovers--while privately anticipating the trademark ending with a Twist. <br /> But the author's style reminds me of P. G. Wodehouse's moonstruck romantic pairs; the tales predate TV's innocuous \\"Love, American Style\\" episodes, in which we do not take their amorous escapades seriously. Then, to throw us off guard, he spikes the anthology with a few pathic and even tragic stories. One suspects that he was gently trying to raise the social consciousness of the literate public. Various ethnic groups, with their inherent city-acquired bigotry, become the target of his nible wit, especially the Irish and Italians. After all, his beloved olde New York was a true melting pot from the kitchen of Ellis Island.  <br /> Narrated in both first and third, person, these stories incorporate flagrant slang and, for humor, one actually boasts a canine narrator! They challenge contemporary readers with their antiquated vocabulary--intermigled with literary, Biblical and<BR>artsy references.  O. Henry will repeatedly send one to a dictionary or encyclopedia with his liberal sprinkling of foreign words.  Like the British before him, O. Henry contemplates the danger of the temptations of a tropical paradise. Will Yankees actually \\"go Native\\" like so many English did before them? Of course, the real cocoanut conundrum is to choose your five favorite stories from this delightful smorgasbord!	2003-02-05
1240412:US	52160649	R32WY0OIZC68X9	0374456739	360809182	Outcast	Books	4	20	23	N	N	Shackled by his Past	Culture clash in Roman Britain is presented in an unbiased manner for both Celts (or Picts, judging from the facial tattoes) and Romans in this interesting YA novel.  Sutcliff's predilection for ancient times and primitive civilizations results in a gripping plot of teenage identity crisis, while<BR>presenting precise historical detail about Roman culture<BR>superimposed upon the Celts in a way that does not impede enjoyment. Instruction and Enlightenment the easy way. <br />  An infant boy miraculously survives a shipwreck off the coast of prehistoric Britain, providing filial replacement for a cherished infant who recently perished.  Raised as one of the tribe until the age of 9 Beric, suddenly realizes that he is not universally or automatically accepted, despite his loyalty to his foster tribe. There is a long and bitter history of hatred for the Red Crests, who prove to be his Roman progenitors.  <br />  For the next 6 years the boy must constantly prove his right to remain in the village, struggling aginst both his peers, superstition and even an adult nemesis.  He also battles his own internal doubts as to his identity--in which world does he truly belong?  Can he wander through life belonging to neither or both?  A sincere youth caught in the remorseless web of Nature vs Nurture, Beric faces difficult choices in a harsh adult world, where men abuse and torture him without compassion. Will Beric ever be freed of the shackles of hate and humiliation re his mixed heritage which bind his soul, even more surely than the chains on his body?  Many teenagers--searching for their personal Belonging Place--can recognize his anguish. An excellent introduction to the Roman world; for readers of all ages.	2003-02-04
1241065:US	52160649	R1J80J7BATEXNY	0440416639	160627809	The Cay	Books	3	0	0	N	N	He had to be Blind to see the Truth	Son of an American engineer for Royal Dutch Shell, young Philip Enright has been raised on the Island of Curacao in the early 40's.  But his laidback, tropical lifestyle is suddenly shattered when German subs blockade the port, then torpedo even his escape boat.  The ruthless forces of World War II catapult the boy into a world of danger and darknes, for he regains consciousness upon a raft--with only a huge Black native and the ship's cat as companions. <br />  Terrified and hampered by his blindness, the boy must come to grips with many elements, in order to survive his ordeal both at sea and finally on an<BR>inhospitable Caribbean cay. Waging his own private war with instant helplessness, Philip must test all his ingrained racial prejudices, as he realizes that his very life depends upon old<BR>Timothy's compassion, native skills and tenacity of spirit.<BR>The boy's social education continues over four months, culminating in his \\"graduation\\" from The Cay School of Survival.  But the kindly Negro envisions a larger plan for his student: to teach him to become totally self-sufficient.  This interesting story, though not deep or literary, offers gentle racial undertones.  The style--fast action, dialect and much dialogue--will appeal to middle school readers.  A refreshing change from Winter survival tales.	2003-02-04
1241622:US	52160649	R24J6CD8K2R2KH	0679732411	926819230	Gift from the Sea: 50th-Anniversary Edition	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Precious Portholes of Feminine Introspection	This book is a gem of feminine insight and should be required reading (I truly hate that term, but in this case, it is valid)<BR>for women over 30.  Not to mention women who plan to reach 30.  I recall having this book forced down our immature throats in <BR>junior high English class, when the book first came out to critical acclaim in the late 50's. This seemed ill-advised, as the subject matter, plus lack of plot and character development or even characters in the first place, proved quite beyond the limited literary appreciation of the class. <br />  Half a lifetime later, while perusing the dusty shelves of a used book store, I came across a copy of that almost forgotten book, presented so enthusiastically but naively by my long-ago English teacher.  Now, as an adult, I decided to give it mature consideration; Ic can't believe what a treasure I had in my hands--how I had missed these pearls of human wisdom for decades!  But it is never too late to recognize a jewel between covers.  <br />  The author felt impelled to take a retreat on an almost deserted island--perhaps to reflect at lesiure upon her roles as daughter, sister, wife, mother, woman and human being. As she strolls carelessly along the soothingly indifferent shore, she can not resist picking up vairous shells--all gifts, as it were, from the sea.  Considering each type at length at days' end, she realizes that these various shells represent the the different stages of a woman's life. The bivalves, like butterly shells, remind her of the marriage bonds; the chambered nautilus reflects her home, which needs more rooms as the family expands. For Lindbergh each shell fills a special niche in the multitudinous roles which is a woman's privilege to perform. So I invite all thoughtful, sensitive women to plunge their hands into the foamy surf and contemplate the gifts from the sea...of Life.  Don't be afraid to recall the stages of your own past, for all personal struggles have validity in one's private destiny.  Lindbergh's gift to humanity is a her tender but timeless insight.	2003-02-04
1244889:US	52160649	R31XIRCI1DG92I	0140345353	91009783	The Devil's Arithmetic (Puffin Modern Classics)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Through the Doors of Life or Death	This compelling novel about life in a Nazi concentration camp is starkly authentic, told from the viewpoint of a modern Jewish teenage girl who is mysteriously transported back in time.  As in other stories of time travel, she struggles to retain her American and contemporary identity, and ultimately her life, for she has taken the place of another girl in Europe during World War II. How is it that she can instantly speak and understand Yiddish?  Why do these kindly villagers mistake her for someone else? How will she survive the horrors of the death camp, with its gas ovens and \\"Jew smoke?\\"  Can she prove a person of value and integrity, keeping her human dignity even in the face of  the Nazi dehumanization process? \\"If she does survive, Hannah knows she will never again have to ask why we must remember--for she herself will never forget.\\"  <br />  This temporal shifting reminds me of two of my favorites, Charlotte Sometimes and The  Victorian Chaise Longue, in which the heroines awaken in the past and are mistaken for someone else.  If Hannah should succeed in returning to the future (i.e. her own time), will her hair be shorn and will her arm bear the accursed tattoo?  A must-read for all thinking adults and feeling teens. Finally there is proper literary homage to those brave and nameless young people who lost their lives as victims of man's racial prejudice and senseless hate.  The legacy of shame must be published abroad, so that it will not be repeated. Does your school teach the Holocaust?	2003-02-01
1245548:US	52160649	R30KXMPU8IL79K	0064401219	696761008	The Fledgling (Hall Family Chronicles, Book 4)	Books	2	2	18	N	N	TO FLY: FAIRY OR SAINT?	Chalk up yet another book in the Kid and Bird category!  Eight-year-old Georgie is small and spindly for her age; she looks much younger and even insists that she can fly!  Her attempts using the stairs to launch her slender frame into space cause her family (mother, step-father and half siblings) great concern--enough to lead the teenagers to privately form the Georgie Protection Society. <br />  When a flock of migrating Canadian geese takes up temporary residence at Walden Pond, she feels an unexplained but special affinity with an old, single gander.<BR>The proud loner spots her red hair and tries to make friendly contact with one of humankind's most receptive ambassadors.  In her own childish mind she names him the Goose Prince.  <br /> But other eyes and spying and prying into their private dream world: the snooty new neighbor, Miss Madeline Prawan, who plants plastic roses in her garden! Her boss at the bank, Mr. Ralph Preek, is even worse; he wages an unreasonable but deadly vendetta against the old goose, who is not only harmless, but seems to want to bestow a special gift upon this unqiue child.<BR><br /> Can the GPS foil the cruel intentions of enemies of the Goose Prince?  Will this little girl really be able to fly, or is it just a a hallucination: if she has lost touch with reality, how about the adults who savor the hunting season?  Can profit be made if she turns out to be some kind of levitating saint? And just what is the unique present which the old goose finds, to later share with his flying companion?  A curious fantasy for young readers, who will actually learn something about Henry David Thoreau, who immortalized Concord's Walden Pond.	2003-01-31
1246287:US	52160649	R207OH0SQZXGZK	0060809248	591439555	The Phantom of the Opera: The Original Novel	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Everything that is undergrund belongs to him!	Wow--is this novel for real?  It reads like a 20's silent movie, yet it hooks you, capturing your imagination right from the<BR>start.  You may think you know the story from the 90's musical and various movie versions, but you can't  really Know it until you read the original.  This is the French contribution to the Gothic Novels of the late 19th century: Bram Stoker's Dracula, Mary Shelley's Frankenstein, and R.L. Stevenson's Dr. Jekyll and Hr. Hyde--the British triumvirate of Horror. <br />  PHANTOM represents the epitome of Theatre of the macabre; in fact this story is actually set inside a theater--the Paris Opera. But<BR>this particular opera house is haunted by the self-proclaimed Opera Ghost, whose reign of terror exceeds mere parlor tricks.  His talents incude abduction, dispassionate but brutal murder,<BR>and extortion--both financial and entrepreneurial. The Directors<BR>are his frustrated pawns, but no one is safe from his vile, utterly selfish schemes. <br />  Since the story is so well known, I will not recapitulate the plot--just recreate the below-the-stage setting. We gradually glimpse a subterranean kingdom ruled by a vicious madman, who skulks in darkness because his face is so horribly disfigured that mankind shuns his presence.  Those unfortunate individuals who happen to catch a glimpse of him refer to a Death's Head; indeed his favorite costume is from<BR>Poe's \\"Mask of the Red Death.\\"  Of course we have the beautiful but typically helpless young heroine, Christine, the Swedish singer whose career he has taken into his gloved hand.  The triangle is completed by the ardent but reckless Count de Chagny, who has loved her since childhood.  Luckily for the couple they acquire a curious ally known only as the Persian, who relates the amoral history of the masked madman below-boards.  <br /> I found Leroux's literary style confusing, however, since he takes great and frequent liberties with time.  He alernates writing in the 3rd person (as the omnisicent narrator) and the first person--with Two different characters telling their own stories.  (We need a scorecord to distinguish between the two I's.) In addition the prologue and epiloque to the 26 chapters are written by Leroux's amateur detective, Rouletabille, who outwits both criminals and the Paris police by the use of brilliant, Holmesian deduction. Leroux neatly ties up most of the loose threads for us, but we do wonder how the Phantom accomplishes all those fascinating sleight-of-hand tricks which baffle the Directors.  Only the Persian fully understands his evil past; only sweet Christine finds compassion for the phantom; only Raoul risks all to save his beloved. Beware if you venture into his realm beneath the opera house, for you enter a grim and dangerous dommain; to step into the phantom's territory is to challenge his will and endanger your life and poissibly your sanity.  Timeless Horror which will ensnare you.	2003-01-31
1246774:US	52160649	RDGO4T4RCUSP8	0446400513	510904084	One Corpse Too Many (Chronicles of Brother Cadfael)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Soldier-Sailor-Crusader turned Monk	This is one story which I had seen on PBS, which inspired me to read the original. What a treasure lay waiting in my bookcase!<BR>I found that all Ellis Peters' Brother Cadfael books are &quot;Excellent Mysteries&quot;, even if I occasionally question her private brand of clerical or secular justice.  But the literary gems of extreme value are those five novels which enhance our understanding of the protagonist's character.  An additional bonus to the delectable mysteries themselves with their  beautifully landscaped setting of England or Wales is our introduction to medieval customs and monastic ritual.  <br />  I promise to be careful not to give anything away which might diminish the reader's enjoyment of future novels in the series (20, plus a prequel book of 3 short tales).  My favorites are #1, where we realize the importance of Cafael's devotion to his Saint Winifrid, also Welsh. Next comes #2 because we have the wonderful relationship with Hugh Beringar, his friend and fellow sleuth--no matter which of the warring cousins they seem to serve: King Stephen or Empress Maud.  My last 3 favorites are those novels which reveal Cadfael's gradual relationship with Olivier--no hints or spoilers.  Thus the unlikely hero who has retired from the world to pursue a life of inner peace within the cloister becomes increasingly more human; he earns our sympathy, respect and love. <br />  Forget the clever plot on this one--for it is the unique and fascinating countredance of personalities that makes this novel precious. Each side in the battle for the kingdom is distrustful, trying to outmaneuver the other.  Readers must decide for themselves who gains the most, who loses the most and who has the last laugh. Brother Cadfael certainly enjoys great freedom of movement--missing many masses and daily offices in purusit of justice--thanks to the old Abbot's pious nature and shunning of secular matters. Ellis Peters offers us much more than mystery artfully blended with medievalhistory; she presents great insight into the human heart and mind. Savor each novel and Brother Cadfeal will surely become your favorite herbalist-detective.	2003-01-30
1247337:US	52160649	R3N7B6TYUFE2PC	0451166493	909243371	Cold River (Signet)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Learning to Share Her Father	Judson's 1974 story deals with survival on two levels: a brutal winter in the frozen woods and the hot battle between step-siblings.  Of course two kids have a better chance of making it on their own during the winter than just one, but not all the predators have four legs. This readable book rivals Paulsen's man-about-the-woods with its forest lore. It is supposed to be impossible to starve in Nature's bounty--even in winter. <br /><BR>In 1921 fourteen-year-old Lizzie and her step-brother, Tim, anticipate a two-week camp out with their father--a capable woodsman and professional guide in the Adirondack mountains. In fact this book is a treasury of survival information.  One of Lizzy's talents is the ability to remember (if not actually understand) everything that she hears.  But when their father dies after a whitewater disaster, the two youngsters must pool their knowledge and skills (plus come to terms with their conflicting emotions about the blended family) in order to make it through the long months of challenge and outright danger.  Most of the tale is a flashback, from adult Lizzy's viewpoint. The pace picks up dramatically near the end, when the kids face adult violence.  This changes the genre of the book from mere survival to thriller--with a touch of mystery.  Enjoyable reading for all teens or to keep as a guide in a cabin in the woods.	2003-01-30
1248142:US	52160649	R2WYQ1PLMPLZH0	0446404284	70661364	The Virgin in the Ice (Brother Cadfael Mysteries)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	The Hawk vs the Lion--a Secret kept even from Hugh!	SPOILER WARNING: Do not read this review unless you have read Pilgrim of Hate or Brother Cadfael's Penance!  Unlike Brother  Cadfael, who hugs his precious secret and private joy to his thankful breast, I can restrain my \\"pen\\" only with the greatest difficulty.  I want to publish the news  abroad, but also have an obligation not to spoil the thrill of future discovery for readers who will follow.  <br />  All Ellis Peters' movels in this fabulous series offer excellent mysteries per se; indeed, many offer overlapping crimes by multiple malefactors. Yet to my medievally-inclined mind, the most satisfying are those novels which reveal more fascinating details or penetrating insight into the psyche and active past of our favorite monk-turned-sleuth.  For Cadfael has been a soldier, sailor, sinner and Crusader--in his own unabashed words--in late 12th century Wales, England and the Holy Land. After 40 years of lusty living in the World, he willingly gave up arms forever, to take up the cowl and honor the cross.  <br />  But the cream of Peters' novels are those in which we meet the special characters do dear to Cadfael: his Saint, his best friend, Hugh, his lost amours and now...?  What a joy for readers who have grown to love and respect this dedicated monk, as he gradually reveals his personal journey into a past not so dead after all! Peters makes a great case for mixed marriage in VIRGIN, as she does for the role of a faithful mistress in LEPER.  Guilty men believe they see the ghosts of their victims here, as in BONES.  The murderer thinks he can slip in an extra crime amid the general carnage, as in ONE CORPSE, but luckily for justice, Brother Cadfael does not permit these foul deeds to remain unnoticed on go unpunished.  Vengeance may belong to the Lord, but Cadfael  hovers nearby to provide a helping hand when necessary. Don't keep your curiosity frozen in a shroud of ice along with the unnamed virgin; read this wonderful mystery and be enlightened--not to mention--superbly entertained!	2003-01-29
1248652:US	52160649	R2CAHZY8BSCR8X	0380720434	781164760	Blue Heron	Books	3	0	2	N	N	TO TOUCH THE MAGIC!	Although this book seems thick compared weth other YA novels, these 186 pages read easily, thanks to extensive dialogue. Soon-to-be 13 Maggie feels like a \\"summer hostage\\" while visiting her father--a court-ordered social ritual which produces recurring <BR>mental anguish ever since her parents divorced when she was six.  Clinging to her childhood memories of a game of Magic shared by her dad, Maggie dreads this visit to a rented cabin on a remote lake in Connecticut.  There she will have to face a young step-mother and baby half-sister.  Her stay will trigger explosive events which impact several lives and redefine already painful relationships.  <br />  Seeking escape from the emotional turmoil in the cabin, Maggie is gradually captivated by the grace and quiet dignity of a blue heron, who rules the neighboring marsh. Soon she is obsessed by the giant bird--considering him an Omen, but for Life or for Death?  Determined to win his trust, she daily observes him at dawn, discovering that he too has reason for private agitation. Maggie's investigations on his behalf demonstrate her budding moral courage, yet she also feels overwhlemed that they all seem to be asking for her help: the heron, her step-mother and even her belligerent father.  Is this too great a burden for a young teen?  <br />  There is no romance for Maggie on this vacation, but realization of her complex, extended-family roles. During most of the book she speaks to adults in unrevealing monosyllables; her vocabulary only comes alive when she interacts with kids.  This book presents a gripping psycho-drama, as an ordinary girl suddenly comes of age.  Perhaps Avi deliberately included a plea for wildlife conservation.  BLUE HERON is probably of greater appeal to high school girls (who try to hide their true feelings from adults), despite the lack of love interest.  Thoughtful insight into blended family dynamics.	2003-01-29
1248975:US	52160649	R3UCXP72VTXL7M	0440800536	184996617	JOHNNY TREMAINE	Books	4	5	6	N	N	That a Man May Stand Up!	This is fascinating historical fiction, for Esther Forbes has seamlessly woven a good Colonial yarn about an aspiring apprentice silversmith into the tapestry of New England's grievances, which culminated in the American Revolution. One could almost believe that Johnny--quick, cocksure, ambitious--actually lived and rubbed shoulders with the brilliant and fervent Boston patriots:  Paul Revere, John Hancock, Sam and john Adams.   <br />  What a wonderful parallel read this is for English-History classes, which will definitely appeal to boys<BR>who crave literary action. The protagonist is an impoverished youth who loses his job and ultimately his place in a modest craftsman's home, because of an accident in which he burns his hand beyond folk healing. He struggles to find a few position, new friends and a sense of self-worth, since he realizes that his silver dreams are shattered beyond repair.  But Johnny also undertakes a personal quest--a legacy from his poor mother: to be recognized by a wealthy merchant's family as a direct heir. But was this spirited and talented fellow meant to be a nobleman?  Ultimately he learns to value the nobility of the heart. <br />  As war clouds loom increasingly over disgruntled Boston, Johnny's outlook changes; his new, American loyalty is refined in a crucible of patriotic hope--fired by the empassioned oratory of James Otis.  The coming Revolution will stand as a beacon to oppressed people the world over, even back in &quot;mother&quot; England.  Johnny learns to curb his temper somewhat, as he comes of age and suddenly must perform a man's job by defending his values in perilous times.  This book is an excellent story which will hold the reader's interest because of the intensely personal storyline, plus accurate historical details. This book makes one proud to be Yankee born!	2003-01-29
1250623:US	52160649	R11E27TXI19B0A	0590424351	759550669	The Christmas Dolls (The Girls of the Good Day Orphanage)	Books	2	6	11	N	N	Dolls Talk to this Girl!	What a delightful premise that dolls can \\"speak\\" to selected listeners (kids only, of course) even while adults are present.  This results in natural dialogue confusion, since the grown ups remain clueless to these private conversations. This is a simple little tale of bonding between a little girl in an orphanage and two \\"rejected\\" charity dolls.  Child and dolls work together to avert disaster on Christmas Eve: by providing each other the best presents--unconditional love and each other!  This cute, short fantasy will appeal to elementary girls.  York has captured the spirit of a kinder, gentler age in this charmer.	2003-01-27
1252046:US	52160649	R3L3I082QPW0DI	0064400565	467489712	Stuart Little	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Mouse on a Quest	This darling chidlren's classic--with exquisite b/w illistrations by Garth Williams--has been a family favoite since my childhood.  Orignally begun as a series of unrelated tales about a mouse born into a human family who lives in a kinder, gentler New York City, this book gradually evolves into a novelette. After several expository chapters the plot finally emerges; in this animal fantasy world human-rodent relationships and dialogue are accepted as natural. This humorous but unlikely story will appeal to elementary children and all who keep mice as pets. <br /> For our Stuart is a Mouse-about-Town (and Country), in his mini-car with invisible capabilities. He might even be the literary ancestor of Beverly Cleary's Mouse and the Motorcycle.  His self-appointed quest is to seek out his dear friend, Margalo--a tamed wild bird who flew away in fear of the family cat. <br />  Equally at home on land or on water, this intrepid mouse discovers that not all his \\"Midsummer Memories\\" are sweet, but his adventures capture our childlike imagination.  This gentlmanly mouse is sociable (with occasional hints of the sulks). He is at home both in a canoe and in the schoolroom; he admire his fearlessness in setting out to succeed in a human world.  He follows his dream with quiet independence and determination; we respect his steadfast devotion to Margalo, who once saved his life.  This is a simple, pleasant read for the young at heart.	2003-01-26
1252968:US	52160649	R1VKO28A4P2CZU	0091672503	345390522	Hedgerow tales	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Gently-Told tales of Natural History	This gentle book is not a plotted story; rather, it consists of ten short tales (complimented by cute pen and ink sketches) about various wild animals who inhabit an English hedgreow.<BR>It presents much information about Natural History but in the guise of mini stories; thus children will learn some zoology without realizing it.  Chapters feature the following creatures; rabbits-hares, hedgehogs, lizards-newts, swallows-martins, dormouse-field vole, a fox hunt, badgers, cuckoo-sparrow, bees-wasps, and an evil Rat.  Three chapters offer a bit of conflict to spice things up. Good reading for children 8-10 who want to know more about animals in the wild. This 1935 book has been reprinted in paperback by--are you ready for this-Red Fox!	2003-01-25
1253430:US	52160649	R1RPTK36YM1CFN	0689714335	621543954	The Cat Who Went to Heaven	Books	3	34	35	N	N	Buddhist Lore on Kittycat Paws	This is a darling, quick read--timeless in its appeal to cat lovers!  The Western literary world was \\"discovering\\" the Orient in the 1930's, so this story is set in Japan, where Buddhism flourishes. A poor painter with an artistic soul invites a calico cat, whose coloring is considered lucky, to join his  threadbare household. Can a cat really pray to a statue?  And get results?  However it happens, the artist receives a commission from the high priest to paint a horizontal silk mural for the temple, which would result in instant recognition and the end of his poverty. <br />  After each short chapter the housekeeper gives a little poem summarizing the action.  I just wish they were in Haiku format, to reenforce the Japanese flavor.<BR>During the artist's exhaustive mental preparation, we learn many<BR>details about the life of Buddha (but gently, not in a preachy style), as the artist ponders which animals he will include in his mural. Good Fortune is his silent partner in the creation process, but she seems sad that he refuses to include a cat.  Does the artist dare risk professional failure by acknowledging his debt to this dainty feline?  Will she reallly go to Heaven?  I wish I had discovered this gem decades earlier!  A delightful story for readers of all ages.	2003-01-25
1253476:US	52160649	R315HTH0ZY2OTO	0590420100	900862276	The Foundling Fox	Books	3	1	2	N	N	MATERNAL LOVE	Charming tale about a vixen whose maternal heart reaches out to a motherless kit.  Even though she has 3 kits of her own, this loving creature shares her body, her milk and her heart--to protect the furry orphan.  I don't know if this could actually happen in the real animal world, but FOUNDLING FOX is a sweet and simple tale to read aloud to young children.  Just 47 pages<BR>long, this book can be enjoyed in one sitting--with its soft, watercolor-like illustrations. We come to admire and respect the various ways which the mother fox defends the foundling, until he is truly assimilated into her family. In praise of maternal and step-maternal bonding, this little book presents a timely message of love and tolerance in today's society of blended families.	2003-01-25
1254235:US	52160649	R3BAGBWOBJ98RG	0060505257	226416014	The Archer's Tale (The Grail Quest, Book 1)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Quests for three Fathers	Set in the preliminary stages of the Hundred Years War, Cornwell's novel presents grim action and ruthless adventure as England and France wreak havoc on each other's shores. Thomas of Hookton, sole survivor of a vicious attack on an English coastal hamlet, swears vengeance on the French and Genoese raiders who destroyed the entire village, stole a sacred relic and murdered his father, the priest.  Trained as an archer (a profession which the English perfected to their millitary advantage but which was neglected by other nations), young Thomas spends several years in France, as the English king and his earls dispute the lands of Brittany and Normandy with the French king.  <br />  Cornwell weaves a fast-paced tale despite the inclusion of details about medieval armor, castles, war machines and even the strategy of actual battles. On the romantic side, Thomas is attracted first to a strong-willed French heiress nicknamed the Blackbird, and then to the gentle, illegitimate daughter of one of his French enemies.  But beneath the obvious challenges to his body and heart, a subtle war is waged in his own mind: is the stolen relic really the lance of St. George, which makes men invincible in battle? Chafing under the commission imposed upon him by his dying father, as well as a penance from the army chaplain, the young man must come to terms with his own faith.  Should he credit old tales of a dark force seeking to overthow all earthly kindgoms in an heretical attempt to quench the light of Christianity?  This is an enjoyable read--a delightful swashbuckler--in an age when men became butchers for their country or personal profit.  I recommend this book to any student of Medieval history.	2003-01-24
1254836:US	52160649	R1HBLLH6DTQT0Q	0679890068	763092026	The Dark-Thirty: Southern Tales of the Supernatural	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Voodoo Gumbo--Zacherle would love this!	This book consists of ten eerie tales of the supernatural--begging to be read Alone on \\"a dark and stormy night,\\" or retold around a friendly campfire.  These tales present Black protagonists from the slave era, throughout American history, right up to the present.  The title refers to the half hour of semi-darkness which precedes true nightful--when all tales seem spookier because of the shadows and rustling of nocturnal creatures.  <br />  The stories vary greatly in subject and style: slaves atempt to escape rather than be sold off, or they invoke ancient voodoo rituals to punish a cruel master.  A callous bus driver gets a ghostly brand of justice; an old pullman porter tries to cheat death aboard the 11:59; a man uses ESP to try to<BR>save his family. A distraught mother encounters a sasquatch; a little girl has an unreasonable terror of a monster in the chicken coop, and more. <br />  My personal favorite presentsa  Nigerian legend about the Dark Women who tried to cheat a goddess; they exist solely to trick unwary moderns into inviting them into their homes, where they wreak havoc upon the unsuspecting tenants who naively think they are safe in the 90's.  Only the Gingi can protect these hapless souls from such vindictive spirits.  Like Dracula lore, which insists that the victim must cross the threshhold of his own free will, the evil visitor must receive an invitation before entering. An entertaining and chilling anthology--for those with a premonition of disaster.  There are no references to Halloween, yet this book makes for perfect October reading.  Are you brave enough to finish it? BOO!	2003-01-24
1280471:US	52160649	R27KR1CP7C7QAW	0891905049	968136156	The Lone Ranger in Wild Horse Canyon	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Bridging the Old West and the New	(I am not sure if this is the same book that I actually read; it seems to be a first edition simply entitled, The Lone Ranger, but part of it is set in Wild Horse Valley.) <br /> Fran Striker's 1936 western--based on a character created by George W. Trendle--presents a fast-paced yarn which gallops along with action and sagey adventure.  Set during the transition era between Native American sovereignty and How the West was Won, this book offers typical elements such as murder, intrigue, treachery, romance, foiled schemes, clever counterplots and the role of capricious fate. <br />  This story takes place in 1869, as it chronicles some of the challenges faced by the crew from the East, struggling to complete their section of America's famed transcontinental<BR>railroad.  Here we meet one Ranger, about whom we never learn how he was separated from his Texas unit or if he wears the  distinctive black mask.  Aided by his occasional sidekick<BR>and loyal friend, Tonto, this brave and noble cowboy comes across as a Marshall of the plains without a badge.  We are with him as he finds and tames the mighty Arabian, Silver.  His amazing skills, which include reading lips and speaking the Sioux<BR>tongue fluently, awe both his friends (folks whom he helps) and enemies (those who seek to prey on the innocent). This super horseman unselfishly dedicates his time and talents to rescuing two young people who are victims of a vicious plot against the Union Pacific.  Can one man foil the malicious plans of an Eastern tough--determined to wrest the railroad contract away from the likeable and diligent Waltons?   <br /> Inevitably the author betrays racist views toward Indians, referring to them as Savages of Brutes--even in front of patient Tonto, who is repeatedly described as a Half Breed.  The Irish are subjected to gentle spoofing as well, for their accent and fiery temper.<BR>If you enjoy oaters, then this book is for you, with its evil badguys, twists in the plot and rip-snorting action. But be warned: The Lone Ranger never sticks around to be thanked.  <br /> I also recommend this book to teachers; although it is clearly Classic Lite in the literature department, the Western genre is a particularly American one, which fascinates much of the world to this day. This book can also serve as a springboard for discussions of: literary racism, comparison with other American ficitonal heroes; the winning of the West, Westward migration in general, the glory of the railroad era, and Western topography.<BR>Just because a book is not a recognized Classic is no reason to dismiss it from the classroom.	2003-01-05
1293435:US	52160649	R141SJTC2W784R	014043755X	199196338	The Prisoner of Zenda and Rupert of Hentzau (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Fate does not always make the right the man King	Rudolf Rassendyll, cadet of a minor British aristocratic<BR>family, unexpectedly finds himself embroiled in central European politics--thanks to his uncanny resemblance to the King of Ruritania--who is actually his distant, red-headed cousin. Obliged to play the part of the incommoded King for the coronation, Rudolf must perpetuate the royal imposture much longer than the loyal conspirators had planned, for the evil Duke of Strelsau has set in motion a diabolical scheme to seize the Crown and the  beautiful Princess Flavia for himself.  Aided by the The Six, who would march into Hell for him, black-haired Michael wages a secret but murderous war to remove this new threat to his unbridled ambitions. <br />  How long can Col. Sapt and faithful Fritz von Tarlenheim protect the true identity of the play-actor king, while preserving the life of the real king, who languishes in a prison at the Duke's stronghold of Zenda?   Must a man sacrifice his pasion to maintain loyalty to a newly-met cousin? <br />  And what of a maiden's heart--is it noble to toy with the affections of a princess? What sacrifice must their red-haired cousin make in the name of national peace?  As one character wisely remarks: \\"Pawns rarely are allowed to indulge in passions of their own.\\" Rudolf experiences the ultimate trade-off: King for 3 months in a tiny kingdom, yet he rules forever in her heart! This swashbuckler is a great tale of intrigue<BR>which reads swiftly and is sure to entertain all who crave action, romance and adventure.	2002-12-26
1306661:US	52160649	RJRY5N4XY1W99	068971310X	712926184	The Wind in the Willows	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Delightful animal Idyll	This childhood favorite is as fresh and charming as when it was first published--and when my father read it to us with obvious . delight when we were kids. The animal protagonists--Ratty, Mole, Badger and Toad--remind us of folks we know, which endears them to us with their all-too-human dreams and foibles.  For both People and Creatures struggle to survive in the forests and streams of life. <br />  Exhausted from his strenuous spring cleaning, Mole sets out into the world Aboveground, where he discovers the joys and challenges of riverbank life with his new friend and host, the water rat.  But beware the perils lurking in the adjacent Wild Wood!  <br /> Kenneth Grahame weaves a gentle tale with willow strands of friendship, dedication to ideals and personal sacrifice for others.  Come ride the roads with Toady, and scull down the river with Ratty; savor the sentimental whisperings of Home with Mole. Then join the ranks of Badger's Avengers to honor ancestral memories.  This beloved classic combines humor and pathos with lively adventure in an animal realm which closely parallels human endeavor. This book is a true gem, to be rediscovered by successive generations and treasured by children of all ages!	2002-12-13
1307306:US	52160649	R3DX9KWP4ICS87	0449238652	965218589	That Quail, Robert	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Five Ounces of FLuff and a Heart of Gold!	Who would have expected so much personality and affection would hatch out of an abandoned quail's egg?  Yet that is precisely what occurred on Cape Cod in 1962, as chronicled with love and honesty by the author. Can a merely human world become a<BR>satisfactory  substitue for Nature?  Is the orphaned creature better off with its own kind or with an adoptive family of an alien species?  Readers must judge for themselves in this charming tale of a delightful female quail, mistakenly named<BR>Robert. <br /> Written with humor and sincerity by a compassionate neighbor (Robert's &quot;Aunt&quot;), this slim volume is a gem which contains surprising family dynamics, as two life forms adapt<BR>to a harmonious family unit--beneficial and deeply rewarding on both sides.  Human emotions and reactions seem to have been imprinted on this impressionable birdling, who rapidly becomes a member of the household--even to requiring baysitters!  You will chuckle and weep over her antics and trials. How Human can a bird get?  Once you spend some quality time with Robert, you will know the answer for yourself.	2002-12-12
1309452:US	52160649	R3AUONO858I15L	0689806590	497776027	Bunnicula: A Rabbit-Tale of Mystery	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Cape and Fangs Caper!	This cute animal fantasy is a quick and easy read, filled with plenty of dialogue and amusing family dynamics.  Harold, the kind-hearted canine narrator, faithfuly relates the bizarre events following the introduction of a black and white rabbit into a family of two pre-teen boys.  Book-educated Chester, the wise cat, however, is immediately suspicious of the new pet, whose name tag was written in a Carpathian dialect-uh-oh! Easy-going Harold tries to befriend the the little fellow, yet even he has to admit that plenty of odd stuff happens after dark.  Are humans just slower to \\"catch on\\" than the four-footed world?  Are the authors making not-so-subtle pleas for nutritious doggy snacks and humane bunny care?  If you recall the self-analysis craze of the '70's, you'll chuckle at this spook of America's mania to get-in-touch-with-your-inner-self near the end of the book. Go, Dr. Crazy Cats!  This is for kids of all ages-relax with Dracula Lite!	2002-12-11
1314215:US	52160649	R3IB4JSTVJZSNC	1587157543	436995630	The Complete Life and Adventures of Santa Claus	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Birth of the Santa Legend	The author of the Wizard of Oz deserves consideration and respect for the delightful fantasies he has provided the world. This syrupy recreation of Santa's youth, manhood and ultimate immortality is quainting charming--especially to the young-at-<BR>heart. However, there are several serious issues mentioned: if we are to die, why are we born at all?  No outright religion is preached, but this is a Baum's philosophy: \\"Everything perishes except the world itself and its keepers..but while life lasts,<BR>everything on earth has its use. The wise seek ways to be helpful to the world, for the helpful ones are sure to live<BR>again.\\"  <br /> This book relates how an orphan named Claus found his true calling--to bring joy to the children of the world. Each man must discover and honor his own mission, but Claus' dilemma is the morality of giving gifts to rich children, when there are so many who are truly poor. One chapter even deals with the timeless battle between Good and Evil. <br />  Baum describes how each custom associated with the secular celebration of Christmas came into existence--without reference to the manger scene.  Baum truly loved children, as he dedicated most of his writing to their enjoyment.  He concludes about the annual gift-bringer: \\"No one..was so greatly beloved as Santa<BR>Claus, because none other was so unselfish as to devote himself to making others happy.  For a generous deed...spreads and leaves its mark on all nature and endures through many generations.\\"  An enjoyable, sentimental tale for children of all ages and religions.	2002-12-07
1316850:US	52160649	R1HA57O7LXQBN0	1888105402	607471243	Mumbet: The Life and Times of Elizabeth Freeman : The True Story of a Slave Who Won Her Freedom (Avisson Young Adult Series)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Justice in a Connecticut Courtroom	This concise but interesting book is an excellent biography of a courageous and gifted Black woman in the post-Colonial era. With self-composure she fought for her freedom--not by using violence, but by working within the Law, to ultimately receive her moral due: Justice in a Connecticut courtroom. <br />  Consisting of an introduction and 15 short chpaers, this modest volume depicts her focused struggle to enjoy the same liberty which the Colonists had recently bought so dearly.  In her pursuit of jusice Mumbet earns the respect of her lawyer and second master/employer.  She performs all household duties with skill and modesty: nurse, housekeeper, even defender of the hearth during the master's absence.  Mumbet pursues her lonely dream of freedom some 35 years before the Emancipation Proclamation, achieving her goal legally and with great personal dignity.  I had never heard of this courageous woman before, I am ashamed to confess, so this little book is a perfect introduction to students of Black history, as well as Women's Studies in general.  Very readable and inspiring re overcoming obstacles with patience, perseverence and peace.	2002-12-05
1317845:US	52160649	R9VNS9IBK221R	0805060731	909009635	Understood Betsy	Books	3	17	26	N	N	Torn between Loving Loyalties	Nine-year-old Elizabeth Ann has lead an extremely sheltered life with her fluttery, over-protective aunts in an unnamed city in the midwest. But when one of aunts becomes seriously ill, this smothering influence is suddenly removed, as the girl is sent out into the extended-family pasture. Her fragile world is turned topsy-turvy as her despairing aunts pack her off to those dreadful, Putney cousins in distant Vermont.  <br /> Astonished at being instantly called Betsy and suddenly expected to Do for herself--not to mention, for others--the girl finds herself helping with household chores for the first time in her young life.  Over the months she blooms with health, intelligence, new skills, and compassion for others--this is surely the Vermont Cure! She gradually becomes the pride of the three old folks at the farm, a joy to her teacher and even a temporary big sister.  Betsy is amazed to discover herself and her innate talents; she actually enjoys lending a hand and living life to the fullest.  Betsy needs to exercise both her smarts, to get out of difficult situations, and her heart, to promote social justice. Settling<BR>into a simple but comfortable New England routine, she truly matures from a fearful, dependent Elizabeth Ann, into the lively and capable Betsy.  But where will she ultimately be happiest?  First she just wanted to be \\"understood\\" by her adult relatives, but finally she tries to do some \\"understanding\\" herself.  After all, isn't that what people basically want--to be Understood (appreciated as and for ourselves) by those dearest to us?  A quaint, gentle childhood classic set in simpler times, of particular interest to girls 9-12.	2002-12-04
1323305:US	52160649	R1TCSI3IIN3W4I	0451526562	365726027	A Tale of Two Cities (Signet Classics)	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Saving Charles Darnay	Immortalized in movies and frequently quoted in TV trivia games, this classic is set against the bloody tapestry of the French Revolution, preceding and during the Reign of Terror.  Innocent people on both sides of the English Channel are swept up in the current of seething passion and agony, from one capital, across  water and beach, to yet another capital, in a demented attempt to appease long-denied justice.  It is unfortunate that the excesses of the Privileged are counterbalanced by the atrocities of the Oppressed, as centuries of aristocractic abuse are purged in a national bloodbath of revenge run amuck.<br />  This tale (originally serialized in newspaper installments) presents a twist on the eternal triangle plot; father-daughter-suitor/husband, as the three men who love Lucie Manette deeply-- but in different ways--struggle to protect their adored angel.<br />Forged over a few decades, the inevitable chain of events which results in the ultimate sacrifice of self, is revealed in various poignant links--albeit not in perfect chronological order. The sins of the past are revisited upon the innocent (or barely guilty) heirs, as two letters written from prisons produce cataclysmic social results. Devotion, treachery, honor and pitiless vindictiveness are the threads which the author has knitted into his literary Register of personal tragedy which is inextricabley woven into a national horror. This novel provides a great study of the vicious, remorseless cult of the guillotine, along with Dickens'usual parade of memorable primary and secondary characters.  A must-read for Dickens' admirers and students of the French Revolution.	2002-11-29
1332755:US	52160649	RGKENTZKREL61	0486424677	115735235	The Wind in the Willows (Dover Large Print Classics)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Delightful Animal Idyll	This childhood favorite is as fresh and charming as when it was first published.  The animal protagonists--Ratty, Mole, Badger and Toad--remind us of folks we know, which endears them to us<BR>with their all-too-human dreams and foibles. For both Men and Creatures struggle to survive in the forest and streams of life.  Exhausted from his strenuous spring cleaning, Mole sets out into the world Aboveground, where he discovers the joys and challenges of Riverbank Life with his new friend and host, the water rat.  But beware the perils lurking in the adjacent Wild Wood! <br />  Kenneth Grahame weaves a gentle tale with willow strands of friendship, dedication to ideals and sacrifice. Come ride the roads with Toady, and skull down the river with Ratty; savor the sentimental whisperings of Home with Mole. Then join the ranks of Badger's Avengers! This beloved classic combines humor and pathos with lively adventure in an animal realm which parallels human endeavor. This book is a true gem, to be rediscovered by successive generations and treasured by children of all ages!	2002-11-21
1353468:US	52160649	R1H4QZZ4QY57JZ	0451527623	439617492	The Scarlet Pimpernel (Signet Classics)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The Duel in a Woman's Heart	Torn between love for her brother and her husband, Lake Blakeney is tortured by doubt and guilt during the autumn of 1792--a turbulent year for France and her English sympathizers.  Members of the hated French nobility (sacres aristos!) are ruthlessly hunted down, incarcerated, then executed to the jeers of the abused masses--grisly fodder for Madame Guillotine.  Regardless of the justice or injustice of their fate, readers are treated to a gripping tale of vicious schemes, clever counterplots, and international intrigue.  A band of 19 English aristocrats pledge life and loyalty to their audacious and ingenious leader, known cryptically by his signature flower: the Scarlet Pimpernel. This band of disguised heroes undertakes to rescue the doomed French nobility from the insatiable jaws of the Reign of Terror. <br /> Hounded by foxlike Chauvelin, the merciless agent for the bloodthirsty Republic, the Scarlet Pimpernel is walking into a fiendish trap--unwittingly set in motion by his own, unsuspecting wife, who does not realize his true personoa behind his foppish mask. The distraught woman, a former actress at the Comedie Francaise, is forced to make intolerable choices by her implacable foe who stalks her happiness, tirelessly pursuing the<BR>shadowy trail of the daring Pimpernel. How much emotional torture can a woman endure in such a short time?  Once she tumbles onto the truth about her sham marriage, she realizes that the heart she scorned is truly a prize worth earning--even dying for!  Romance, lust for political power, and duels of wit mark this fast-paced novel of intrigue set in the French Revolution on both shores of the Channel. This is a spy swashbuckler without the usual swordplay; instead, readers enjoy a lightning exchange of rapier wits, while two hearts struggle to deny their true passion.	2002-11-03
1355416:US	52160649	R2NF7XI3GR3D5T	0938817485	597962319	Dark Shadows Movie Book: House of Dark Shadows and Night of Dark Shadows	Books	2	1	9	N	N	Reviving the Curse of the Collins Family	When greedy Willie Loomis unwittingly unchains the hidden coffin of long dead Barnabas Collins, he unleashes a reign of terror upon the decaying family and the local New England town of Collinsport.  Who suddenly turns up on their doorstop but a debonaire English \\"cousin\\" whose resemblance to the ancestral portrait is uncanny. He sets about restoring the Old House to its former grandeur, but is soon fatally attracted to the family's lovely governess.  A series of attacks on women are considered suspicious by the resident doctor and a loyal <BR>professor in the area, both of whom come to the gruesome conclusion that there is a vampire on the prowl. This is fast-paced fluff of debatable literary merit, but if you are into Gothic Horror tales, you will enjoy the jealousy, evil schemes and desperate remedies undertaken to end this family curse.  When the coastal mists finally evaporate, there are few left to tell the grisly tale of a vampires's dream to achieve a normal life and reclaim his lost love.  NB: This scenario vastly differs from the daytime soap, as Victoria Winters, Quentin and Angelique are not included in the blood-spattered cast.	2002-11-01
1355618:US	52160649	R39KQIQR9TIGMB	0821218557	65982594	Picture This: Perception & Composition	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The Subtle Impact of  Color and Shape	This book is a gem to be treasured by all elementary teachers for their Art library.  Molly Bang demonstrates the use color and shape to inspire creativity and emotions in the minds of young students.  I had the privlege of attending her demonstration lecture some years ago at a Children's Literature Conference.  There I was delighted to discover the subtle simplicity of her ideas; I even put them into practice with my preschool class.  This book will open a new world of enjoyment and enrichment activities--especially in the study of fairy tales--while introducing basic artistic principles. I highly recommend it!	2002-11-01
1360340:US	52160649	R9SSXSVMJ7DQC	B00005XJGJ	425541861	The Island of Captain Sparrow	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Voices in the Night	Shipwrecked through an odd tidal tunnel inside a cliff-enclosed island in the Pacific, Charlton cares little about his own life or tropical beauty.  But the invalid protagonist soon discovers that this landfall proves no forest idyll, for it hosts three diverse populations: an enigmatic people who predate the pyramids, with their mirror which sees into the future; a race of verbal and social satyrs; and a breed of hybrid bestiality--the descendants of the pirate crew of Captain Sparrow, his son and various derelict women brought into his privcate kingdom.<BR>Add to this jungle mix the spice of three French castaways--one of whom is a comely maiden--and readers have the ingredients for a delicious variety of adventurous scenarios. <br />  This ia a ripping good fantasy yarn with its exotic setting, major cultural clashes, and the usual fodder of exiting plotlines: greed, ambition, adventure and lust for sex and power.  The author even indulges in brief asides to comment on male or female attributes, or the essense of humanity--but never in such a way as to cripple the pace. The novel makes for smooth reading, with refreshing alternation of action, narration and reflection.  Can two Europoeans create a true Utopia in ths almost untouched world?  Egos and emotions clash in the night, as Charlton and Marcelle are recast as a primeval Adam and Eve in this unique world.  Will frail Charlton prove the catalyst for the destruction--or the salvation--of this island which time seems to have forgotten?	2002-10-28
1375123:US	52160649	R34LK2D07M5A97	0880641428	645679642	Peter Schlemiel: The Man Who Sold His Shadow	Books	3	6	6	N	N	What Price a Shadow?	Young Peter Schlemiel, marveling at the prodigal purse of a grey stranger at a millionaire's party, eagerly agrees to trade his shadow for limitless wealth.  Not realizing the true value of something so intangible, God's fool discovers to his sorrow that he's made a hellish bargain: he is soon shunned as a cursed man by all levels of society. The one thing he can not buy is the unconditional acceptance by other human beings. Hounded by persistent and universal Superstition, he is forced to wander the globe in bitter loneliness.  <br /> Still, wiser men than simple<BR>Peter Schlemiel have grapped with the loathesome stranger who used a man's shadow as a stepping stone to perdition; for his<BR>ultimate goal was, of course, Peter's Soul.  Is there no way this naive fellow can dissolve the fiendish bond between them?<BR>This short novel is written in a Romantic style, with an additional element of fantasy at the end. This morality tale loses some plot value in the latter chapters, but the premise remains tantalyzing--both as literature and spirituality. This story is even mentioned in a tale by ETA Hoffman, whose protagonist trades his Reflection.  Who can set a price on such ephemeral yet vital objects?  What is the real source of human happiness?	2002-10-16
1383561:US	52160649	RZRHUKMIAP864	1587156091	545244487	Scaramouche	Books	3	12	13	N	N	Jack of Hearts in revolutionary France!	Sabatini's 1923 swashbuckler epitomizes the turbulent years preceding the French Revolution--which of necessity imposes literatry restrictions on the plotting. Despite uneven pacing in spots, the story unfolds with dramatic excitement, intrigue and hidden identity. The protagonist is depicted as somewhat callous, but one wonders how much of his cool heartlessness is but a facade.  This adventure read is a romantic piece of historical fiction, which also educates in that it encourages readers to reflect on the legitimate grievances of the French people in the face of the arrogance and authority of the monarchy and the nobility.  <br /> Young Andre-Louis Moreau, an illegitimate orphan raised by a kindly landowner in Brittany, is shocked at the swaggering indifference of the local Marquis, who deliberately provoked and murdered Andre's best friend in an unfair duel. Swearing personal vengance upon this hated representative of Privilege, Andre pleges to espouse the very views he formerly ridiculed.  Refusing to have his friend's ideas silenced, he becomes atalented rabble-rowser.  Once <BR>discovering his amazing powers of oratory, Andre is forced into hiding from regional authorities by joining a troupe of traveling actors who specialize in Commedia del'Arte--based on the Italian style of improvization.  <br />  Quickly becoming embroiled in many passionate intrigues--both amorous and political--Andre is swept up as frenzied Paris rushes headlong into emotional fervor over the wisdom and efficacy of a Constitutional Monarchy. Alternately plying his trade as actor/author/manager or as a fencing master, the godson of Gavrillac ultimately is obliged to return to the seething political arena.  Throughout his existence Andre is proudly motivated to become the nemesis of the cruel Marquis, which unfortunately causes great anguish among several hearts of the gentry from Brittany.  This fascinating tale transports readers to the prelude of the French bloodbath two centuries earlier.  En garde! You are just a swordspoint away from becoming hooked!	2002-10-08
1389515:US	52160649	R1QM4PFI41TLXZ	079350693X	467447999	Tales Of Hoffman Vocal Score Paper French English Les Contes (G. Schirmer Opera Score Editions)	Books	3	2	12	N	N	Trapped Between Harsh Reality and Evil Fantasy	(This review refers to the book which contains three of Hoffman's many tales.) If you enjoy European fantasy, Hoffman invites you to enter his dark realm where the distinctions between the Real and the Impossible are blurred.  Allow yourself to be lead into a parallel universe, where nightmares take on frightenting intensity; where the solid world melts into obsessions, doppelgangers and the scent of brimstone.  Where men sell their souls (or their reflections) for passion, fame or talent.  Such is the literary milieu created by ETA Hoffman, which inspired Jacques Offenback to compose an opera on three of these chiaroscuro vignettes.   <br /> Each tale features a different protagonist--a passionate but morbid young man ensnared by insidious evil or a warped mindset.  Still we empathize their their various predicaments as they inevitably fall prey to the schemes of devious men, or even worse--their own propensity for paranoia. It is left to the reader to judge each case for himself.  Certain elements are common to all three tales; the importance of Music, superfluous references to artists, scientists and writers of the day, and the quaint contrivance of protecting the identity of the cities by merely giving their first initial.  Hoffman's themes are depressing but fascinating; so often the love of good women can not avail the heroes, who simply refuse salvation.  Permit the mists of confusion and tempatation to swirl through your brain until you are gradually released from your stifling bondage to the<BR>Normal with its limitations of the senses. Surrender to the dark side--from the safety of your armchair!	2002-10-03
1405498:US	52160649	R3MUGL0DB4Y4MR	034531977X	507854420	Tarzan of the Apes (Tarzan (Ballantine))	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Meet the REAL Tarzan!	Little did ERB realize when he launched his second novel in 1914, that he had created a pop icon hero who would delight youthful readers around the world.  The author, who had failed in a variety of enterprises, combined his late-blooming literary talent with a fecund imagination, to create a typically American protagonist--one who reflected the 19th century's fascination with the Nature vs Nurture debate of human development. Can a &quot;wild man&quot; be truly half ape/half human; can such a creature be reprogrammed to reject two decades of savage training in favor of civilized manners?  Is the love of a beautiful woman sufficient to lead a primitive person to rise above his barbaric conditioning, in order to compete with cultivated upperclass <BR>swains?  <br />  Hollywood's numerous version of Tarzan's various adventures have distorted the author's original plot and careful details, such that an accurate rendering of the novel would be rejected by a falsely-educated public, who expect Tarzan to be<BR>a grunting caveman with a superb physique.  How false this is to his true heritage as the scion of British noblity.  Let's get some basic facts straight: Tarzan taught himself to read and write (but not speak) English; French was the first language he learned to communciate vocally with his fellow men. He truly  loved Kala, his ape foster mother, with the same tender devotion he would have lavished upon the mother he never knew.  Blonde Jane did not speak with a British accent, since she was a Baltimore girl--the daughter of an absent-minded professor.  Her father cared for three things in his life: Jane, academic research and the Porter family honor. <br />  Since the general storyline is so well known, I will focus commentary on ERB's literary style.  Like most of his future heroines, Jane is aged 19, with a perfect body, and is called a girl (never a woman).  Naturally she endures abduction by a brute, but is ultimately rescued by her hero--saving her from &quot;the fate worse than a thousand deaths.&quot; Other ERB elements include the famous pairing of words (rage and hate, pain and fear, etc), and his famous cliff-hanger chapter endings; this latter is necessary so that readers can keep abreast of what has been happening to other characters in the story, requiring some mental gymnastics. <br />  On the down side, ERB has rightfully been criticized for his treatment of other races and nationalities. His jungle Blacks are little better than superstitious children, while faithful Esmeralda (Jane's nanny) speaks in dialect like some Mark Twain characters--another challenge for readers.  The author clearly admires Frenchmen, but hates Germans as international bullies (who become the object of Tarzan's pro-English mischief in subsequent novels.) If Hollywood can whip up patriotic fervor<BR>through the medium of movies, so may popular novels.  The end of Tarzan of the Apes will prove a great surprise to first-time readers.  Will he return to his beloved jungle, renouncing the veneer of civilization forever? Or perhaps accept life in the Western world? Are you sure you know the Real Tarzan, who wooed the mate destined for his heart in the jungles of two continents?  What a man will sacrifice for Love...	2002-09-18
1410223:US	52160649	R3NMLZNYU2V3ZZ	0553213539	691093854	The Invisible Man: A Grotesque Romance (Bantam Classic)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Cut off from Humanity!	Several rural villages in England are stalked by a new evil--an invisible man with no morals, who claims he has been forced by circumstances to institute his personal reign of terror.<br />Cloaked in a costume of sorts to hide his self-inflicted invisible status (when it suits him), this \\"lone wolf genius\\" creates fear and havoc in his depredations of the unsuspecting countryside.  Nasty pranks, then theft culminate in murder and egomaniacal threats--dark traces of his personal journey to depravity, in this classic cautionary tale of genius run amock.  The author presents this absurd hypothesis in such scientific terms that it Almost seems within the realm of possibility.<br /> Thirty-year-old Griffin, an albino, spent his post graduate years working secretly on a formula which would render living organisms invisible to the eye. Prematurely forced out into the world which he schemes to dominate without well-laid plans or adequate resources, he turns viciously bitter.  Trusting no one--until he reveals the sordid details of his social and chemical<br />trials to a former university colleague, Dr. Kemp--the Invisible Man suffers the pangs of hell as he finds himself cursed and conspired against.  Yet he brought it all on himself, by his callous disregard for human feelings and customs.  Griffin ultimately becomes the object of an intense manhunt by the people he scored as naive and helpless sheep. HG Wells moves us to both despise and pity the wretch, as all humanity is ill at ease at this mockery of creation.  A man needs a body, a shadow and a reflection in order not to arouse suspicion in a<br />relatively balanced world.  Fantasy or Sci Fi, this novel continues to catch the attention of readers who speculate on the role of the individual in society.  A fast-paced, quick read with serious undertones for all ages.	2002-09-13
1413781:US	52160649	RJQFKQ1D4HXJ9	0684801051	607441444	Time and Again	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Tempted by the Past	Graphic artist Si Morely of NY City is recruited by a group of visionaries who run the Project--a highly-classified scientific experiment involving traveling back into the past.  Once he can accept this temporal impossibility (Einstein would argue), Si enthusiastically throws himself into the project, which involves study, practice and total immersion into the NY of 1882.  The vehicle is not a machine--rather a building which still exists from the target date in the past.  <br />  But can Si merely Observe and enjoy the flavor of bygone days in his favorite city?<BR>How can he obtain the real feeling of this same place in a parallel time, without actually becoming involved with the actual people who are living then?  Who knows the risk of slightly altering even trivial things--the \\"twig in the stream\\" effect which concerns the conscientious directors?  Too much meddling, however well-intentioned, could wreak havoc with the future, which must be protected at all costs.  How far does the Board have the right to play god, to alter events in the inviolate past, in order to suit themselves or their American ideas?  Does any man or group have the right to rewrite/revise history, as in Orwell's 1984? <br /> Si also has a personal mission: to discover the details of a mysterious death in his girlfriend's step-father's family.  An odd burial out west, an almost burned letter of confession, plus a note to arrange a clandestine meeting provide sufficient lure for adventurous Si, but what will happen if the hero himself becomes involved with a lady in the past?  Jack Finney's plotting is highly innovative, offering surprises and twists up to the very end.  His meticulous research recreates the milieu to perfection, though he spends countless paragraphs to describe buildings and locations which are meaningless to readers unfamiliar with New York City.  My main concern is the uneven pacing; he stalls us for pages, then suddenly overwhelms us with non-stop action--until we are panting along with the protagonists.  <br /> All<BR>things considered, this is one dilly of a Time Travel novel. Complete with woodcuts, photographs and quotes from actual newspapers, this book takes readers back to the great fire of 1882.  But wo which world will Si give his loyalty? For sci fi addicts from 16 up--You Are There!	2002-09-10
1415053:US	52160649	R2WLEA9RZGIOSR	0684823802	530210334	Out of the Silent Planet (Space Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	2	6	15	N	N	Sci Fi for the Philosopher Man	Despite respectful references to the legacy of H. G. Wells--acclaimed inventor of the modern sci fi genre--C.S.Lewis has chosen to forge his own stylistic trail through the perils of alien prose.  This first book in a projected trilogy is set on<BR>Malacandra; it's no secret that the destination is actually Mars. The story relates the amazing experiences (but few actual<BR>&quot;adventures&quot;) of Dr. Ransom. Kidnapped by two soundrel scientists, the mild-mannered fellow awakens on board a space vehicle, en route to another planet, where he will presumably be handed over to alien brutes as a human sacrifice.  The tale progresses slowly and could just have easily been written in the first person, since all activity centers around the unlikely progagonist--a university professor of Philology (the study of Words).<br /> Expect many references to the British university system and countless chapters devoid of dialogue; narrative reigns supreme in this CSL novel, with extensive monologues or transliterations.  The author's deep concentration on mythology<BR>and man's role in the universe will invite readers into deeper realms of thought. The human psyche, as well as human physiognomy, mentality, morals and motivation form the object of intense scrutiny by way of comparison with the three major species on the planet.  Dropping veiled hints about the danger of unbridled anthropomorphism, CSL forces his hero (and readers) to reexamine traditional views of man's inalienable right to propagate his seed throughout the galaxy. He questions our immediate reaction of horror at any and all alien life forms.  Must they necessarily prove grotesque and brutal?  <br />  Thinly-disguised references to the Judao-Chistian heritage may lead meditative readers to ponder space as some sort of Heaven, with<BR>the creative blending of mythology and pre history; should man<BR>accept a universal protector god-family as both rational and compassionate?  Will Professor Ransom be held hostage forthe human race or will he offer himself as living ransom in the future?  There seems to be much &quot;in a name&quot; and exhaustive linguistic details in this Sci Fi novel. A thought-provoking book which was intended to entertain by more than mere action and dialogue, OUT OF THE SILENT PLANET drags on long beyond the exciting denouement. Definitley not in the Wells or Verne tradition, this read is sci fi for the philosopher, who may well wonder which of the two worlds deserves to be called &quot;Silent.&quot;	2002-09-09
1415415:US	52160649	R22FM2MNSGX04Q	0140022651	798845768	Journey to the Centre of the Earth	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Following elusive,, ancient footsteps!	This early sci fi classic continued Jules Verne's streak of scientifc adventures for his publisher, Hetzel.  An amazed and fascinated France eagerly awaited the weekly installments, as the unbounded genius of the young author captured the imagination of Europe and soon the world.  Countless boys and even adults were inspired by Verne's ability to grasp the potential of inventions for the future, and to focus serious attention on hitherto unexplored regions of the earth (or beneath it, or the ocean), or over it.  Obviously for such literary spotlighting of mankind's present and future endeavors, Verne required a new kind of hero--the Scientist, rather than the swashbuckling romantic of the Romantic era. <br />  JOURNEY is admittedly Verne's most improbable adventure, yet readers marvel at his detailed foresight in the provisons required, plus in his ability to insert theories of the earth's formation into the actual plot.  Unlike most of Verne's protagonists, this one is neither French, English nor American but German. Young Axel is both orphaned nephew and student assistant to his brilliant geologist uncle, Professor Lidenbrock of Hamburg.  When the latter discovers an ancient manuscript in an antiquarian book purchase, he becomes instantly obsessed with its translation and then with the passion to follow in the footsteps of a medieval Icelandic exlporer, Arne Saknussem.  <br />  Axel is wary of such folly and argues the dangers, but the single-willed professor counters all scientific reasoning with a logic of his own, both before and during their arduous journey. With their stoic but resourceful guide, Hans, the three men undertake to seek the center of the earht, using the Icelandic volcano of Sneffels as their portal to mystery and danger.  Is academic fame a sufficient lure for one, or mere weekly salary for another? Axel's own personality (often dreamng of his beloved cousin)<BR>undergoes a true metamorphosis as the result of months of hardship in the bowels ofthe earth. Still fresh almost 150 years later, this adventure tale is certain to entertain and enlighten. (Ignore subsequent movie versions with change the cast.)	2002-09-08
1416222:US	52160649	R1NNWD9ALLL1DV	0812509072	106666715	White Jenna	Books	3	0	3	N	N	The Heart is Quicker than the Eye	Although a sequel to Sister Light, Sister Dark, this shadowy fantasy weaves a complete tapestry of chiaroscuro.  Prophecies on the slant, heroic female protagonists and cruel villains compete for the Dales--an unspecified island realm consisting of two uneasily mixed races. But supernatural folk intermingle with humans, as many women were born with dark sisters (fantasy twins.) Besides the Greena (Little People)who possess curious powers, there is the image of the Great Alta herself--mother goddess to many women of Earth, ruling through a succession of priestesses.  <br />  Young teenage Jenna--reluctant to consider herself the Anna of legend--undertakes a quest to warn her sisters in some 17 Hames about the rampages of the scourge of the Dales--perpetrated by brutal soldiers of the usurper. She is joined by a very young priestess named Petra, a middle-aged mentor Sister, Catrona, and ultimately by 3 youths who will become heralds of the true king.  Who will emerge at the final coronation: the vicious Toad or one of the 2 rightful heirs?<BR>Can a mere girl effect the ruin of the Hound, the Boar, the Bull and the Cat by her own, delicate hand?  Privately seeking her young prince (from Book I), Jenna dedicates her will and her body to saving her sisters and restoring peace to the land.  But why do so many insist that she is the legendary Anna? <br />  Intermingling threads of various hues (myth, legend, \\"History\\" and the story itself), the author deftly spins a web of medieval intrigue in a supernatural sphere.  The plot gradually tautens around the spindle of fate, to its dramatic denouement--interspersed with folk sayings of the Dalians.  Jenna blushes with maidenly modesty at veiled sexual inuendoes, but few secrets escape the twinning knowledge of Skada, her dark sister.<BR>Yolen occasionally inserts sly humor in the form of pseudo-scholarly debates among \\"Historians\\". Readers will enter a realm where the heart is quicker than the eye, where reality and fantasy inferface with sylvan grace.  For ages 16 and up.	2002-09-07
1417705:US	52160649	R3FOFSGICYMXP0	0135122287	27503124	Jules Verne the Man Who Invented the Future (English and German Edition)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Paving the Way for Generations of Explorers!	This light biography provides an introduction to the life and career of France's most famous 19th century novelist (judging by international acclaim), while seeking to demonstrate that Verne truly invented the future--a modest goal!  Fans of H.G. Wells will argue the point about who created the genre of true science fiction, but Verne coined the term &quot;Imaginary voyages&quot; and conceived a new kind of hero: the scientist or the adventurer who used scientific information and devices to explore: the earth, below the earth, the seas, the air, the moon! He even<BR>created a futuristic utopia, though by the end of his career his novels reflected a darker side, as he cautioned against the dangers of unbridled mechanization and amoral progress. It grieved him that Man should prove Man's own worst enemy. <br />  This book reads quickly, giving plot details about Verne's major works and unmistakaable influence upon the imagination and goals of adventurous youth the world over: France, England, America, Germany, Switzerland, and Scandinavia. A century ahead of his time, Verne combined literary talent with real scientific knowldege of his day, drawing upon the exhaustive facts and diagrams from his many notebooks compiled over the years. This short biogrpahy is an excellent springboard for comparative literature in the Sci Fi realm or as true inspiration for inventions, discoveries and expeditions to study the earth.<BR>Although written by a German (with vague ideas of American geography), this short book lists the accomplishments of the men who followed Verne's literary legacy by exploring the planet in life. A delightful taste of the genius who inspired generations to dare more, to plan rationally and to dream of glory!	2002-09-06
1418855:US	52160649	R2409ZOS3T4D3E	014030133X	545833455	The Good Master (Puffin Newbery Library)	Books	3	15	17	N	N	Prairie Tamed!	Returning to her roots (THE WHITE STAG,1938 Newbery Winner)  Kate Seredy shares a nostalgic portrait of the Hungarian<BR>plains in this Newbery Honor book.  The relatively peaceful  lifestyle of Jancsi and his farming parents is shattered by the arrival of Kate, a whirlwind from Budapest.  City clashes with country as the cousins verbally battle it out; this tomboy in skirts creates turmoil both indoors and and out, in private and in public.  <br />  But as the seasons melt into each other until Christmas, this \\"frail\\" but impossible child is gradually tamed by love, respect and the majestic landscape itself--not to mention plenty of hard work!  No one in the Nagy family can bear to part with her, but what about her distant father who misses her terribly?   Honoring her heritage, Seredy also incorporates four Hungarian folktalkes into her heartwarming story--sharing with American readers the real meaning of the Christmas spirit.<BR>Excellent black/white illustraions contribute to the charm of this gentle delight.	2002-09-05
1423209:US	52160649	R1VH2IXR34WKTW	1893337014	859497194	The Lyon's Throne (Lyon Saga)	Books	2	0	2	N	N	Racial Discrimination and Piracy	Plucky Jess is now 19 (mother of one and expecting) at the start of this 4th book in the LYON saga. M.L. Stainer tranports Jess, her Indian husband and several other non-English friends in a circuitous manner back to England.  Pirates, separation from her English family and a woman's worst shipboard terrors stalk the prisoners for months--challenges sufficient to bring a lesser heroine to despair.  Undaunted and deteremined to hide her non-Indian identity, Jess conceives a grandiose plan: to seek an audience with Gloriana--Elizabeth I.  What would the mighty Queen of England care about the fate of a poor English colonist and several half-breed children?  <br />  While her warrior<BR>husband chafes in confinement and shame at his captive status, Jess battles her own quick tongue, which threatens to sabotage her hopes. Who will befriend the outcasts in England?  How can a girl who prefers the free and salty sands of the New World win the patronage of the Virgin Queen?  How will Native Americans fit in or even survive months as captive \\"guests?\\"  Will they be better received at court or by the common people?  Follow the Lyon's saga as the author offers yet another possible solution to the mystery of the vanished colony of Roanoke. This series, which introduces to elementary readers the genre of historical fiction, will appeal to girls, and hopefully stimulate interest in pre Jamestown settlement of America.  With the emphasis on the role of imported horses, this series provides excellent background for the Misty of Chincoteague books by Marguerite Henry.	2002-09-01
1496813:US	52160649	R2PJAHD5SHHU6Y	0380791854	299110267	Lathe of Heaven	Books	4	12	14	N	N	"You can't run away from your own Dreams."	Set in Portland, Oregon in the future--several different futures, actually--this sci fi story pits man's mind against his innate moral sense of responsibility for the rest of Society. Referred for Voluntary Therapy as a result of drug abuse, a mild-mannered patient becomes a pawn in his shrink's chess game of power. Seeking a cure for his too effective dreams--which drastically change reality and distort the time continuum--  George Orr realizes with helpless anguish that Dr. Haber is more interested in exploiting his special mental powers than in curing him.  He is literally afraid to sleep, for to sleep means to dream, which could affect millions of lives.  <br />  Desperate to control his dreams Orr seeks help from a Black lady lawyer, but is this a simple civil rights case or unauthorized scientific experimentation? What will push a milquetoast man over the edge of his own equilibrium? Is he justified to save his own sanity at any price? What is one man's role in the universe, in relation to mankind at large? <br /> Le Guin's mastery of language, devious plotting and human thought processes combine to create a chilling voyage of conflicting ambitions and manipulation, as the doctor violates his patient's rights--another mad scientist gone amuck. But serious moral issues arise which challenge 21st century readers with haunting reminders of our mistakes in the last century.  Who has the right to decide the fate of mankind, to orchestrate earth/alien relations? Will absolute power prove too great a temptation?  How can the common man survive the battle of titans for mental control?  An excellent, soul-searching read. Remember that \\"Self is Universe.\\"	2002-06-26
1502285:US	52160649	R6EQCC44CTBCY	0553213385	691093854	The War of the Worlds (Bantam Classics)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Is Mankind Doomed to Extinction?	This is the book which spawned/inspired all subsequent short stories, novels and movies about Alien invasion of Earth and mankind's attempts at resistance. From The Invasion of the Body Snatchers to the X Files, authors and producers owe an inestimable debt to HGW, who practically invented the Sci Fi genre. (Jules Verne earlier had coined the phrase \\"Scientific Romances\\" for his own creative tales.)<br /> Stylistically there is little dialogue--just long narratives in the first person by an observant, occasionally active, narrator, plus occasional monologues by a secondary character. The role of women is negligible--except as in requiring male assistance.  Wells slips in a few satiric barbs at human foibles, but the plot is deadly serious, as the majority of the terified masses react like  cattle or idiots.  The veneer of civilization is hastily abandoned in the panic of Self Survival.<br /> Torn between love for his wife and brother vs a sincere concern for the fate of all humankind on the planet, the Narrator spends  two weeks as a prisoner in a bombed-out house.  During this time he observes the Martians at his leisure--thus making him the most informed Englishman on the subject of alien anatomy and behavior.  Stalking about on tremendous tripod legs, these first literary aliens deal death dispassionately and indiscriminately to hapless victims in their inexorable march to and through London.<br />  The red planet has sent 10 mysterious cylinders to Earth--an advance army of scouts for potential colonization as a result of Mars' inevitable demise.  Nothing man can devise--weapons increase in sophistication as subsequent version are filmed over the decades--can withstand the superior technology of these ruthless but purposeful invaders.  The conquest of Earth is settled within a week and mankind is doomed.  For once man is the enslaved race--no longer the masters of their own planet.  Is resistance futile--or even possible?  Could mere ants (re size and technology) destroy or even survive against a race of giants?  A critical and chilling must-read for all sci fi buffs.gy) destroy or even survive against a race of giants?  A critical and chilling must-read for all sci fi buffs.	2002-06-21
1508227:US	52160649	R1M084QDQUQBDS	0880015403	36017170	The Bad Seed	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Congenital Predestination for Evil!	Young Rhoda Penmark (the author chooses names which offer clues as to his characters' agendas) is not a typical elementary schoolgirl: too well behaved, fastidious in her habits, and outwardly obedient, she covets the penmanship award--and her privacy.  When a boy dies on a school picnic, some folks begin to be suspicious of the perfect but cold little lady.  This dark tale of transmitted evil and intergenerational guilt gradually reveals Rhoda's callous activities when younger, as well as her amoral attitude. Harried by the nasty janitor who proves too smart for his own good, this child can be driven too far, as she experiences the only human emotion in her repertoire: Terror of discovery. <br /> On another level this novella-noir is also the story of Rhoda's gentle, naive mother.  Unaware of her own tragic past (foster-parented), Christine's memory returns in disjointed but terrifying dreams, as her repressed childhood painfully forces itself into the light of adult cognizance. She begins to study True Crime, but the book she claims to be writing is merely a smokescreen to hide her shocking research. How will she end her \\"novel\\"--in ink and in blood?  Will March choose criminal Irony or pathetic Justice? This gripping thriller is definitely not for elementary children. This horror classic is one chilling mystery, probing the dark recesses of human aberration.  Must the children pay for the crimes of the parents--or grandparents? Should one generation play the scapegoat for familial guilt?  Is there any way to end the spread of the bad seed?	2002-06-15
1510250:US	52160649	R1IDRO915LELN3	0440905486	799814444	The Beggar Queen (The Westmark Trilogy)	Books	2	8	26	N	N	Confusing Swashbuckler	I definitely prefer Lloyd Alexander's fantasy world to his realistic fiction set in mini monarchies.  Perhaps it's because I have not read the first two books in his Westmark series, but I was confused by the very complex plot--multiple schemes and counterschemes of many characters--to keep things straight.<BR>I was relatively indifferent to most of their opposing political goals, though I sympathized with the romantic threads. It was not clear which characters I was suppposed to support over others. Besides the casts of thousands, Beggar Queen presents most of them with nicknames which do not always indicate gender. Also readers must perform mental gymnastics to keep track of events which are happening concurrently to several charactrers, resulting in literary as well as political confusion. <br />  This book includes the usual Adventure Tale traits: fast-paced action, diabolical subterfuge--fiendishly foiled--loyalty, sacrifice and military strategy.  Never underestimate the role and the will of the long-trampled People to empower their own destiny! On a a serious note, the author examines the case for and against Monarchy in general.  I seriously urge Alexander afficionados to read the first two books in this trilogy before tackling this one. His fans will enjoy this book the more for recognizing many old friends and enemies from the previous stories. And for ultimately determining the fate of Westmark. ???	2002-06-13
1512647:US	52160649	R3BUCYS0UUMNOG	0816704597	174025080	Master of the World	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Above and Beyond Humanity!	This 127-page novella presents another scientific genius gone amuck--like Dr. Moreau or Dr. Jekyll. The 19th century placed implicit faith in Science and the reasoning power of the human<BR>brain.  Yet by the end of the 1800's France's leading exponent of sci fi literature was beginning to question man's ability to make proper use of the inventions of his fertile mind: to benefit--not harm or enslave--his fellow men.  Choosing to make his protagonist an American, JV sets the entire story in the New World--perhaps a tribute to Yankee ingenuity.  Yet discerning readers will detect inevitable hints of his Gallic predilection.<BR><br />  John Strock of the not yet so-called FBI is assigned by its director to investigate strange and frightening circumstances at the Great Eyrie--an inaccessible basin (or volcanic crater?) in the remote Blue Ridge Montains of North Carolina.  (European readers would be well advised to consult an atlas of the USA, to better follow the various chase scenes.)  Inexplicable phenomena are reported in other regions of the alarmed country--both on land and on sea.  Some arrogant scientst has invented a four-way transforming vehicle with which he plans to rule the world and even challenge the elements.  Can no one prevent this self-proclaimed Master of the World from carrying out his inhumane threats?  From Man of the Hour he is quickly relegated to Public Enemy #1, becoming the object and focus of intense federal investigation.  Curious, determined and dedicated to the safety of the public, John Strock and associates are ready to pursue him--on, over or under the continent. If the devil did not exist, would man find it necessary to invent him?  This story is a shade dark, but reads well enough until the last third of the book, where there is practically no dialogue.  Still, an interesting tale, reflecting the author's disillusion with the the world. Captain Nemo carried to extreme.	2002-06-11
1514672:US	52160649	R19IYT1VFT8ZG3	0345342968	383457570	Fahrenheit 451	Books	4	3	3	N	N	BURNING TO SWITCH SIDES	Bradbury's 1950's sci fi classic presents a plot frequent in futuristic tales: the rebellion of the protagonist against the mind-numbing status quo. Fireman Guy Montag knew the pleasure and psychological rush he experienced while burning books; it was privilege to ride the Dragon, to bear the Salamander emblem on his clothing.  He delighted in destroying remnants of a previous era, when people foolishly believed and reacted to the printed word. Seeking ever more speed, noise and violence to substitute for lack of intellectual and emotional stimulus, this culture has become shallow, enjoying superficial interactions and slavish obedience to mass mentality.  This was a disposable society, where the government manipulated war and city officials doctored the news--to keep an audience or merely save face. <br /> But Montag gradually realizes his own dis-ease, as doubts creep into his mind; he begins to stash forbidden books in a secret chache, and to seriously consider the ideas of the school girl next door, whose family has been watched and labeled as antisocial for years.  It is very dangerous for an individual to question or defy the prescribed pattern for Happiness, as dictated by mass media techniques.  Was there some secret--vital to mankind's happiness and peace of mind--hidden within those scorned and banned books?  Could one man save civilization from its own misgudied zeal?  This gripping tale (under 150 pages) depicts a society gone amuck; RB provides many serious themes for thoughtful readers of all ages to digest. <br />  The 1968 film, though inevitably different from the original, is also a powerful statement.  I saw it as a student in Italy. While walking home from the theatre, my companion remarked grimly: &quot;Nobody's getting My books!&quot;  It made us realize that we should not take books for granted or ever underestimate the power of the written word.	2002-06-10
1529418:US	52160649	R2Q96F4K2A4642	0671791958	246706368	The CRYSTAL DROP	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Scars on the Land and in her Heart	Hughes depicts a grim but ultimately hopeful future for decent people in the Canadian Rockies. Her story, set in the early 21st century, paints an arid world that has been all but destroyed by mankind's arrogance, ambition and blatant disregard for the balances of Nature:--Mother Earth, racial equilibrium and even the distortion of morality in general.  Despite the young protagonists, this is not necessarily a Young Adult novel, for the author develops several mature themes; she urges educated conservation and bio-geo awareness; respect for ancient cultures; recognition of the predatory effects of \\"Civilization.\\"<BR>When will humanity accept responsibility for preserving the delicate balance among the Earth's ecosystems? <br />  Orpahned Megan (13) and Ian (10) undertake a reluctant quest: to leave their deserted, decaying home after the sudden death of their mother in childbirth; to seek a uptopian society vaguely to the West--established by deliciously alluring Waterfalls.  Turning  their backs on a parched and eroded wilderness, the plucky youngsters struggle against Nature, human nature at its worst, and their own sibling rivalries.  Megan is driven to save herself and protect her brother by locating a rumored uncle--if he is still alive. <br />  The literary style includes much dialogue and some mini backtracking of time (replaying a scene from  another character's point of view.) Can two kids make it through a hostile world to a land flowing with sweet water, where enlightened people work to revive the earth?  Reminiscent of Terry Nations' futurist old series on PBS, SURVIVORS. We need to establish Connections with our planet.  For thoughtful readers of all ages.	2002-05-28
1532627:US	52160649	R2VP7B2YMBJSLW	0449702448	172637001	Streams to the River, River to the Sea	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Her Heart was Her Compass	This book is a fictionalized account of two years in the life of a young Shoshone girl, called \\"Bird Woman\\" in her own tongue.  Kidnapped by a raiding tribe, whose language she must learn, she is enslaved and groomed for the chief's son.  Something about Sacagawea excites the interest of several warriors during the course of this story, but she is forced to marry a sly, truculent French trapper named Charbonneau, by whom she has a son at only 14.<br />  While attempting to maintain historical accuracy (based on Clark's journals), O'Dell weaves an interesting tale of suppressed emotions, greed and jealousy, sacrifice and intrigue in wilderness America.  The famous Lewis and Clark expedition of 1804/5 was commissioned to explore and document the geography, geology, flora and fauna of the newly purchased Louisiana Territory for President Jefferson.  With the presumptuous claiming of Native American land as far as the<br />Pacific coast.  This ardurous journey to the salty ocean, with her infant son on her back, was undertaken in simple faith and steadfast loyalty to the copper-haired captain.  Yet the return proved a trail of unshed tears by the devoted young mother, who realized that the famous white man would never marry an Indian woman and be demeaned as a squaw man.<br /> This story will appeal more to girls, since it is narrated in the first person by Sacagewea herself.  Fort Clatsop, where the party wintered near the Washington/Oregon border, has been reconstructed for tourists interested in America's Western history. Of note: the courage of this brave Indian girl has been preserved (with son on back) in a recent commemorative coin.	2002-05-24
1537581:US	52160649	RICCUW7E4WE55	0380803739	379596820	The Key to the Indian (An Avon Camelot Book)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Legacy of the Longhouse	Will this be the ultimate Going Back adventure for Ormi, the brave and clever boy who discovered the secret of the Indian--and a special cupboard?  There is a twist this time, however, as Omri's father is in on the secret and the action.  But Time Travel is hazardous even for adults; there are serious dangerss both to the travelers and those they visit in the Past. <br /><BR>Little Bear's people are threatened with annihilation by American colonists; can 20th century British allies help them--or should they even try?  It's an ethical dilemma: to balance respect for the integrity of the Past with loyalty to one's friends.  In this fast-paced story the author examines the grim history of Native American vs White relations, allowing the<BR>reader to make the final judgment. But is it fair to exclude patient Mom--who passed on the family Gift to her son?  And how to keep his meddling brothers in the dark as well? Family dymamics are both amusing and thought-provoking in this tale of honor and treachery, selfishness and altruism. Thanks to its deftly developed plot, THE KEY lives up to the promise of the first book in this delightful series. It's a story of Miniatures offering Maximum enjoyment.  Kids of all ages will be immediately hooked.	2002-05-20
1539477:US	52160649	R3QQP6M3OFKHMY	0440412587	246549470	The Gypsy Game	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Outcasts and Throwaway People	Actually the story is not as grim as the review title implies, but one is reminded of the song, \\"Gypsies, tramps and thieves.\\"<BR>Well, soon afer the Egypt game has concluded the multi-ethnic gang is back, but things are deteriorating in Toby's home and soon he goes missing.  Say, was he just pulling the kids' legs about his Gypsy ancestry or is he really in danger of being kidnapped?  I felt the author was pulling one over on us; besides the use of chapter flip-flop, she filled out a skimpy plot with literary fluff.  <br /> Nevertheless, this is a very serious book in places, with themes of universal shunning and persecution. Focusing on the neglect of the underprivileged, she makes young readers aware of the plight of society's unwanted.  The kids themselves face some ethical dilemmas and even wonder (how desperate can they be?) when to bring in adult aid! Snyder alternates between their pre-teen lifestyle and heavy themes with hints for social reform.  I am not sure how much of the audience for whom this book was intended will enjoy this sequel. Is it meant to be entertainment or a political platform?  Perhaps she just wants to point out the danger of an overactive imagination. Unfortunately this book does not live up to its Egyptian predecessor.	2002-05-18
1539753:US	52160649	R1WYBEP6KFM7U9	0440412587	246549470	The Gypsy Game	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Outcasts and Throwaway People	Actually the story is not as grim as the review title implies, but one is reminded of the song, \\"Gypsies, tramps and thieves.\\"<BR>Well, soon afer the Egypt game has concluded the multi-ethnic gang is back, but things are deteriorating in Toby's home and soon he goes missing.  Say, was he just pulling the kids' legs about his Gypsy ancestry or is he really in danger of being kidnapped?  I felt the author was pulling one over on us; besides the use of chapter flip-flop, she filled out a skimpy plot with literary fluff.  <br /> Nevertheless, this is a very serious book in places, with themes of universal shunning and persecution. Focusing on the neglect of the underprivileged, she makes young readers aware of the plight of society's unwanted.  The kids themselves face some ethical dilemmas and even wonder (how desperate can they be?) when to bring in adult aid! Snyder alternates between their pre-teen lifestyle and heavy themes with hints for social reform.  I am not sure how much of the audience for whom this book was intended will enjoy this sequel. Is it meant to be entertainment or a political platform?  Perhaps she just wants to point out the danger of an overactive imagination. Unfortunately this book does not live up to its Egyptian predecessor.	2002-05-18
1549952:US	52160649	RX1ON7U87GVOZ	0440412587	246549470	The Gypsy Game	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Outcasts, Throwaway People and Bloody Hands	Actually the story is not as grim as the review title indicates, but we are reminded of the song, \\"Gypsies, tramps and thieves.\\" Well, soon after the Egpyt Game has concluded the gang is back,<BR>but things are deteriorating in Toby's home and soon he goes missing.  Now was he just pulling the kids' legs about his Gypsy ancestry or is he really in danger of being kidnapped? I felt that the author was pulling one over on us; besides her usual chapter flip-flop, she fills out a skimpy plot with literary fluff. <br /> Nevertheless, this is a very serious book in parts, with themes of universal or perpetual ethnic shunning and persecution of the underprivileged. She makes young readers aware of the plight of Society's unwanted. The kids themselves face several ethical dilemmas and even wonder (how desperate can they be?) when to bring in adult aid. Snyder alternates between pre-teen lifestyle, heavy themes and hints for social reform. I am not sure how much of the audience for whom this book was intended will enjoy this sequel. Perhaps she just wants to point out the danger of an overactive imagination, while encouraging ethnic diversity among neighborhood friends.	2002-05-09
1554823:US	52160649	RX07HISE2XYUB	0803725183	956102265	A Year Down Yonder (Newbery Medal Book)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Living on a Shoestring? Not a Problem!	Hooray--Joey's younger sister is back in a town \\"a long way from Chicago,\\" staying with controversial Grandma Dowdel. This time to spend a whole year--but how will this dignified girl survive Grandma on her own?  Shipped off due to Depression poverty of 1937 Mary Alice cringes at the thought of life in a hick town, where local snobs consider Her a rich city girl. Armed only with her cat and her Philco radio, she steps off the train into<BR>a wacky world of rough and ready justice, where she needs to assess her own true grit. Challenges include the famous privy, odd creatures upstairs, horse thieves, horseplay and other forms of necessary neighorbly shenanigans. <br />  But not to worry--feisty Grandma won't permit anyone to outsmart her, bully her granddaughter or lord it over the family's heritage.  In fact, no one's pedigree is safe from her sharp eyes or tongue.  Not without reason are the locals somewhat in awe of her reputation for being quick on the trigger and for evening an outstanding score. Amazingly Grandma can play matchmaker, but woe to hoodlums who try any Halloween tricks on her property!  Yet Mary Alice learns lessons in family loyalty and love from this unaffectionate matron. After a year in such a wild envirnoment, how will this modest 16-year-old emerge?  Time spent with Grandma will surely mold her character, but will she prove a chip off the old block or rush back to her parents in relief when the economy improves? This sequel is as hilarious as the original-for kids of all ages!	2002-05-05
1562456:US	52160649	RQZTZQAZMFIG8	0395978270	253944481	A Single Shard (Newbery Medal Book)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Personal Sacrifice for Art	Once again Park has recreated medieval Korea with deft strokes of her literary brush--transporting us effortlessly into an era where we are strangers to the customs and culture of the protagonist.  Yet we quickly recognize traits basic to mankind: pride in honest effort, appreciation of artistic merit, loyalty<BR>to friends, gratitude for kindness, the need for charity and the value of wisdom to handle life's problems. <br /> The story starts slowly, progressing with little conflict, until the King's pottery emissary arrives in the small coastal village of Ch'ulp'o.  Unlike western Young Adult books which prize action, this tale demonstrates mental activity and spiritual growth--while placing a premium on patience to achieve artistic excellence.  Orphaned Tree Ear lives under a bridge with his wise but elderly friend, Crane Man.  His goal is to fashion beautiful ceramic ware on a potter's wheel, like that of<BR>the dour master potter, Min.  Embittered by the loss of his only son, the crusty artist refuses to teach anyone--merely using his apprentice for menial tasks in his grimly silent world of private competition.  Then his rival invents a new glazing technique; so which village master will receive a royal commission?  This is a tale of loyalty and devotion, of commitment to ideas and noble purpose; a story for thoughtful readers of all ages, who understand that there are times when compromise in art is simply unacceptable.	2002-04-29
1564902:US	52160649	R19D8BPT7N45YO	0966271807	696111684	Unshackled	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Are You Tough Enough to Surive this Book?	This is a book that everyone should read--a powerful statement that is not lightly made; the story chronicles the critical importance of Love to overcome racism, violence and despair.  Author Morris shares a candid account of his life: a series of poor choices which resulted in (false) arrest, lengthy incarceration in one the country's worst prisons, and near death (murder and suicide). He faithfully reports how his smug attitudes, smart mouth and tragic misjudgment of the integrity of others and his own abilities reaped a bitter harvest of terror and humiliation.  Sound grim?--well, it is that all right, but there is much more to the honest, autobiographical tale than mere institutional horror.  He issues sincere warnings and serious challenges to young people Not to repeat his grievous errors.  <br />  Locked in a small cell with another athletic but Black man--in the warden's determination to inititate Integration in the deep South--Super Honky learns bitter then humbling lessons re the value of human interaction.  His life was forged into a never-ending chain of physical and emotional shackles, which crippled both his body, his thoughts and his future. Yet he grows in spiritual strength as he overcomes his social conditioning, to ultimately realize that a Black man proved his best friend in the Pen--a mentor and inspiration for the rest of his life.  Once paroled and ultimately exonerated, Morris dedicates himself to helping others, especially teenagers, but also those who are terminally-ill. Having felt Cancer's grasping finger, he understands that threat to one's dignity.  Despite pessimistic predictions that he would never amount to anything, he decided to prove them all wrong.  Through public speaking and now the written word, he has touched the lives of thousands of teenagers, for whom he desperately wishes to spare a similar fate of crime and inevitable punishment.  Call it Love Therapy; he is not ashamed to express love and compassion for others, even strangers. His steadfast faith in the value of human touch shines through the horrors of behind the bars of prison or ignorance, offering much-needed Hope and practical advice to turn troubled lives around.  This book helps unlock the mysteries of the human heart--to set the soul free!  The only shackles we should bear with pride are those of our common humanity.	2002-04-26
1575806:US	52160649	R1OU6TQVP44CPP	0060243902	175452933	It's Like This, Cat	Books	1	10	30	N	N	Citified Happy Days	This read is definitely Sixties Lite: loosely-connected events<BR>spanning over a year in the life of a decent, teenage boy.  An only child living in NY city with his parents, Dave Mitchell experiences the usual range of emotions and parental meddling,<BR>growing pains and serious choices of his generation. Readers will learn a lot about NY burroughs, transportation, entertainment and culture, as if the entire book were a relaxed  <BR>PR attempt.  There are many references to literature, time-dated movies, heroes, and pop culture. This kid-and-cat tale is a trip down nostalgia lane for anyone who has lived through that era.  <br />  The thread that links most of the incidents and characters proves to be a stray cat named Cat--unexpectedly adopted from<BR>cazy Kate, the neighborhood cat lady. Serving as a catalyst for new acquaintances and unusual adventures, Cat plunges Dave into various situations, both dangerous and amusing.  Over the meandering months of the school year and summer Dave matures--not only socially--but mentally, as he recognizes adult problems<BR>and gradually appreciates their solutions. Forced to compare parents, he discovers that he does not have it as bad as some kids. The author makes subtle pitches for military enlistment, neutering household pets, and the need for consideration and compromise in resolving famly conflict, especially during the desperate and dramatic teen years.  Narrated in the first person, this book reads quickly, with short sentences and plenty of dialogue.  If this were on TV, it would be a family sit-com.	2002-04-18
1579988:US	52160649	R2B0ZGNQ0K2Y7F	0440409233	262428503	The Haymeadow	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Coming to terms with Nature and his Heritage	John is only 14 the year his father expects him to spend the summer in a distant haymeadow in the Wyoming mountains--alone with 6,000 sheep, 4 border collies and 2 horses.  Unsure if he is up to the demands of prolonged living without human companionship in valley pasturage, lacking both experience and a guidebook, the boy psyches himself up by pretending he would do things the way he imagines the Old Man--his great grandfather who founded the spread--would have done.  Make him and his distant father proud: how best to honor his Barron heritage than by conquering the wilderness and loneliness with just his wits and his gut instinct! <br />  He wonders how he will spend the time during 3 months of long days. Somehow Nature keeps him very busy, as the dangers to sheep, dogs, horses and even himself arrive in waves, without warning.  As in other Paulsen stories, this coming-of-age tale includes mental wrestling with ideals of beauty and man's role in nature.  Also the protagonist grapples with erroneous conceptions of the family legend and seeming parental indifference.  If he can survive what nature throws at him that summer, he will depart the haymeadow a different young man.  Experiencing on-the-job training without a mentor (like learning to swim by being thrown abruptly into water), John Barron could write his own shepherd's manual after just one week.  Despite minimal dialogue this adventure narrative grips the reader; Paulsen's deft and authoritative style make for fast readig, especially enjoyable for kids 12 - 16.	2002-04-14
1584259:US	52160649	R3GD0CGJJRX9BZ	0399148019	723229047	The Absence of Nectar	Books	4	2	2	N	N	"Every Betrayal Deserves a Sacrifice"	Simon Jester is deadly serious about teaching children lessons in loyalty. Wives and pets too.  No one is exempt in this dizzying novel of insensate bitterness, in which Hepinstall has created a world devoid of the sweetness of human compassion and divine love. All must sufer, for many sacrifices are expected by a jealous man who sees monsters in still waters--whose lurking insanity reaches out with a ripple effect to touch all within his sphere of hatred. Why does no adult realize that a bizzare tempest is brewing in Meg's house? What kind of community forces its children to fight battles for their very survivial, completely on their own? Is the sweltering, shimmering heat of Texas vaguely responsible for this microcosm of humanity gone amock?  <br />  Meg's bees are not the only ones who require nectar; she herself is emotionally dying after her husband leaves her. But her children, 11-year-old Alice and 13-year-old Boone, are suspicious of their stepfather.  Narrated by the  cynical sister, this book focuses on the activities and terror of these youngsters over a year--a story about kids but written for adults. It is a tale of distorted and tested faith: Alice sacrifices her possessions to a do-nothing god in the bush, while Boone steadfastly believes in the hope of a forgiving God.  Their mother naively trusts in men, while Simon believes only in his personal avenging power. Unfortunately these fatherless kids serve as catalysts for mayhem; each is privately drawn to freaks of society. Despite the weird family next door, the greatest menace to Meg's home is the monster she invited into their lives.  Drowning in Simon's tyranny the family struggles to recognize the truth of their situation, but who will ultimately save the children?  Expect swirling tensions as this book hooks you from the first page.	2002-04-11
1591652:US	52160649	R1QQ1PD90RCWOB	0060293233	585088193	The Wonderful Wizard of Oz: 100th Anniversary Edition (Books of Wonder)	Books	3	5	17	N	N	There's No Place like Home!	When young Dorothy and her little dog, Toto, are suddenly transported to a magical land called Oz--as a result of a Kansas cyclone--she meets a variety of unusual creatures: 3 (and 1/10) witches, a humbug of a wizard, colorful little people and strange beasts.  In this \\"modern fairy tale\\" (1900) she witnesses other marvels of Nature, as well as quirks of human nature.  Amazingly this story is still fresh a century later, for it offers the underlying values of friendship, keeping promises and the simple pleasures of Home. <br />  Obviously it is difficult for Americans to visualize this delightful children's classic without being influenced by the cinematography of 1939 Hollywood, especially when the young protagonist steps out of her gray world into the dazzling colors of Oz. Thus Dorothy's<BR>\\"silver shoes\\" are transformed into Ruby Slippers.  The author himself color-coded the five regions of his enchanted land, adding ruby--beloved by Glinda.  We notice the usual elements found in fairy tales: Magic, a quest, things happening in groups of three, instant wish gratification, greed, selfishness, and loyalty.  Of course the ending presents satisfactory solutions for Dorothy and her 3 companions (assuming that the power to rule offers personal saitsfaction), while leaving readers to wonder what really happened to the great humbug wizard.  Strictly speaking, this is not great literature, yet it reamins a treasured, timeless read for children of all ages.	2002-04-05
1599652:US	52160649	R10WW3XTWJIIR1	0688099009	634948066	Strider	Books	3	3	4	N	N	CHARIOTS OF FUR?	Man's best friend does it again! Well, it's been two years since Leigh Botts closed the diary which boys' writer, Mr. Henshaw, had inspired him to keep.  Now he's taller, still living in a \\"shack\\" with his divorced mom, but totally cool about his trucker dad's permanent absence from the family portrait.  One day at the beach he finds an abandoned dog--of a breed which runs and herds other animals.  Starving but obedient to his last command, the forlorn canine guiltily follows Leigh home.  <br /> This is a light read, but it does provide insight into the emotional, financial and  social struggles of young teens.  Named for his easy, loping stride, the dog gradually transforms Leigh's aimless, joyless existence into an intentional pattern of planned activities with definite goals: the track team, permanent and total custody of the dog, real rapport with a girl, and the respect of teachers.  Nor are teens the only humans who have issues to sort out in this book; young readers will realize the problems facing adults and single parents.  STRIDER is a satisfactory sequel to DEAR MR. HENSHAW, as Leigh carves a legitimate niche in his world, where he finally \\"belongs.\\"	2002-03-30
1609944:US	52160649	R1D4AWG6XIYZQN	0613120736	125407637	Saving Shiloh (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A TAIL OF SOCIAL REDEMPTION	Marty's beloved beagle is in danger again.  Folks in the West Virginia backwoods are mighty suspicious of the resident crank, Judd Travers, the last of a three-generation family known for vicious behavior. This shunned man is notorious for his cruelty to his own dogs and his arrogant hositlity towards human kind.  Marty's family have tried to win the man's trust by <BR>demonstrating kindness and offering tentative friendship--social virtues which have never been modeled or extended to him before.  But the compassionate boy discovers that it's a steep, uphill battle to convince neighbors and townspeople that Judd is honestly trying to turn over a new leaf.  <br />  Trouble is: Marty himself wavers in his belief in the man's innocence, when a man goes missing, then turns up dead; also during an alarming series of burglaries.  The mystery builds as first a blizzard then a flood wreak havoc in the country community.  Will Shiloh ever be truly safe from Judd, after all Marty's efforts to convince the man of his sincerity--when Shiloh himself is reluctant to set foot upon Judd's hated property?  This final part of the SHILOH trilogy starts one month after the end of SHILOH SEASON.  Can dogs and men be redeemed after years of negative conditioning?<BR>And whose turn is it to save Shiloh this time?	2002-03-22
1616500:US	52160649	RERS58KHHXXFD	0385177747	634868842	The Trouble with Tuck	Books	3	9	11	N	N	SEEING EYE GIRL	In this touching story 13-year-old Helen dedicates months of frustation and hope to resolve a canine crisis: her beloved 3-year-old lab, Friar Tuck, is going blind. As the various \\"solutions\\" proposed by caring and intelligent adults all prove unacceptable to this desperate young lady, she<BR>quietly decides to defy the System.  Her goal: to keep her loyal companion alive, at home and free-roaming. <br /> Based on an actual incident in California, this story reaches across generations and lovers of pets species, to remind us of the meaning of loyalty, devotion and creative conflict resolution--even tough love.  You don't have to be a dog lover to appreciate Helen's pain, or applaud her defiance of grim reality. \\"It's never been done before,\\" is no excuse! When the principals involved truly have Heart, there Is a way after all. For kids 10-15 and pet lovers of all ages.	2002-03-17
1619435:US	52160649	R3CX49NXN006SI	0844665983	641578847	Beat the Turtle Drum	Books	2	12	16	N	N	"It's the Now that hurts!"	The title may be somewhat misleading, as this somber story is not about endangered species or a native tribe.  Rather, it is the poignant portrait of a family--especially the relationship between two sisters--shattered by sudden, senseless devastation.  Almost 11, Joss has longed to have her own horse--a dream about to come true on her birthday. But no one could foresee the disaster as family dynamics are irrevocably severed.<BR><br />  Narrated by 13-year-old Kate, this book reveals sisterly intimacies and suppressed rivalries, while praising the role of devoted friends and kindly adults.  Far from saccharine, this book will lead young readers into serious reflection on the fragility of human life; the \\"personal myth\\" of teenagers precludes acceptance that tragedy could occur in their own family, or to their close friends or even themselves.  Each person must cope with grief in his or her own way, for death is always hardest for those who remain behind.	2002-03-14
1625814:US	52160649	R19VFHMMEQOCX6	059045708X	600942606	A Girl's Best Friend	Books	2	0	1	N	N	Just Treat me Like 'm Normal!	Although written about a 12-year-old girl, presumably for other pre-teens, this book presents several serious themes and adult issues.  Although blind, Laurie considers herself capable around the house and at school.  But things start to disintegrate when she enters middle school: her 12-year-old dog is in pain; her father may lose his job; a school bully makes her life miserable; and a new teacher does not know how to treat her with dignity.  Gradually watching her self-confidence erode, young Laurie faces fears of death--for her pet and her beloved grandmother.  <br /> The story gets a bit preachy in places, as the author tries to incorporate many valid ideas to educate the public at large re the handicapped.  Can the sighted learn from the blind? It's a rather heavy tale at times, but offers hope for creative conflict resolution.  The Handicapped must be <BR>proactive in an assertive but non-aggressive manner, and not expect Society in general to read their mind. Will someone dear to Laurie die, as she learns valuable lessons of life?	2002-03-10
1626986:US	52160649	R2MBP1KCT66ME2	0833575112	496532448	Twits	Books	2	4	9	N	N	JUNGLE JUSTICE	The Twits (a British pop culture term from the 50's) are really a disgustingly nasty couple who deserve each other.  When not playing gross and cruel practical jokes on each other--which escalate into unadulterated viciousness--they plot to catch our feathered friends for their weekly Bird Pie.  Complete with tiny birdie feet sticking out from the crust like so many skimpy crosses.  Ugh...<br /> Well, anyway, their caged monekys increasingly resent being tortured in their topsy-turvy world, so with the aid of an exotic bird from their native Africa, the simian family seeks freedom and jungle justice for these pitiful excuses for human beings.  The silly tale reads quickly--enhanced by the ridiculously skuzzy illustrations by Quentin Blake, who packs 75 sketches into 76 pages.  It's such a revolting burlesque that it's almost funny. Offering no social redemption or character development, THE TWITS is a light read down the road of literary lunacy--cute withall.	2002-03-08
1626999:US	52160649	R5JSOZ6N5TFNF	061309977X	481042071	Bonicula (Bunnicula) (Spanish Edition)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Cape and Fangs Caper	This cute animal fantasy is a quick and easy read, filled with lots of dialogue and amusing family dynamics.  Harold, the<br />kind-hearted canine narrator, faithfully relates the bizarre events following the introduction of a black and white rabbit into a family of two pre-teen boys.  Book-educated Chester, the wise cat, however, is immediately suspicious of the new pet, whose name tag was written in a Carpathian dialect.  Easy-going Harold tries to befriend the little fellow, yet even he has to admit that there are some odd stunts happening after dark.<br /> Are humans slower to \\"catch on\\" than the four-pawed world?  Are the authors making a not-so-subtle-plea for nutritious doggy snacks and humane bunny care?  If you recall the self-analysis<br />craze of the 70's, you'll chuckle at this spoof of America's mania to get-in-touch-with-your-inner-self near the end of the book. Go, Dr. Crazy Cats!  This is for kids of all ages--Dracula lite!	2002-03-08
1644369:US	52160649	R1GHBVTVDX28NL	0156711427	842807821	A Passage to India	Books	3	2	6	N	N	ECHOES OF THE RAJ	E.M. Forster's 320-page novel probes the intimate workings of the human heart and mind, especially when brought into the stark, Victorian contrast of cross-cultural prejudice.  Set in India during the Raj (British imperialsim at its height and worst), the story reveals how Anglos strive to maintain a proper distance from the natives they felt destined to rule. The frustrated Indians--themselves fragmented by religion and caste--struggle in various ways to be accepted as fully-accredited persons by the dominant race, who dismiss them categorically as &quot;niggers.&quot;  Each sub-society seeks to perpetuate its social survival, for self-image is precious to all members of humanity.  Still the Anglo community has a long memory of perceived disloyalty, while that of Indians is even longer.  Despite decades of uneasy coexistence between the Masters and the Conquered, sparks of rebellion quickly ignite when fanned by the flames of confusion, false accusation, racial bigotry and social polarization.  <br />  The two naive Englishwomen who have booked passage to India should have read a manual on social survival skills; it simply will not Do to upset the proven status quo--however it seems tipped in the favor of Western power. The herd instinct must prevail or all is lost; woe to those Anglos who defy experience and tradition in dealing with treacherous, scheming, unreliable or childlike natives.  Whom to trust and whom to defend--whom to choose as a loyal ally, a friend or even a life's partner?  How can one make these critical decisions in an atmosphere of mutual suspicion, <BR>cultural snobbery and religious extremism? <br /> The normally straightforward British lifestyle is suddenly complicated in a myriad ways as soon as one is transported to the steaming sub- continent.  What is it about India which brings out the worst or hidden weakness of the British?  Is it safe, wise or even possible for natives to seek lasting relationships with Anglos?<BR>Will it ever be an equal partnershp? Can the East truly accept and peacefully coexist with the West and vice-versa?  This is a novel of deep instrospection, as readers are forced to analyze the devastating ripples of human error and frailty.  Despite many instances of captivating dialogue and fast-paced events, PASSAGE TO INDIA remains a classic psychological novel.	2002-02-23
1657607:US	52160649	R1OZ4W2UAR35X4	0425148696	538064062	The Saints of God Murders	Books	4	4	4	N	N	DEATH BY THE HYMNAL	Someone in Rev. Lucas Holt's rundown, Austin, Texas parish has chosen to ensure God's vengeance by dispensing his own Brand of Justice--don't groan: this book is filled with titillating puns.<BR>But this serial killer has selected his victims based on the words of a Hymn--daring the police to catch him, for he leaves garish clues at each crimescene.  Holt, an attractive middle-aged Episcopalian priest, was assigned to the down-in-the-chalice church of St. Margaret's; his sadistic bishop relishes the church's demise and that of its unconventional shepherd as well. Does the Bishop also realize that Holt exudes sex appeal to a variety of women: his church secretary, hookers, an aspiring female politician and not the least, a lady from his own past--tough police Lieutenant Granger.<br /> But if Holt lacks divine guidance in this series of vicious murders, he is aided and abetted in his unorthodox investigation by the God Sqad--so dubbed by the exasperated and disgusted APD. This former<br />prison chaplain has earned the devotion of loyal excons, who naturally gravitate to Austin as soon as they are Out.  Their street contacts and special \\"skills\\" prove invaluable to the Rev, while infuriating the official constabulary. Struggling to adapt to a high tech world, Holt has no problems in the Charm department, though he remains aloof from long-term commitment.<BR>He devotes all his mental energies to save his parish, even though he originallh accepted the position with reluctance. He and his church both deserve a second chance. <br /> Meyer's style involves switching scenes to present readers with unnamed characters, whom we sometimes misidentify. He must smrik at our justifiable confusion; not content with exploiting our ignorance by leading us on false trails, he falsifies the right ones. True, most of his victims are no loss to decent Society, but when did God delegate one person to act as his personal executioner?  The denouement itself provides a twist in style; unlikethe typical mystery where the clever detective assembles all the suspects in one room, to dazzle them with his deduction, concluding with a stunning revelation of the killer, Meyer has his murderer gather all the detectives together, to explain his rationale--proving who is in control all along, until the explosive ending.  Himself a priest, the author has endowed his long-suffering but oversexed protagonist with great intuitive sleuthing abilities. One wonders if Holt the Hunk is his literary alter ego.	2002-02-12
1662235:US	52160649	R3EVX5QNGLLVYB	0380000962	880384880	My Dad Lives in a Downtown Hotel	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Can Love be Earned--or Bought?	This quick read provides poignant insight into the mind-games which run through a child's brain when faced with personal disaster.  What could be more devastating to a child's security than the sudden realization that his parents have decided to divorce?  Young Joey is faced with the painful fact that his father has abruptly moved out--never to return to the family unit. While stubbornly refusing to accept his own helplessness to restore the unsatisfactory status quo, he actually blames himself for the break-up of his parents' marriage.  <br />  This short book (only 78 pp) can serve as a springboard for serious Reality discussions, both in homes and classrooms.  Children need to be reassured that they could not have prevented the dissolution of marital relationships; to be aware of parental maneuvering for their love or loyalty; to have their parents' love for them--their offspring--reinforced.  Written in the first person, this book reads easily, revealing the mental gymnastics and emotional stretching from a boy's viewpoint, despite the author's gender.  I also recommend this book for the category of City Kids, with its sound advice on getting around town alone.	2002-02-08
1663374:US	52160649	R1EFYTPYHWVJXW	0525188398	213675177	Rascal	Books	3	8	10	N	N	A Furry, Thirteen-pound Centerpeice!	This Newbery honor book is a gentle charmer for children of all ages, especially those who love the woods or have ever tried to tame a wild animal.  Recounted in the first person by the one who lived these events in a more naive era, RASCAL is the story of an 11-year-old boy who raises an orphaned baby raccoon.  Set during American's involvement in the Great War, the book includes many historical aspects of that special era.  It reminds us how war in distant Europe touched even heartland America, makling it an excellent book to include in a Unit on WW2.<br /> Young Sterling is a resourceful boy whose father permits him an incredible amount of freedom--trusting him with a menagerie of semi-tamed animals--even leaving him on his own for days at a time.  We are endeared to this unlikely duo by the love, concern and creativity which the boy displays during their year of special friendship.  His pet easily learns to bridge the two-footed and four-pawed worlds; we chuckle and fret, delight and worry as the raccoon gets older and into more serious mischief.  Rascal seems to bring out either the best or the worst of human nature! It is amazing how much both boy and raccoon mature in just one year.  A truly delightful little gem!	2002-02-07
1663377:US	52160649	R2D2Q34E0PEJ5H	0064401715	340142533	The Big Wave	Books	2	13	21	N	N	Life before and after Sunami	Better known for her youth in China, Pearl Buck has written an insightful tale set in undated Japan.  Best friends Kino and Jiya grow in different situations as their fathers are engaged in seemingly opposed occupations: rice farmer and fisherman. But Buck's theme--the interweaving of skills which provide a balanced tapesty of Life--is gently expresssed in this little book. Besides the aspect of childhood friendships, she deals with the heavy topic of the role of Death in Life, by presenting the stoic Japanese philosophy which permits the renewal of hope despite overwhelming diaster. <br />  Although short this tale is not really intended for children under 12. Depicting cataclysmic events and mature themes, this book serves as an excellent introduction to a unit on Asia--both its geology and its Oriental perspectives on man's role in the world.  It might even be considered an Allegory for middle school readers.  Serious and sobering, THE BIG WAVE is a fast read for thoughtful minds.	2002-02-07
1667707:US	52160649	R22V1YW4MS3YN5	0192835130	256512938	Kim (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Seeking a Red Bull and the River of the Arrrow	\\"Who is Kim?\\" is the rhetorical question posed several times in this novel of India under the Raj (Queen Victoria, latter 19th Century). Born of British parents but raised as an orphan by natives, this unique boy is a Eurasian sprite, a gamin not only of the streets but also the plains and ulitmately, the hills.<BR>Comfortable in various dialects and delighting in disguses and<BR>urban pranks, Kim little realizes that Fate is grooming him for the Great Game (secret service to Great Britian).  Indeed Kipling frequently uses the horse metaphor, with the boy as \\"the colt.\\" Ignorant of his true heritage and birthright, this merry and resouceful hustler attaches himself to an aged holy man--a seeker of the Way.  As the tale progresses, there develops a<BR>curious but deep bond between the Tibetan Red Hat and his quick-<BR>witted CHELA (servant.)  <br />  This unlikely duo sets out across the Hind, each following his own, private Quest: for Kim it's a red bull on a green field which will make his fortune; for the Lama it's a special river which will grant him ultimate peace.<BR>Mutually dependent for philosopical wisdom and street smarts, for phsyical sustenance and moral enlightenment, the pair encounters many stangers and surprising allies on their journey, discreetly underscored by Her Majesty's desire to learn the disposition of certain Rajahs and devious foreigners. No one can be trusted in this land of passion and self-gratification, but there is a legitimate need for an accurate Survey of the subcontinent. <br /> Rudyard Kipling's background and jounalistic experiences in India--\\"the Jewel in the Crown\\"--provide vivid inspiration and exhaustive detail for this tapestry of a multi-cultured nation in political bondage.  He endows his young protagonist (aged 12-16) with many endearing qualities, but never permits him to forget that he was a Sahib--with a duty to the Great Game of international and internal espionage.  Kim forms several unique friendships as he trampsthe Grand Trunk, the dusty plains even into the high Hills. To be sure he acquires a formal, Sahib's education, but it is on the road as a willing wayfarer that he accumulates diverse skills in native arts. For young Mister O'Hara is being trained--not as a soldier--but as a chain man for the prestigious Ethnological Survey.  Kipling blends narration with clever dialgoue, action with introspective reflection, as old man and boy seek their individual paths in life.  Kim represents the best of both (or multiple) worlds--enthusiastically dedicated to her Majesty's illustrious service.  A children's classic to be enjoyed by all ages.	2002-02-04
1697019:US	52160649	R3QNX7YHW6LUZB	0446400165	66189091	The Knocker on Death's Door (An Inspector George Felse Mystery)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Destiny Knocking: Sanctuary or Portal to Eternity?	Mild-mannered DCI George Felse, who prefers to solve English country crime without the aid of the Yard, finds himself near the Welsh/English border--first on vacation, then on business.  He is abruptly shaken out of his appreciation of Midshire's<BR>natural beauty when confronted by a manorial/monastic mystery--complete with curse.  Could monks gone amuck at the time of the<BR>Dissolution actually influence lives (i.e., cause death) in this century?  What is the fatal attraction of a curiously-wrought knocker on an oaken door, which was hung first in a church, then in a private wine cellar, but has since been donated back to an ecclesiastical setting?  <br /> Ellis Peters, known to aficionados as the creator of the Brother Cadfael series, weaves a delightful web of suspicious characters, cryptic legend and mundane motives into a contemporary thriller, with medieval over--or rather, undertones.  Her fans will recognize her penchant for incidental romance: in this case an unexpected but platonic love affair at the end.  Socially-conscious in her own time, she raises poignant commentary on the role of impoverished aristocracy, dying out gracefully (?) for lack of cash and new blood...apologies for the ill-chosen expression. Will the Manor be saved by the Trust or is this the end of the line for the Macsen-Martel family?  Will the sins of the philandering patriarch be visited upon future generations?  Anything by Peters is sure to please; savor this novel as her literary premonition of a medieval Welsh monk dabbling in mystery.  My advice: beware of the cowl in the mist and don't knock first!	2002-01-12
1697425:US	52160649	R33LXCXSSVCLVQ	0963114956	114060456	Blessed Are The Merciless (A Lucas Holt Mystery)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	DEATH MOST APPROPRIATE	Rev. Lucas Holt is an unusual detective: An Episcopalian priest <BR>with a penchant for babes, beer and rough language.  Operating out of Austin, Texas (perhaps an unsuspected crime mecca), this decidely humanistic cleric stumbles onto a vicious murder scam--<BR>a hit service which enables disgruntled seniors to cash in on their ungrateful adult offspring.  With expert help from some slick slimeballs of course.  Fortunately, the Rev relies on more than divine guidance to solve these murders: an eager and able team of diversified experts whose talents have been assessed by the great state of Texas.  Thanks to his years as Penitentiary chaplain, Holt has acquired his own private God Squad, who answer to a higher authority than the stymied APD.  <br /><BR>Author Meyer--himself a cleric--seems anxious to show off his knowledge of prison jargon; the book (or series, if such it proves) could be improved by providing a glossary of Big House lingo.  He also displays his carnal knowledge with gusto; one wonders if he secretly delights in flaunting explicit scenes and titillating inuedos for vicarious pleasure.  Perhaps he is<BR>cleverly pandering to the lowest common denominator of his reading public; or merely following the sage advice of his editor.  Devotess of clerical mysteries may be surprised at<BR>the the Rev's promiscuity and verbal vulgarity.   <br />  Vacillating between two attractive women every other chapter, Austin's gift to broads on both sides of the law is liberal<BR>with the family jewels.  Yet at his 43rd birthday he becomes uncomfortably aware of his own mortality--male midlife crisis.  More to the point, he realizes that perhaps singlehood is no<BR>longer the best lifestyle, but where to find a woman willing to commit: a cop, a politician or a former madam?  Possibly there will be an engagement in a third novel.  The plot development is excellent, as we find ourselves increasingly embroiled in foul schemes; Meyer provides a delightful rogues' gallery--former inmates united to help the Rev in his underground pursuit of justice. This mystery has one slight flaw however: it places much emphasis on local color, with almost slavish dedication to reproduce the streets of Austin faithfully. There are also a few loose ends which left me dangling.  The best part of this novel,  though, is decidedly the complex but loyal interactions among the members of the God Squad.  I challenge readers to find the fragile but valid theme, hidden between the 266 pages of this mystery.  A theme which may be a subtle plea to Society at large to give a second chance to those who have paid their debts.	2002-01-11
1737312:US	52160649	R2E2OUXAZ1SY7J	0816708010	842171809	Great Adventure Stories (Watermill Classics)	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Reviving the Swashbuckling Years!	This swashbucking anthology for boys contains five ripping yarns of daring, action and cleverness by British authors: Rudyard<BR>Kipling, Robert Louis Stevenson, Arthur Conan Doyle, Stanley Weyman and Anthony Hope.  The settings, however, are decidedly continental: India during the Raj, medieval France, the mountains<BR>of Spain during the Napoleonic wars, southern France during the pre reign of Henry the 4th, and a fictitious Germanic principality. Savor the excitement of Romantic milieus, where bold adventurers risk all for love or power!  <br /> The heroes are mainly audacious young men to whom Honor means everything, yet readers meet some surprisingly brave young women as well. This anthology provides not only a fun read for kids of all ages, but may serve a springboard for classroom discussion in the area of Comparative Litterature (relative to content, style and theme).  This slender volume of 160 pp provides an excellent introduction to the Short Story genre and the literary output of authors famous in adult realms.  Classics for Beginners--the easy way!	2001-12-11
1742825:US	52160649	R1PMHI6FXM2S0R	1589630106	326158894	The Four Million	Books	3	20	26	N	N	Tales of Old New York: Wodehouse-- with a Twist	This anthology contains 21 tales set in New York City at the dawn of the twentieth century, plus the bonus of 4 tales set in the exotic tropics of a fictitious banana republic.  O. Henry focuses his curious literary microscope on the diverse lives of various residents of this famous metropolis.  Some of his protagonists can claim idle-rich status, but more represent the middle class and many the poverty-stricken milieus.  Indulgent  readers will discover the flavor of a century past, rub shoulders with men on the other side of the law, and commiserate with thwarted lovers--all the while expecting the trademark<BR>O. Henry ending with a Twist. <br />  But the author's<BR>style reminds us of Wodehouse's moonstruck romantic pairs and even predate TV's innocuous &quot;Love, American Style&quot; episodes, in which we do not take their amorous escapades seriously.  Then, to throw us off guard, he spikes the anthology with a few pathetic and even tragic stories.  One wonders if he was gently trying to raise the social consciousness of the literate public.<BR>Various ethnic cgroups with their inherent city-acquired bigotry become the target of his witty pen, especially the Irish but also Italians.  After all, his beloved olde New York was a true melting pot from the Ellis Island kitchen.  <br />  Narrated in first as well as third person, these stories incorporate<BR>flagrant slang and one actually boasts a canine narrator! They<BR>challenge contemporary readers with antiquated vocabulary <br />intermingled with literary, Biblical and artsy reference. O. Henry will repeatedly send one to a dictionary or encyclopedia with his liberal sprinkling of foreign words.  Like the British before him, O Henry contemplates the danger of the temptations of a tropical Paradise.  Will Yankees &quot;Go native?&quot; as so many English did before them?  Of course,the real cocoanut conundrum is to choose your five favorites!	2001-12-07
1773822:US	52160649	R1UPKBT7V0IY4C	014017737X	779170984	The Pearl	Books	3	5	6	N	N	TRAGIC LINKS IN THE CHAIN OF FATE	When Kino, a poor Mexican villager, brings up the Pearl of the World after one of his dives, he feels very fortunate; he dares to dream a glorious future for his young family. But the luminous pearl exerts a strange, malignant magic over the village; dishonest hispanics, gringos, and even worse--his own people. Joy turns sour, then bitter, as this blessing from the Gulf transforms his entire life by capturing the greedy imagination of his neighbors.  What was meant as a gift, perhaps from God or the gods, quickly deteriorates into a curse.  <br /><BR>Is it wrong to wish to improve one's lowly station in life?<BR>Are simple natives not permitted to better the life of the next generation? Caught between the tenets of Christianity and holdovers of a pagan religion, the young couple struggles to understand the power of this Pearl.  There is no limit to the atrocities committed to illegally acquire the treasure which is Kino's by right, as the pearlfisher who selected it from the sandy bottom.  This is an excellent example of a Steinbeck novella--with pessimistic threads underlying the honest efforts of a simple, loving couple.  Since the author tends to spotlight the darker side of human nature, this little book is definitely for adults, from 16 up. I consider it more serious than either &quot;The Red Pony&quot; or &quot;Of Mice and Men.&quot;  A painful read but well worth it.	2001-11-12
1780360:US	52160649	R3UJAPL069I71O	0451527712	655343360	Frankenstein (Signet Classics)	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Symbiosis of Power and Terror	Sci Fi movie buffs may not recognize the original novel by Mary<br />Shelley, any more than movie goers would recognize the real Tarzan in ERB's debut book.  For this 1818 novel introduces us to a surprisingly articulate monster--who is never named by his idealistic young creator. Its antique literary style offers a  tale presented by three different first-person narrators. Letters (tales within a tale) are the inevitable legacy of suicide or premature death before the story is really over.<br /> In contrast, the basic theme appears remarkably modern, especially in the light of 21st century scientific debate over the inherent dangers of too much knowledge (as in Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde)or genetic tampering (The Island of Dr. Moreau).  Man is simply not morally csapable to assume the role of creator.  Lofty-minded but overwrought Victor Frankenstein conceives the blasphemous idea of creating a living being of gigantic stature.  Despite his noble goal of benefitting mankind, the experiment goes grotesquely awry.  The youthful natural scientist endures a few years of tortured, morbid existence, which swell to a crescendo of horror as a result of his cerebral &quot;Hybris.&quot;<br />  Frankenstein's obsession gradually dominates his life--spilling blood onto those around him, as the people dearest to him are viciously and deliberately murdered.  Is there no way to stop the rampage of terror which he has inadvertantly unleashed upon a helpless, unsuspecting world?  Linked inexorably by the bonds of unholy creation, both Victor and his monster live only for Revenge.  But can either truly be said to be alive, if the other should perish? Are they not mutually dependent on each other to sustain the fires of the hunt?  Despite uneven pacing, this thriller/chilller has captured the imagination of kids of all ages for almost two centuries. Bear in mind that Hollywood has transformed the original monster, spawning the idea that Frankenstein Is the monster!	2001-11-07
1800968:US	52160649	R3NOTAY3A1T17F	1585790214	606268755	The Return of the Twelves	Books	4	8	8	N	N	THE POWER OF GENIUS!	When 8 year-old Max discovers a box of 12 wooden soldiers<BR>in Napoleonic uniforms, hidden in the attic of their new home,<BR>he is naturally delighted.  But is there a link between this old  house and the Bronte museum nearby?  His find becomes a rare<BR>treasure when he realizes that The Twelves are alive, having <BR>been endowed by their four genii (the literary Bronte children)<BR>with incredible abilities: to think, speak, behave and regenerate their lives at will! Each man has his own name, appearance and identity, reflecting the various aspects of the children's own personalities.  But how long can Max keep his precious secret, with two suspicious older siblings nosing about?<BR><br />  This charming tale of miniatures answers the questions posed by Margery Williams: what is real and how do toys come alive?  Max must learn to trust first his sister, then even an adult, as he struggles to prevent the unthinkable: crass commercial sale and heartless exportation to America.  What devastating deportation to the Young Men, as a result of media curiosity and a mercenary older brother.  Is there no way they can be saved for literary England and preserved in safety where they truly belong?  Young Max behaves in a surprisingly adult manner, as he insists on permitting the Twelves to chart their own destiny.  Keeping their military dignity intact, they attempt and accomplish marvels of logistics with minimal aid. This is a cute, imaginative tale (which might inspire some interest in the original Four Genii), for children of all ages.	2001-10-22
1816369:US	52160649	R231KN9OJGFV5U	0440210925	992760725	The Night the White Deer Died	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Time Blurs/Cultures Cross in a Contemporary Vision Quest	The only Anglo teen in the tiny town of Tres Pinos, 15-year-old Janet finds herself something of a loner.  Close to her artistic but newly-divorced mother, the girl struggles with racial isolation and strange, macho dating customs of the hispanic youth around her. At night she is haunted by a recurring dream, in which an Indian brave aims his arrow--in slow motion, never quite reaching its target--at a peaceful white doe.  Is this<BR>dream symbolic of Janet's emotional purity or of the slender, quiet girl herself?  Is this a hint of things to come or a link to someone's past?   <br />  By day she is confused and embarrassed about her unexplained interest in the town bum, Billy Honcho.<BR>Why does she feel drawn to help and befriend the old Indian wino, whom reputable townsfolk shun. Could he really once have lead his people with pride and dignity, demonstating compassion for human beings and respect for Mother Earth?  Delight in Paulsen's magic--a tale of the survival of the soul; his deft literary fingers weave a gentle story of a girl's coming of age in a hostile social environment.  As Janet embarks on her own personal vision quest, both centuries and cultures blur mysteriously.  Is it permitted for two lonely seekers to<BR>briefly share a love which never was, but could have been?<BR>This book will appeal to middle schooll girls and offers excellent cross cultural insight.	2001-10-09
1825057:US	52160649	R28QCR6G3DHSF6	0380727692	952684020	Poppy (Tales from Dimwood Forest)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	MINI MISS ON A MIGHTY MISSION	This is Avi at his sweet and gentle  best--having chosen an unassuming deer mouse for his heroine-in-spite-of-herself.<BR>Forced by circumstances to come to the aid of her extensive family,(not to mention restore the reputation of her pompous father), teenage Poppy uses her natural intelligence to ferret<BR>out the truth about Mr. Ocax and his &quot;protection&quot; racket.  No mouse dares move freely near Dimwood Forest without the owl's permission. Yet things are about to change, as dwindling rations result in a planned migration. <br /> But who will be impressed by the logical thinking and moral courage of a mere girl mouse?<BR>Certainly not the winged meance on patrol from his charred oak tree; nor that epitome of spiked evil--that nonchalant ruffian, the porcupine.  And just what Is the mystery at New House--something so terrible that it even causes the owl's feathers to ruffle in genuine fear.  Inspired by the memory of her lost love, Poppy inststs on learning the truth about danger.  This is a darling, light read for children of all ages, proving that one does not have to be big or strong to quietly fight for Justice.	2001-09-29
1879592:US	52160649	R24BSVQ77V79B3	0879552093	166314974	An Amish Family	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Classic Literary The-Verdict-is-Yours	Thinly-disguised as fiction, this excellent book by Ms Naylor presents an unbiased view of the Amish lifestyle in America. She examines their belief system, traditions, morals, religious and social goals all in highly readable language.  Enhanced by the captivating pen and ink sketches of George Armstrong, this book soon gives up the pretense of plotline, expanding frankly into non-fiction.  A reader could almost drown in so much researched material, but a real Amish family could read this work without qualms, as their values are given without &quot;English&quot; prejudice.  <br />  Fourteen-year-old Simon Stolzfus prefers book learning to farming; why can't he take pride in the simple, homespun occupations which satisfy his brothers?   For generations the male patriarchs have cultivated a strong sense of family and land usage in harmomy with Nature.  Is it right for the youngest brother to keep Simon's secret?  Naylor leaves us wondering at the end how Benjamin, the grieving patriarch, will handle the explosive situation of his son's flagrant disobedience.  Is compromise possible or the death knell to century-old tradition?  What happens when a small Society begins to wink at its own prohibitions? And what happens to Amish youth who can't--or won't--fit into the predetermined niche?  The verdict is yours--will you decide for young Simon or for the venerable patriarch?	2001-08-13
1919433:US	52160649	R3NF60ZL7E779T	0812567072	389889394	The Island of Dr. Moreau (Tor Classics)	Books	3	1	6	N	N	THE BEAST BEGINS TO CREEP BACK!	Like Mary Shelley's Dr. Frankenstein, another mad scientist (oh, all right--obsessed biological researcher) tries to create his own humanoid menagerie remote from society.  Fired with Evolutionary fervor a youthful HGW presents smug civilization with a shocking portrayal of genius gone amuck--a direct warning of the dangers of pseudo-scientific zeal.  Edward Prendick is the sympathetic but passive protagonist who barely survives a series of horrors: shipwreck and ordeal by lifeboat, only to be spit up on a hostile island, uninvited and suspiciously, barely  tolerated.  <br />  Idealistic Prendick gradually discovers many bizarre secrets on this tropical island, for the man called Dr. Moreau (note that HGW has chosen a Frenchman to represent deranged mentality) acts both as God and father figures for his beast people. Even his failed physician, Montgomery, struggles to resist the natural urge to mingle and evolve downwards, which means reverting to lower life forms, which combine the worst of two species. Only late in this gripping novel does Prendick emerge as a proactive hero--passionate for humanity and ultiamtely self-preservation.  HGW raises serious social issues in this book: the deliberate infliction of pain, morality re man's relationship with lower orders, vivsection, animal rights, alcohol abuse, and of course his psychological mania: obsession with pure knowledge at all cost.  <br />  Does Science (the white man's burden?) have the right or duty to play God and attempt to improve or rearrange Creation?  Will all three men eventually revert to a lower type of anthropomorphic existence, casting aside the shackles of humanity, sinking into an inevitable moral morass on a par with Moreau's surgical freaks? Some uneven pacing aside, this book is one suspenseful and chilling package of moral challenges for the last (and this) century, served up for the true sci fi cultist's dining pleasure!	2001-07-14
1926204:US	52160649	R29EJI961POT4H	0316289124	254335526	Mr. Midshipman Hornblower (Hornblower Saga (Paperback))	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Headstrong Bravado in the Royal Navy	In CS Forester's first book of the now famous HORATIO HORNBLOWER series, the resourceful hero acquires his sea legs--plus the respect of some of his superiors and peers. Young, unpredictable, quick to anger and self-reproach, he grows to love the life of a seaman in majesty's 18th century service.  When not outsmarting the Frogs or the Dons, HH dazzles seasoned naval officers with incredible daring and brazen foolhardiness--which often succeed! Although a raw youth of 17, he learns to swallow his pride as he metes out his own self-punishment--in rough and ready maritime morality.  <br /> Forester points out the benefits of linguistic skills, as his hero is pitted against a pompous French captain and a wily Spanish Don. His adventures in this debut novel run the gamut of foreign intrigue, shipboard politics, and naval life in general--all served up with an extra measure of human nature. Thanks to Forester's remarkable knowledge of the maritime milieu, the entire series offers readers great details about various types of ships, national differences on the high seas, and the inevitable internal and foreign affairs. An underlying theme emerges re the responsibility and fitness of those in command. This is one delightful swashbuckler which will appeal to boys (and women) of all ages!  Set your sights on Adventure!	2001-07-09
1969544:US	52160649	RQNZ90MFTZLVV	0520006755	149726543	Ishi in Two Worlds: A Biography of the Last Wild Indian in North America	Books	3	23	23	N	N	Twentieth Century Time Traveler	This poignant portrayal of the most dramatic culture clash in American history reads like a literary bio-drama.  Theodora Kroeber's exhaustive research and respectful treatment of aboriginal heritage provide accurate details of a successful Indian culture, which so-called Civilization had effaced from the earth by 1911.  Starting with the geology and anthropology of the Yana and Yahi tribes (north of San Francisco Bay), she recreates their vanished lifstyle.<br />  Part One describes the relatively peaceful existence of local native American tribes who learned to coexist both with Nature and each other.  But the advent of the white man destroyed the fragile ecological and social balance which had existed for centuries, as Yankees and Hispanics gradually encroached on Indian territory--scorning their customs as &quot;savage.&quot;  Ishi's tribe was hated and ultimately hunted into extinction.  Himself the last survivor, he staggered into a frontier town, gaunt, ragged and in mourning-- expecting instant death. Having lost touch with the last human beings who understood his pre-Columbian world, he had nothing to live for.<br />  Part Two compassionately depicts his amazing metamorphosis from the last wild man to Mr. Ishi. He never revealed his true Indian name to any white man, but accepted the generic word, &quot;Ishi&quot; as his new name which simply means, Man.  He emerges as a surprisingly gentle person, who adapted successfully to life in the modern world.  Making friends with selected Americans, learning to live and almost thrive in the municipal jungle, he earned respect and admiration for his &quot;primitive&quot; skills.  In fact Ishi left indelible memories upon those who were privileged to know him well and enjoy his company.  His sentimental jouurney back into his past and former territory was well documented in photographs and (now disintegrated) film.  What a privilege it must have been to observe this calm and dignified man demonstrate lost customs and survival skills.<br /> From warrior to janitor/custodian this honorable man maintined his human dignity in all aspects of 20th century life, until his untimely death from TB five years later.  In fact Ishi-made artifacts are treasured in Bay Area museums.  One wonders if we of the modern world could adapt so well or philosophically to conditions so foreign as a trip through generations of Western achievement; how would we cope if we were transported forward in time by several centuries?  Ishi adapted with grace and courtesy, inadvertantly causing us to wonder who the real &quot;savages&quot; are/were.  But this book is not a racist guilt trip--rather it proves a personal odyssey which can teach and touch us all.and survival skills.  <br /> From warrior to janitor/custodian this honorable man maintined his human dignity in all aspects of 20th century life, until his untimely death from TB five years later.  In fact Ishi-made artifacts are treasured in Bay Area museums.  One wonders if we of the modern world could adapt so well or philosophically to conditions so foreign as a trip through generations of Western achievement; how would we cope if we were transported forward in time by several centuries?  Ishi adapted with grace and courtesy, inadvertantly causing us to wonder who the real &quot;savages&quot; are/were.  But this book is not a racist guilt trip--rather it proves a personal odyssey which can teach and touch us all.	2001-06-06
2008518:US	52160649	R3U1BUFO880U6C	014044503X	451333365	The Sorrows of Young Werther (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	33	36	N	N	&quot;Remember Albert!&quot;	What is it about this particular novella which inspired a series of youthful suicides throughout Europe soon after its publication?  Why did Napoleon insist on keeping the French translation with him during his campaign in Egypt?  How did Goethe succeed in capturing the poignancy of the human heart, while fascinating a jaded but &quot;enlightened&quot; 18th century public?  The young German author touched a universal chord with this slender volume, in which he offers tender insight on such diverse Romantic subjects as Love, Religion, Nature and Man's relationships with God and his fellow men.  Why do critics consider it a classic of both German and World Literature? <br /> Presented in a quaint literary style, this story consists of  confidential diary entries and letters to a trusted friend, Wilhelm, by a senstitive protagonist, with the addition of editorial notes. (The latter results from the inveitable drawbacks of first-person narratives.)  The plot unfolds as Werther, a young nobleman who interests himself in the daily activities of the peasantry, is enjoying an extended holiday in a scenic area of Germany.  Free to savor the  magnificent natural beauty around him, Werther is soon dazzled by the numerous charms of the delightful Charlotte--daughter of a local town dignitary.  This paragon of feminie virtue and attraction appears more sensual and maternal than truly sexual. <br />  Alas, the incomparable Lotte is already engaged to absent Albert, due home soon.  Is she too naive to understand that in Werther she has acquired an ardent admirer?  Is she aware of his easily-inflamed fascination, or the violent depths of his stifled emotions?  Is she oblivious or heartless to his passionate despair once her fiance has returned?  Just how long can she juggle two lovers, or even control her own dainty heart--which Goethe chastely and tantalizingly hides from us? <br /> Readers will be be swept away on the floodtide of Gothe's untamed emotions, as poor Werther faces the inevitable.  Ah, but which act requires or proves the greater bravery: to terminate the heart's torment by the simple act of Suicide, or to accept Life's harshness by continuing a lonely, meaningless existence? Which Hell is it better or nobler to endure: that of rejecting God's gift or that of eternal separation from the Beloved?  The strain of a prolonged &quot;menage a trois&quot; can not be permitted to endure--neither from a literary or a moral point of view. <br />  The last entries painfully point the way as Werther's despair cascades into definitive--albeit negative--action.  Weep, hope forlornly with this ardent young man, even rage at his fate; then be swept away into the maelstrom of thwarted dreams.  Analyze and pity Germany's most famous pre-Romantic hero, as he struggles though this psychological novel, for Goethe plays upon the reader's memory's heartstrings with the skill of Ossian's agonized harper.	2001-05-06
2011949:US	52160649	R1DPOIE9MF2BOD	0679425349	882790302	The Railway Children (Everyman's Library Children's Classics Series)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Cheerfully playing at being Poor	Three English children in turn-of-the-century London are suddenly obliged to leave their home and take up rural residence at Three Chimneys cottage.  They are additionally confused by the unexplained disappearance of their father, who was falsely accused of espionage and wrongfully incarcerated.  The kids seek solace in their new life by becoming familiar with unexplored means of transportation: the canal and the railroad.<br />  Their plucky mother undertakes to write novels while she homeschools her inquisitive offspring: 12-year-old Roberta (Bobbie), 10-year-old Peter, and 7-year-old Phyllis.  These children quarrel and squabble, play and dream like normal kids, while secretly harboring fears about their absent father.  Could he be dead, since no one was allowed to inform them of the painful truth? Would their calm, loving mother permit them to live a lie?<br /> During the next 6 months these decent kids gradually carve out a niche for themsleves in the lives (and ultimately the hearts) of the local citizens--particularly railway personnel. As they expand their social horizons, they increase their knowledge of the ways and quirks of the iron horse. They even learn lessons in tasteful charity and Christian compassion, as they exist in a kind of emotional limbo--just waiting for some unknown event.<br />  Despite Nesbit's admittedly quaint literary style (with many asides addresesd to the reader, and obvious predilection for one of her characters), THE RAILWAY CHILDREN will transport readers back to a much simpler time--an era of true family values and homespun social virtues.  Don't expect the fantasy elements of THE PHOENIX AND THE CARPET in this gentle story; just relax and enjoy a journey into the past, when chidren were taught to wait and hope. This is a book for children of all ages, inscribed on the tablets of Home and Hearth.  And who is the mysterious but kindly old gentleman on their beloved Green Dragon?	2001-05-03
2013651:US	52160649	R2XRMON9XRIKR6	0688139574	243297356	Just So Stories (Books of Wonder Classics)	Books	3	29	32	N	N	Written for His own Best Beloved Daughter	Considered aloof and even irascible by reporters and adoring fans, Rudyard Kipling was admittedly a private person.  Despite his reputation as a recluse during his four-year Vermont sojourn, he was genuinely fond of children.  With paternal tenderness and pride he wrote this anthology of 12 unrelated tales for the amusement and enlightenment of his oldest, American-born daughter.  A hint of their sacred relationship is revealed in  &quot;How the First Letter was Written&quot; and &quot;How the Alphabet was Made,&quot;  wherein readers savor the loving bonds between cavegirl, Taffy, and her devoted father, Tegumi. <br />  Many serious critics refuse to consider this collection of animal fables--which satirize human vices and foibles--as true literature, unworthy of adult time or mental effort to be appreciated.  Nevertheless, it takes a different arsenal of literary skills to write well for children, who demand  more action and clever dialogue; they expect to be hooked right away into whatever plot.  It takes an agile mind plus a youthful heart to hold kids' attention over thousands of words and several pages--even with illustrations by the multi-talented author.  (Seek those editions which offer the additional lure of Kipling's own pen and ink sketches.)  <br />  Don't be swayed by any rhetoric you may have heard about Kipling's so-called Politics, either.  His social opinions frequently are blown out of proportion or taken out of context.  In any case they are irrelevant to the intent of his anthology. Other than a few socially-incorrect phrases, JUST SO STORIES proves an excellent chapter-by-chapter bedtime book, especially for parents under fire to answer the inevitable questions which explain why a particular animal looks or acts the way it does. The author has bravely tackled that problem--taking adults off the inevitable Why hook. Using his palette of unlimited vocabulary, Kipling creates his own imaginative, drole and delightful expressions.  Even if as adults we find his linguistic patchwork difficult to understand at times, most  children will enter the word game eagerly. JUST SO STORIES offers a cute read for all YAHOOS--those who are truly Young At Heart or Otherwise!	2001-05-02
2015777:US	52160649	R2MRHTJPNV7A4T	0394445937	680723515	The Snow Goose	Books	5	15	15	N	N	The Taming of Two Wild Creatures	Was it pure coincidence that a Canadian snowgoose plummeted from a stormy sky near the lonely lighthouse on Britain's pre-war shores?  Wounded and exhausted from its transatlantic ordeal, this unique bird proves the focal point of compassion for two unlikely humans, whose only bond is its care and nurture. <br /> Philip Rhayader keeps aloof from critical society which looks askance at his misshapen body; yet a twisted back often belies hidden personal integrity and human dignity.  In his isolated lighthouse studio he paints Nature's wild marshland to ease his own loneliness. Shunned by civilization, he feels a special tenderness for the free-spirited waterfowl of his chosen habitat.  <br /> Then a girl named Frith--part fey herself--  enters his restricted world, hesitantly bringing a wounded snow goose to the respected but feared artist-doctor.  Will he help her, who represents the Society which has banned him from its warmth; rather, will he care for this helpless creature from another continent, which will surely die without his tender skill?  The girl seems just another wild creature, yet she cherishes a forlorn hope that this storm-buffeted bird can survive.  <br /> In time the snow goose bestows her loyalty on the man who gave her new life--demonstrating her devotion even under fire.  Meanwhile Frith emerges into young womanhood--too late realizing that she has developed deep feelings for this strange and unappreciated man, himself too shy to confess his  love.  But as World War II rages at Dunkirk, he discovers a way in which even a military reject can serve his fellow man, unselfishly performing his patriotic duty.  <br />  This is a story of compassion, love and sacrifice told honestly and simply, with incredible tenderness for all wild things.  Some argue that it may be a contemporary fable or a lyrical love story.  Each reader must decide for himself, but regardless of your literary judgment, Gallico's SNOW GOOSE wil provide a gentle tug at your heartstrings.  I consider this short story a timeless classic.	2001-04-30
2017228:US	52160649	R155OWCE8NF47I	091659503X	10608849	Merlin's Booke	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Arthurian Tapestry	As enchanting as Arthur's court in our own age, MERLIN's BOOKE lures readers of Arthuriana into a timeless myth of literary history--by its title alone.  With breathtaking imagination and panoramic scope Jane Yolen delicately draws aside the veil surrounding The Matter of Britain.  We may think we are familliar with the legends of  the mysterious wizard, but she has skillfully embroidered her own versions of the basic mythos. Who can resist the call of the bejeweled Excalibar, held aloft in shimmering triumph by a dainty hand from beneath the waters of the lake? <br />  Yolen has bequeathed to 20th century civilization this amazing collection of short stories, woven around the provocative and highly-disputed cult of Camelot's sorceror.  Readers may expect unique versions of his birth, boyhood, the search for Guineviere, The Sword in the Stone and his sylvan demise.  The ensemble is capped by her delightfully cynical scenario of a modern press conference, at which a fervent Arthurian anthropologist and the charming Prince of Wales attempt to convince skeptics of the validity of Merlin's life and death. Let your hearts and imagination run riot: surrender to the spell cast--not only by the wizard himself--but by this talented author, as she swirls the mists of time to reveal a new slant an on old friend.	2001-04-29
2017286:US	52160649	R3EXDONB0D9HN	039575514X	584095688	My Antonia	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Give me a Woman to match my Prairie Sunsets	Ten-year-old Jim Burden arrives in the dark Nebraska vastness, on the same train as a hopeful but impoverished Bohemian family. The newly orphaned boy is welcomed by loving grandparents and kind farm hands, who gently teach him prairie survival skills. Alas, there is no one but a sly cousin from the old country to greet/dupe the hardworking folk who sacrificed their homeland to make a better life in the New World for their children.  Still,  hroughout the entire book it is Nature--particularly in  the form of the undulating, ever metamorphosing prairie--which dispenses both cruelty and blessing on Americans and immigrants alike.  How each group copes reveals their moral fibre and hints at future success.  <br /> Young Jim is most enchanted by his 14-year-old neighbor, a bronzed, hardworking daughter of the soil, who toils selflessly for her family--Antonia Shimerda.  Their strange customs and diverse personalities awe and confuse Jimmy, who immediately feels appreciation and affection for this brave girl from a flawed family.  The novel recounts their lives from childhood until young adulthood; how they took divergent paths in their quests for true happiness and contentment in life. <br /> Cather's style is lyric: music is found in both Papa's violin and the waving of golden  grain. She vividly portrays the  chiaroscuro of shimmering sunsets and dappled leaves by the creek; gracefulness in the lilt of a barefoot walk and the natural aspiration of the heart toward peace and beauty. Does Jim regret the lost days of his boyhood, when life's pleasures were innocent, when hope was young and shy, when dreams were easily shared with a trusting companion and sincere smile? Was it worth all his serious studies and prestigious N.Y. job, when he recalls the tremulous private confessions of their youth?  Can a prairie lad completely divest himself of his nurturing environment, or do the dancing grasses still hold secret sway in his adult heart? An American classic of the midwest, MY ANTONIA is meant for readers all over the world because of the unashamed truths it reveals about the heart of man.	2001-04-29
2017414:US	52160649	R371TWDH707MS7	0060929863	937627939	The Bridge of San Luis Rey (Perennial Classics)	Books	4	18	20	N	N	DIVINE RETRIBUTION OR MERE COINCIDENCE?	Perhaps better known as a playwright (OUR TOWN and THE MATHCMAKER), Thornton Wilder presented a fast-paced world with a stately novella which proceeds at its own tempo--oblivious of modern demands for mindless action and soulless dialogue.  Required high school reading as far back as the 60's, BRIDGE OF SAN LUIS REY still exerts its ingenuous literary charm upon thoughtful readers. Our throw-away society begrudges spending  time to consider the deeper questions of life.  The Why's of our existence--or mass disaster--prove too mentally stressful to validate such effort. <br />  Conscientious Brother Juniper undertakes an exhaustive examination of the lives of five persons.  Although their curiously interrelated lives are not apparent at first, they all died simultaneously while crossing an ancient rope bridge in 18th century Peru.  So why should we concern ourselves with the conicidence and obscure destiny of non English-speaking people 200 years ago?  Determined to prove to himself (not to mention to atheists and skeptics) that a divine hand masterminded (or simply permitted) the sudden death of five travelers, the earnest friar struggles to juxtapose these ageless questions re the role of God in human life.  Is fate merely indifferent to our petty struggles for fame, power and self-esteem?  Were these five singled out because of the way they had lived?  Were they being punished or rewaded for their earthly sojourns?  Or was the fatal unraveling of the rope but a regretful mechanical catastrophe?  <br />  Wilder's theatrical experience is revealed in several sections of this novella--where we discern true Scenes and Acts. In fact, he permits increasingly long dialogues between his prime characters in successive chapters. Even his secondary charaters possess remarkable qualities as supporting actors, who appear in several lives.  If the bridge which spans the chasm (a metaphor for Life or perhaps Ignorance?) parts without warning, which two landmarks of mortal existence cease to be connected?  Individual responses will vary, according to the reader's temperament and moral development. Considered an American litearary classic, THE BRIDGE OF SAN LUIS REY provdes much soul food for private reflection.	2001-04-29
2017481:US	52160649	R2V1OVC376P5FI	0486407861	817574880	Captains Courageous	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Odyssey of Maritime Maturity	Swept overboard a luxury liner into the Atlantic, teenage Harvey Cheyne is rescued by a Portuguese fisherman from the We're Here out of Gloucester, Mass.  Captain Disko Troop, thinking the youth to be temporarily insane, refuses to believe his story of being a millionaire's son; he actually puts the selfish brat to work, treating him like a glorified cabin boy.  Condemned to months aboard a fishing vessel which cruises the waters of the Grand Banks off Newfoundland, Harvey embarks on his personal voyage to manhood.  Befriended by Troop's decent son, Daniel, Harvey soon learns the ropes--quite literally--proving himself an able and positive addition to the crew by season's end. <br /> Kipling's research along the Boton wharves paid off, as he treats his fans to a fine tale about a youth's coming of age-- complete with accurate details about commercial fishing and sailing at the turn of the century.  The relationship focuses first on the boys, but changes in the latter quarter of the novel, as Harvey's parents come to grips with his loss and then sudden reunion. The author contrasts the simple integrity of fishermen vs the acquisitive hostility of the transporation barons.  <br /> The plot unfolds amid exhaustive nautical terms; in fact the action is occasionally becalmed in those chapters which offer general sea lore and even chanties.   These reservations aside, CAPTAINS COURAGEOUS ranks as a ripping yarn which will hold the interest of most boys, and as Kipling's primary American novel--Yankee by setting and terminology.  Although he also wrote THE JUNGLE BOOKS from his Vermont home, this young adult classic was truly inspired by his brief New England sojourn.  A fascinating tale of emotional survival and character development on the high seas!	2001-04-29
2134856:US	52160649	R2FKKCK9UEZ0JP	0064402509	221286712	The Family Under the Bridge	Books	2	2	10	N	N	From Under the Bridge Into his Heart!	A Paris hobo named Armand prizes both his ragtag existence and the hardness of his heart.  But he falls victim to the charms of three redheaded waifs--newly on the streets (or in this case, under the bridge of the River Seine) whom he discovers camping out in His spot, no less! This is more than any gentleman of the road should have to endure! Then too, the children's prideful, bitter mother is no prize.  But with the aid of friendly gypsies and their generous cart, plus a pal who recreates Father Christmas, Armand struggles to keep the children warm, fed and sheltered. But how can he deliver the real house which he boasted about for them to live in? This short tale of human kindness in adversity reminds jaded adults of the simple trust of children. A Good read-aloud for the elementary level.	2001-01-19
2158890:US	52160649	R2PUAHINF5V8MG	0698116801	857940487	The Matchlock Gun	Books	3	15	19	N	N	TRUSTWORTHY IN COLONIAL NY	Set in Dutch Colonial NY State, this tale of homespun courage is gently paced for young readers, with accurate, historical detailing of life during the French and Indian War. When Father departs with the local militia, only young Edward is left to defend the family's humble farm and log cabin.  His farsighted mother helps him position and load an old Spanish matchlock gun--just in case the Indians get through.  But could a woman and two children survive an attack by Native Americans bent on murder, arson and revenge?  What scene of devatation will await their father upon his return to the family homestead?  Based on a true story of Dutch/American bravery, this short book is enhanced by Paul Lantz' vivid B/W and color illustrations.  The theme--the inborn desire of people to be free to follow their own dreams and pursue happiness in their own way--reflects  America's proud heritage of goal-setting and physical hardship in order to carve one's own path out of the wilderness.	2000-12-31
2168147:US	52160649	RI3BMPZKIDA0I	0140305637	867848420	The Boy with the Bronze Axe (Puffin Books)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Stone Age Disaster and Survival	A ferocious storm in 1850 struck the Orkney Isles, revealing a small Stone Age settlement which had lain buried beneath the pitiless sands for over 3000 years. Inspired by the archaeological excavation, Kathleen Ridler has recreated the lifestyle of those rugged coastal dwellers in this book. A strange youth arrives by sea in a curious log canoe, carrying his most precious possession--an axe made of an unkown alloy: Bronze. Greeted with suspicion and even hostility the kindly  youth struggles to become part of the tribe of Skara, as he quickly acquires two enemies.  <br />  Why does the tribe's venerated elder advise the chief stone cutter to heed the youth's words and defer to his ideas in the future?  What terribe fate awaits the helpless village; how can a mere lad with his unusual axe help save his new family? Excellent details of prehistoric life are presented as Tenko becomes a crucial part of Birno's household.  Prophecies of doom gather like a relentless undercurrent of disaster, leading readers to the grim but inexorable cataclysmic horror--no less poignant for being set in a remote era of pre history. We can relate to the human desire to survive at all costs.  Whose secrets will be preserved for posterity? Honor, gratitude, and hatred combine to create an interesting read for middle school students, or anyone with a passion for mankind's ancient past and ingenuity.	2000-12-21
2185633:US	52160649	R3EL66H4B6SGBZ	0486266907	691105951	Ethan Frome (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Trapped by Farm and Fate	Edith Wharton's riveting novella of smoldering passion in a stark New England village retains its charm and vitality 90 years later--a sure sign of a classic.  An objective narrator gradually learns the excruciating details of the wasted life of  Starkfield's loneliest recluse.  Ethan Frome at 54 is a physical wreck of a man--an impoverished farmer, who bears unspeakable burdens in his tortured heart. He has sacrificed everything to honor what he considers family responsibilities.<br /> Torn between loyalty to a sour, hypochondriac of a wife, Ethan struggles hopelessly against the tide of his mounting attraction to youthful Mattie--his wife's poor relation who has come to live with them.  Does the delightful girl return his love?  Does cruel Zeena suspect and plot to separate them?  How can a professional invalid compete with the zest and fire of her cousin? Facing a lifetime of crippling emotional loss, in a lover's despair Ethan finally rebels against the harshness of his fate by seeking to shape his own destiny.  But the &quot;smash up&quot; results in shocking and unexpected consequences for the uneasy &quot;menage a trois.&quot;  This tortured tale of forbidden love will capture the imagination of mature readers as a grim, psychological novella about the desperate needs of the human heart.	2000-12-06
2186515:US	52160649	R2PC5WHOAX8X05	0399501487	502818647	Lord of the Flies	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Beast Within	How long will it take for the mores and constraints of civilization to be eroded in a surreal, isolated jungle setting? A group of English schoolboys survive a plane crash in a post- nuclear world, to find themselves on a lush, tropical island,  with no apparent dangers and even better-no adults!  Sounds idyllic: no rules, no punishment, no judgment for bizarre behavior. Nor anyone to take responsibility for the &quot;littleuns.&quot;<br />  But social dynamics quickly emerge, as human nature is released from 12 years of training. Thoughtful Ralph is voted Chief, with bespectacled Piggy his second in command.  The right to speak in council is formalized by the possession of &quot;the Conch&quot; shell.  Is it human nature to require rules and ritual?  Their critical need, of course, is to maintain a signal fire (especially the smoke) to attract a passing ship.  For if there is no Hope of rescue, what will happen to this mini outbost of Britian; will they &quot;go native?&quot;<br />  Rivalry increases as Jack--leader of the choir boys turned hunters--challenges Ralph's authority, gradually luring many boys to his tribe which offers disguises and promotes violence.  Will Ralph realize that he needs to rely on both Piggy's logic and Simon's insight?  Could a boy's game disintegrate so quickly into murder?  Can Fear evolve into a hideous primitive religion?  Is it necessary to create a god of sorts?  A gripping tale of the immortal struggle between man's baser instincts and centuries of socialization. A grim must-read for all thinking adults, Lord of the Flies offers great adventure for kids. This is Not a CHILDREN's Classic.	2000-12-05
2235733:US	52160649	R1XQS6CQP7Q87M	0590469215	435570549	Steal Away	Books	5	5	5	N	N	IS HOME MORE THAN JUST A PLACE?	This book is hard to put down, for Jennifer Armstrong weaves a compelling story of interracial friendships--a tale within a tale which spans 3 generations. Alternating between 1855 (when Slavery was grimly legal) and the &quot;present&quot; of 1896, STEAL AWAY presents readers with a literary device known shared narratives, so that each girl very has the opportunity to give a first-person account of their flight from Virginia to the their new life up North. Both their modern counterparts, Mary and Free, are captivated, as elderly women whom they love and respect recount the details of this 40-year-old odyssey; the girls share their writing-down task, as they marvel at the pages--the seal of their lifelong devotion.  Will two strange girls be able to bond, by the mere act of the retelling, for it was both a physical and an emotional journey to find freedom and Home?  <br />  Thirteen-year-old Susannah is suddenly orphaned and forced to leave the family farm in Vermont, with all its precious memories of her parents, the boy next door, and her carefree existence. She must travel by train (an ordeal in itself) down to a new world, in Virginia, to the farm of her Reverend uncle, who firmly believes in the insitution of slavery. But Susannah will never fit into this genteel Southern society; she does not even know how to treat or address her own personal slave! <br /> Longing to put plantation life and its immoral abuse of dark-skinned human beings behind her forever, spunky Susannah resolves to run away and sneak back to the only home she has ever known. But she needs the help of more worldy-wise Bethlehem, to prepare for this dangerous enterprise.  Suddenly circumstances force both girls to depart together, with a minimum of preparation.  Beth longs for Canada--a place on a map where there is no slavery.  Would she truly be safe in free Vermont? Susannah has also broken the law, for she taught Beth to read, and now is helping a slave escape from its rightful owner. <br/> Can two young teenage girls disappear without a trace, even disguised as boys? Will there be anyone to trust on this perilous undertaking?  What do they know of the Undeground Railroad?  Their relationship undergoes many transformations, as Susannah becomes increasingly dependent on her pessimistic companion for survival. Yet Bethlehem dreads the unspoken but inevitable fork in the road--where each one must choose which path leads to her true Home in a hostile world. A gripping tale which will captivate readers of all ages with its raw emotions and mutual coming of age; it offers implications for today's racial relations and should have won some Newbery award!	2000-10-23
2235858:US	52160649	R1Q1YU3UZULDAU	0698118022	239037375	Sadako and the 1000 Paper Cranes	Books	3	19	22	N	N	A LESSON IN HOPE AND LOVE	Inspired by a real incident after the bombing of Hiroshima, this short tale flows easily along and can be read in one sitting.  Much more than a grim reminder of the horrors of atomic war (with a decade of contamination which causes death, crippling and disfigurement to its victims), this story offers hope insted of condemnation.  <br /> Ten-year-old Sadako is very active, dreaming of representing her school on the track team. Until she starts experiencing dizziness and other odd symptoms, which she hides from her family as long as she can. Ultimately she is hospitalized with the &quot;atom bmomb disease,&quot; which causes her great physical and emotional pain, as her tender life is soon to be senselessly cut short.  Must she die so young and unfulfilled, a decade after the day that stopped history?  Is there no end to the list of civilian Japanese casualties?  <br />  Then her faithful girlfriend suggests a method--based on superstition--to distract her and pass the time in bed: folding 1000 paper cranes (the Japanese art called Origami).  Her brother even offers to hang them.  Can such a repetitive act really conquer the curse upon this innocent girl, as folklore insists?  Will she live long enough to complete her self-appointed task?  This short and touching read inspired both school children of Japan and later many adults to honor her commitment to life and beauty, to trust and hope.  Written in a style for younger readers, the message of SADAKO  will reach out to senstitive humans of all ages.	2000-10-23
2237618:US	52160649	RL12GYR392KDC	0812504488	732800244	Strange Case of Doctor Jekyll And Mr. Hyde (Tor Classics)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Monster Within	This macabre tale--inspired by a dream--starts slowly but with an ever increasing sense of mystery, culminates in a vortex of horror worthy of Poe.  What evil could be more impossible to resist or to conquer than Man's inherent flaw of dualtiy?  RLS describes it as the innate struggle bewteen angelic and demonic forces which lurk in every soul.  Beneath the veneer of Cilivization the two extremes wage eternal war in one breast. <br />  Mr. Utterson, a conscientious laywer in Victorian London and longtime friend of both Henry Jekyll and Dr. Lanyon, confides his misgivings about the former's will to his cousin, Mr. Enfield.  During the course of the chilling novella, each of the gentlemen contributes to our knowledge of this morbidly fascinating central character, who gradually loses control of his reason or his will.  <br /> What has caused the respectable Dr. Jekyll to condone such bizarre behavior from his guest/protege/parasitecalled Mr. Hyde? Why does he endure the odious presence of a younger, shorter, vicious person--even to entrusting him with the key to his residence?  This Edward Hyde emotes something bestial and unrestrained, which inspires instant fear or disgust in normal men.  Quick to flair up in unprovoked anger and shocking brutality, this Hyde creature is proving a menace to society.  Naturally the concerned lawyer becomes increasingly alarmed at this unexplained hold over Henry Jekyll, but can a few learned gentlemen protect him from himself or his rash devotion to a human monster?  By uniting forces, can they preserve both his property, his reputation and ultimately, his life?  <br />  When an elderly MP is murdered on the street, even Jekyll seems to realize that things have gone too far, but can the now drug-dependent physician control his urge to throw off the shackles of Society?  Is he himself a victim...of the arrogance of medical and scientific knowledge or of attempting to play the god of creation with unknown powers?  Hollywood has offeredus various excellent, chllling versions, but the Classical Faithful will want to consult the original--which is more subtle and therefore more horrible than simply presenting the tale from the viewpoint of the protagonist. The last chapter consists of Jekyll's gripping confession: how a once learned and noble man realized the only way to destroy his diabolical alter-ego...Can he yet be saved by his loyal friends? Or must he face his destiny completely alone? Beware the beast that lurks within!	2000-10-22
2240969:US	52160649	RP7BBLSJUR6JC	0140360034	885596851	The Star Fisher	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Discovering Star Fishers even in America	Fifteen-year-old Joan, a Chinese-American girl from Ohio, travels to a rural village in West Virginia in 1927.  This daring move makes her family the first Chinese people this town has ever seen.  She and her parents immediately discover how odd they are as viwed by prejudiced bums and snobby schoolmates. The Lee family has staked everything on this gamble to unknown territory--without any extended famly to help--where they plan to open a laundry business, as they did in Ohio.  Will the townsfolk flock to this new establishment, or continue washing their own dirty shirts? <br /> The first week is a terrible strain on both the parents but especially for Joan, suffering the pangs of teenage acceptance at school and justified rebellion at home.  Deeply hurt by rejection from the town in general and a snobby clique at school, Joan feels she just can't fit in, and will never be accepted, although she is praised by her teachers. Then too, she makes a tactical error by befriending a red-headed outcast whose family are Performers!  Despite repeated vandalism and hate slogans on their fence, the Lee family refuses to give up and leave.  Can a gracious, retired school teacher, with no family of her own, be accepted and adopted by suspicious Chinese parents--who refuse to accept charity from their kind landlady?  How far will adults and even their children go to keep from becoming objects of town ridicule or bringing shame upon their family's strict code of honor?  We mark Joan's budding  maturity, as she recognizes that she is not the only Star Fisher (reference to a Chinese Folktale which is presented in detail) in town.  An excellent introduction to culture clash in America.	2000-10-19
2241083:US	52160649	R2FEEN6JFU17CA	0812505042	691093854	The Time Machine	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Can one man Save the future of Mankind?	HG Wells' Sci Fi classic, about a Victorian scientist's trip  forward in Time, differs greatly from the movie version, so if you don't recognize the details of the story in this review, it's because I am referring the original. The tale is narrated at the beginng and very end by a good friend of the Time Traveler--whose name we never learn. Nor in fact are his skeptical dinner guests named, for the emphasis sis Not on the present. Ninety percent of the short novel, however, is a direct narration by the Time Traveler himself, of his incredible journey into the future. The year is hard to credit: 208,701!<br />  Wells loses no opportunity to expound on his theories of Mankind's self-destructive and degenerative &quot;progress.&quot; He launches into fervid warnings about the separation of diametrically opposed yet critically enmeshed aspects of human nature--both vital while openly at war--which result in the total Human Being.  Yet he never considers what Right his hero has to go back the Future, in a vain, foolish and risky attempt to alter the bovine existence of the beautiful people called ELOI or to reduce the subterranean population of the hideous MORLOCKS who repel us with their bestial behavior? (No Prime Directives here about not meddling with the Past or the Future!)  We can only guess at Weena's grim fate, but why did Wells include an eerie chapter with the TT contemplating the primoridal tide at the end of Time itself?  Still spell-binding despite the intervening years, The Time Machine enthralls us with its daring concepts of futuristic invention and social speculation.  Despite uneven literary pacing, these pages offer great Sci Fi reading for all ages!	2000-10-19
2256674:US	52160649	RI55GHQ1ZZTTB	0156631407	678246448	Mrs. Miniver	Books	3	31	32	N	N	Quiet Drama of the Heart	This fragile piece of literature should be included in a course of feminist literature called Woman's World. The setting happens to be pre WW2 Britain (London, the country and Scotland), but  Struther's sentiments and gentle insights into a woman's heart are truly timeless and universal in appeal.  All mothers can relate to Mrs. Miniver's private thoughts, triumphs and fears re her children, who grow up by three years in these short pages. All wives can empathize with her rarely successful attempts to communicate meaningfully with her predictable husband.  Lastly, women the world over will appreciate her mental meanderings, which are sporadically stimulated by banal objects, chance meetings and the shifting of the seasons. <br />  At this point I wish to inject a gentle warning to those readers who expect a clearly-deliniated plot, high drama or profound character development. Our Mrs. Miniver remains delightfully stable in her own way, as she views the vagaries and fluctuations of her private world.  Rather, we are expected to enter into a tacit collaboration with this modest heroine.  Truly one wonders just how much the author has infused of herself into this soft-spoken Everywoman. We understand that a woman's domain--in any age--signifies the preparation of the maternal, spousal and societal hearths, in order to keep man from reverting to a more primitive state. <br />  We applaud as this unassuming English lady musters internal strength when required to leave her personal comfort zone, in order to meet her social obligations.  With warmth and compassion Mrs. Miniver handles most challenges in her relaxed existence, as she shares her uniquely feminine eye-view of life, especially in a world on the brink of global war.  Consisting of dozens of short vignettes with little seeming relevance to each other, this literary gem will prove a delicate treasure of the female pscyhe, for those who read with their heart.	2000-10-06
2274293:US	52160649	R2BUPOW3CCZPKT	0808598732	535864352	Cold Sassy Tree (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	KEEPING THE TOWN IN SCANDAL AND STITCHES!	Olive Ann Burns has created (or recreated) a fictitious small town in rural Georgia set in naive 1906.  A town where women are easily shocked--yet eagerly gossip about everyone else's business. Will, grandson of the town's leading store owner, relates his family misadventures and schoolboy pranks with candid humor.  His vivid imagination and juvenile interpretation of adult motives provide a rollicking soap opera, for even as one chapter closes, there is a hint of trouble on the next page.  Between those outlandish Blakeslees and those oddball Tweedys, the nonsense never ends in his crazy family.  To the delight of readers of all ages!<br /><br />  Burns scatters a few sobering themes in this longer-than- average novel (not YA): Civil War prejudices flourish; town kids vs the lintheads from Milltown; pneumonia and primitive medical knowledge at the turn of the century. How much must one family endure in its embarrased but sincere attempt to honor the last wishes of a beloved relative?  Yup, Cold Sassy (named for a vanished gove of Sasparilla trees) seems destined/doomed to an continous chain of social shocks--ever since Grandpa stunned his own family by announcing his decision to marry his milliner, Miss Love, just 3 scant weeks after Grandma's burial!  It is hard to say which is more scandalized: the town or his own family... <br /> Will is torn between loyalty to his Grandpa (You're the son I never had, boy) and his intermittant respect for his parents.  He also tries to balance his desires to befriend a mill girl yet maintain his social standing with his  peers. This hilarious story reveals the internal strategies and struggles of women at war in a restrictive society.  Emotional upheavals abound as Grandpa sets prissy Cold Sassy on its ears, with his crazy notions of family propriety and how to conduct commerce. Can Will survive to grow up as his own man one day?  Must he forget his dreams of a profitable farm in order to honor/obey Grandpa? And which boyhood treasures will he keep as an adult?  This book is darling and would make a wonderful comic mini-series. Teenagers: don't be put off by the length--you'll wish it never ends!	2000-09-22
2346304:US	52160649	R2RR1GWMB9V7BM	0517209489	134789254	Planet of the Apes (Cinema Classics (Gramercy Books (Firm)).)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Missing Link between Two Worlds?	Fans of the APES movies and TV series should check out the source, the wonderful starter book by Boule; but don't be surprised that it was another Frenchman (following the literary tradition of prolific Jules Verne) who  created this masterpiece of sci fi invention.  Three Frenchmen land on a  distant planet which proves remarkably earthlike--in fact, the hero names  it Soror (meaning Sister).  But there will be no return to Earth for the  learned professor, his assistant and the narrator--a journalist with no  ties.<br /> Ulysse Meroux is justifiably shocked to discover a paradox of  terrestrial social evolution, after their launch is attacked and trashed by  the natives--handsome humans with primitive mental and emotional functions.  For on this planet mankind is speechless and helplessly subservient to a  race of super apes.  Men have been reduced to animal status, while a simian  civilization (divided into gorillas, orangutans and chimpazees) are masters  of the planet and technology.  How could such a distortion of normal roles  have occurred?<br />  How far must Ulysse debase himself to collaborate with  his simian captors? For what prize will he sink to play laboratory creature  in a Animal Behavior display?  How can he convince the fair-minded  chimpanzees, sweet Dr. Zira and her fiance, Cornelius, that here is the  first sentient, intelligent man, obviously from another planet?  Could apes  possibly have evolved from an inferior human race centuries ago?  Did God  create Man or Ape in His own image?  A fascinating hypothesis which  torments scientists on both sides of the controversy.  There are those who  would suppress the truth if it involves heresy, but we wonder: can Mimicry  be carried too far? I don't want to spoil the ending, which the movie  version presents even more powerfully than the original.  This is Sci Fi at  its Simian best!	2000-07-30
2373599:US	52160649	R1XQ55AZDZ6679	0684846845	129257055	Jonathan Livingston Seagull	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Seeking Perfection	This slender classic about a seagull who stretches the limits of Flight reads as fresh and emotionally exhilarating as when it first appeared.  Disdaining the mundane existence of most gulls--who follow the garbage  trails of men--Jonathan dreams of rising above such a demeaning  lifestyle,  on both aerodynamic and spiritual planes. He boldly pushes his body to  perform increasingly difficult stunts, to achieve undreamed of aerial  precision and velocity. Until he is callously ostracized for his  achievements. <br />  We admire Jonathan's quest for excellence, his  willingness to sacrifice everything in his noble pursuit of raising  seagfull consciousness. To FLY for the sheer joy of it, to grow in wisdom,  to chafe at any limitation of the spirit, to experience the ultimate in  seagullness--to meet and perhaps briefly be one with the Great Gull. <br />   Beneath the surface of this seemingly simple tale of a gull, who literally  rises above his own kind, lie themes clearly reflecting the 60's: civil  disobedience for a worthy cause, social ostracism, the personal dignity of  the sentient individual, refusal to accept the standard restrictions of  life as imposed by Society.  Bach presents philosophical gymnastics worthy  of a seagull's Shangri-La; he includes Christian overtones and ideas of  global spirituality as well. <br />  JLS proves a teacher of teachers both in  Flight and Compasion, but could he really be the only son of the Great  Gull?  (The movie with Neil Diamond's moving score is a multi-dimensional  treat, but read the book first.) Timeless enchantment!	2000-07-12
2396726:US	52160649	RZSY6JXTO0D6X	0140177396	371714764	Of Mice and Men	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Fate's Weaklings	Set in agricultural California during the Depression, this book describes the harsh reality of the life of migrant workers and the brutality of human nature in general.  Two wandering ranch hands keep the gleam of hope alive,  as they privately dream of someday owning a small ranch, where they can be  their own boss and live off the fat of the land.  Freedom and roots--is  that too much to ask of life? But Steinbeck readers will not be surprised  at his pessimistic view of the human condition.  <br />  George and Lennie  travel everywhere together, working and sharing the visicitudes of 1930's  migrant life--lucky to have a meager supper of canned beans without  ketchup. But these two men, who are not even related, are bound as deeply  as brothers.  George, the short guy with the brains, feels responsible for  his big, simple-minded companion, who depends on him for work, food and  dreams of a better future.  Lennie is a gentle retarded man, who panics  easily--not realizing his own tremendous physical strength. <br /> This story  is more than a mere '30s novella, for it pits the private vulnerability of  human nature against pitiless fate. The story, 75% dialogue with only 25%  narrative, reads easily, flowing along like the indifferent Salinas River,  which inexorably carries its characters to a tragic denoument.  Man Aspires  but Flawed Society Destroys. A dark Classic.	2000-06-29
2433577:US	52160649	R3V0T4FQQ705XH	0140366970	532340218	What Katy Did (Puffin Classics)	Books	3	7	11	N	N	The Heart of the House	This quaint story about a large family of motherless children is something of a sleeper; one suspects that the author was sharing her own childhood memories.  Perhaps the events depicted are too naive--the pleasures too simple--to appeal to modern girls used to teenage lingo and fast-paced  action.  It is confusing to sort out the many Carr children (whose names do  not always indicate their gender). For Katy grew up in a kinder, gentler  era, when people respected the role of the Family.       Katy is the eldest  of Dr. Carr's children: headstrong, reckless, with a vivid imagination, who dreams of becoming an author someday.  Despite her private goal of becoming  ladylike and graceful, her temper and lingering tomboyhood result in one  devastating tumble from a forbidden swing.  She lacks the patience and  prudence to behave as her ideal young woman, but how can she realize this  goal as an invalid?  Katy is tormented by both physical and emotional pain  as a consequence of her selfishness and abrupt behavior.  During her  prolonged recovery, Katy must learn some difficult lessons in the school of  Life, from two very different \\"teachers.\\"  Every person should be  so blessed as to have a Cousin Helen, who has learned the secret of validating Others.  --Review written by Kitka12345	2000-06-10
2441199:US	52160649	R22CPE89ZD4UT4	1556613458	528733943	The Quilt	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Beauty from the Fabrics of our Lives	One does not have to be a quilter to appreciate the warmth and gentle peace which emanate from this gem of a little book.  Aged and infirm, Mary is admired by most people in her community, for she has a special way of  making each one feel at home and of value; she gently helps them find  solutions to their problems and solace for their cares--a rare gift in  itself.  Because she leads others to calm introspection, she is considered  by all a truly beautiful woman.  Her two sons are so different, but one of  them underdstands her need to complete something beautiful--to create with  more than mere fingers. <br /> Mary has a dream to create a patchwork quilt  from cherished scraps (a diary of the fabrics in her life).  Her goal  catches the imagination of her daughters-in-law, as well as other kind  ladies in her town. Precious memories are shared as comunal stitching  brings these women together in a way they did not realize possible.   Soon  it becomes imperative to complete the Quilt before Mary--with her arthritic  hands--is called Home. She loved both her sons to the end, but only one  understood her great need to preserve the sacred family memories.  This  book will touch your heart and possibly inspire you to start saving the  special fabric scraps of your own life.  Most importantly, to cherish your  family and leave them a memorable, tangible gift of your love.	2000-06-05
2444785:US	52160649	R2BS4A5VPIA0YG	0881037524	903134770	Carry on Mr Bowditch	Books	3	67	75	N	N	&quot;A Simple Matter of Mathematics&quot;	Jean Latham's 1955 Newbery award winner is an easy-to-read fictionalized biography of the early life and career of Nathanial Bowditch of Salem. Set in a proud Massachusetts sailing village and on the high seas, the story  rolls along like a Yankee trader: now billowing ahead, now becalmed, now  swamped yet often riding triumphant swells with exotic cargo. How a youth  denied a Harvard education literally rewrote the book on 18th century  navigation, thus making the ocean safer for all sailors. <br />  Since the  storyline must obey the facts, the author operates under some literary  constraint.  The stout-hearted protagonist suffers repeated family losses,  yet he clings to his ideal of an accurate book, which captains can trust  and will save lives the world over. While indentured in a ship's chandlery,  Nat cherishes his dreams of higher education, teaching himself mathematics,  astronomy, navigation and three languages. <br />  Nat's genius for detail and  swift mental calculations of figures make him a wonder in an age when most  sailors relied on gut instincts (Lead, Log and Lookout,)for the common man  clung to his inbred superstitions, rejecting fancy book learning from mere  lubbers.  It took a Yankee youth to identify the fatal errors in Moore's  sacred charts.  Young readers will appreciate Latham's extensive dialogue  and the excellent b/w sketches by John Cosgrave. Read as Biography or  Maritime History, this book breezes along like a trim Yankee clipper.	2000-06-03
2452074:US	52160649	RYU41HL7RZ4WX	0374525102	113803662	Annie John: A Novel	Books	3	10	11	N	N	The Dark Side of a Girl's Coming of Age	This book is not particularly for kids, although teenage girls may well identify with Annie's painful process of emotional disengagement with her lovely mother.  In 8 slightly related vignettes Jamaica Kincaid bares her  soul, as she recounts her psychological journey from adoring only-daughter  of 10, into a resentful and rebellious teenager.  Raised on the island  nation of Antigua in the West Indies, Annie is very bright though somewhat  small for her age.  She impresses her teachers with her quick mind; she is  immediately noticed by her new classmates as well, but they gradually  realize her penchant for mischief, which increases to a general defiance of  authority. <br />  Alas, as she matures Annie develops a dark side--weaving a  web of lies, deceit, theft and flagrant disobedience.  As a child she is  surprised that even children can die; perhaps she is shocked by the death  of her own childhood innocence. As a preteen she has secret or sudden  friendships of incredible intensity; she is tormented by the desire for her  body to ripen (lying top-naked under a full moon might help) and later by  the jeers of older boys.  <br /> Most of all Annie practices a secret life  nurtured in her own devious mind, as her feelings of love and respect for  her mother are twisted into veiled hatred--an unverbalized enmity of  long-standing, which may be inevitable when women (which she desperately  wants to become) are at war. Is this the only way she can proclaim her own  identity, by this cruel and silent antagonism before a father who seems not  to notice? <br /> Annie also wrestles with: conflicting beliefs about black  magic; a terrifying protracted illness of both mind and body; and her  confusion about her older father's sexuality. Walking the tightrope between  modern ideas and centuries of vodoo practice, she despairs of escaping the  confines of her island home.  Must she travel to distant England in order  to reclaim the right to her own womanhood?  This is nota sympathetic  protagonist, yet her inner struggle touches a poingant spring in the hearts  of all women who have grappeled with the jealousy of maturation. ANNIE JOHN  is amusing in parts, deeply provocative, and relevant to the universal  woman, but with a distinctly dark side.	2000-05-30
2473580:US	52160649	R2U89F58T2LE2A	067972883X	937025874	The Optimist's Daughter	Books	3	51	60	N	N	Trapped by Memories of the Past	Welty's Pulitzer winning novel, set in the South of 30 years ago, examines the physical mechanics of the funeral process, while placing the human heart under the microscope of social and filial stress.  Laurel--a war  widow deprived of the experiences and joys of normal married life, rushes  back to Missisippi from her Chicago job and lifestyle.  This devoted only  child insists on her place at her father's bedside, as he undergoes eye  surgery--a convenient medical smokescreen for the unmentionable killer:  Cancer.  How can a confirmed Optimist handle this grim reality?  <br /> The  storyline develops in the aftermath of his inevitable death, but the battle  lines are drawn even before he quietly expires: between Laurel--the  daughter of beloved Judge Clint McKelva and his adored wife, Becky--and  Fay, the utterly selfish and emotionally crude second wife/young  step-mother. Is it seemly to be disputing arrangements before the man is  even enterred?  <br />  What had the judge been thinking--to desecrate his  wife's memory by bringing that crass Texas woman into the big house where  Miss Becky was enshrined in neighborhood memory? Laurel suffers deep  emotional trials as she tries to maintain her dignity at the Viewing--held  in the Judge's study--then during funeral and graveside solemnities. But  conditions deteriorate, as bruised egos and grieving hearts are bared in a  shocking public display. The interlopers have no sense of decency or  compassion for the sincere mourners who rally around their native daughter.  <br /> There is brief respite for Laurel when Fay suddenly departs with her  hick kin; yet being alone with kind neighbors and loving bridesmaids does  not really help her penetrate the veneer of faith in her childhood  memories.  How can Laurel rewrite the Past so as to validate her own bleak  future? Like the bird trapped inside the house, will she be able to break  out on her own, to accept her parent's foibles along with their love, while  honoringtheir role in her life?  This is more of a psychological piece,  with admittedly little plot, but quiet insight into the tapestry of myths  and lies which we accept as our heritage.	2000-05-17
2492734:US	52160649	R27JEWS7MX2HZ1	006447030X	618764083	Rifles for Watie	Books	3	13	16	N	N	Honor on Both Sides	Keith presents the Civil War from a different viewpoint: that of a Kansas farm boy who joins the Union Army to protect the family farm from rebel Bushwackers across the Missouri border. Like Michael Shaara's THE KILLER  ANGELS (Pulitzer Prize winner about the Battle of Gettysburg), this book  presents a fair portrayal of conditions and mindsets on both sides of the  Mason/Dixon line. There are no clearcut military antagonists--just men in  opposing uniforms. Keith's detailed research offers a variety of reasons  for enlisting with one side or another, plus the tragic case of displaced  Native Americans who were caught in the political crossfire of a nation  undergoing rebirth. <br />  Sixteen-year-old Jeff (Jefferson Davis Bussey, if  you please) serves his country first in the Infantry then in the Cavalry.   While on a dangerous scouting expedition (Spy mission), he is tricked into  enlisting with Col. Watie's Mounted Cherokee Rifles. Poor Jeff endures more  than the normal risks of battle though: he falls for a Rebel gal--part  Indian too.  Befriended by kind and generous Southerners, he experiences  increasing guilt as he grows to respect his erstwhile enemies.  He develops  true bonds with the common soldiers who become his new messmates.  <br /> Yet  Jeff privately realizes that time is relentlessly drawing him to the brink  of a fateful decision: when he must choose which ideal (Union or division)  to champion. Whichever way he goes, he will be branded a traitor by former  friends--either his sweetheart or his family! How can the youth maintain  his honor, especially when his heart is set on his sleeve?  Even worse: he  knows a dangerous secret about a sadistic Union officer who might well  shoot or stab him during battle--just to assure his silence. <br /> Toward the  end of the war the 7-shot Spencer Repeating Rifles were phasing out the  older, one-shot Springfield rifles, but if both sides possess these new  weapons of destruction, will the war be strung out even longer?  Can Jeff  prove his loyalty by ferreting out the identity of the traitor who is  selling repeating rifles to the South?  Excellent details of the dilemma of  the border states and the regrettable suffering endured by many Indians,  who were tragically divided in their loyalties--just like countless white  border families. This is a very good read (based on research for a Master's  Thesis), but too long and detailed to appeal to most high school students.   The plot and supense eventually capture the reader's imagination.	2000-05-06
2521179:US	52160649	R19IGP3TKVGGO0	0689206518	500045156	Mrs. Frisby and the Rats of NIMH	Books	5	6	7	N	N	COURAGE OF MATERNAL LOVE/HONOR AMONG THIEVES	This story has long been one of my favorites and deserves to be a (future) Classic.  O'Brien introduces many serious issues into his fascinating yet charming tale about a fieldmouse mother who desperately needs help to save  her family.   When Farmer Fitzgibbon prepares to plow up his vegetable  garden, it proves an annual Day of Judgment for all the creatures who  forage therein. Mrs. Frisby's quiet determination to save her invalid child  leads her on a perilous quest, during which her matnernal devotion and  courage will be tested.  <br /> To willingly enter the home of an owl, to  humbly approach the clannish rats in the rosebush, to expose herself to a  hungry cat, this tiny fieldmouse proves equal to all demands upon her  trembling heart--a true and worthy wife to the late Jonathan Frisby. Her  husband has earned the respect of many creatures, including the owl and the  secretive rats.  She gradually discovers that she (and her children in  particular) are much more than they seem.  <br />  Just who Are these rats who  know so much, who possess so many human inventions, who can read and write,  who have even acquired a sense of morality? Why are they called  &quot;mechanized&quot; and consider themselves  &quot;civilized?&quot;  How  and where does a private rat Society fit in with normal rats and normal  humans--with all their foibles?  Can timid Mrs. Frisby help them in their  endeavor to find a peaceful and pro-social environment free of human  interference?  Then too, why should the rats bother about her problem, when  their very existence is threatened?  O'Brien reminds us of the dangers of  genetic tampering, and points out the similarities between both rat and  human species when it comes to issues like theft, power struggle, greed,  and lust for fame, as well as self sacrifice, courage, faith and hope. This  is a wonderful and highly-enjoyable read--not just for kids!	2000-04-21
2529574:US	52160649	R2LYE3R8CDWDZL	0345348109	227222206	The Killer Angels: The Classic Novel of the Civil War (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	YOU'LL WANT TO VISIT GETTYSBURG!	It was my privilege to be enrolled in Mike's Creative Writing class in college, but I had no idea what a successful novelist he would prove! This book actually makes me want to visit the historic site of Gettysburg--to  see for myself the scene of so much suffering and sacrifice.  Not only with  my eyes, but now with my heart, thanks to the well-researched information  presented in THE KILLER ANGELS.  First President Lincoln and now master  storyteller Shaara have honored the lives and courage of all those who  fought valiantly for their regrettably-opposing views. <br /> This novel is  very intense: 355 pages stretched out over just three days.  The first  remarkable thing is the accuracy of Shaara's historic detail.  Next we are  impressed by his  impartiality: each chapter focuses on one officer, but he  switches &quot;sides&quot; easily,  demonstrating absolute fairness to  North and South. This style of the divine narrator leads us to realize that  it is War itself which proves the real evil, since both sides espouse  principals of honor. We are amazed that he can present such vivid word  portraits of the officers who orchestrated the prolonged Battle of  Gettysburg. Shaara takes us inside their heads--and their hearts.  Their  foibles, dreams, terrors, regrets, and private anguish are laid bare for  the reader.  We share the agony of mlitary decision, the loneliness of high  command.  <br /> This novel also is impressive because it proves very  readable--not the boring history text you might expect.  One reason is the  use of extensive dialogue.  Some conversations seem to be scenes from a  play; they remain with the reader long after the action has moved on. But  the historical persons depicted appear very human, despite the intervening  years. Even if you never cared for military history, this book will  enlighten, touch and entertain you. Shaara provides great insight into why  men will lay down their lives: for a Cause or for an Ideal. Fabulous  literary and historical reading for all Americans!	2000-04-16
2561281:US	52160649	R2HZ221RCEPY49	039730076X	69763059	Indian Captive: The Story of Mary Jemison	Books	4	77	80	N	N	PUTTING DOWN ROOTS OF THE HEART	I have enjoyed Lois Lenski's books since I was a girl back in the 50's, but this is one of her best.  Based on a true life narrative, INDIAN CAPTIVE chronicles the psychological journey from white girl to a young Seneca woman. In fact Mary Jemison (kidnapped at 15) became known,  respected and loved as the White Woman of the Genesee.  Lenski recreates  her struggle to maintain her English heritage in the face of Native  American beliefs and traditions--all depicted honestly, fairly, without  bias to either side in this 18th century culture-clash. <br />  Lenski devotes  much time to research each of her books--usually about a different rural  area of America. Her excellent b/w illustrations enhance our reading  enjoyment and appreciation for the material culture of the Senecas--one of  the Five Nations under the Iroquois banner. <br />  During her first two years  of captivity (as a replacement for a dead clansman), Molly recalls her  parents' last words to her when she and a neighbor boy were given moccasins  and roughly marched off (before her entire family was butchered on the  trail). Her pa assured her that her golden hair would endear her to the  Indians; in fact she was called Corn Tassel.  She also kept her ma's words  in her heart: to be brave, to be flexible and accept her situation with  grace; to practice her English in secret and never forget her name, her  family or her Bible teachings. <br /> Molly's loyalties were  tested many  times over the years, for she hated the thought of becoming an Indian.  Yet  can a 12-year-old girl (Lenski makes her younger) live long in an emotional  vacuum? Respect, gratitude and friendship gradually slip into her heart  despite herself. Will she ever relinquish her dream to escape back to white  civilization?  Set against the backdrop of the French and Indian War in  1758, this story is very readable, although much of the &quot;action&quot;  takes place in Molly's mind and heart. Girls will enjoy this tale of forced  adoption and culture shock, for Molly is very real and vulnerable when she  is ripped away from her home and Pennsylvania lifestyle. This book touches  the heart.(For more reading about culture clash, I suggest the LYON Saga,a  series by M.L. Stainer, about the lost colony of Roanoak.)	2000-03-31
2586068:US	52160649	R1L5LILN4XID6	0380002450	110871072	The Awakening	Books	4	11	14	N	N	American Victorian Woman in a Guilded Cage	A century ago Kate Chopin shocked the literary establishment and the world of Creole society with her controversial short novel: she dared challenge the rigid rules of Victorian America in 190 pages. THE AWAKENING is perfect  for a classroom discussion on emerging Feminism or for Women's Studies in  general.  One hundred years later this book still promotes heated debate  among readers, for it can be considered on various levels.  Chopin's style  is deliberately ambiguous at times--leaving readers with many unanswered  questions.<br />  Set in Creole America (New Orleans and the steamy Gulf  Coast waters), this tale appears simplistic on the surface,  dabbling along  with little discernable advancement of plot.  But do not be deceived by the  apparently calm surface, for beneath the lazy days and lifestyle of the  idle rich lurk hidden currents of treacherous temptation, as a young woman  comes of Emotional age and resents her caged existence.<br />  While  vacationing with other members of New Orleans Society on Grand Isle, Enda  Pontellier feels the faint stirrings of her own sexuality, chafing in her  prescribed role as obedient wife and devoted mother.  There must be more to  life than just this vaapid stagnation of the soul.  Her attraction for a  perennial beach beau--assumed harmless by all husbands--leads her to desire  more from life. The men may be portrayed as stereotypes, but Edna emerges  as a sensuous and intelligent young woman who attemps to deal with her  frustrations. Yet as she struggles to become a woman, she often surrenders  her will, seemingly content to float with the fluctuating tides of fate and  chance. No longer satisfied to serve as a mere ornament in a casual  marriage, Edna sacrifices her reputation, her family and even more--to  prove to herself and one other that she does possess the courage to be an  &quot;artist.&quot; But does the cost prove too great?	2000-03-21
2593518:US	52160649	R2RJQXJFN236X8	0152309330	88210680	Ginger Pye (Odyssey Classic)	Books	2	3	14	N	N	MUCH ADO ABOUT A DOGNAPPING!	Fluffy tale about two kids and their puppy who is stolen by a mysterious  person in a yellow hat. Jerry (9) and his sister, Rachel (7) are devastated  when their new pet disappears from their enclosed backyard on Thanksgiving  Day.  They are deeply worried when their &quot;holiday dog&quot; has not  been found by Christmas. The kids scour the tiny town of Cranbury (between  NYC and Boston) but can not find a hair of their ginger-colored pooch. Has  Unsavory (the unseen Footstepper) outfoxed them and just acquired a  hard-earned pet for his own nefarious schemes?   <br />  The plot is rather  trite and the development painfully slow by today's standards of action,  but the kids' grief is real; their searching and sleuthing are commendable.   Estes makes each chapter longer than necessary by including references to  events that happened in the children's past--was she deliberately  stretching the tale or did she just want to add anecdotes for amusement? I  was also frequently frustrated by long side excursions which rarely  resulted in any progress in the case.  For months and chapters they were  stymied and frantic about the fate of their beloved pet.  But their  devotion and persistence eventually paid off.  This 1952 Newbery winner  includes cute examples of juvenile logic and gentle humor.  Set in a  kinder, safer era, GINGER PYE will appeal to elementary kids who have pets.  The illustrations definitely detracted from my enjoyment of this book; I  found Estes' sketches disappointing, even annoying. (If you want to read  about kid sleuths, try EMIL AND THE DETECTIVES. )	2000-03-16
2616502:US	52160649	R15YU63VNF4V90	0964690497	677383847	The Lyon's Pride (Lyon Saga)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A BRIDGE BETWEEN TWO CULTURES	Book Three of the Lyon Saga is a gentle sequel  with less action/adventure than the previous books, but more personal drama and internal turmoil, as Jess matures into a woman at the tender age of 17.  She and her Indian fiancee are eager to start their life as a married couple, yet Jess'  emotions are torn as her ailing father is sinking fast.  A small group of  the orignal colonists is determined to branch off and seek rumored English  settlers farther south on the mainland. Jess, of course, volunteers as one  of the guides.  <br /> This book chronicles her marriage and maternity; we  witness a newcomer to the mixed community and a 2nd interracial marraige.  The animal population increases and Jess amazes even her stern  father-in-law by trying to raise 3 wolf cubs.  This book shares her  introspective musings on life, death, motherhood, and living at peace with  nature--human and animal. A subtle plea for human understanding in these  times of racial tension. <br /> Stainer presents a peaceful version of the  fate of some of the survivors of the Lost Colony of Roanoak.  As if to  compensate for the decrease of violence in the first two books, she closes  PRIDE with a deliberate cliff hanger--teasing us to read on! Those  traditional enemies of England, Spanish sailors and pirates, scour the  Virginia coastal islands for English prey. But something good comes ashore  all the same. Bravo for the way Stainer blends spiritual and Christian  values as an underlying theme of the brotherhood of man and the will to  survive.	2000-02-28
2618316:US	52160649	RE5D1DIK5UI1R	0374335311	663003152	I, Juan de Pareja	Books	3	24	25	N	N	Truth in Art and Loyalty in Friendship	Trevino's 1966 Newbery winner may seem a sleeper by today's standards of violence and adult themes in YA literature. Nevertheless, I consider it an excellent representative for both Biography and Historical Fiction genres.  Careful research  yields authentic 17th century detail as Trevnio recreates  the Baroque court of Spain, from the viewpoint of the royal painter, Diego  Velasquez, and his faithful Black slave, Juan de Pareja.<br /> Narrated in  the first person by Juanico from his sheltered childhood, this gently-paced  book relates the historical events and reconstructed dialogue and emotions  for much of his life. The poor boy suffered horribly at the hands of a  cruel gypsy mule driver, but once he reached the haven of his new master in  Madrid, such torture would never be inflicted on him again. Juan disovers  that he also possesses artistic talents and ambitions, but in Baroque Spain  it was illegal for a slave to practice any form of art.  Thus he had to  steal colors and paint in secret, as the punishment for disobedience to  this particular law was most severe--even unto death.<br /> During this  partial biography of the great court painter, Velasquez, we meet two other  famous artists who visited the master: Rubens and Murillo. We are treated  to private, behind-the-scenes glimpses of the blond King and his pompous  entourage.  As Juan travels in Italy with his famous Master, he receives  conflicting impressions of Italians and their artistic style.  Yet he earns  the respect of those around him with his impressive, folkoric healing  skills. But art is his private passion; he refuses to stop painting on the  sly. Since he is an honest man, such deception causes him great guilt and  shame. Otherwise, his life as a slave is almost enviable, since he does not  chafe at the yoke of slavery--he merely resents the unfair restrictions on  talent based on inherited bondage.<br /> I was impressed by his loyalty to  and sincere devotion for the Master, even after Velasquez changed their  status. This story reveals the meaning of true friendship, which knows no  racial or ethnic barriers.  This is an excellent book for Black History  relations; it includes a brief discussion of mankind's great curse:  slavery. There are different ways to accomplish the goal of peaceful  coexistence between races; this book leads introspective readers to reflect  on the philosophy of Life.ter Velasquez changed their  status. This story reveals the meaning of true friendship, which knows no  racial or ethnic barriers.  This is an excellent book for Black History  relations; it includes a brief discussion of mankind's great curse:  slavery. There are different ways to accomplish the goal of peaceful  coexistence between races; this book leads introspective readers to reflect  on the philosophy of Life.	2000-02-26
2625610:US	52160649	R1GMPSZCVEV7SK	0525443924	289651761	My Side of the Mountain	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Incredible story of Survival in the Mountains	There have been 100 reviews of this book already published, so there is no need for me to rehash the plot.  I will just toss out a few random commments.  I respect Sam's ability to carve out a life for himself in the  wilderness.  Sure there is natural brutality out there, but the author  implies that if a kid is determined to run away, it is better to head for  the country, rather than risk the cilivilzed dangers of life on the city  streets.  <br />  But let's get real here: how long can Sam avoid being caught  by rangers, tourists, truant officers or even his parents--naturally  desperate to find him?  Is it wise to defy Nature for an entire winter,  alone in a tree? Is it likely that he could last that long with no serious  illness or broken bones? Nor was he attacked by large, vicious animals.   This is a great, fun read which will hold your interest.  I just hope it  does not lure teenagers into trying to duplicate Sam's brave but foolhardy  challenge to both Society and mother Nature.  It ends with a compromise  (life as a hermit vs family membership) which does not undermine family  values. I especially liked the many sketches showing plants, animals and  objects which can be fashioned in the wild. I bet that Sam Gribly proves a  heroic role model for many Scouts!	2000-02-21
2626233:US	52160649	R3T826SRRMBJUX	0156528207	781565906	The Little Prince	Books	5	30	38	N	N	INVISIBLE ESSENTIALS	This slender charmer has long been a favorite--since I read it high school French class.  The golden-haired boy--an interstellar traveler--touches a responsive chord in many hearts: the fox who wants to be tamed by him; the  stranded pilot who sketches for him when he'd rather be repairing his  plane; even the small snake who offers to speed his journey home. Adults  and young readers alike will treasure this gentle tale. <br />  Critics--those  pompous and serious adults--debate St. Exupery's intention in this  tiny  masterpiece.  Is it a fairy tale or an astral fable?  Is it a vehicle to  offer subtle criticism of Society's foibles, cleverly disguised as a  children's story?  Is the author trying to Entertain or to Instruct--or  just gently offer us a nostalgia trip?  Sometimes we jaded adults yearn for  the simplicity and faith of childhood.  Perhaps we need to see the world  with our hearts, as the Essential is often invisible or blurred to our  eyes. For when we can bring ourselves to sacrifice &quot;matters of  consequence&quot;, only then will we recognize our moral and social  responsibilities in life.  St. Exupery's delightful sketches enhance our  literary pleasure.  Perhaps you will regard the stars (and roses)  differently after reading this.	2000-02-21
2649925:US	52160649	RWC2I8TIW2IVD	0803718020	859913048	The Well: David's Story	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Prequel to ROLL OF THUNDER, HEAR MY CRY	This slender volume provides an excellent introduction to BlackHistory; short, dramatic, empassioned.  Tensions mount as two blackbrothers repeatedly suffer at the hands of whites. The well itself, located on Logan property, becomes the only source of water for miles around during a heatwave.  But the fact that the family generously shares with all its neighbors--regardless of skin color, with no thought for personal profit--does not endear them to the trashy sons of Old Man Simms, a vicious brute who encourages his sons to arrogance and violence. THE WELL is an excellent prequel to ROLL OF THUNDER, for young David grows up to become Cassie's father. Land ownership is a prized family value, but the next generation continues to suffer social and legal atrocities from the Simmses.  This is one suspenseful piece of <br />historical fiction featuring the Black experience.  END	2000-02-03
2654169:US	52160649	R3NCOPBF0G4MDJ	0590467514	734669960	Run Away Home	Books	4	9	11	N	N	THE HUMAN RIGHT TO BE FREE!	In Alabama in 1888 a 12-year-old black girl witnesses a 15-year-old Indian boy escape from a stopped train.  The government is transporting Apaches from the dry West to the humid South. Spunky Sarah Jane must made an adult  decision based on a child's reason: should she reveal her private  knowledge, which will result in a free spirit being returned to bondage?  When she discovers that he is hiding in her barn, she must choose between  her innate desire to see all people free and her duty to her parents. <br />  Her father has troubles of his own: the local Knights of Southern Manhood  (similar to the outlawed KKK) resent the idea of blacks voting; they use  vicious methods to intimidate and punish blacks who try to register.  It  infuriates them to see blacks who actually own land, instead of just  sharecropping (being cheated by whites) with no hope of economic freedom.   Naturally they refuse to permit any black business enterprise to succeed  while the sheriff turns a blind eye to the terrors of the night-riding  Knights.  <br /> Sarah Jane's Mama blends both black and native american  cultures--a gracious bridge between two opposing worlds--neither of which  is respected by southern whites. Will her family become too attached to  this Indian boy and refuse to hand him over the Government's young agent?   Will Sky desert them in their time of crisis, in order to return to his  tribe in the West? If the boll weevils don't run the Crossmans off their  special place on earth, the Knights with their flaming torches and hatred  will surely do the rest. The book includes historical references to  Geronimo, Booker T.  Washington and the Tuskegee Institute. This is a   page-turner with tight plotting; increasing  dangers escalate to a fever  pitch of tension for the final showdown. A great introduction to Black  History for elementary and junior high readers.	2000-01-31
2661888:US	52160649	R2X34MFDWTFW38	0140384510	287534538	Roll of Thunder, Hear My Cry (Puffin Modern Classics)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Thunder in her Heart	Twelve-year-old Cassie Logan comes of age that summer in 1930's Mississippi, as she learns the bitter truth about racial relations.  Sharecropping was just a legalized substitution for slavery; her family is  naturally the target of white suspicion, resentment and open hostility  since they actually own property<br /> Her parents instill their love for  the land and pride in ownership into all 4 children.  The four adults  valiantly protect the youngsters from harm, but no one can shield them from  the frightful truth of generations of prejudice against blacks.  Sometimes  bigotry is the only way certain folks can feel Better than others and  justify physical and social cruelty. Not all the white characters are bad  in this story and one black youth goes to the dogs, as violence explodes  before an overdue thunderstorm.<br />  The thunder is not only in the  heavens, however, as decent blacks raise their heads to stand as people of  quiet dignity--deserving of respect from all. But white scum do<br />not  recognize that personal integrity and honor are colorblind. It's easier to  keep an entire race in moral bondage if one pretends they are innately  inferior. This is a serious but fascinating read with brisk dialogue,  fast-paced plotting, and intense characterizations, as three teenagers must  grow up and face adult choices.  Bigotry with no holds barred.	2000-01-25
2663147:US	52160649	RNNSP7I460SIG	0553159925	62393161	Mississippi Bridge	Books	3	2	2	N	N	JUDGMENT AT THE BRIDGE?	Here we meet again the Logan kids--those four rascals from Taylor's ROLL  OF THUNDER.  This read-in-one sitting short story is based on a real  incident in the dark, prejudiced past of the deep South during the  Depression.  When Blacks had to sit at the back of the bus--if they were  allowed to sit or even ride at all. Sassy Cassie is shocked by the way  whites treat blacks, which is  starkly contrasted by gentle Jeremy--whose  nasty pa belives in keeping Negroes in their place.  This mild white boy  just dreams of simple friendship without racial boundaries.  <br /> This book  is an excellent grade-school introduction to Southern racism and bigotry.  Was it the hand of God in divine retribution (a sort of Black Passover)  which spared the serfs but punished the masters?  Does pride deserve a  fall? Read this and judge for yourself.	2000-01-25
2703392:US	52160649	R1NE1W9T2MOHT4	0385323174	667485306	What Child Is This?: A Christmas Story	Books	3	4	5	N	N	WHOSE Child is this?	I found this book interesting, fast and easy to read, but must confess that I had not considered the plight of many foster children and foster parents. Especially poignant during a holiday season.  I found the book  somewhat disjointed, since there were no real chapters, but many short  segments, each introduced by a line from a  Christmas carol.  Sections  shifted focus from one teenager (or child or adult) to another, so it  requires literary flexibility. Desite the lack of a clearcut protagonist, I  think it would make a good TV movie. <br /> As the book jacket proclaims; the  kids desire so much (a ski trip, expensive sneakers, nothing less than a  new and permanent family, and maternal closure for a grieving older  sister). Yet the adults who control these kids' lives leave so much to be  desired:  Liz' parents--clueless about the true meaning of  Christmas--honestly love her, but only wish to impress the World, so they  set poor examples of compasison and charity.  Perhaps a few fathers are as  close to perfect as Mr. Knight, but I feel that most congregations would  respond the same way if confronted by a Christmas Eve disaster-- even that  of a stranger. Let your heart go out to the needy children in the  community--this book is an inspiration to churches and social agencies to  bring joy to orphans, poor and foster kids with no home to call their own.  The ending satisfies..	1999-12-28
2703933:US	52160649	R3TEOD2LKM5SCC	0812063546	274048925	Old Father Christmas	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Delightfully Gentle Nostalgia Piece	If you appreciate the gentle nostalgia of a Victorian Christmas, this lovely book is for you. A delightful read-aloud story for parents and grandparents to share with their own family treasures. Who minds a story  within a story?  It is important that modern children realize the simple  pleasures of bygone days, when toys were fewer in number, but lasted much  longer and were greatly prized! <br /> Meloni's wonderful color illustrations  (authentic and detailed) recapture the charm of this distant era, and will  hold the child's interest while an adult reads.  This  quiet tale should  stimulate quality-time discussions about warm family values at Christmas.  An 8-year-old country boy and his 6-year old assume that an old man who is  carrying a pine tree is actually Father Christmas.  Their childlike logic  projects their own expectations of his bringing them their first Christmas  tree--a custom initiated by Prince Albert (from his native Germany).  Is  the old man really the special personage they wish him to be or will they  be disillusioned by adult logic?  A truly beautiful book where both story  and illustrations blend to create the peaceful glow of a distant  Christmas--no farther away than the reader's heart!	1999-12-28
2704048:US	52160649	R14SLX71PZXN86	0385323174	667485306	What Child Is This?: A Christmas Story	Books	3	1	1	N	N	WHOSE Child is this?	I found this book interesting, fast and easy to read, but must confess that I had not considered the plight of many foster children and foster parents. Especially poignant during a holiday season.  I found the book  somewhat disjointed, since there were no real chapters, but many short  segments, each introduced by a line from a  Christmas carol.  Sections  shifted focus from one teenager (or child or adult) to another, so it  requires literary flexibility. Desite the lack of a clearcut protagonist, I  think it would make a good TV movie. <br /> As the book jacket proclaims; the  kids desire so much (a ski trip, expensive sneakers, nothing less than a  new and permanent family, and maternal closure for a grieving older  sister). Yet the adults who control these kids' lives leave so much to be  desired:  Liz' parents--clueless about the true meaning of  Christmas--honestly love her, but only wish to impress the World, so they  set poor examples of compasison and charity.  Perhaps a few fathers are as  close to perfect as Mr. Knight, but I feel that most congregations would  respond the same way if confronted by a Christmas Eve disaster-- even that  of a stranger. Let your heart go out to the needy children in the  community--this book is an inspiration to churches and social agencies to  bring joy to orphans, poor and foster kids with no home to call their own.  The ending satisfies..	1999-12-28
2708986:US	52160649	R25K9GDME05QXS	0440409586	716420058	A Christmas Sonata	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Something Worth Living For--even if you're Dying!	Set in Minnesota (well, we know how Paulsen loves cold climates for his tales) during WW2, this short story is told in the first person by young boy. Only called Punkin by his mother, his father is a soldier far away in  Europe, which is where the kid has somehow confused as a place to go if you  are dying.  Then his mother takes him on an all-day train trip to spend  Christmas with her relatives up north. <br />  But something happened at home  to make the boy stop believing in Santa Claus. When he visit his dying  cousin, who also is disillusioned, they compare grim, childhood notes.  How  can the caring adults restsore their faith in Santa (and in Life itself?  Will the lesson be long-lasting?  Great read-aloud story by the fire or  read-in-one-session for yourself.  Recapture the basic, warm, honest  feeling of Christmas!	1999-12-23
2709099:US	52160649	R3GN25EACTXCUH	0816741271	917613841	A Country Christmas	Books	3	4	4	N	N	&quot;EVEN SANTA IS POOR THIS YEAR...&quot;	This book can be read in two or three sittings, but I do not consider it a true Christmas read, as the title implies. Three quarters of the book occur in the summer and fall, though it does end with a glorious, homemade  Christmas tree. Young teen Francy discovers what Christmas really  means-even if you are poor.  We admire Francy who is coping with shame  about the family poverty, resentment at a snobby cousin, fear over her  mother's illness, agony at being cheated by outsiders, and even cow  ownership. <br /> But she is strong and clever as well, and pulls the hardest  in times of family crisis. The Ponders prove resiliant against all  odds--even an inspiration to the county when it comes to celebrating  Christmas.  There is a heart-warming and satisfying seasonal end as she  comes of age in her heart.  One wonders if the author is reliving her own  childhood or that of a close relative.  If you like the Waltons, you'll  feel at home with the Ponders.	1999-12-23
2739240:US	52160649	R2HC33E73S19B5	0395071127	21658171	Calico Captive	Books	4	21	22	N	N	Cultures Clash as her Heart is Torn in Two	Based on the true story of Susannah Johnson who was captured with her entire family by Indians in 1754, Calico Captive is a fictionalized  recreation of that ordeal. Native Americans are not the only dangers,  however, as hostilities between English and French colonists in the New  World increase, exploding in war.  Sixteen-year-old Miriam Willard--red  headed, headstrong and spunky--lives with her older, married sister and  their three small children in Charlestown, N.H., until the fateful dawn  raid by the Abenaki tribe.  Miriam and the Johnsons find themselves  prisoners several times in this novel.  They are first held for ransom or  adoption in a shabby Indian village. Then in mighty Montreal (a French  stronghold, feared by the British settlers) Miriam becomes a kitchen slave,  while her sister's family is parceled out among wealthy French colonials,  and later falsely imprisoned.<br />  Denied freedom of choice for her  movements, Miriam discovers the meaning of true friendship,as her talents  with a needle prove invaluable.  But her heart is torn between her  scholarly suitor back home and a wild, boistrous French fur trapper.  What  does the future hold for her, when she is suddenly granted the long-denied  right to choose her own destiny?  Susannah struggles to keep her family  together and to maintian their English ethics in the face of French frills  and native lifestyles. This is an interesting and fast-paced read, which  will appeal to girls 12-18, with accurate details of both Indian and French  Colonial life.	1999-12-01
2745067:US	52160649	RSTIIFCLZ5CEZ	0449704378	458323947	The Light in the Forest	Books	4	8	11	N	N	WHITE INDIAN IN TWO WORLDS	Four-year-old Johnny Butler was kidnapped by raiding Indians and raised as True Son--fully adopted to replace a dead Indian boy. For 11 years he has learned Indian ways from his new father, Cayuga. Considering himself a  future warrior, he is stunned and rebelious when his father (and others)  must surrender their white captives (including wives) to make a land deal  with the White Man.  Hurt, humiliated and terrified, True Son mentally  spits on all Western civilization. He despises white ways--their attitude  toward Nature, their cruelty to  Indians, and their cramped, oppressive  lifestyle. He privately plans to escape back into his true culture and real  people at the first opportunity. <br />  But he reckons without knowledge of  his biological family: an invalid mother who never recovered from his  abduction; a kind but stern father who values his ledgers; an adoring  little brother who had not yet been born.  Worst of all is his hot-tempered  uncle, who leads Peshtank &quot;boys&quot; on vicious, punitive raids  against his people.  Who is the real traitor to Peace between the races?   How can this youth enjoy life without the loyal companionship of his best  friend and &quot;cousin.&quot; Half Arrow? <br /> Is it possible to take the  Indian out of a boy whose blood and brain belong to the Native people? Both  worlds claim him, yet in the final irony, both worlds may reject him.  What  does the future hold for a white youth who considers himself one with the  enemies of the English in 1765? This is intense reading centered on a real  moral dilemma, for which the youth is not responsible.  Will he ever be  free to choose his own path through life, to be accepted in either world?   Will he have to betray white settlers, in order to prove his Indian heart?  Presented with justice from both points of view, this short novel is an  excellent example of Historical Fiction for readers of all ages.	1999-11-26
2746881:US	52160649	R3RS5MJSIAWBOE	1564021785	373640228	Thicker Than Water	Books	3	0	0	N	N	BURY THE DEAD--APPRECIATE THE LIVING	Plump and plain Becky deeply resents her cousin, Will, when he suddenly enters both her life and home in Derbyshire, Englander.  How is she supposed to feel sorry about the death of her mother's  never-before-mentioned twin sister?  Or feel sympathy for this distinctly  foreign-looking cousin who dropped into her smugly anti-social world? Both  kids carry around considerable emotional baggage as it is--each too deeply  mired in their own problems to reach out to the other.  This grim, stark YA  novel presents a suffering ghost who uses the living to put closure on the  past.  <br />  Why is Will the only one to hear the wailing of a ghost  boy--buried alive in an abandoned mine shaft a century ago?  Who is likely  to be blamed for a poltergeist's rampage?  Neither kid appeals to the  reader at first, as they outdo each other in being sullen, selfish,  uncommunicative, ungrateful and deliberately perverse.  The adults around  them struggle with anger and frustration.  Can a boy from the London slums  lay to rest the tormented spirit of another boy, whose mother seemed to  desert him as well?  Family relationships are questioned, as Becky tries to  mature. Readers must be flexible, as the chapters alternate between the  cousins as egocentric narrators. A Chilling tale for middle school kids.	1999-11-25
2753458:US	52160649	R3SKC9FUIITE15	0440415837	783588053	The Ghost in the Noonday Sun	Books	2	1	4	N	N	TREASURE HUNTING KID BAIT	This is a light read for kids--no real meat for adults, but good fun, with surprise twists on  every other page--even on the Same page!  Fourteen-year-old Oliver Finch dreams of going to sea, instead of helping  his aunt at a New England inn.  Fortunately for him the sudden arrival of  one Captain Scratch (truly the devil's agent or human kin) changes his  landlubber life. Back then superstitious folk believed that people born at  the stroke of midnight had the unique &quot;gift&quot; of seeing the ghosts  of the dead.  <br /> This greedy, murderous villlain is obsessed with  discovering the location of buried treasure on a remote isle.  He  authorizes cruel torture (is there any other kind?) to wring confessions  from the doubtful but terrified boy. Oliver finds unexpected pirate allies  on his nightmare voyage and sojourn on a dangerous tropical island. His  aunt's cat proves an unlikely stowaway, but welcome companion in his  misery. Can young Oliver deceive the bloodthirsty captain and his scumbag  crew long enough to escape home? Great for junior high boys.	1999-11-17
2760431:US	52160649	R1JOSFMQUVV1LF	1564025195	373640228	Thicker Than Water	Books	3	2	2	N	N	BURY THE DEAD--APPRECIATE THE LIVING	Plump and plain Becky deeply resents her cousin, Will, when he suddenly enters both her life and her Derbyshire home.  How is she supposed to feel sorry about the death of her mother's never-before-mentioned twin sister?   Or feel sympathy for this distinctly foreign-looking cousin dropped into  her smugly anti-social world?  Both kids are carrying around considerable  emotional baggage as it is--too deeply mired in their own problems to help  each other.  This is a grimly stark YA novel, where a ghost Uses the Living  to put closure on the Past.  <br />  Why is Will the only one to hear the  wailing of a ghost boy--buried alive in a forgotten tunnel of an abandoned  mine a century ago?  Who is likely to be blamed for a poltergeist's  rampage?  Neither kid appeals to the reader at first, as they outdo each in  being sullen, selfish, uncommunicative, ungrateful, spiteful--deliberately  perverse. The adults around them stuggle with anger and frustration.  Can a  boy from the London slums lay to rest the tormented spirit of another boy,  whose mother seemed to desert him too? Family relationships are questioned.  Readers must be flexible, as each chapter alternates between the cousins as  narrators. A Chilling Tale for middle school kids.	1999-11-03
2761065:US	52160649	R1ZU5LQUAWQR1B	1851497013	811026525	The Princess and the Goblin	Books	3	16	20	N	N	FOLLOW THE THREADS OF YOUR DESTINY	The PRINCESS AND THE GOBLIN proves yet another of MacDonald's fantasy charmers (q.v. AT THE BACK OF THE NORTH WIND), as the novel presents the adventures (psychological as well as physical) of protected Princess Irene  (aged 8) and a brave miner boy with the unlikely name of Curdie. The  tale  involves the schemes of evil goblins who lurk below the earth, who exult to  tease and torture the &quot;sun people&quot; as they call humankind.  Can a  mere youth foil the callous machinations of these subterranrean fiends?<br />  Princess Irene meets a mysterious but loving old lady at a spinning wheel  (have we heard this somewhere before?), while Curdie proves himself a  useful ally to her King-papa.  Her faithful but outspoken nurse, Lootie,  learns some bitter lessons, as she is almost dismissed by the king and  (even worse) by Irene herself.  Grown ups must learn to believe what they  hear from honest children; children must learn to believe what can not  always be seen or what makes scientific sense. Any little girl who sees  herself as an unrecognized princess can learn to behave with the grace and  dignity of a True Princess. Boys will admire the courage and  resourcefulness of the miner's son--the only one in the kingdom to realize  what the goblins are plotting.  A quaintly spun yarn (with gentle  edification for children) for readers of all ages.	1999-11-02
2767691:US	52160649	R2VUR77KQ5E17D	0915288281	579084937	Lavinia	Books	4	1	2	N	N	SELF MADE WOMAN TRUE TO HER CREATOR	This novelette set in 19th century France reveals a heroine of remarkable emotional stamina and a sense of self-worth--purchased at the cost of  betrayed naievte. Like a drama where the protagonist does not  &quot;enter&quot; until our curiosity has been sufficiently whetted by  premilinary gossip, Lavinia herself--no longer ingenuous but still a dusky  beauty--bursts upon the stage as full blown woman, eminently desirable and  self possessed. <br />  Sir Henry, who had jilted her in the past, aided and  abetted by his gayblade buddy, Lionel, stages a risky rendez-vous repossess  his old love letters and trinkets before his impending marriage.  But  Lavinia does not swoon at his feet, begging his return, which annoys his  masculine ego. Ah no, poor Henry sees the amorous tables turned upon  himself.  Much of the novel is like a play: there are &quot;scenes&quot;  and &quot;acts;&quot; there is a preponderance of dialogue that would make  this work a pleasure to stage.  Sand spares nothing in villifying French  19th century &quot;Society,&quot; with its highly restrictive women's roles  and impossible demands placed on the fair sex. <br /> So which suitor will win  la belle Lavinia: panting and repentant Sir Henry or a rich young  Count--equally besotted? This novelette of 45 pages seems a cleverly  disguised treatise/expose on the foibles and injustice of French society,  at whose tyrannical hands George Sand herself may have suffered. But expect  a surprise ending, for Lavinia may do that which real women dare not.   Almost mortally wounded in affairs of the heart, Lavinia will remain true  to her instinct of self-preservation: physical and moral. This a fast read,  which may appear lite, almost trite; but this piece actually simmers with  Sand's scathing denunciation of her constricted world.	1999-10-22
2769761:US	52160649	R35347U39Z2FAL	0394895894	312522121	The Ruby in the Smoke: A Sally Lockhart Mystery	Books	5	6	7	N	N	LIMEHOUSE BLUES OVER ONE RED	Sixteen-year-old Sally Lockhart, grieving her father's mysterious, shipboard death, becomes embroiled in the London underworld when she seeks information about his business and her  inheritance. Raised in an  unconventional manner--especially by Victorian standards--Sally is no  shrinking violet, but neither is she a reckless, daring heroine.  Just  sincerely devoted to the memory of her honest and intelligent parent.  Her  confusion and curiosity launches echoes of evil in a vicious web of  intrigue, avarice, murder and long-simmering hatred.  Fortunately she makes  stanch friends in her quest for Justice, but danger lurks in unexpected  places for this quietly modest but determined young lady. <br />  Pullman  weaves a page-turning yarn of deceit, obsession, and loyalty into a complex  mystery--not over until the last sentence--as Sally unravels the threads of  her cloaked past.  We also experience the seamier side of 1870's London:  the docks, a charnel house, an opium den, as Sally and Co. try to outfox  the vicious old hag of Hangman's Wharf.  Why is she Sally's self-declared  most deadly enemy, like a Black Widow spider bent on one last meal?  Sally  finally realizes that her destiny must be to face her nemesis alone, to  learn her identity. Sally's moral courage is tested to the limits, yet she  insists on knowing the whole truth--however unsavory.  An action-packed  adventure/mystery for ages 12 and up.  A great Gaslight Read!	1999-10-19
2783983:US	52160649	R2R0EO0E5YQ39I	0553273213	954102735	Goodbye, Mr. Chips	Books	5	15	16	N	N	&quot;ENDEARING PORTRAIT OF AN ENGLISH SCHOOLTEACHER&quot;	This short, sentimental composite portrait tugs at my heart with each reread, even though it was never my privilege to have a teacher like Chips. An instant &quot;classic&quot; when it first appeared in book form in  America in 1934 (after serialization in the Atlantic Monthly), this  unpretentious tale about a mild-mannered teacher charms us by its very  simplicity of style and honesty of emotion. We snatch glimpses into the  unremarkable life and becalmed career of a Master at a gracefully moldering  English boys' school--and even into his more distinguished retirement. <br />   We celebrate  Mr. Chipping's gradual metamorphosis from indifferent  disciplinarian, average teacher, gentle eccentric, confirmed bachelor,  glowing husband, fusty Acting Head--ultimately to achieve social  distinction and honor: becoming a beloved institution in his own right. For  despite decades of academic obscurity, Chips emerges as the representative  of what is right and good about Brookfield. He becomes a living symbol of  harmony between ancient ritual and &quot;modern&quot; methods and ideals.  <br />  World events beyond the hallowed walls seek to touch and reshape the  lives in this secluded school, which witnesses the ceaseless stream of  future new boys, waring Masters and Heads. Yet all their strivings take  back seat to the gentle dodderings of a witty, childless graybeard in a  shabby robe, who prides  himself on being the father of thousands of boys.   This book is a light-hearted tale which will bring both tears and joy to  readers of all ages.	1999-09-26
2795665:US	52160649	R36G8CEFEYL2DH	0964690454	801963365	The Lyon's Club: The Lyon Saga Book Two	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A GRAVESIDE REQUEST	The title refers to the ship mentioned in the first book of this series: the RED LYON.  A ship which left hopeful English colonists stranded on  Roanoak Island off Virginia in 1587. Stainer explores various theories to  account for the historically &quot;lost&quot;, almost legendary band of  brave settlers who disappeared. It is now 1588 and 16-year old Jess  Archarde proves a worthy descendant (i.e. Cub) of the LYON, whose captain  pursued a dream to found a cittee of Raleigh in the hostile New World.  He  was supposed to return with supplies, but he did not--at least not in time.  <br />  The original settlers have argued over different means of survival,  with hardship and sorrow as frequent companions.  While the Armada is  gathering strength for an audacious assault on Elizabeth's England, the  loyal colonists suffer political anxiety, attacks from warlike Indians (not  their kindly hosts on Cracatoan Island) and diminishing numbers.  Plus  there is always the very read danger of falling into the hands of marauding  Spanish privateers, who prowl the coast seeking their enemy, the English.  <br /> Despite this tenuous existence, young Jess undertakes a solemn vow and  dangerous pilgrimmage: to find the grave of her best friend's husband,  there to conduct a proper Christian burial. Neither her father nor her  Indian suitor can dissuade her from this folly, for Jess is determined to  keep her promise to her bereaved friend, hampered at home with a baby. Jess  and her companions endure terrible privation and even slavery, until they  escape with two special mementoes of the Spanish garrison.  History,  Adventure, Danger and of course, Romance Lite!  Middle School girls will  want to follow Jess' story through the entire LYON series. Stainer weaves  an interesting and infomrative tale, thanks to many short chapters,  frequent illustrations (by James Melvin) and extensive dialogue. Even  though Jess herself is completely fictional, the family name is on record.  This conjectured History is highly palatable--ENJOY!	1999-09-06
2819539:US	52160649	R3GHO5T3HQ5S4F	0140383956	633090626	The Saturdays (Melendy Family)	Books	3	9	13	N	N	THE TOGETHERNESS KIDS	How to spend your delicious Saturday afternoons  when you only have a 50-cent allowance in New York City? Well, the four Melendy kids decide to pool their resources and create ISAAC (a private Saturday Afternoon Club),  so that each one in turn (well, not Oliver cuz he's only six) can enjoy one  afternoon a month doing something Really Special.<br /> Sounds great, but  there are unexpected complications--and rewards--as each one chooses an  outing tailormade for his/her personal taste. Some of the chapters include  stories within the main story, related by other people--even about their  own parents!  Serious things happen (gas poisoning, a fire, getting lost),  but these are counterbalanced by a new puppy, shocking nailpolish--even a  mounted policeman who contribute to the siblings' fun. You'll never guess  where they go to discover the Moon Room!  If I had been a kid back then, my  favorite game would have been Drugstore...A snappy and lighthearted read  about family frolics and caring cooperation in a kinder New York. There are  sequels too, by the author of Thimble Summer. Elementary appeal.	1999-07-29
2820680:US	52160649	R1V7NNIHPO20V8	0060238402	809143539	Long Ago in Oregon	Books	1	3	4	N	N	PEACEFUL PATCHWORK  OF SACRED CHILDHOOD	This short book in free verse style (like Out of The Dust) about childhood memories would be excellent in three areas: to read aloud in installments for Quality bedtime; to read in one sitting; and to assign as a first book  to be read by young students, who will then respond to easy questions and  do minimal research. The simple pleasures and homespun concerns of life in  rural Oregon are preserved in Claudia Lewis' poetic journal, as she  gradually realizes that her pre war world is slipping into the past--  impacting both her town and her family.  Joel Fontaine's bountiful b/w  sketches create an aura of fragile and tender childhood, soft as pastels,  reflecting Lewis' poingnant vignettes of a bygone era.  This is a gentle  introduction to journals and historical fiction for elementary children.	1999-07-28
2820729:US	52160649	R1LL3AFTHCBCU6	0689807791	171095601	Brown Sunshine of Sawdust Valley	Books	2	8	9	N	N	HORSE CRAZY IN TENNESSEE	This read-in-one sitting book by the author of MISTY OF CHINCOTEAGUE is presented in both diary format (first person) and standard narrative form (third person).  You will be kept on your toes as chapters alternate in  style, even switching back and forth in the same chapter. But this  lightweight tale introduces readers to the world of mules--their history  and unappreciated value.  Molly (aged 10-13) acquires a young mule as a  suprise, thanks to her father's wise faith in a lean, older mare. Even the  local bully grows up to respect both girl and mule. This gently-paced story  praises human caring for animals and their loyal service to man.  A simple  storyline which will appeal to pre teen girls are horse crazy.	1999-07-28
2831436:US	52160649	R1JOH3NC9KWIEF	0964690438	651281919	The Lyon's Roar (The Lyon Saga)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	REVERSE POCAHONTAS TALE?	Highly palettable presentation of a reasonable explanation for the disappearance of the first colonists in America, on Roanoak Island off Virginia. They were stranded there in 1587 (a year before the Spanish  Armada distracted Queen Elizabeth's attention from exploration and   colonization of the New World). Related in the first person by 14-year-old  Jess, this book reads swiftly, thanks to many short chapters and extensive  dialogue. The author includes non-judgmental references to native religion  and medicine, while offering a viable alternative to the theory that the  entire colony was brutally wiped out by hostile Idians. <br />  But this is no  boring history book; rather it is more a coming-of-age tale with some  gentle romance. Jess confides her dreams and fears, her doubts and plans,  as her family emigrates to the Chesapeake Bay--to found a city called  Ralegh. We suffer with her on the ghastly ocean voyage; we observe life in  that island colony which has since disappeared into the misty myth of time.  Jess shares the gradual dawning of her womanhood--both physical and  emotional--as she writes in her diary.  This young protagonist is torn  between George, her first crush, and the allure of the forbidden  &quot;savage&quot;--the son of one of the camp's two native guides. <br />  Being blond was something special even back then, as this daring girl  matures from selfish child to compassionate young woman, pursuing her  private quest for love, while remaining steadfast in her family loyalty.  Excellent for middle school, partiuclarly girls; it will stimulate  discussion about the fate of the Roanoak colonists. Well-researched, the  LYON Saga will entertain and hold the interest young readers. History made  Human!	1999-07-11
2831730:US	52160649	R370O3146C94WL	0440486815	215682342	Thimble Summer	Books	3	31	34	N	N	CAN A THIMBLE BE MAGIC OR BRING GOOD LUCK?	This is a quiet and gentle read about life on a Wisconsin farm in the 1930's, when great grand- parents still recall tales about Indians.  Nine- year-old Garnet Linden (well, yes, she's blond but not necessarily  Scandinavian) reminds us of Laura Ingalls, for she is plucky, mischievous  and strong-willed.  It was a simpler age, with simple pleasures: safe  hitchiking, swimming in the creek, barn-raisings, ice cream and County  Fairs.  But farmers had it tough then what with drought and financial  worries until the harvest was in. Garnet's brother, Jay, has decided that  he does Not want to be a farmer, but what about the new orphan boy who  shows up one night by the lime kiln?  Is he farmer material perhaps?  <br />  There is not much of a plot--just events strung out like beads on a  necklace. But it is a laid-back kind of book which young girls will enjoy.  The illustrations are delightful; we see bubbly  Garnet chasing chickens,  locked in (I won't say where!), and on the cover she proudly holds her pet  pig. One theme is that you really should be grateful to have Good  Neighbors.  Also that you need special eyes to recognize treasures when you  find them. From the creek, then from the woods--what will she do with hers?	1999-07-10
2832319:US	52160649	R256WQUO692F43	0020427603	83025164	The Werefox: Originally Published As Pure Magic	Books	3	5	5	N	N	UNIQUE, FANTASY  FRIENDSHIP	Young Johnny Dunlap does not really have a friend until the strange Dumont family moves to the dilapidated farm near by.  This undated fantasy is set in rural New England, detailing the bonds of deep friendship between two  boys, one of whom just happens to be a boy only part time...You have heard  of Central European tales about werewolves--humans who are forced to turn  into beasts of prey at night. In this less dark version, Coatsworth  imagines a less frightening, deliberate (for the sheer joy of night  running) transformation from child or adult into a FOX by night. Well known  to literary audiences for her penchant for small animals, Coatsworth  creates an unusual situtation: can a human boy remain best friends with a  boy/fox? <br /> Eager to prove his sincere devotion to the queer French  Canadian boy, Johnny risks everything to protect him from fox hunters and  to reconcile him with his callous father.  I leave you to figure out which  one on the cover is the werefox.  This is actually a cute, light read which  emphasizes friendship, loyalty and good relations with parents and  neighbors. Short--only 71 pages with many pen and ink illustrations. Fine  for imaginative children up to age 12.	1999-07-09
2833177:US	52160649	R33ACJ42QEUAH3	0899683959	870626982	The Ghost and Mrs. Muir	Books	4	104	106	N	N	ROMANCE BETWEEN TWO WORLDS	We may never know what happened in Marseilles, (you have to read BLOOD AND SWASH), since Captain Gregg is too much of a gentleman beneath his barnacled exterior to kiss and tell. We feel that the highlights of the  novel are definitely his private conversations (verbal and emotional  sparring) with Lucia, as he fondly calls her. Demure and petite Lucy Muir  seeks refuge from her domineering sisters-in-law after she becomes a  respectable widow with two young children.  Formerly under the thumb of her  lacklustre husband or her pushy in-laws, gentle Lucy has never been allowed  to enjoy a lifestyle of her own choosing. <br /> Amazingly she finds the inner  strength to break free of the restrictive Muir cage with all its gilt-edged  obligations.  She flees to a modest seaside village where she is  immediately charmed by Gull Cottage. Ridiculously low rent and a reputation  for being haunted she considers attractions! She surprises everyone  (including the nervous realtor) by taking up permanent residence with her  chiildren and a faithful cook. <br /> But the local ghost legend is  well-founded; in fact she meets the crusty sea captain whose portrait  fascinates her that first night when she attempts to light the stove.   Fighting to retain her newfound independence, she  refuses to be frightened  off.  Why does she keep that old telescope in her (His) bedroom?  How can a  quiet, unassuming young widow tame a gruff and crusty old tar?  Keeping the  secret from her children, Lucy enters a unique relationship with this  earthbound spirit, which becomes the focal point of their private  existence. They help each other over the decades, proving that astral  planes need not prevent maturing romance. Quite different from the movie,  with more commentary on Life Beyond, but the story charms us still. I  tenderly recommend this book for romantics of all ages!	1999-07-08
2840915:US	52160649	R16HY9GJ4PAVIO	0440471478	998471830	The Pushcart War	Books	4	7	7	N	N	PUSHCARTS ARE NOT PUSHOVERS!	Delightful, outrageous, strategically logical but humorous, this story of 222 pages is a fast and fun read!  There are no teenage protagonists, but masses of unnamed kids do their part.  Can a major metropolis have too many  big rigs for its own good? Are the streets now the private preserve of  Mighty Mammoths and other predatory trucks?  Or do taxis, cars, pedestrians  and even those lowly Pushcarts have an equal right to enjoy and use the  congested thoroughfares? Do we really need these isolated vendors,  perambulating along the curbs? But of course! Think of the valuable  contribution to Society which they perform, those lonely capitalists  faithfully following their sacred rounds to reach their loyal customers in  all weather. <br /> Well, the tenuous status quo has been seriously  threatened. The Three (biggest trucking companies) have created a Master  Plan, by which they conspire to remove the meance of the humble pushcarts  once and for all.  By direct violence if necesary or by stealth, by bribery  with a touch of intimidation--whatever it takes. Ah, but these spirited  souls who roll their wares in a hostile or indifferent world refuse to  surrender quietly. Orangized by wiley Maxie, the Pushcart King, and morally  inspired by the apple lady, General Anna, the pushcart vendors strike back  privately and later stage a publically- appealing Peace Demonstration.   They unite to create traffic chaos, while preserving their ambulatory  lifestyle. Too bad such bizarre circumstances could never be repeated.  I  mean, really happen. A lighthearted spoof on disorganized crime, which will  entertain kids of all ages!	1999-06-26
2845492:US	52160649	R2VTCX0KZTHIJU	0140318909	754585463	Boy: Tales of Childhood	Books	4	1	1	N	N	PRANKSTER AGAINST THE WORLD	What a cute read--about the youth and misadventures of a Norwegian boy raised in Wales and England during the 20's and 30's!  The creator of that delicious childhood fantasy, CHARLIE AND THE CHOCOLATE FACTORY--tells all!   Woe to cruel Headmasters and callous boy bullies who perpetuate (with  Society's connivance) the curious system of excessive corporal punishment.  Creative and imaginative, Dahl was familiar with the business end of  several canes brandished with (dis)passionate self-righteousness. He  describes his childhood and teenage experiences up through his first job,  just hinting of his war activity. <br /> This is a very enjoyable book; it  reads easily, with plenty of lively dialgue, excerpts from his letters,  family photos and wry kid humor.  One suspects that Dahl--who signs his  weekly, yet subtly-censored leters home as BOY-- was not a favorite with  his masters, except on the playing field.  His fertile brain concocts many  schemes to bring pompous or nasty adults down a few pegs.  Undeterred by  harsh canings, he continues to defy authority, and to comment privately on  human brutality. <br /> One wonders why the British permitted such barbarism  in private schools--a self-perpetuating system which rewards or encourages  sadism. One hopes that boarding school conditions have been tempered in  modern times. Will the real British graduate please stand up, so we may  check for ancient cane lines!  Did such treatment produce generations of  tender-hearted Old Boys, as Dahl would have been if he had been granted  Boazer status, which he had earned for athletics; or successive waves of  beasts, eager to give as good as they got?  <br /> There is much humor packed  into these otherwise light pages, so don't miss this entertaining  autobiography of an international boyhood. You'll chuckle and be outraged  here and there, but you will not be bored.  For kids of all ages,  especially those who have spent the better (or worse) part of their lives  in boarding school.	1999-06-19
2847733:US	52160649	R3392QLCS58L2U	0140307370	333145022	Little Plum (Young Puffin Books)	Books	4	30	30	N	N	AT WAR OVER A DOLL	Rumer Godden excels at creating a gentle fantasy world where dolls have Lives--or in this case, Thoughts--of their own. Nona and Belinda Fell treasure their three Japanese dolls:  Miss Happiness, Miss Flower and  Little Peach. These special persons enjoy their own Japanese dollhouse and  clothes, beds, foods (green paint water tea) and celebrate many traditional  customs.  While the dolls converse privately, the sisters (who are unaware  of theri dolls' commuications) plan and dream of a new friendship.  They  themselves are very different: nine-year-old Nona is neat, polite and very  talentd with her creative fingers. While eight-year-old Belinda is a  fearless tomboy, a reckless daredevil who defies parental authority, common  sense and even the laws of gravity, to satisfy her whims.<br />  But things  get really interesting when a rich family buys and improves the big House  Next Door. What delicious opportunities to observe the doings and  possessions as they move it--and there is a daughter too!  Gem proves to be  a &quot;motherless&quot; only child, waited on by her personal nanny and a  large household staff--all supervised by an authoritarian aunt.  The kindly  father is often away on business, but after one trip he brings his daughter  a Japanese doll of her own.  Poor Little Plum--as the spying girls name her  and discover--is neglected by her lonely mistress.<br /> Belinda decides to  teach the proper care of Japanese dolls to the sulking snob next door, but  soon the teasing and critical notes escalate into a non-verbal war between  the headstrong young ladies. Will that &quot;rough child&quot; ever be  allowed in the front door of the wealthy but isolated Tiffany-Jones'  mansion? And will Gem ever accept cultural tutelage from mere middle-class  English children? This is a delightful read-aloud story for Girls Under  Ten. And all women who remember the dolls of their girlhood.	1999-06-16
2849317:US	52160649	R3MQKS5AUBYIRG	0064401448	616639582	Onion John	Books	3	31	32	N	N	TUG OF WAR BETWEEN FATHER AND FRIEND	Twelve-year-old Andy Rusch has lived in a small town named Serenity all his life, working part time in his father's hardware store, but this fall proves anything but serene.  In additon to a few buddies his own age, he  has added a most unusual, adult, friend, who quietly grows in personal  influence on the impressionable youth. Eventually Andy feels the strain and  frustration of this emotional tug of war; he writhes under the unfair  burden of having to choose to honor his new friend's different background  or to obey his father re his future. The book presents this moral dilemma:  does a Democracy--with the best of intentions--have the right to force  modernization upon a harmless immigrant with a childlike faith in his power  over Nature and the human heart?<br /> Onion John is the kindly-given  nickname of a man from Eastern Europe, whose English is undecipherable to  everyone but Andy--who has to work at understanding his speech, until he  discovers the trick of translating John's gutteral tongue and bizarre  (medieval) ideas.<br /> The boy, with no more ambition than to become a  shopkeeper in New Jersey, becomes a companion to the strange but friendly  hermit; they combine forces and enthusaism as they attempt to produce first  rain, then gold. Onion John knows the rites to ward off &quot;evil&quot;  spirits, to protect innocent workers, and even to fumigate an entire town.  But does Serenity Need to be fumigated out of its expansive good will and  generous desire to improve<br />John's living conditions--dragging him into  the 20th century against his will?  There is NO black magic, just European  folklore and superstition. This is a simple, down home story about a boy  who views his dad as a hero and his adult friend as a victim. Serious  themes with elements of humor and touching family values.	1999-06-14
2852315:US	52160649	R1720O70S89PX5	0689804628	548190726	A Fine White Dust (Aladdin Fiction)	Books	3	10	11	N	N	SELF SACRIFICE FOR PERSONAL GROWTH	Thirteen-year-old Pete relates the dramatic summer events which helped him come of age. Seems like all his life he has been fascinated with the Church--just waiting to be Saved.  But why are his parents just superficial  Christians?  How can he justify being best friends with a  cocky atheist?   And why can't he bring himself to throw out the dusty shards of a ceramic  cross which he hid in his bureau drawer, in frustrated grief? <br /> Ah, that  was the Summer of the Revival, of confessions, revelations, and hope for  salvation.  Pete's parents were only vaguely aware of his private turmoil.  One thing was for certain: that traveling Preacher Man had one Hell of an  influence on this naive youth--who just wanted to serve the Lord.  It sure  would be hard to sacrifice home and friends to follow in His steps. Was  Pete really ready to take to the road as a fisher of men?  What about  family loyalty? It becomes a Tug of War over responsibilities. <br /> This  book is a short, intense read concerning teenage obsessions, adult foibles  and the gradual dawning of gratitude for supportive parents and faithful  friends. Pete grows to appreciate the simple joys in life, like the view  and memories from his own bedroom window. How and where can he best serve  Jesus?  This introspective story does not drip with piety; rather, it  relates the quest for the truth and trust.  The book accumulates literary  tension as Pete is waiting to sacrifice his sheltered life in order to  start a new one. A fine undercurrent of suspense keeps readers hooked.  Atheists--fear not, for there is no attempt to convert.  It's not religion  that the author examines, but human response, dreams and failings. As the  back cover asks: &quot;How much do you have to give up to find  yourserlf?&quot;	1999-06-09
2858080:US	52160649	R2VMSSAHVPDOSL	0606005366	4656352	Catwings	Books	3	5	8	N	N	SEARCHING FOR KIND HANDS	This delightful tale of four winged felines is a read-in-one-sitting treat--great to read aloud as well. A sweet fantasy, CATWINGS relates the adventures of tabby siblings whose mother advised them to leave the city  slums for their health--not to mention her second honeymoon...  Whimsy and  humor combine to create an enchanting piece, which reveals the similarities  between two sympathetic (i.e. mutually dependent) species. Purrfect for  kids under 10 and all cat lovers. Beats Puss in Boots paws down!  It's the  Cat's Whiskers--and now with Wings!	1999-05-31
2860255:US	52160649	R1SNNX9E538ML0	0886801427	27079151	The Nuremberg Stove: Based on the Story by Ouida (A 'Stage Magic' Play)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A WARM, FAMILY FRIEND	Eleven-year-old Tina is the self-appointed guardian angel to the family's historic and artistic focal point: an antique stove, decorated by a Renaissance master. A gift to the impoverished Strehla family (father and  four daughters) from their grandfather, the stove is considered a  legitimate member of the family by creative Tina, who calls Hirschvogel by  name and insists on feeding him (wood) with her own hand. The girl who was  named after the creative genius proves the stove's most loyal champion. <br />  Hard times and threatened layoffs force Karl Strehla to sell the beloved  heirloom--despite the shocked protests of his devastated daughters.  Refusing to accept this parental dictate, Tina undertakes various juvenile  methods to prevent Hirschvogel's  loss to callous strangers, who won't even  know his name! <br />  This booklet reads fast (99% dialogue, after all)  presenting a charming little play in four scenes, running about 90 minutes.   Ideal for school, college or Little Theatre production. Based on the  children' story by Ouida (who also penned The Dog of Flanders), this play  offers a lighthearted read. Of course it is unrealistic to compare a play  to its prose inspiration, but such a work might help popularize her  children's novels. The audience will recognize simple, homespun family  values and childlike ingenuity.  In this case the resourceful girl (a boy  in the original) takes courage from her spunky grandmother to inititate  proactive behavior to save her special friend.  In the end Tina must choose  between Hirschvogel or the family's economic situation; she may only rescue  one, so they both are in her tender hands.	1999-05-27
2860364:US	52160649	R2PXD64I0FC25N	0803722907	88917561	A Long Way from Chicago: A Novel in Stories (Puffin Modern Classics)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	&quot;Everybody's private business is public property.&quot;	What a fun read!  Peck presents 8 short tales which span several summers in rural Illinois during the Depression, when two kids make annual visits to their eccentric Grandmother.  Narrated by the boy (two years old than  his sister), these outrageous yarns create a wonderful atmosphere of wacky  individualism and family bonding. <br /> It would be hard to find a literary  granny as feisty, resourceful and fearless of authority as Grandma.  Things  are never dull when she stirs her stumps to create a mild uproar in that  pompous little town. Her nefarious schemes range from a one-woman crime  wave to appointing herself Champion of the helpless and downtrodden. Don't  get on the wrong side of Mrs. Dowdel--if you value your reputation or your  hide! Grandma remains undaunted and unflappable through bizarre but comical  events. Peck's tongue-in cheek humor will bring many a chuckle as you are  drawn into her slightly-shady activities. This book will delight kids of  all ages--a winner, perfect for summer reading!	1999-05-27
2864553:US	52160649	R39IKFE3EASDB9	006440143X	959918548	...And Now Miguel	Books	3	36	40	N	N	BE CAREFUL WHAT YOU PRAY FOR	Miguel at 12 desperately wants to take his place among the Menfolk of his family, by proving to his father that he is mature enough to be one of the regular hands.  For years he has dreamed of accompanying the Chavez men on  their annual summer trek up into the Sangre de Cristo Mountains with their  large flock of sheep.  Despite his zeal, creativity and real help with the  family business, Miguel seems condemned to spend yet another summer at home  with the girls. <br />  When the entire village near Taos, New Mexico, turns  out to celebrate the feast day of San Ysidro, their local patron, Miguel  decides to petition the saint in a touchingly humorous (almost letter like)  prayer.  He takes it for granted that his wish will be granted, but soon is  shocked to discover the harsh conditions.  He never meant for his beloved  brother, Gabriel, to have to leave home for two years in the military. Is  there any way he can take back his wish?  This leads to a long,  soul-searching discussion on the<br />efficacy of prayer, the power and  limitations of saints, and great fraternal quality time.  <br /> This story  will apppeal more to boys seeking macho experience, for the role of females  is relegated to the superficial.  Still the book provides warm, family  interactions.  Narrated in the first person by Miguel himself, the book   reveals the coming-of-age struggle and dreams of a Mexican-American youth.   Readers will discover  wry humor, simple faith, bi-lingual slang, and  uneven pacing. Krumgold indulges in great detail about the sheep raising  business, as Miguel blunders his way into adulthood.  Wonderful  descriptions of the mountains which have been calling him for years.	1999-05-20
2867960:US	52160649	R3O8NTBRN3BN2X	0140309268	916160685	Secret of the Andes (Puffin Book)	Books	3	14	18	N	N	PRESERVING CULTURAL IDENTITY AND INTEGRITY	This gentle, introspective story features more mental and emotional gowth, than purely physical  &quot;action,&quot; which might turn off youngsters of the 90's.  Set in the rugged Andes Mountains of South America--with its rarified pure air and the sounds of soothing panpies-this sleeper presents  a quiet, coming-of-age tale of an Indian youth. In the sacred city of Cuzco  he seems just another highland llama herdsboy, but to a select few  descendants of the ancient Incas, he is the Chosen One in-training.  Raised  solely by a dour but devoted old man named Chuto, the boy gradually wonders  about his provenance. Hungry for social interaction, he realizes that his  heart's desire is to find his own family, or at least one to call his own.   <br /> Chuto and then the Amauta teach him the lore of his mighty ancestors,  as Cusi becomes aware of special things about himself: golden earplugs and  possession of a rare, black llama.  Could he be of royal blood?  These wise  Old Ones encourage him to follow his heart and not be surprised if the path  leads in a circuitous route. <br />  Will Cusi be temped by life in the world  outside his beloved Hidden Valley?  Just what secret are the Old Ones  guarding?  Will he find his real parents or choose a new family?  The boy  desperately wants to Belong and be among humankind, yet he ventures nowhere  without Misti, he pet llama.  Or will he choose a life of soial isolation,  in order to become part of an age-old but intangible chain of guardians of  the Incans' fabulous Secret? He can not understand the scorn of the  Spaniards, who consider the Incans a conquered race 400 years ago.  What  about underground rivers, whose courses can not be observed or diverted?  Are they any the less rivers, for all the ignorance of their existence  above ground?  This book is for readers 12 to adult.  It presents the  Native side to the Conquest of Peru;  a good choice for Ethnic studies and  the clash of cultures.	1999-05-14
2872534:US	52160649	R2EEC8614HXNH6	0374332657	159975375	Holes (Newberry Medal Book)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	CURSED BY THEIR ANCESTORS	WOW--Summer camp was never like this--fortunately! How could the crooks get away with it all those years: false imprisonment, exploitation of child labor, psychological cruelty and physical torture, poison, destruction of  state records, etc?  Poor  Stanley--fat, social pariah, falsly accused of  the theft of some smelly sneakers; then sentenced to 18 months of digging  holes in a dried-up lakebed in the Texas boonies.  Enough to make you want  to spit!  <br /> No one would choose Stanley Yelnats IV to be the kid to break  the system. Or a gypsy curse.  But how long can we blame our ancestors for  present problems and our own failures?  Can a jinx truly be inherited? Why  are the kids Really up at 4:30 am to dig holes 5 feet deep? Is more than  just &quot;Character&quot; being molded in the desert? <br />  But this social  flop will undergo a physical and mental metamorphosis at barren Camp Green  Lake.  How can he make friends among the state's worst bullies and  hoodlums?  His misadventures at this juvenile correctional facility will  keep readers fascinated, guessing future events and in stitches, trying to  interpret the clues. You'll trip over multiple coincidences like discarded  dirt mounds, but Sachar's dry wit and generous dialogue alleviate literary  thirst.  This book is delightful, for readers of all ages!	1999-05-06
2873824:US	52160649	R3K5K5Q00J4Z61	0395137195	909378204	The Bronze Bow	Books	4	14	16	N	N	&quot;FOR GOD'S VICTORY&quot;	This is a serious story with a gripping plot about brutality in ancient Palestine. I feel this book is really more for adults that for children because the protagonist is already 18 at the outset, doing a man's job  (blacksmith/bandit).  The themes of hatred and revenge are adult as well.   We read of the espionage adventures of four Hebrew teens, struggling to  maintain their Jewish heritage and national identity in the face of  ruthless Roman occupation. Scholars are awaiting the Messiah; while  hotheads, called Zealots, are working covertly to forment insurrection and  gather followers to ultimately challenge the military might of their  oppressors. <br />  Young Daniel is particularly adamant in his passion to  strike back, since he witnessed the crucifixion of his own father.  He has  vowed to dedicate his life to the violent removal of Romans soldiers from  his homeland. Gradually, however, he is drawn to a different outlook on  life, from a Nazarene carpenter, whom he hears speak at a synagogue and  later by the seaside.  Daniel is torn between philosophies of peace and  violence, for Jesus also proclaims the coming of the Kingdom--which to  Daniel means: the overthrow of Rome.  Invite the enemy into his  home?--Never! <br /> Very serious with good plotting and plenty of action and  dialogue.  Includes some Old and New Testament references.  What is strong  enough to conquer Hatred?  Will Daniel ever agree to coexist in peace with  the despised Romans? An excellent read any time of year, but particularly  from Lent to Pentecost. No Crucifixion or Resurrection scenes, but there is  plenty of blood and gore. The book stresses the internal battle and mental  anguish of the young heroes, as they strive to serve their country and  develop their social conscience. This book should not offend Jews or  Christians.	1999-05-04
2875659:US	52160649	R3K68KRHJL1E16	0486270874	94879300	A Dog of Flanders: Unabridged; In Easy-to-Read Type (Dover Children's Thrift Classics)	Books	3	23	23	N	N	INSEPARABLE COMPANIONS IN LIFE--AND DEATH	This European tear-jerker is considered the first modern dog story, published in 1872, by an Englishwoman of French extraction.  Ouida, as she called her literary alter-ego, obviously traveled in the Low Countries, for  she is conversant with both the Flemish people (city life, country life,  general customs) and the foibles of human nature. The tale is frankly  sentimental; one wonders if she is making a plea for social reform or  communal conscience.  I suspect that this story was not well received  abroad; the city of Antwerp and the selfish villagers come off quite badly   as a result of their shallow attitudes and callous indifference to povery,  pain and hunger. <br /> A dog is elevated to having almost human feelings,  while an innocent youth is rewarded for his simple faith--only after death.  Too late for Society to make amends; all they can do is grant the pair a  single grave.  Few teens of the 90's would appreciate this syrupy tale of  Patrasche's devotion and Nello's artistic apotheosis.  Still the book may  strike a responsive chord in the hearts of sensitive readers of all ages. A  good read-aloud story for bedtime. This emotional tragedy highlights the  art of the Baroque master, Peter Paul Rubens (1577-1640).  This Dover PB  edition contains the original pen and ink sketches, which greatly enhance  the story and our ability to &quot;see&quot; the characters.	1999-04-30
2877387:US	52160649	R3SZBYJY0ZTP0N	0812504321	244802770	The Call of the Wild (Tor Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	&quot;DOMINANT PRIMORDIAL BEAST&quot;	This novelette is a chiling, gripping masterpiece of Survival lore, set in the brutal harshness of the Yukon during the Alaskan gold rush of 1897. The plot is the gradual metamorphosis of Buck--a splendid rancho dog of the  warm, soft Southlands (part St.Bernanrd/part German Shepherd).  From  pampered pet on his master's country estate, he is kidnpaped and sold into  the bondage of dogteam slavery for sheer Greed, where he endures the  horrors of weather plus those of cruel and stupid men.  Yet Buck ultimately  carves out his own domain in the bitter wilderness, leaving a legacy of  prodigious strength, cunning and ferocity. When his last master dies, he  answers the growing Call to revert to his ancestors' wild state, as the  alpha male of a wolf pack.  Despite little dialogue, this book reads  swiftly and holds your interest. Fiction made absolutely Real by the pen of  a master!	1999-04-28
2883078:US	52160649	R3SDGE2TM93G2E	0374425752	627466538	The Goats (A Sunburst book)	Books	5	22	23	N	N	SURVIVING ON THE FRINGE OF SOCIETY	Wow, this book really holds your interest, hooking the reader's sympathy for the Boy and the Girl right from the start. You just Have to continue reading to see how they cope with sudden abandonment (supposed to be  temporary) and decide to get even with the cruel kids at summer camp. Loss  of clothing, money, self respect--just a malicious joke, you understand, to  &quot;punish&quot; two social misfits. <br /> Through no fault of their own,  two pre teens were chosen to be their camp's annual sacrificial victims  (i.e. goats), by being forced to spend a few embarrassing hours on a nearby  island.  Ha-ha--very funny to the terrified kids, who recognize their  degrading situation and who ultimately reject the decision. Thus Howie and  Laura (who did not even know each other) are forced to rely on each other's  wits and daring (strengths they did not realize that they possessed) to  reverse the kids' malicious  decree. Not only to escape their dismal fate,  but to survive on the outskirts of society for 3 days. They determine to  get even, to pay them back for all the humiliation. Anything rather than  endure the ridiule of returning to camp. <br /> They decide  to be proactive  to preserve their own digntiy, to wait until the girl's mother comes up for  Parents' Weekend.   The plot rivets your attention for the kids must  overcome incredible obstacles--posed by adutls and other kids--to live  without the pale.  It is unlikely that such social outcasts could be  transformed so quickly into a cool &quot;bandit&quot; and a &quot;fox  wearing glasses&quot;, but the plot presents an interesting concept of  social and physical survival.  The book reads swiftly due to extensive  dialogue, without the usual teenage platitudes.  Their journey of  self-discovery makes a fascinating read, with dark social undertones. For  kids of all ages and adults harboring hurt kids inside. You will not be  disappitned!	1999-04-18
2883642:US	52160649	R50ODC9ODJ3QB	084466295X	40252332	The Ark	Books	4	13	15	N	N	&quot;TO CARRY YOU OVER THE ROUGH SEAS&quot; OF LIFE	This gently-paced novel is a bit of a sleeper, but charming in its homespun simplicity. The first portion of the book describes the difficult and painful existence of displaced German families--unwelcome refugees in   their own country. THE ARK was written to enlighten American youth about  the horrors of homelessness, separated families and unreasonable prejudice.  This book contains no battle memories or war atrocities, but proves that  German burocracy is second to none.  <br />  Since Mrs. Lechow, a small  seamstress, has four children to house and feed, we are not sure for the  first 100 pages which of them is the protagonist, as in modern YA novels.   Gradually the activities focus on the older teens, Matthias and Margret, as  they are weaned from their two upper rooms in Parsley Street to a farm with  real animals and crops.  The book  particularly chronicles Margret's  transformation from gawky teenager (privately mourning the death of her  twin brother) into a capable farm woman like her mentor. <br /> Before the War  the German Railroad had offered old passengers cars for sale, which Mrs.  Almut had purchased but not really used.  Now it becomes the perfect place  for the Lechow teens and is promptly christened, THE ARK. But how can it  become a real home--which Margret is sure she will never have again--with  half the family elsewhere--including their father, a POW in Russia?  Will  Margret learn to live with her personal loss, yet not be scarred for future  happiness?  This is an introspective gem for those who appreciate the  importance of holding on to Family and learning how to release past  Tragedy. So relax and savor the slower pace, the quiet humor, the cycles of  the seasons for two years, and the ultimate time of harvest for the soul.	1999-04-17
2888137:US	52160649	R13O3J49GZ5OXM	0844667595	86310607	The Avion My Uncle Flew	Books	4	13	15	N	N	STALKED--IN PARIS AND IN THE MOUNTAINS	Don't be surprised if you can read a little French by the time you finish this delightful spy-adventure! This tale is cute and clever with much tongue-in-cheek humor from a boy's standpoint. We meet 12-year-old Johnny  Littlehorn of Wyoming, who starts off as a spoiled baby, but who thankfully  matures to become a local hero!  Since his father is still serving in the  Army just after WW2, John injures his leg while trying to be the man about  the ranch.  He fears he will be crippled for life--or at least the crucial  teen years. When his father returns he annoucnes that the whole family will  sail to Europe for a few months while he helps with the allied peace  effots.  What does a lame cowboy care about his French mother's village--a  tiny one-road hamlet in the boonies of some old mountains? <br /> While at the  hotel in Paris, Johnny is confined to a  wheelchair, but gradually realizes  that he is being stalked by a thin, bearded man whose face and manners give  him the shivers.  The hotel porter is in cahoots with this mysterious  creep, who slyly pumps Johnny for information.  The boy is frustrated that  he can not control his own fate, yet his parents think his screams of  protest and denunciations of the wicked duo are just childish fantasy. No  one takes him seriously, but We know that he is not imagining things, for  there is some deadly serious plotting underfoot.  And He is the only one to  catch on! His terror mounts as he is cruelly manipulated by this sinister  pair, but for what nefarious purpose? <br />  Then John meets his vivacious  Uncle Paul who rescues him in more ways than one. Johnny wants a fancy bike  more than anything, so he makes a deal with his parents to learn to walk  without crutches for two miles and to write a letter in French-thus  acknowledging his French heritage.  His Uncle--a man of honor and pride  despite the family's financial and social decline--has a grandiose dream:  to construct a safe glider, which will be bought by a plane manufacturer,  so that he can restore the family's pre-war status. Paul and Johnny travel  by train to this  rustic village, but even on the rails Johnny is sure that  he is being watched. Everyone needs an uncle like Paul, who is the only one  who believes the boy.  But there is real danger in gentle St. Charmant as  well, for Nazis are known to be still hiding in the mountains of post-war  France. There is still suspicion as people wonder who was the local  collaborator.  It takes John and his new French buddy to unmask the real  traitor!  Boys will love this book but girls should read it too, for the  French girl shows wit, spunk and compassion as she helps our hero. Will  Johnny win his bicycle? Will Uncle Paul ever get his avion to fly?  Only  one way to find out. Have fun reading and pick up a few French words the  easy way!	1999-04-09
2891361:US	52160649	RNUOB30A7PUYE	015259034X	400011174	Over Sea, Under Stone (The Dark is Rising, Book 1)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	THE SEARCH FOR THE PENDRAGON	This fascinating page-turner kicks off Cooper's excellent 5-part Fantasy series called THE DARK IS RISING. Although residing in the USA, the author reveals her fondness for Coastal Britain, as she whisks her protagonists on  incredible journeys of self-discovery, historical treasure hunts and even  Time Travel itself.  In this signature book, the three Drew children are  vacationing in Cornwall, when they accidentally discover an ancient map.   Now this manuscript in Latin and a mysterious, runic, language is fiercely  sought after by two sides in a timeless battle, waged over the centuries.   The fraying document sets in motion a bizarre series of events, which test  both the children's moral courage, physical stamina, spunk and smarts.  <br />  Fortunately their Great Uncle Merry--learned and leonine--is on hand to  interpret their find and guide them on Their unexpected Quest: To locate  the sacred, powerful Grail (Chalice) prized in Camelot--long coveted by  adherents of both the Light (like Uncle Merry) and the Dark (such as half  the people they meet)! The kids, left free to snoop about the landscape and  conjecture the location of several intermediary clues, gradually learn not  to trust anyone.  Clues which have been awaing them (or some clever  scholar) since Celtic times! Alas,  their beloved uncle is not always  present to offer them the cloak of his protection--scholarly and otherwise.  <br />  For the Dark is gathering its forces around them, sensing that the  children are gaining ground on the Grail.  These human agents of evil and  chaos are grimly determined to possess it for their own ruthless purposes  and Nothing will stand in their way--least of all 3 school kids on summer  holiday. It's the immortal power struggle between Good and Evil, with the  kids as unsuspecting pawns of greater forces than they can imagine. Which  side will gain the upper hand and for how long?  Expect gripping suspense  and surprise hints of future battles in this fabulous book for Fantasy  lovers of all ages. You will meet some of these characters in her other  books; they may even make you want to visit and explore the rugged Cornish  or Welsh coastlines for yourself. This book is a treat you owe yourself!	1999-04-05
2896274:US	52160649	R3VPCFOATJCCJ3	0874062071	158109903	Wild Arabian	Books	2	1	1	N	N	TWO KINDS OF COURAGE	After a minor riding accident teenage Garnet is afraid to ride her horse again. When her mother insists on selling him to an eager neighbor, Garnet develops a passion for a neglecteed 2-year-old Arabian whom she discovers  by chance.  This spunky heroine, with an understanding (or ditzy) mom and a  snotty older sister, demonstrates admirable patience and perseverance, as  she undertakes to gentle and train her beloved new pet. But can she trust  Humans as much as she trusts Sparkle? She must rely on a new friend to help  her overcome her equine fears, but she shows great moral courage in the  Trail Class  competition.  This slim volume contains many terms for  horsemanship, plus sound advice on prepping a horse both for riding and  showing. Horse-loving girls will enjoy this 95-page read.	1999-03-27
2900215:US	52160649	R3SYKDVCV06NVP	044040648X	293418248	Black Hearts in Battersea	Books	2	7	11	N	N	TOO MANY VILLAINS AND COINCIDENCES	Billed as the 2nd in the WOLVES chronicles, this book proves a great disappointment after the delightful WOLVES OF WILLOUGHBY CHASE--at least to an adult audience. Kids will enjoy it though--lots of action, evil plotters  lurking everywhere, spunky heroines, and a determined hero. But there are  too many coincidences involving related families and mistaken identities to  be realistic for adults to swallow. You really have to be a kid at heart to  enjoy this 239-page adventure/soap opera. <br /> If you are expecting wolves  to be running rampant in London itself, well, they Do get around, both in  the city and back in the northern wolds. Simon, the former gooseboy,  arrives in London eager to study painting--only to discover that his friend  and mentor, Dr. Field, has mysteriously disappeared. With the aid of kind  and resourceful Sophie, whom he knew from the Poor Farm, and a feisty brat  named Dido Twite, Simon undertakes to: --find his lost friend  --save a  Ducal family from murderous plots --prevent a King's assassination, during  the era of the Hanoverian conspiracy for the throne. <br />  Aiken's style is  definitely humorous; she seems to invent many words and clever slang.  She  obviously relishes quaint vocabulary (keep your dictionary handy), as she  spoofs the British establishemnt from Scottish accents to Art and  Philanthropic institutions. It's a fun read featuring the Impossible in an  amusing vein. TRUST NO ONE!	1999-03-19
2900314:US	52160649	R1OU202TZI7CBN	0030624363	678873614	The Dark Crystal	Books	5	31	31	N	N	&quot;WHEN THREE WERE MADE ONE&quot;	Delightful, enthralling fantasy based on the cinematic creativity of the late Jim Henson, this book proves much deeper than mere action-oriented adventure--of which there is plenty.  Almost a  psychological novel, THE  DARK CRYSTAL reveals the coming-of-age of the last male Gelfling on the  planet of Thra.  From his quiet, dreamy existence in the secluded valley  with the ponderous but cerebral urRu, Jen must suddenly depart on a Quest  whose details are not fully explained to him.  This gentle boy leaves his  comfort zone in a desperate attempt to save his planet from another  miillenium of destructive rule. <br /> Jen's goal is to find a special crystal  shard and reunite it with the mother crystal--now dark with grief and anger  at the senseless destruction.  This crystal is coveted and guarded in the  Dark Castle by the vicious race of Skeksis, who terrorize the planet with  their bat spies and insect zombies.  Our unlikely hero has only his flute  and his wits to guide him, but several surprise friends offer help and  advice along his dangerous odyssey--including the last girl Gelfling.   Together they race against celestial time, as the Great Conjunction of the  triple suns is imminent. <br />  I must admit that I picked up the book  because I had seen the mesmerizing movie, in which no human face is seen,  yet the characters express and inspire human emotions. But this novel  stands proudly on its own merit, just as the Dark Cyrstal hangs  mysteriously suspended in mid-air.  This is high adventure at its best,  coupled with penetrating psychological drama, as the author reveals the  various nefarious schemes and motivations of the evil characters. Also the  vacillations and maturation of the innocent Gelfling pair, driven by  ancient Prophecy. Fear no Hollywood hack job, but settle back to enjoy a  wonderful read--for kids of All  ages!	1999-03-19
2902768:US	52160649	R1Q653BSFNUJ5C	055321229X	586419329	Silas Marner (Bantam Classics)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	MORE PRECIOUS THAN GOLD	This 19th century classic by George Eliot/Maryann Evans retains its timeless appeal; it charms and touches us no matter how jaded or sophisticated we consider ourselves.  Perhaps the characters are something  out of Dickens (in their extreem personality types and the idealized  heroine).  Yet this novel reaches our inner selves, where it is safe to  applaud the unselfish and the compassionate, to appreciate social  redemption and sincere devotion.<br /> Silas, a disillusioned weaver who  lives the life of a recluse, has never been accepted by the  villagers of  Raveloe.  Paid in gold for his fine cloth, Marner hoards most of it in an  iron pot buried in the sand under his loom.  Having lost faith in God,  church and his fellow men because of a tragic injustice in his former town,  he lavishes his lamentable affection on indifferent gold.  Until it is  stolen.<br /> The theft of this gold--his only friend as it were--leaves him  desvastated. Yet fate seems to compensate him by the sudden apperance of a  golden-curled baby, who toddles over his doorway one night when he is in a  mild catatonic state.<br /> How Eppie pulls at his heart and transforms his  miserable, miserly life is the soul of this novelette. Evans' weaves a  tapestry of tenderness and redemption through juvenile affection. SILAS  MARNER remains a contemplative read for students 14 and up, and for all who  enjoy British classical literature. The action is in the Heart.	1999-03-15
2907417:US	52160649	R34PJIGNQHITW4	0060242450	27260243	Little Farm in the Ozarks (Little House Sequel)	Books	2	8	11	N	N	&quot;TWO REASONS TO BE PROUD&quot;	Just when you thought you had read the entire LITTLE HOUSE series, you discover with delight that there are two more books, although not penned by Laura herself. These two Rocky Ridge sequels continue the saga of a grown  up Laura Ingalls Wilder--this time focusing on her only duaghter, Rose.   This 8-year-old charms us with gentle, homespun tales of their first year  in the wilds of the Missouri Ozarks.  We have long loved Laura as a spunky  prairie girl, so we naturally continue to love her as a maternal figure,  still struggling with the harsh realities of farm life. <br />  Written by  Laura's adopted grandson, LITTLE FARM can not quite capture the magic of  Laura's style, for a biography can never be as vivid as actual memories.   Fortunately the family resemblance remains.  True, there is less excitement  and action in this book, but then, one can not reinvent someone's real life  merely to increase the dramatic content of a book. Perhaps the midwest was  more tamed by 1895, when Rose won her special prize.  We also wonder whose  side MacBride champions, when we recall the bitter, posthumous feud between  Rose and Laura (advocated by her literary admirers) over authorship of some  of the books.  <br /> Still loyal LITTLE HOUSE fans will appreciate this  latter-day glimpse into Laura's married life. We understand that this is  Laura's last move--she yearns to put down roots somewhere, even far from De  Smet, Nebraska.  Her home at Rocky Ridge still exists and is open to the  public as a museum and literary mecca.  The simple story unfolds about a  young girl meeting the challenges of life on a new farm and in a new, town  school.  The book appears thick, but it reads quickly.  The family values  and pioneer virtues are timeless.  Read this book to learn why Rose's  parents have two reasons to be proud of her.  She herself has two reasons  to be proud: our beloved Laura (Bess) and Almanzo (Manly), whose own  childhood is preserved in my favorite  LH book, FARMERBOY. This story will  appeal to preteen girls and all LITTLE HOUSE fans. (Will MacBride continue  the saga until Laura's death, thus forever dropping the curtain on the  Wilders?)	1999-03-06
2910489:US	52160649	RWW736B5CN7D0	0679853065	21653852	A Day No Pigs Would Die	Books	4	0	0	N	N	&quot;GILDED BY WORK&quot;	Twelve-year-old Rob is the only surviving son of a poor Shaker farm family in Vermont. All his life he has yearned for a pet, for something which belongs to Him alone.  When he receives a piglet from a kind and grateful  neighbor, he is thrilled--lavishing both time and affection on  tiny Pinky.  Curious coincidence; Pa is famous locally as a high-quality pig butcher.   <br /> This is a straight-forward tale of family love, respect for work ethics  and courtesy toward one's neighbors, with smatterings of information about  the Shaker sect and Vermont history thrown in. Many quaint words crop up,  to test your pastoral vocabulary of past decades.  The book reads quickly  due to extensive dialogue between aging father and son.  The  tongue-in-cheek humor will bring a chuckle, while the pathos of harsh  reality may bring a tear. Whatever its impact, this book will not leave you  cold. <br />  A DAY NO PIGS WOULD DIE should be of interest to preteen boys,  for it chronicles the coming-of-age struggle of a simple farm youth into a  13-year-old Man.  But readers of all ages can enjoy this autobiographical  glimpse into a New England boyhood, sprinkled with earthy humor, seething  emotions, and quiet dignity.	1999-03-01
2911031:US	52160649	R1D3EAWYUM7ZEB	0064403092	550900539	My Daniel	Books	4	15	16	N	N	&quot;BAPTISM IN MUD AND MEMORIES&quot;	Prairie girl Julie Creath adores her older brother, Daniel, idolizing him over three generations. These two enjoy a unique and intense bond of love--the only surviving children of a Nebraska farm family, living in a  primitive soddy. But the youth has grand dreams: to find his own dinosaur  skeleton and sell it for a small fortune, thus saving the family farm.  Bones and Bravery are all he needs--plus the devotion and quick wit of his  little sister. <br /> Noble aspirations truly, but naive Daniel is soon to be  initiated into the dirty business of dinosaur hunting, excavating and  profiteering. He is unprepared for unscrupulous men who lie, deceive, cheat  and even commit murder for gain and fame. Three gutsy kids try to protect  their amazing creekside discovery, but beware the snakelike antagonist with  deadly dreams of avarice.  <br />  Mostly flashbacks, the book engages in  time-shifting--a literary seesaw which keeps readers alert as we glide  between Present and Past in the same chapter. Young Julie's passionate  memories of that fateful summer are intertwined with her long-savored trip  to a city museuem with her grandchildren, to whom she confides the entire  tale.  This spunky Grandmother has a private agenda, as she saves Dinosaur  Hall for the last.  Will she bring a little sourvenir of her girlhood, as  she seeks to put closure on a painful wound which has haunted her all her  life?  What emotions and memories will be`resurrected as she confronts the  reconstructed skeleton?  This is an emotionally exciting, dramatic read,  pervaded by grim foreboding. Should be of equal interest to boys and girls.	1999-02-28
2917025:US	52160649	R2PJ7TH7B9G2ZL	0606004874	615494300	The House of Wings	Books	2	4	4	N	N	SHORT, INTENSE TALE	This slender book provides intense reading; it is almost a play for just two characters, as a tough boy discovers his aging grandfather. Angry and rebellious that his parents have temporarily abandoned him with an unknown  old man in a decrepit house out in the boonies, the boy tries to run away.  But he gradually finds himself drawn to stay--not because of the crusty  oldtimer, but to help care for a sick crane. The only tenderness the old  man exhibits is for wildlife, which provides a tentative bond.  The kid,  who is rarely addressed by his name, is not a  sympathetic protagonist  (boastful, selfish, arrogant), but he finally grows out of himself enough  to feel compassion for another species.  In so doing, he becomes more human  and accepting of his suddenly-acquired grandfather.	1999-02-17
2920110:US	52160649	R1S8XQLIBYV8R2	0140367071	214249396	Lorna Doone (Puffin Classics)	Books	3	13	18	N	N	ROMANCE AND ADVENTURE IN 17TH CENTURY ENGLAND	Novels written in the last century are not everyone's cup of English tea, so taste thereof with literary trepidation.  This book is quite different from Blackmore's AT THE BACK OF THE NORTH WIND; no intertwined Fact and  Fantasy here, but a curious blend of Romance and Adventure, as if the  author were not entirely certain which genre he was brewing up in the wild  countryside. In my opinion, LORNA is much more readable and almost  enjoyable. <br />  If was slow getting into, but one must make allowances for  Blackmore's (to us) antiquated style: archaic vocabulary, country dialect  to slog through, plus religious and political warfare--obscure historical  references for most Americans.  Expect highly improbable plot contrivances,  with unrealistic events thrown in to help the romantic protagonists.  Yet  for the majority of the novel, the plot moves right along over several  years, to reach a satisfactory denoument, with most of the young people  married off and Justice being served. <br /> The tale opens when 12-year-old  John Ridd (the hero/narrator) of Somerset returns home from school to  discover that his father has beem murdered by a renegade band of footpads  and cutthroats--the Doone clan. That den of some 40 thieves has long been a  thorn in the side of honest landowners and the local constabulary. John  encounter their sweet young &quot;Queen&quot; Lorna, who wants none of  their mayhem, on several occasions during her childhood, until they finally  meet as teens, though he is much older. <br /> His heart is instantly  captivated; thus he undertakes to win her love, which is difficult  considering the bitter feud between their families and her elevated social  class. As if Love cares for mere class distinctions!  Many years pass with  counterplots and revolutionary hopes, espionage for the King and a secret  gold mine. Yet our hero will have none but his beloved Lorna, as he  researches her mysterious background.  Blackmore's style includes sly  humor, wry wit and jibes at London in general, as he spins this rustic tale  of Romance and Adventure. The plot is chaste and the vocabulary might prove  too great a challenge for junior high kids.  The novel was written before  there was a Young Adult market, but it would be fine for diehard Romance  fans or students of 19th century literature.	1999-02-11
2925423:US	52160649	RAPYZKW4EL6YF	0140312587	76404795	The White Stag (Newbery Library, Puffin)	Books	5	32	33	N	N	STARKLY BRILLIANT--THE LEGEND OF YOUNG ATTILA	&quot;The past lived in songs, the present in their flashing swords,and the future in their hearts.&quot; This twentieth century myth about the ancient  Magyar migration is stark in content yet poetic in style; some  passages seem more like poetry disguised as prose.  Seredy has recreated an  era long swallowed in the mists of lost cultures, when the Roman Empire was  disintegrating under the relentless attacks of various  &quot;barbarian&quot; tribes.  The Huns and the Magyars followed the  prophecy of aged Nimrod, leading their people ever westward from Asia to  Eastern Europe.  <br />  They needed bold, even ruthless leaders to accomplish  this monumenal task, yet they were also inspired and championed by a  mysterious animal protector--a magnificent white stag with supernatural  power. It is difficult for us moderns to admire the Huns, a name synonymous  with bloodthirsty aggresssion and destruction of post-Romanic culture.  Yet  Seredy's goal is to justify this epic migration--a March of Terror spanning  three generations, which enabled her ancestors to achieve their  self-imposed dream. They focused on steadfast obedience to their god,  Hadur, who told them of a Promised Land &quot;between two rivers,  surrounded by mountains.&quot;  There is both literary genius and respect  in this saga of the birth and destiny of young Attila.  This slender volume  is actually a mini epic, piercing the curtain between History and Legend.   For readers of all ages.	1999-02-02
2926682:US	52160649	R1H4LKUDFEZEKU	0689715714	871087366	The Trumpeter of Krakow	Books	4	3	3	N	N	QUEST FOR THE SORCEROR'S STONE	For centuries ambitious, ruthless and scholarly men have sought special stones (in this case, the Great Tarnov Crystal) to help them achieve fantastic wealth, limitless power or hidden knowledge of things Past,  Present and Future.  Monarchs naturally will pay any price to possess such  &quot;scientific&quot; objects.   Thus unscrupulous criminals exercise  horrendous brutality in order to gain possession of the miraculous crystal,  reverently described as a Philospher's or Sorceror's stone.  <br />  Then  there is the tender. human aspect to this tale of dark ambition and  ruthless treachery.  A father who took an oath to hide and protect the rare  stone until he can deliver it to the King; a son who learns the sacred hymn  called the Heynal--peformed on trumpet hourly from the church tower, 24  hours a day, regardless of personal danger.  We also meet a gentle maid, an  honorable alchemist, an evil manipulator and a highly-respected  scholar-priest. <br /> Set in medieval Krakow, Poland, the book includes  historical details, as Kelly serves up an action-packed story of greed,  self-sacrifice,  foiled plots and diabolical antagonists.  All striving for  the radiant prize! But does mere possession bring instant happiness or  gradual corruption?  If only Pan Andrew can gain an audience with the King;  his family has realized for generations that the burden of keeping the  crystal is enormous. A lively read which will appeal to boys in elementary  and junior high.  And to anyone wanting to acquire informal information  about Polish history and culture in a highly entertaining format.	1999-01-31
2927717:US	52160649	R2ZY14WPJHVZF8	0380728850	795553485	The True Confessions of Charlotte Doyle	Books	5	0	0	N	N	SURVIVAL ON THE MUTINOUS SEAS!	This story reads swiftly, hooking you into the  action/adventure style from the first sentence.  A young American girl finds herself the only passenger--and female--aboard the SEAHAWK, a ship with a sinister  reputation in 1832.  The voyage  from England to America provides maritime  mayhem: murder, mutiny, tested courage and loyalties. Thirteen-year-old  Charlotte undergoes a social metamorphosis: from Miss Doyle, rich, pampered  but helpless female, into Mister Doyle, crew member. (Highly improbable of  course, but Avastly entertaining.) <br />  Is her conduct scandalous but  reasonable for physical and mental survival?  That is why she sets forth a  frank confession of all that happened to her and how she reasoned out her  shipboard role and justified her actions. Read along in her private journal  and decide for yourself.  Sudden twists of fate and counterplots keep our  resourceful heroine on her toes--from the highest rigging to the darkest  brig.  Is there a ghost on board, along with a stowaway and a possibly  insane captain? This read will delight female students who tire of the  traditional roles assigned to girls.  Even if the ending is highly  unlikely, it is satisfying from a Literary point of view. Ship out with the  SEAHAWK and you will not be disappointed!	1999-01-28
2930715:US	52160649	R2P9VSZICPDUYY	0140341587	217590645	Amos Fortune, Free Man (Newbery Library, Puffin)	Books	3	40	41	N	N	TO LIVE FREE--AND TO DIE FREE	This 1951 Newbery winner is a biography, so there is no need to critique the plot or character development. The book reads easily, being the reconstructed life of a proud African youth who was captured at the age of  15 in 1725--reminding us of Haley's Kunta Kinte.  Amos never forgot that he  was the first son of chief, nor that he must protect and inspire his  crippled younger sister (who would assume the role of leader of her  village).  Indeed, for years he haunted the New England docks seeking her;  all his life he exhibited a tenderness and compassion for crippled women  and children. Despite the horrors of captivity, the cramped voyage in  chains, and being considered the legal property of different masters, Amos  never lost his dream of directing his own destiny or his sense of personal  dignity.<br />  The ten chapters are chronological, thus of varying length,  depending on the amount of material during a specific period of his life.  The author skillfully recreates Colonial and then American cultures,  drawing the reader into the heart and mind of thiis noble African, who  lived to be 80. He truly was Fortunate not to have been unloaded and  auctioned off in the South, where he would have suffered excruciatingly in  the plantation fields. His goal was to live as a free man; then to help  other blacks enjoy the same privilege, even if only to die in freedom.  He  accomplished his private purposes several times, but at great personal  cost. Amos set an example of honesty and Christian responsibility, leaving  a legacy of peace and a foundation of interracial cooperation. He did what  he could to improve the life for all people in his New Hampshire community.  Recommended for elementary and middle school students of Black and Colonial  history.	1999-01-23
2931755:US	52160649	R9LDTUUJAGQHN	0027778835	312511712	Steal Away Home	Books	5	14	14	N	N	&quot;WHISPERS  ACROSS THE CENTURY&quot;	This is my first book by Lois Ruby, so I don't know her literary track record, but I must say: I am impressed! She offers detailed scholarship, twisting plots with tantalyzing revelations of the mystery, good character  development and the ability to juggle two different storylines, some 130  years apart.  This book will capture the interest of today's teens; the  coexisting stories feature a girl of the 90's and a boy of the pre Civil  War era. While enjoying the mystery and trying to piece together the  historical puzzle, readers will effortlessly absorb information about the  anti-slavery movement in Kansas, Quaker lifestyle and the underground  railroad. <br />  Through it all as the chapters flip-flop in time, there  emerges the character of a strong heroine--one Lizbet Charles, 23, an  escaped slave and self-proclaimed &quot;conductor&quot;.  This undaunted  young woman dedicates her life to aiding fugitives seeking freedom in  Canada.  Her sudden arrival impacts the home of the Weaver family, already  embroiled in the anti-slavery wars in the Midwest.  Ma risks her marriage  to shelter escaped slaves, while Pa works through legal channels to  establish Kansas as a Free state. All of which poses a difficult moral  dilemma for young James; to fight fire with fire (and a gun) or to stand by  the family's religious convictions. How will a conscientious Quaker youth  respond under pressure?  Whose Right has greater precedence?  And how can  the kids of the present honor the homespun heros of the past? What would be  fitting memorials to Lizbet's courage and James' dedication?  This is one  fast and fascinating read!	1999-01-21
2933596:US	52160649	R18ACPXKJLUY6G	0882705563	483841023	At the Back of the North Wind	Books	2	7	23	N	N	GOD'S  BABY	This children's classic would definitely be rejected by most modern kids--in fact, I had to force myself through the first third of the book, until the plot became more believable.  Page after page of nonsense poetry  and absurd adult-child conversatons put me off.  The Human story itself is  pretty good: a frail, sickly, angelic boy of 7 (?), son of a poor coachman  in 19th century London, has the unque ability to charm those he meets, to  touch the lives of children and adults alike, changing them for the better.  Some people consider him mentally unsound, but his heart is pure.  Like  Little Lord Fauntleroy, he seems too good to be true. Or to survive the  emotional storms of Life.  <br />  The book opens with the Fantasy  element--where Diamond meets the mysterious lady whom he comes to love and  trust completely: North Wind.  This strange, nocturnal companion assumes  many sizes and guises;  she blows to sweep away Life's mess as well as to  sink ships (obeying orders from an unnamed <br />authority.) The quaint  literary style, as well as  outdated vocabulary, challenge today's readers.  Diamond's philosophy of Life was changed ever since his return from the  Back of the Noth Wind. One has to read this book to give other names to  that special place and his beloved, long-haired lady. A curious mixture of  plot and pseudo-religious themes.  Recommended for 19th century  studies of  children's literature.	1999-01-18
2936361:US	52160649	RCL1M4ZZ6NZOH	0590956272	608735264	Mystery Of Drear House (Apple Signature)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	GOLDEN TRIANGLES POINT THE WAY	Excellent sequel to THE HOUSE OF DIES DREAR, this book continues the story of the King of the Underground Railroad,  some 8 months later.  But for the teenage hero, Thomas, and young Pesty,  there are so many dark secrets yet  to be revealed--which ones to keep and which to share? We thought that  &quot;things&quot; were settled, that the Darrows had been scared away from  Mr. Pluto's cave for good, that the cataloguing was going on for the  Foundation...Not so--those wretched Darrows are still hunting and digging,  grimly deteremined to recover the treasure which they feel is their legacy  <br /> The plot is as sinuous as the secret passageways used by runaway  slaves, while hidden rooms are gradually revealed and we learn the legend  of Indian Maiden. Do ghosts still haunt the old place? Why is Pesty  suddenly nervous and will Macky choose to be a friend or foe to Thomas?   Beware of the effects of living too closely in the past, or it may distort  your conception of the present and destroy your future. <br /> Difficult moral  choices face both children and adults in this excellent mystery: how long  can Right and Wrong coexist in one house?   How to protect the obvious  treasure as well as the written record--a true historical treasure. Very  exciting events happen in one day (90 pp), producing intensive reading in  places. I thought I could predict part of the very ending, but my guesses  were wrong.  I challenge all who read HOUSE to read this sequel and write  down your plot predictions before the last few chapters.  Mystery buffs and  amateur literary sleuths--Don't miss this one!	1999-01-13
2937608:US	52160649	R18J68KPIUWMOX	0812533429	556186640	Hans Brinker or the Silver Skates (Complete and Unabridged)	Books	3	12	17	N	N	WHO WILL WIN THE GREAT RACE?	This classic of American Children's Literature was written in 1865 by a woman who had great respect for Holland, but had never been there herself. Based on meticulous research this book became popular in Europe as well as  in America. Mary Maples Dodge, founder of &quot;St. Nicholas Magazine&quot;  for children, extolled the patriotism, courage and cultural achievements of  its people. Tuplips, windmills, dykes and canals are all here in her  idyllic re-creation of 19th century Holland. <br /> The story itself is  interesting: a poor family struggles to survive financially in the ten  years since the father fell off a dyke and lost his mind.  The  boy, 15,  and the girl, 12,  forego school to help the mother keep them together,  despite the callous attitude of many villagers, who refer to &quot;the  idiot's cottage,&quot; call Hans &quot;the rag picker&quot; and Gretel  &quot;the goose girl.&quot;  But strong family values prevail as the mother  never loses faith in her husband's recovery.   Fortunately there are  several juvenile souls who exhibit Christian charity and peer support.  <br />  Then there are the mysteries; the mising 1000 Guilders (which would have  improved their lifestyle during that grim decade), whose location is locked  in the man's frozen mind; and the unknown watch which he bade his wife keep  safe just before the tragedy.  Unfortunately this heart-warming tale, which  culminates in the great skating race, becomes bogged down in many chapters  which do nothing to enhance the plot.  The author seems determined to share  all her research with her unsuspecting readers, resulting in a book that is  half ficiton, half travelogue. Children want action and saucy dialogue, not  lectures on Dutch history and culture, or long descriptions of museums. It  is unrealistic for teenage boys to expound on military heroes and famous  artists while they are enjoying their holiday on ice, even to show off for  a foreign visitor. <br /> I suspect that many children during the past 150  years have given up on this otherwise-delightful book, because over a dozen  chapters seem more like an encyclopedia. Who cares about Holland's  struggles with foreign nations in previous centuries, when we are worrried  about what new tragedy is happening in the Brinker cottage?  Happily there  now exists an abridged version (only 256 pages instead of my 319) which may  make this charming tale more palatable to modern readers.  And the burning  question remains: who will win those coveted silver skates?	1999-01-10
2939817:US	52160649	R137HAGIY8QYVX	0399226702	987053887	Martin the Warrior (Redwall)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	THE ORIGIN OF THE LEGENDARY HERO	Fans of REDWALL may wish to jump ahead to this book (not in chronological order of publication) just to learn the origins of the mysterious warrior mouse who vowed to make the land safe for decent, law-abiding beasts.  Just  who was the valiant hero depicted the faded tapestry at the abbey which he  founded, after many years of swashbuckling adventure for the cause of  FREEDOM?  Why did he not pass the sacred sword of his father on to a worthy  heir? There are the usual literary challenges when writing a Prequel, as  the tale which comes first in Time must not distort previously accepted  events. <br />  Young Martin performs many heroic deeds during his pilgrimmage  to idyllic Noonvale, enlisting the selfless aid of various freedom-seeking  animals, in his grim quest to remove the Tyrant from power and recover his  father's precious sword.  Of course we realize that this tale can not be  concluded until the inevitable one-on-one mortal combat, to prove moral  supremacy. REDWALL devotees will recognize many of Jacques' stylistic  traits: unusual pairings of species to achieve a common goal; delightfully  creative names and a cast of hundreds, ingenious tiwsts of fate, clever  plots and counter-schemes; leaving us dangling  as he spins three different  threads at once; his humorous slang written in challenging dialect!<br /> As  for me there is only one REDWALL, but I still wanted to learn more about  Martin, that brave figure on the fading tapestry, who founded the abbey as  a haven of peace and knowledge. Now that I now the secret from the dim  mists of animal time, I can understand his inspriration on Matthias, as I  savor the rest of the series.  A rip-snorting yarn which will hold the  interest of all ages, though overlong for children under 12. Excellent pen  and ink sketches give hints at the start of each chapter and a map of the  odyssey which I frequently consulted. This is one fabulous tale of fur and  feathers for Freedom! If you love REDWALL or have never read any of the  series, start with this one!	1999-01-06
2940463:US	52160649	R3NGOH94T604XE	0440404541	240034975	The Winter Room (A Yearling book)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	SEARCHING FOR THE PLACE BETWEEN SEASONS...AND TRUTH	The cover--obviously by the same artist who designed HATCHET--makes little sense at first: a double-bladed axe and Viking ship share a watery existence with a blond boy and a distant farm. How do they all blend into  one story? Remember that Paulsen has a penchant for bitter winter and  dangerous weapons.  This is the first book I have read which is 85%  expository writing (descriptions but plotless), so where is the Conflict?   With Paulsen one can expect even a slow-starter to gear up to near  terror/disaster at the ending. <br />  This book mainly describes life on a  Minnesota farm in an unspecified era (probably pre WW2). If Paulsen was not  raised on a farm, he certainly did thorough research; it sounds quite  authentic as he takes the reader through the various seasons, starting with  Spring. He focuses on the smells, sounds and lights of a rural setting,  related from the viewpoint of an 11-year-old boy who lives in the shadow of  his older brother.  In the brief  introduction Paulsen urges the reader's  active participation, so as to savor the total feeling of this ancient  Norwegian farm. <br /> As we reach the Winter season, quiet old Uncle David  spins his Nordic yarns after supper in the Winter Room, where the family  gathers by the friendly stove on long, dark evenings. Yet one tale in  particular  upsets the older brother, whose private accusations against the  old man precipitate highly-charged emotional events and desperate action.   Unlike the progtagonist of HATCHET, this young narrator is helpless to  prevent the psychological carnage. A short, introspective read which might  not appeal to action-oriented elementary children.	1999-01-05
2944131:US	52160649	RSSBBCQY72X3X	1572480300	546638912	The Christmas Card	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Fascinating Time Tapestry--with raw edges	Described as a &quot;love story for the holiday  season,&quot; this novel focuses on events in the lives of two families, mainly around Christmas, over some 63 years.  I am easily hooked by the words &quot;Christmas&quot;  and &quot;love story&quot;, but this novel is much more than that--too much  for my romantic taste.  The author seems to be following the literary adage  to write about what you know; he was a lawyer before he added author to his  credits. <br />  It is not clear to me which genre Bowersock is aiming for, as  he seems to have three targets: a wonderful Christmas romance (reminiscent  of Same Time Next Year), politics and government (the Mob, Presidential  history, FBI) and Florida's seamier lifestyle.  He is well versed in the  latter two areas, but I prefer my fictional romance to exist in a realm  less penetrated by history lessons and modern (pop) references. <br /> The  love story part is beautiful and there are many themes of value to consider  in this tale, but the author's  amoral attitude peeks through the chinks,  as he seeks to show off his behind-the-scenes knowledge or theories re the  JFK assassination. Bowersock was certainly right on back in 1994 when he  predicted the computer age.  Fascinating plot with constant time and scene  shifts--all tied up with kelp and booze... A good read if you like your  Romance served with Politics!	1998-12-30
2947376:US	52160649	RKVJ59G272A7H	0374419302	834352044	The Eagle of the Ninth (The Roman Britain Trilogy)	Books	4	142	143	N	N	THE HONOR OF AN EAGLE	Rosemary Sutcliff is expert at recreating ancient civilizations, so this novel comes as no surprise. In her SUN HORSE, MOON HORSE the native tribes are the heroes, pursued by invading Romans.  In this novel it is the Romans  who are the protagonists, with the tribesmen mostly the enemy. Set in Roman  Britain in the early AD's, this book recounts a personal quest by Centurion  Marcus Drusillus Aquila, lamed in a fierce battle. He and his faithful  former slave, Esca, undertake a perilous mission beyond the safety of  Hadrian's Wall--erected to keep the Highland barbarians at bay <br /> Tortured  by harsh rumors that the lost Ninth Legion turned feral and betrayed the  Roman principles of Trust and Honor, young Marcus is grimly determined to  prove the gossip false and restore the Honor of his father's old legion.   No one knows the fate of the men who marched off into the mists of what  will be known as Scotland in subsequent centuries. But without the actual   Eagle which repreents that legion, there can be no Honor--more sacred to  Romans than life itself. Thus Marcus vows to recover the lost eagle for  Rome, so that the men of the Ninth may rest easy and that the Painted  People may not use it as a psychological weapon against Rome. <br />  This  novel is quite long for YA status, but is enjoyable to read. Sutcliff  presents a mystery which spans the dim prehistory of Britain and  historically documented Latin times.  The plot is interesting, while the  style captures the flavor and language of the Anglo-Roman era. The reader  will pick up some Roman history and clues about their lifestyle just by  reading for pleasure.  The book is truly worthwhile, though I recommend the  stark chiller, SUN HORSE, MOON HORSE, as an introduction to the tribal  life. Very good story in setting that is both literary and historically  accurate.  Based on archaeological findings.	1998-12-23
2947880:US	52160649	R28PK2T2YASDOQ	0385321988	944115185	Brian's Winter (A Hatchet Adventure)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	STILL STRANDED IN THE CANADIAN WILDERNESS	This book is a must-read for all who have enjoyed HATCHET. The saga of Brian's crash course in outdoor survival continues, on the premise that he was Not rescued at summer's end, but still left fending for himself in a  chillly autumn which would soon become freezing winter.  But a boy can not  hibernate, so how can he survive without adult help? Has he learned enough  to add to his creativity and intense desire to live in order to make it  through the long, bleak Canadian winter? <br />  The cover is a grabber:  lovely blue-white snowy scene in the woods, with large footprints and a  hatchet boldly standing in a tree stump--in defiance of Nature. Yes, poor  Brian must summon all his wits and memory of his family life to endure this  killer season alone. He must improve his arsenal of defense and food  acquisiton; he must expand his wardrobe and foot gear.  Most of all he must  recall all the survival skills which he acquired during the summer, and not  permit himself to go soft during delightful Indian summer.  Always be alert  to Nature's signs (sights, sounds, scents) and be sensitive to human  intuition.  Think like a predator: hunt, kill, eat to survive. Observe  wildlife in order to learn from it.  Show compassion in non  life-threatening situations. Waste nothing from the kill. IF YOU ENJOYED  HATCHET, YOU WILL LOVE THIS ONE AS WELL! If you haven't read Hatchet, read  it first and then Dig In for the winter with Brian.  Excellent books for  all ages.	1998-12-21
2951142:US	52160649	R1NKF7BVB5GR6K	9995019442	574382582	A Christmas Gift	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Blessing of the Melodeon	This Depression era story is anything but depressing: rich in hope, humor and intergenerational discoveray, this charmer was originally published as &quot;The Melodeon&quot;--a small  household organ.  Thirteen-year-old  James has been shipped out to his grandparents' farm in Michigan, when his  Philadelphia parents can no longer afford to provide for him. This city boy  has a lot to learn in a rural setting, but he comes of age that special,  unforgettable Christmas Eve, when he discovers that grandparents are people  too. <br /> He and Will undertake a difficult enterprise which will bring joy  to his grandmother and delight a humble congregation in a rebuilt church.   James discovers that Will and Ella are not just his grandparents, but a son  and a daugher-in-law; that they are three-dimensional persons with their  own emotions, memories, and foibles--unique individuals in their own right,  deserving of respect and compassion. <br />  The true Christmas spirit is  revealed to James his first winter away from his parents; gifts freely  offered from the heart with a personal sacrifice to benefit an entire  congregation.  Not to mention putting graceful closure to intergenerational  distress--the binding of family wounds in loving victory of the soul. A  wonderful and truly enjoyable tale for readers of all ages, with a surprise  touch of Fantasy near the end!	1998-12-12
2951897:US	52160649	R2N194GR11TRH2	0883650436	116775365	Treasury of Christmas Stories	Books	2	4	4	N	N	VARIETY OF AMERICAN TALES	This 1960's anthology by Scholastic consists of ll short stories interspersed with poems and one non-fiction selection about international Christmas customs. The paperback format makes it portable and handy to slip  into a book bag. All the stories are set in America and two are even  autobiographical.  My favorite is an excerpt from Little House on the  Prairie, when Laura relates how the family friend, Mr. Edwards, met up with  Santa in town and delivered some gifts to the Ingalls cabin for him. Best  poem: The Golden Cobwebs, based on a Germanic legend. This is a short, easy  read; it doesn't matter how often you are interrupted, for the yuletide  season remains true and bright.	1998-12-11
2953349:US	52160649	R2KNSOSAFZAKS5	0345360036	35062936	The Romance of a Christmas Card	Books	2	12	15	N	N	The Folks Back Home	Two households in a quaint New Hampshire village experience yuletide joy in the 1880's when the handmade Christmas cards of the minister's wife are published and circulated nationally.  This simple tale of family loss will  appeal less  to gradeschool children, since the main characters are all  adults. <br /> This slender book spirits us gently back to a simpler time, as  two village prodigals have been gone for three years, leaving gossip and  grief behind--not to mention a minister sorrowing over his rogue son and a  sister with orphan twins to raise.  This is a quiet, short read for a snowy  evening.  Makes us  wonder what it is about a Christmas card which we find  attractive enough to buy and send it--the verse or the picture. Someone had  to design it, thus sharing a little bit of their own heart.	1998-12-08
2953384:US	52160649	R3BNYQ8K07UDHK	0395072050	30123772	The Birds' Christmas Carol	Books	2	10	13	N	N	A TRUE CHRISTMAS ANGEL	This sentimental gem by the author of Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm glows with familial warmth and the true spirit of Christmas.  A frail ten-year-old girl named Carol (because she was born on Christmas Day and  her mother heard the carols from the church next door) plans a memorable  Christmas for a poor family of 9 children who live in the back alley.   Carol wants nothing for herself this year, since she feels already blessed  by the riches of love from her own family. <br /> Quaintly narrated with  occasional old-fashioned words to remind us of its century-old setting,  this book may not appeal to hardcore 90's school kids, who prefer action  and popular slang.  But the messages of family unity, bravery in the face  of hopelessness, and cheerful self-sacrifice provide inspiration,  especially during the holiday season. Perfect to be read aloud a chapter at  a time--promoting intergenerational literary pleasure and special family  memories.	1998-12-08
2955760:US	52160649	R3OBRWE1QS6DVY	0891074929	151837159	Sadie Rose and the Daring Escape (Sadie Rose Adventure, Book 1)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	PINT SIZED PRAIRIE SPITFIRE!	Christian messages of of God's unconditional love, forgiveness and redemption through His son, Jesus, are deftly woven into this story of prairie migration, as Sadie's family starts a new life in Western Nebraska.   First book in a Prarie Adventure series by midwestern author Hilda Stahl,  SADIE ROSE presents us with a young heroine--a spunky 12-year-old girl who  suffers from self-imposed guilt about her Pa's death.  She refuses to  adjust to Ma's new husband or to enjoy the family lifestyle which the Lord  has provided them all. <br />  Sadie Rose, the middle of 5 children, may be  the runt of the family in terms of size, but she has the courage and feisty  will to survive and protect her own--including a mistreated pup whom she  rescues from a vicious old man.  This brute stalks her and attempts  kidnapping and worse. (Since this book is for young readers, no one dies.)  This story will hold the interest of pre-teen girls, for the external plot  is interesting, while the Eternal truths are tenderly expressed to  reinforce a young Christian's faith.	1998-12-04
2957580:US	52160649	R30OA3U0GB7CW2	0394928342	423141910	The Thanksgiving Treasure: An Addie Mills Story - From the Television Special	Books	3	12	12	N	N	Turkey and Treasure in the 40's	Eleven-year-old Addie's family spans three generations; her busy but understanding grandmother, her preoccupied and undemonstrative father, and our skinny heroine in glasses and braids. Having learned about the original  Thanksgiving at school, Addie wants to reenact the ideals of gratitude and  hospitality in her 1947 present. Trouble is--her proposed guest of honor is  a cantankerous old coot who cheated her father over some construction work.   The bad blood between them is so thick that it will be impossible to  corral both men at the same table. <br /> Yet this spunky little gal, who  wants to be a painter in Paris, is determined to arrange a reconciliation,  dragging her best friend, loyal Carla Mae, into the risky business. Addie  insists on being neighborhly to the recluse, which leads to her discovery  of an unkempt dream horse.  This book, the sequel to THE HOUSE WITHOUT A  CHRISTMAS TREE, proves that kindness is never wasted--a lesson that  children need to learn and adults need to remember. A short, light read  which will appeal to gradeschool girls (especially those looking for a  &quot;short&quot; book report)!	1998-12-01
2957880:US	52160649	R1N0DNALMV882X	0826308791	705634002	The Education of Little Tree	Books	4	5	6	N	N	LIVING IN HARMONY WITH MEN AND NATURE	Where does one start to describe this extraordinary book--a literary Sleeper which defies the usual genre classification, whose autobiographical storyline transcends the mere Depression years' upbringing of a young  Indian boy?  The 21 chapters encompass and celebrate the meaning of Life  itself--which is made more poignant by the inevitability of Death itself.   They focus on developing a sense of self worth and personal dignity,  valuing family, reducing stress when cultures clash and appreciating man's  role in  nature.  Not trendy topics in this frantic, high-tech world, but  then eternal truths don't need to compete for glitzy attention; they will  wait quietly for eventual resepct. <br /> Five-year-old Little Tree goes to  live with his Indian grandparents--mountain folk who exist on the fringe of  a white settlement in the southeast--when he is orphaned.  His education  consists of: Indian lore and learning THE WAY, the history of the Cherokee  nation and post Civil War hardships. He studies the Dictionary and  struggles through the Classics with his literate grandmother; he learns  basic arithmetic from a Jewish pedlar. But this smart lad absorbs much more  in his three years on the mountain, which are lovingly detailed: honest  lessons from Nature, bad lessons from callous and ignorant whites, good  truths from generous and caring native Americans who all contribute to his  complete education. Best of all, he studies that persecuted but  ever-popular &quot;trade&quot; of distilling corn whiskey from his wise  grandfather! <br /> This book quite simply offers the reader a little bit of  everything: humor, history, wisdom, political atrocity, wit,  self-sacrifice, bigotry, coping with sorrow and failure, internal growth,  Indian ideals, pride in family and  resepct for Nature. The plot is a bit  thin in the first chapters, as the author shares his childhood  reminiscences. But it gradually dawns on us that this book can not be  evaluated as other novels; it stands alone, as do the Native Americans,  clinging to their traditions in the face of mockery from  &quot;civilization.&quot;  Little Tree emerges as a young man with a strong  sense of Family, pride in his heritage, deep-rooted connections with  Nature, and faith in the hereafter.  He has learned enough to survive in  the white man's world, but will always treasure his mountain roots.  An  introspective read which will touch your heart, which you will never  forget.	1998-11-30
2959510:US	52160649	R8ZFBRU6NQFJZ	0446404373	341295919	Leper of Saint Giles (Brother Cadfael Mysteries)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	FROM MISTRESS TO NOVICE	Another brilliant mystery by &quot;crimi&quot; Queen Ellis Peters, LEPER offers much more than grim details of life in a Lazar house.  Unfortunately Hugh Beringar is not in residence during the autumn of 1139, so Brother  Cadfael has to solve this murder on his own.  Yet we are treated to another  &quot;old friend&quot;--Brother Mark who has graduated from Cadfael's  helper in the herb garden to the stewardship of St. Giles. <br /> Best of all  Peters introduces her readers to a unique female character, whose unusual  life spans the extremes of women's roles in medieval society. Unlike  Richildis, who represents Cadfael's past, Avice arrives during his present  and helps him in the future.  Twenty years a mistress to the unsympathetic  murder victim, she is suddenly faced with middle age and no way to keep  herself. Witty, attractive while comfortably plump, she impresses Cadfael  with her veracity, ease with all ranks of men and inevitable administrative  skill in her new career of Benedictine nun. <br /> Clever, resourceful and  bedimpled (could Peters be decribing her idealized self at one time?) the  newest novice at Gordric's Ford will appear in future mysteries--as  Cadfael's distaff Dr. Watson, helping him on odd occasions. There is a  subtle undercurrent of other-sex awareness on Cadfael's part, which this  multi-talented woman cannot fail to notice, but  their relationship is  quite proper, as they are mature enough to appreciate each other's virtues  without desire. <br />  Hints of a crusader's life in the Middle East provide  wider historical scope than the usual, boring exploits of those rival  cousins for the English throne, King Stephen and Empress Maud. Before,  during and after the plot per se, we wonder at this mysterious lurking  leper, hiding his rotted white face behind a blue veil.  Who is he and why  does he show up at St. Giles just before a controversial wedding?  Coincidence or considered plan?  Why does he slip away before savoring the  gratitude of those he has saved? A ripping good yarn, but from Peters--the  master of medieval murder and women's roles--we expect no less.	1998-11-26
2963114:US	52160649	RE3OS77K7UE9U	0064406849	778835849	The Ballad of Lucy Whipple	Books	3	3	4	N	N	GOLDEN DREAMS THAT DON'T PAN OUT....	Lucy Whipple is a determined bookworm who surprises her Ma (and us) with her ability to create her own persona and find her niche in the social and natural wilderness of a mining camp. This self-made gal (aged 11-14) clings  to her private dream of returning to a stable life and civilization back  East, but she has to start from scratch: she changes her odd but given name  of California Morning. She is foiled at irregular intervals in her schemes  to save up passage money (currency and gold dust) to get back to  Massachusetts.  She staunchly refuses to let rotten circumstances (and poor  mail delivery) rob her of Hope.  <br /> Lucky Diggins is a misnomer for a  squalid tent village of uncouth miners, whose creative vocabulary abounds  in words for liquor, whose social life revolves around saloons, where food  and tools are outrageously priced.  Little lasting luck is doled out among  the eager but selfish inhabitants--until Lucy decides to take her fate and  future into her own, pie-making hands. We meet a variety of miners and  varmints during these early years of Statehood, when the town suffers from  Nature's extremes.  Lucy's fatherless family is plunged into the most  primitive frontier life, but hardy women of New England stock make their  own destiny.  Lucy encounters her first Black man, witnesses death, murder,  fire,  a frontier &quot;trial&quot; and faces that worst of all fates--life  without books! <br />  This story has many amusing teenage comments, yet  offers tender passages. There is much historically accurate information  (though Cushman does not refer to Placer mining per se). BALLAD is a great  introduction to Gold Rush studies which will also interest boys. This  heroine follows the tradition of her literary predecessors, Catherine,  called Birdy and the Midwife's Apprentice, Alyce.  A delightful book which  conveys information without  readers realizing that are learning! This is  the Calfiornia Gold Rush from the woman's point of view, revealing the  creativity and flexibility of children to help earn a living and survive  incredible hardships. Cushman also wrestles with that perennial theme:  where is one's Home? Read this story to find out her definition, but be  ware--you may learn a lot more about the early Gold Rush than you ever  dreamed!	1998-11-19
2965096:US	52160649	R1KDCIKKJBPKIF	0812504798	71877442	The Red Badge of Courage (Tor Classics)	Books	2	0	1	N	N	&quot;Coffin of their Honor&quot;	This book chronicles in slow motion the metamorphosis of a naive farmboy, Henry Fleming, as he comes of age during the Civil War. Proclaimed an &quot;American masterpiece of fear, courage, conflict and death&quot;, this  poingant tale of brutal initiation into military chaos makes a difficult  read, despite its apparent brevity.  I suspect that few high school  students will appreciate or savor Crane's pre-20th century style; I must  admit that it left me wallowing in  the dust and mud of quasi boredom. The  limited dialogue and long monologues are spelled in dialect and slang,  which slows down the pace as we try to decipher the actual words and  accents intended. <br />  Thoughtful readers will recognize that this book is  really a Psychological novel, which just happens to be set within the  bloody frame of our most shameful war. There is much military action  (skirmishes rather than all-out battles) packed between the covers, but  Crane focuses on the mental struggle and emotional turmoil of his  protagonist--casually identified as &quot;the youth.&quot;  He is so  insignificant in the grand military scheme, that he does not even earn a  name from the narrator. Indeed we only learn his name in conversation, for  the author is hoards  specific details.  The barely-named secondary  characters are identified by their attributes: the loud man, the tall man,  the sarcastic soldier, the tattered soldier, etc. Perhaps a name makes us  care more about their fate than mere impersonal adjectives...Crane seems as  indifferent to their destiny as Nature appears during the smoky scenes of  guns and gore. <br /> In Henry's defense I must point out that at no time does  he consciously plan to desert; nor does he deliberately abaondon his  comrades.  No one ever accuses him of the foulest military crime  (Desertion), yet he is tormented that he almost ran away after the first  skirmish. Circumstances separate him from his regiment, but he does not  undertake any despicable action and he returns voluntarily.  Reduced to  mere animal survival instincts, he is too terrified and confused to plan  any definite stragegy.  Later he strives to keep his initial panic hidden  from his regiment; he hugs his shameful secret to his breast like a second  rifle.  Will Henry ever find justification for his first reaction of horror  to the insensate terrors of war?  Will he be vindicated and gradually  forgive himself-- especially for his fake &quot;wound&quot; which he wore  as an undeserved badge? Will this youth ultimately accept the accolade as a  &quot;wildcat&quot; on the battlefield and behave as a true war hero?  If  he survives the physical ordeal, can he endure his own personal scrutiny  into his fragile, refined psyche? An introspective read.	1998-11-14
2968086:US	52160649	R21IXVIG25FNXO	0440442508	184996617	Johnny Tremain	Books	5	3	5	N	N	THAT A MAN MAY STAND UP UP!	This is fascinating historical fiction, for Esther Forbes has seamlessly woven a good Colonial yarn about an aspiring apprentice silversmith into the tapestry of New England's grievances, which culminated in the American  Revolution.  One could almost believe that Johnny--quick, bright, cocksure,  ambitious--actually lived and rubbed shoulders with the brilliant and  fervent Boston patriots: Paul Revere, John Hancock, Sam and John Adams.   <br />  What a wonderful parallel read for English-History classes, which will  definitely appeal to boys (who crave literary action). The hero is an  impoverished youth who loses his job and ultimately his place in a modest  craftsman's home when he burns his hand beyond folk healing. He struggles  to find a new position, new friends and a sense of self-worth, since his  silver dream is shattered. But Johnny also undertakes a personal quest--a  legacy from his poor mother: to be recognized by a wealthy merchant's  family as a direct heir. But was this spirited and talented fellow meant to  be a nobleman?  Ultimately he learns to value nobility of the Heart. <br />   Gradually war clouds loom over disgruntled Boston, changing Johnny's  outlook and refining his American loyalty in a crucible of  patriotic  hope--fired by James Otis' empassioned oratory.  For the coming Revolution  will stand as a beacon to oppressed people the world over, even back in  &quot;mother&quot; England! Johnny learns to curb his temper (somewhat) as  he comes of age and suddenly performs a Man's job by defending his values  in perilous times. An excellent read which will hold your interest because  of the intensely personal storyline plus true historical detail. This book  makes you proud to be Yankee born!	1998-11-07
2968965:US	52160649	R29TCQDMR7UKVH	0446403016	281605156	St. Peter's Fair (Chronicles of Brother Cadfael)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	TOWN VERSUS ABBEY!	I rarely dare to fault Peters, the master, but I found the pacing odd as we approached the climactic conflagration. Things slowed down to a few pages of detailed description, as the heroine studies her new  surroundings--oblivious to the fact that she is now locked in. <br />  But all  Brother Cadfael mysteries are excellent: look for the Least-Likely Suspect  to be your murderer. And as a layperson who likes her men of the cloth to  be near saints, I am mollified to see that Cadfael is much less worldly  than in the first 3 novels; he drinks and recalls past amours less, yet he  still glories in an occasional ride on a fine horse, when a legitimate  opportunity presents. And he savors the  propspect of godparenthood, since  at 59 he is the right age if he had a son. But beware whenever Cadfael or  Hugh feels that Shakespearian pricking of the thumbs! Death is just as  sudden and final in the 12th century, where murder must be solved without  use of sophisticated technology and communication--just a bi-annual  challenge for our supersleuth, who solves them all by using his wits, and  his knowledge of herbs and human nature.	1998-11-05
2972227:US	52160649	R11GQX27U8ZJYI	0060809248	591439555	The Phantom of the Opera: The Original Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	&quot;Everything that is underground belongs to him!&quot;	Wow--is this novel for real?  It reads like a 20's silent movie, yet it hooks you in and captures your imagination right from the start. You may think you know the story from the 90's musical and movie versions, but you don't really Know it until you read the original.  This is the French contribution to the Gothic Novels of the late 19th century: Bram Stoker's Dracula, Mary Shelley's Frankenstein, and R.L. Stevenson's Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde--the British triumvirate of Horror...(Poe and De Maupassant wrote short stories.) <br /> PHANTOM represents the epitome of Theatre of the Macabre, for this story is actually set in a theatre--the Paris Opera in fact. A Dark Read which will keep you guessing; are you bold enough to meet him in his own territory, to challenge his will, or clever enough to outwit the Phantom of the Opera?  END	1998-10-29
2977110:US	52160649	RFI31GX1N1WID	0140324070	120361853	Witches' Children	Books	4	2	2	N	N	NO BLACK CATS NEED APPLY	This is one sobering but highly readable book based on historical fact,  which makes it all the more shocking.  Seven sources are listed in the  Bibliography, but don't think that you will be bored! There is nothing  stuffy about mass hysteria; nothing dry in the shedding of innocent blood.  The era of the Salem Witch Trials and juvenile power is a black blot on New  England's spiritual copybook, yet one which we must not ignore.  We keep  asking ourselves; how could this farce-turned-tragedy happen; how could  things be carried so far?  Where were men of reason, women of compassion?   Unfortunately for the victims, the science of Psychology had not yet been  invented. Alas, the Devil's minions stalked and frolicked  unchecked for  many months in modest Salem Village. <br /> Narrated by Mary Warren, bound  girl in the Proctor household, and herself one of the ten &quot;poor,  afflicted girls,&quot; this story describes in chronological order the  incredible chain of events and passionate emotions which swept through this  unassuming community during the winter of 1692/93. This tale of horror and  psychological strangulation began as a harmless game of fortune telling by  Tituba, the slave from Barbados. Egged on despite her better judgment,  Tituba obeyed the minister's manipulative niece and sickly daughter. This  contagion of senselss hate and spite spat its venom through the sleepy  village, reaching a crescendo of horror which resulted in the death of many  innocent souls and the destruction of their shocked families.  No one was  safe from the dramatic accusations of the &quot;tormented&quot; girls, who  suddenly achieved social power and status beyond mere Salem. <br /> Just what  or who unleashed the forces of evil that overlong winter? Surely the  accused were not really witches--Tituba was the only person who might have  wielded Black Power--but beware the fruit of stifled femininity, of idle  minds if not hands. Do we blame the bored and socially-imprisoned girls,  town gossips looking for slander, group hysteria, the over-active  imagination of pre-teens, and one possibly real case of epilepsy? All these  factors combined to distort facts and contort morality into a hate  campaign, thirsting for human blood. Not even the minister's home was safe;  in fact this foul contagion festered and throve there, shifting to  Ingersoll's tavern, thence to the courtroom and ultimately the gallows.  Dost see Goody So and So perched like an owl on the rafters? Help--she is  pinching and clawing me! And the ravings of these young girls were taken  seriously! The truth could not be heard; only lies were believed.  Confess  to witchcraft and thou shalt be pardoned. <br /> A chilling tale of puerile  illusion and adult mania, with only the swift-paced dialogue fictionalized  (based on journals and trial records). Clapp's style is fluid and hooks you  in from the start. Read it for Colonial history, or for Psychology or just  for Halloween, but don't miss this literary cauldron of deceit and mass  brainwashing. At least we can be take comfort in the secure knowledge that  such horrors could never be repeated in this century of  enlightenment...can't we ...?	1998-10-18
2980253:US	52160649	R2NX5TQ7Q27I1E	0396084575	810650085	Ghost Cat	Books	3	6	7	N	N	A GLOWING CAT LURES HER INTO THE TRAGIC PAST	Like so many ghost stories, this one begins when the protagonist--a very  tall 13-year-old girl named Annabel--is sent to spend the summer with   relatives in the Wisconsin woods. Already resentful that her single mom  just wants to get rid of her so she can party with her beau, Annabel  discovers a bunch of unkind cousins who regularly summer with the old  folks--their grandparents in  fact. Her first morning there she is awakened  by the plaintive sound of a cat crying from the woods.  Having just lost  her own cat in Chicago, she is moved by its obvious distress to help. <br />  Her search for the mysterious and beautiful cat triggers the memory of her  old relatives--stirring up bitter feelings of doubt, family shame and  perhaps even guilt.  All because 40 years ago two women disappeared without  a trace, which set suspicious neighbors' tongues wagging: an old maid  schoolteacher named Julia Craig, and her young niece, Annie. Are the ghosts  of these women (plus the girl's cat) trying to contact Annabel-- and is it  because she so resembles the lost girl? Her Uncle Axel scowls at all  references to the painful past; could he be protecting an ancestor,  covering up family guilt?  And why are her cousins so mean to her?  Todd  especially has a definite nasty streak; I admit to hoping that he would get  his! <br />  Annabel's only friends there are the family dog, the ghost cat  (which does not provide much comfort, but incentive to explore) and Old Pa  who is everybody's great-grandfather. In his prime he was the boss of a  logging crew, but now he is reduced to near senility as an unwilling  shut-in, whose every move is dictated by his over-protective daughter.   There is an old mystery to be solved, of course, and ghosts to lay to  rest--literally. But once the truth is told, will the family name be  cleared or convicted of further shame? <br /> Some heavy task for the  so-tall-that-she-slouches shoulders of Annabel, whom the ghosts think is  Annie come to life. Can ghosts manipulate the weather? Do they want  Revenge, Justice or Peace? It's all up to Annabel. This is her summer to  grow up and Old Pa's to come into his own again.  A good yarn with an  interesting plot and some character development. Annabel must come to terms  with her mom's boyfriend, while Old Pa--that unlikely hero-- will briefly  enjoy the limelight. A good, imaginative read which will keep the interest  of both girls and boys.	1998-10-11
2998815:US	52160649	R3GVWM9NSO2SQH	0807272043	139443531	The Pistachio Prescription	Books	2	3	9	N	N	PISTACHIOS--GOOD FOR WHAT AILS YOU!	Thirteen-year-old Cassie is convinced that eating pistachios will cure most of her teenage ills, if only she can sneak them past her mom's sharp eye. Where does Danziger get her material for the wacky ideas and snappy repartee of these kids?  It helps that she is a former junior high teacher herself-- I bet she slunk through the corridors with a hidden microphone!  Her former students must cringe if they recognize themselves in this light-hearted tale about a Freshperson girl facing the social horrors of high school.<br /> Cassie's family life is definately depressing: her parents fight bitterly about everything, so the three kids try to avoid the conflict or flee the house for peace.  Her older sister is a snotty b--- of a senior who does not want to be related to this lowlife, figureless drip. She makes a career of torturing poor Cassie, as they both try unsuccesfully to cope with a miserable homelife. Young Andrew holds up in his treehouse, but remains a sweet and loyal con artist who adores Cassie no matter what. Fortuately she has a staunch girlfriend named Vicki, who provides free head shrinkage. This brainy gal organizes the incoming class into Operation Overthrow--to break the strangle hold of the In Crowd and elect officers who will truly represent All the class.  And guess who has to run for President!  A marshmallow fluff read just for fun, but elementary and junior high kids will enjoy this book. Just don't expect much book report credit!	1998-08-23
2999530:US	52160649	R227VI2VUB05Q8	0370300483	312584221	Sun Horse, Moon Horse	Books	5	40	41	N	N	PICTURE MAGIC IN CHALK AND BLOOD	How much of himself must an artist put into his work, to validate it and  give it his blessing, a life of its own? Warrior-youth Lubrien Dhu is the  third son of the Chieftain in prehistoric Britain. Dark of skin and  features in this nordic-looking clan, he feels stirrings in his mind to  represent the natural world around him in two-dimensional form, but few  admire dainty fingers or artistic insight in the Bronze Age. <br /> We watch  the dark one grow to young manhood, when his clan is viciously invaded from  the south.  We learn the special ideas and secret dreams, both of his own  and shared with his best friend, Dara.  Gradually the daring plan  evolves--a dream of a great migration. His people, the Iceni, count their  wealth by herds of horses; a matriarch system is in place. We witness  curious customs and &quot;barbaric&quot; rites in this prehistoric world.  Who is to say that Sutcliff's fictionalized anthropology is not true.   Things Could have happened even as she described them. <br /> Inspired by an  ancient chalk depiction of a galloping horse, this stark story gains  momentum until the ultimate, grim denouement, which makes for a powerful  tale of sacrifice and isolation, in order to complete the picture magic.  Thousands of years ago an unknown artist presented his world with a wild,  windswept white horse on the High Chalk-- a gift that has been preserved  through the millenia, which still speaks to contemporary man. Who was this  ancient master and why did he choose such a huge and chalky canvas, instead  of a cave? What was its purpose: statement of ego, hunting omen, religious  symbol? <br /> We will never be able to answer those questions, so I'd like to  think that the artist was Sutcliff's Lubrien Dhu.  His pictorial sacrifice  to save his people from the invaders earned him the respect of his sister,  the Woman of the Clan, even though he was physically shunned. His  dream/vision has been preserved for generations up to the presest. This is  a daring tale about honor, courage and human motivation. Are we moderns  worthy descendants of such a man?	1998-08-23
3005720:US	52160649	R2GBRF8CVFUVG9	0446400157	580002452	A Morbid Taste for Bones	Books	4	6	6	N	N	BONES OF CONTENTION	Any Brother Cadfael mystery is a treat--even a privilege to read.  This medieval monk solves murders, thefts, and resolves deceptions and missing persons cases--using his wits, his wordly experience, plus his vast knowledge of medicinal herbs and human nature. The tales are set in late 12th century Enlgand not far from the Welsh border. Sturdy Welshman himself, our cowled  protagonist is a former Crusader who discovered &quot;in the middle of the road of life&quot; his calling to the monastic community; that he could best serve his fellow man by seriving God first. In this case in the Benedictine order, at the Abbey of Saint Peter and Saint Paul in Shrewsbury (a real place). <br />  In this debut novel (read in my case after # 6-21) we find a somewhat secular Cadfael, which jars my conception of him as revealed in Peters' subsequent works. (I understand that she did not originally envision an entire series.)  He indulges freely in the cameraderie of the wine jug, recalls w! ith fondness a long list of satisfied women, and openly admires an attractive Welsh girl. Fortunately his secular tendencies  mellow out during the six months that pass  (murderless, we assume) between novels.  (I wonder if he ever noticed that fatal pattern...)<br /> This story concerns the long-interred bones of a maiden saint named Winifrid of Gwytherin, Wales. The message may be: Let Sleeping Saints Lie, but the vaulting ambition of Prior Robert ruthlessly  tramples common courtesy and decency. Aided by his staunch toady, Brother Jerome, and an ardent young novice, Brother Columbanus who experiences episodes of religious zeal and ecstacy, Robert insists that Winifrid's remains be transported to England--a country and tongue alien to her in life--to serve as a beacon for pilgrims. For the renown and coffers of the Abbey of course... although he will gladly accept any reflected glory for his humble efforts, which just might advance his career.<br /> But what is the will of the peo! ple of Gwytherin, this peaceful hamlet in Wales--until the ! Benedictines laid seige to the bones of their patroness? And more to the point, what is the will of the saint herself: will she choose a champion to speak for her? Cadfael is caught in the middle of these delicate negociations--brought along as interpreter of his native, Welsh tongue. He must outwardly support the efforts to remove the saint from her people, yet he privately believes that the martyred girl deserves to rest in her native land. Can mere mortals manipulate miracles for  their own--selfish or benevolent--ends?  Cadfael takes a hand in balancing the scales of spiritual justice. An excellent premier novel for a fabulous series!	1998-08-01
3010731:US	52160649	R22FIIMLGYCHFP	0449214222	614285808	Walk in Wolf Wood	Books	5	7	7	N	N	TIME WARP INTO MEDIEVAL ENCHANTMENT	&quot;All Mary Stewart's devoted readers will recognize in this magic tale her gifts as an incomparable storyteller. It is a children's story, but not for children only.&quot;  While their parents are sleeping after a picnic in Germany's Black Forest, John and Margaret witness a haunting sight: a young man  wearing a medieval &quot;costume&quot; runs past them, weeping. The kids are immediately curious and compassionate; they follow the trail to a deserted, dilapidated hut, where they feel he must live. <br /> They also rescue a huge wolf by redirecting a determined hunting party. Eventually their persistence is rewarded: the man-wolf returns in human form, to entrust them with his tale of betrayal and evil enchantment into a part-time werewolf. (Like the movie,  LADYHAWK) He requests their aid to free himself, the Duke and his young son from Almeric's scheme to claim the throne. Soon the children embark on a daring enterprise: to sneak into what appears to be a ruined cas! tle, in order to show the special medallion/amulet to the sickly Duke. <br /> The three conspirators trust the Spell (which obliterates all traces of the 20th century) to help them prevent Almeric's cruel plot from succeeding. Magically they can speak archaic German and seem to &quot;know things&quot; which they did not learn in school.  Although the children try to convince themselves that it is all a dream,  Lord Mardian  explains; &quot;This is real, as your own time is real, and there is suffering to be won or to be escaped from.  It is for you to choose. Choice is man's right...&quot;  <br /> Complete with medieval vocabulary to stretch your memory of history, sinister villain, unsuspecting human quarry, this book reads swiftly.  The delightful text is enhanced by (too few) black and white drawings by Emanuel Schongut, whose wolf leaps out beyond the frame of his illustrations. Since the children can not choose when to operate the time-travel aspect of their adventure, they mus! t be flexible and trusting. Reminiscent of CASTLE IN THE AT! TIC (time travel, evil enchanter, importance of a medallion), WALK IN WOLF WOOD offers delicious literary transportation back into the realm of Fairy Tale and Fantasy. Thoroughly enjoyable if you are a kid at heart!	1998-07-20
3011679:US	52160649	R1PADQVRPPWU48	0671651609	137597787	Undine [by] Friedrich de la Motte Fouque	Books	5	7	7	N	N	EUROPE'S FAMOUS WATER SPIRTE	This is the orignal Fairy Tale Noir, which inspired all the rest: ballet, opera, Giraudoux's ONDINE, and Osborne's HAUNTED WATERS. This novella examines the spiritual question of the Soul--that elusive quality of mankind. Can it be other than God-given? Can it be acquired through marriage or  noble deeds; bartered or even outright sold?  Does possession of a soul make one's life easier or more difficult, one's decisions clearer or more complex?  <br />  This 175-year-old fairy tale from the enchanted forests of Germany is intensely poetic and Romantic in style, yet it echoes Medieval sagas of hopeless, emotional quests.  The ageless theme is the danger of unnatural union between a mortal and an immortal, human and supernatural beings--regardless of the sincerity of their Love. This short tale is further condensed by the skillful translator, yet it retains the flavor of dark mystery of the original. Fouque's sylvan setting and watery undulations surpise us at every turn: fl! ood, stream, fountain, ocean, lake.  Ethereal, humanesque forms melt and dissolve into liquid elements.  Does an evil demon stalk Undine and her cavalier? Is this presence trying to protect her or reclaim her from the solid world.? To which world would she rather belong--or does she even have a choice at all? <br />  Like Hans Christian Andersen's LITTTLE MERMAID (forget the Disney version), Undine endures great suffering in exchange for the gift of a human soul. Alas, like the prince in the HCA original, Lord Huldbrand proves faithless to his bride, thus endangering their future together and both their lives. The plot flows along swiftly and inevitably to its disastrous conclusion; no one in the lovers' triangle triumphs in the end. The water sprites merely mock the futility of human endeavor. This is a fast read which will entice lovers of Fantasy into the spell of seeking ever more about UNDINE, a heroine as evanescent as a rainbow in the mist..	1998-07-18
3012037:US	52160649	RU1NNFIDB9F9K	156402119X	790796478	Haunted Waters	Books	4	6	6	N	N	MYTH AND MYSTERY FLOW LIKE MIST	This expanded version of Fouque's fairy tale noir is excellent; the plot flows right along, emptying into a sea of despair. Twenty-four short chapters provide readers thristy for more details the opportunity to drink deeply of the intimate dialogue bewteen the ill-starred couple: Undine, supposing herself the daughter of humble fisherfolk, and young Lord Hudlbrand of Ringstetten, lost in the dark forest. While Fouque's heroine (see reveiws for UNDINE) is fair and blonde, Osborne's maiden has dark tresses and even darker origins.  The author encloses her tale within a brief prologue and epiloque of her own creation, to futher explain the fate of this mysterious girl.  <br />  Both versions have the old fisherman, the flooded peninsula, demonic trailing, the sudden arrival of a shipwrecked priest and the romantic complications caused by Lady Bertalda.  This noble lady is less threatening to Undine than Fouque's; though less guilty and conniving, she still represents the Eter! ! nal Triangle .  Narrated in the first person, HAUNTED WATERS reveals more of the psychological struggle of a nobleman deeply in love with his bride. Yet he is increasingly distressed about her fascination with the sea, her unusual powers over water and and her not-quite human origins.<br /> Once he dobuts her love and suspects her link to the aquatic underworld, Huldbrand's life cascades into terror and disaster. Despite Undine's warnings not to antagonize the water spirits by causing her pain in their presence, he can not prevent the distance between their once-adoring hearts. Their happiness and their very lives are doomed, yet Osborne implies some hope for an unusual afterlife.  This is a wonderful read for fans of Fantasy and Fairy Tales of all ages; I loved it!	1998-07-17
3014686:US	52160649	R1YTAEBUAJDMM4	0385295758	982515990	And Condors Danced	Books	4	7	8	N	N	DANCES WITH CONDORS AND pA ZEST FOR LIFE!	Set in agricultural Ventura Valley of California in 1910, this story is difficult to classify. The young heroine reveals a wacky imagination, spunky atittude and distinctly tomboyish taste. These all provide amusing moments for the reader, but this book discusses many serious themes and topics: rabies, prolonged grieving, social cruelty, drought-induced poverty, and unrealistic expectations to fit into the family mold.<br /> July 4th is the holiday spotlighted in this story of almost one year in the life of a child, who starts out by trying to become Invisible! I was hooked by the cover which showed people in old-fashioned garb by a horse-drawn vehicle. But  Carly's life is far from an agrarian idyll or even Waltonesque.  I actually consider the cover misleading, because Carly is definitley NOT the dainty little lady in white ruffles descending from Aunt M.'s carriage.  In fact she defies proper, female tradition on the sly by riding Astride horses when she can get away with it.<br /> Her immediate, dysfunctional famliy seems to have no use for her: strict, repressive Father (failed teacher turned to failing dry farmer); invalid Mother (physically as well as emotionally, grieving over the death of her toddler son a decade ago): assorted older siblings with their own problems. Poor criticized Carly only feels at home with Aunt Mehitabel and her incorrigible Chinese servant, Woo-Ling, both of whom adore her.<br />  But how do condors (dancing, gliding or dead) influence her life? Ostracized from the Water Company by a long-standing family feud, the Carltons must watch helplessly as their unirrigated ranch is slowly strangled.  Then there are the boys in her life: one proves a true friend who teaches her about condors and joins her Sherlock Holmes detective games.  The other is the spoiled grandson of her family's bitter enemy, who targets her for more than mere verbal abuse.<br /> Between lowlife gossip, her distant mother, her authoritarian father and a threat to her beloved dog, Tiger, Carly comes of age at!  ll. She shows a morbid taste for the cemetery, where lies the little brother she never knew, whose place she could never take--the only family member truly at peace. Even Carly begins to wonder just when her tears are flowing for real. She stubbornly insists that one day she Will see condors dancing up at Condor Spring. These maligned birds are like Carly--outwardly unattractive--but with hidden depths of grace and aerial beauty.  If she can learn to appreciate Them, may not people come to love and accept Her, just as she is, instead of some idealized daughter? Don't let them quench your zest for life!her beloved dog, Tiger, Carly comes of age at!  ll. She shows a morbid taste for the cemetery, where lies the little brother she never knew, whose place she could never take--the only family member truly at peace. Even Carly begins to wonder just when her tears are flowing for real. She stubbornly insists that one day she Will see condors dancing up at Condor Spring. These maligned birds are like Carly--outwardly unattractive--but with hidden depths of grace and aerial beauty.  If she can learn to appreciate Them, may not people come to love and accept Her, just as she is, instead of some idealized daughter? Don't let them quench your zest for life!	1998-07-11
3017863:US	52160649	RISROSY88OUUH	0446400882	924259259	A Rare Benedictine (Chronicles of Brother Cadfael)	Books	3	21	21	N	N	LIGHT UP YOUR MYSTERY READING	This book consists of three novelettes (about 50 pages each) complemented by curious, eye-catching b/w sketches by Clifford Harper.  Peters' 1988 Introduction provides brief glimpses into her  favorite monastic's rare name, worldly career and personality.  His personal, secular philosophy includes wry but compassionate acceptance of human foibles with our capacity for deception and depravity.  No mention is made of his special patroness, Saint Winifrid--also Welsh--but his devoted admirers will revel in any literary work which fills in the gaps about our cowled Crusader. <br />  The cover is a colorful triptych representing all three tales.  Hint to meticulous readers: focus on the Eyes of the characters--at whom or what are they really looking?  If you are a fan of Brother Cadfael, and have read all 20 of his full-length mysteries, you will be delighted to find one last chance to admire him in action.  If you have not yet been introduced to Ellis Peters' medieval sleuth, this Prequel Trio may whet your appetite. <br /> Here we have the Advent of Brother Cadfael, as he survives his blessedly brief Midlife Crisis--a truly rare and human Benedictine, content (most of the time) to seek the peace within the pale.  Herbalist, private philosopher, paramedic and detective, he has a nose for the truth and an eye for suspicious behavior.  This is one Brother who will light up your mystery reading! You may even learn something about the Middle Ages if you don't watch out...	1998-07-03
3020423:US	52160649	R3RF4CNKEY5J2K	0807275530	551852778	Tuck Everlasting	Books	5	0	0	N	N	THE PRICE OF ETERNAL YOUTH	One of my all-time favorites, this book offers its heroine the tantalizing prospect of eternal life and the option of choosing the age she wants to spend it. Imagine--to live forever as young as you wish, with no threat of death; could be a lonely, secretive existence, though, without someone to share it.<br /> The arrival of a suspicious stanger asking odd questions starts a chain reaction of events which cause distress to two families who do not even know each other. The critical but contradictory needs for Continuing Secrecy and Mercenary Investigation place 10-year-old Winnie Foster in physical and moral jeopardy. She will have to make decisions which would be difficult even for adults--with lifelong consequences. A remendous burden for a young girl.<br /> Winnie leads a sheltered life with her strict, unemotional family in the Touch-Me-Not house at the edge of her father's forest. Is a toad a proper pet or companion for her? What makes the &quot;fairy music&quot; which she hears on summer nights?  Legally, who has the right to the special spring: her father (who unwittingly owns it); the family of four Tucks who discovered it and then tried to protect mankind from abusing it; or the mysterious stranger with his private agenda of greed--a nameless man who knows too much for his own, or anyone else's, good.<br /> Set in unspecified &quot;frontier&quot; country of no nationality or date, this book is as timeless in its appeal as are the warm, delightful Tucks themsevles.  One event naturally succeeds another with inevitable logic and frightening momentum, until several shattering climaxes release the literary tension. Can a mere child successfully defy the local Constabulary even to save her special friends, the beloved Tuck family? Will Winne save the bottle of spring water from Jesse, to use when she too is 17? A ten year old girl with her destiny in her very hands! Will she choose to become one the Tucks everlasting? This is one Fabulous Fantasy for readers of all ages!of all ages!	1998-06-27
3022677:US	52160649	RONKOUOJOB673	002042681X	525157081	Guardians, The	Books	3	10	10	N	N	THE PRICE OF FREEDOM	The year is 2053 in England, a nation where people live either in the Conurb or the County. The psychological chasm that exits between the two lifestyles is vast, although there are those Commuters who straddle both worlds. Rob Randall is a boy raised in the Conurb--a sprawling, densely-packed megalopolis, whose masses are entertained with controlled riots and bloody sports events. But propaganda has made him scorn life in the County, where the Gentry (What would England be without her strict class division?) deliberately live in simple but antiquated styles, and even the servants seem satisfied.  Both sets of people despise and distrust the other; their worlds are separated by a physical Barrier with  guarded gates. <br /> After Rob's father dies in a mysterious work-related accident, orphaned Rob is packed off to a state-run boarding school.  But the grim regimen is too much for the puzzled, grieving youngster, who decides to cross the forbidden Barrier and escape to freedom in the unknown County. But citified Rob can not cope with roughing it outdoors, nor hide for long on a rich estate. He soon discovers that Freedom isn't Free.  <br />  Unexpectedly Rob is befriended by a County boy, whose family agrees to shelter him and provide him with a false identity.  How long can Rob hope to fool the County authorities?  Will he endanger his compassionate hosts? Gradually we discover that there are two sides of the Barrier--but ONE set of Guardians, who exist to protect the status quo.  Who are these shadowy manipulators anyway?  What right do they have to defy government rules about No Guns or to condition their people to acquiescence--on both sides! Which lifestyle will Rob ultimately choose? <br />  This is a good read but unevenly paced: 75% of this novel is slow, which is great for our hero, but not exciting to read. However the last chapter is quite long, full of surprise twists before we reach the final ending! The New York Times writes: &quot;the novel is sparsely written, exciting and based on valid soci! al trends.&quot; Mankind is doomed to disillusion and social slavery if that judgment is correct. Just what does Rob suspect and learn about his father's death back in the Conurb?  Will he join the Guardians or the rebels? Where will he make his home in the future, or can he fit in anywhere? A serious, thought-provoking read for peole who ponder possible scenarios for the Future.	1998-06-21
3026121:US	52160649	R35ZCYHC98B81I	0606007253	964156059	Runaway Ralph	Books	3	2	4	N	N	THIS BOOK IS HIGH CAMP...well, maybe low...	Ralph's second adventure has him spending the summer at Camp Happy Acres, after departing the Mountain View Inn in a huff of Rodent Individualism. Yes sir, he has had it with being Unappreciated by his extensive family; he's tired of being caught in the Generation Gap--neither adult nor baby. Yup, he's made up his mischievous mind to show them all, to run away (with his famous wheels, all downhill, of course) to seek freedom (and hopefully PBJ sandwiches). <br /> Unlike those travel ads about getting there being half the fun, Ralph eats enough dust to recognize the freewheeling lifestyle on the highway as bunk. But he meets quite a menagerie at Camp: kindly Aunt Jill, and an anti-social kid named Garf who sings horrid songs about maiming animals.  Then there are the four footed pests: Catso--a feline who delights in torturing mice, and Chum--a grouchy hamster/cum temporary camp mascot. <br /> How long will vacationing Ralph remain silent? And how can he ever ride his motorcycle back home again, since it is all uphill? Even before that quandry, how can he escape from his cage in the Crafts Shed and clear the name of his reluctant human friend? A cute read for fans of Ralph S. Mouse, Mouse about Inn and Country!	1998-06-12
3027848:US	52160649	R1V48ZKI2AXF44	0396078419	173464054	Mumbet: The Story of Elizabeth Freeman	Books	4	4	4	N	N	JUSTICE IN A CONNECTICUT COURTROOM	This concise but interesting book is an excellent biography of a courageous and gifted Black woman in post-Colonial times.  With self-composure she fought for her freedom--not using violence--but working within the Law, in a Connecticut courtroom. <br /> Consisting of an introduction and 15 short chapters, this modest volume depicts her focused struggle to enjoy the liberty which the Colonists had recently bought so dearly.  In her pursuit of justice she earns the respect of her lawyer and second master/employer. She performs all household duties with skill and integrity: nurse, housekeeper, even defender of the hearth during the master's absence. Mumbet pursues her dream of freedom 35 years before the Emancipation Proclamation, and achieves it legally, with great dignity. I had never heard of this courageous woman, I am ashamed to confess, so this little book is a great read for young students of Black History as well as anyone into Women's Studies.	1998-06-07
3028590:US	52160649	R1F6ENO3W6UGZN	0380002019	803634281	Winged Colt of Casa Mia	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A DUDE EARNS HIS SPURS	A young boy is sent to live with his uncle--a former movie stunt man on a Texas ranch, by his irresponsible mother.  Narrated in the first person by introspective Uncle Coot, this story introduces an unusual animal hero: a real but winged colt born to their neighbors. Young Charles grows to love the colt named ALADO (Winged One) and considers his uncle a true western hero. <br /> Alado learns to fly of course, but he endangers himself and causes great trouble for the two humans who are trying to cope with a mythical creature (Pegasus).  Charles, the bookworm,  desperately wants to prove himself a cowboy like his uncle; they both must sort out their feelings for each other and for Alado.  Can a freak of nature survive in this modern world of exploitation and greed? An interesting and enjoyable book for readers of all ages.	1998-06-04
3028878:US	52160649	R3MOMMU3BDKCO7	0064470237	307507372	IF I ASKED U WOULD U STAY   PB	Books	3	3	3	N	N	STALKED ALONG THE BOARDWALK!	This is a more adult-teenager story about two 17-year-olds who have run away (separately) and are trying to live on their own.  One is seeking love; the other is fleeing it. The title is long, awkward and revealing. Set in a coastal resort in southern California, this book presents two lonely young people who meet when He rescues Her from the ocean. She fears pursuit from a vicious man while he cherishes a hopeless lost love.  <br /> His hideout is unusual and interesting: a hidden room above an abandoned carousel along a popular boardwalk. Can these two kids make it on their own, or even in tandem?  Can he protect her from her Present?  Can she help him overcome his obsession with the Past, which is not even his own? Very adult themes and situations, so this is not a book for elementary children. <br /> Eve Bunting is a wonderful author whom I respect, for she deals with many serious social issues: --Teenage Runaways --Homeless People who live in airports --Orphan trains which transplant the unwanted children of NY city to midwestern farms  --chemical poisoning of the land --responsible babysitting	1998-06-03
3030171:US	52160649	R14C9WNCBSIGQ3	0399205136	785521862	Summer of the burning	Books	4	1	1	N	N	NEUTRAL IN NORTHERN WESTCHESTER	It is the summer of 1770 in Westchester County, New York, but this is a region with divided loyalties. When the Hessians march though and torch the village of Bedford in a wanton act of war, one family is particularly devastated. The mother dies after childbirth and the father is put into a British prison. The thirteen-year-old daughter is left to cope as best she can to keep a damaged roof over her head, and provide for herself and her scrappy, younger brother. <br /> Despite working at cross purposes and the usual sibling hostilities, they ultimately cooperate to rebuild a portion of their home--all the while waiting hopefully for their father's release. This story expresses more than the toll of war upon their peaceful life, for the author describes the importance of friendship and trust, the danger of juvenile espionage, and the disruption of Puritannical neighbors filled with self-righteous zeal to destroy the family from the core. <br /> This book was of particular interest to me, for I grew up in the next village, yet I never realized that the citizenry had suffered so brutally. Nor that my home county was considered neutral during the American revolution--with some families supporting King George, (as in the Collier brothers&quot; My Brother Sam is Dead.) Author Fran Duncombe was also living and writing locally. An exciting tale which will introduce many young readers to the horror of Revolution and the hardship of the colonial lifestyle. We owe our ancestors a great debt of gratitude.	1998-05-29
3031245:US	52160649	R2KEQGPKNIEEVA	0606008969	751906511	To Walk the Sky Path	Books	4	6	7	N	N	CAUGHT BETWEEN TWO CULTURES	Ten-year-old Billie Tommy is a Seminole Indian who lives with his family in a chickee in the Florida Everglades. He struggles to find a path through life which is both true to his heritage yet helpful to modern society. But it is very difficult even for adutls to straddle two  worlds with opposing social values. <br />We learn about Seminole history, customs, religion, and injustice from white men. We experience terrible hurricanes plus American crudeness and prejudice. Will Billie choose to become a New Indian or walk the path to being a True Indian, as taught by his grandfather?. <br />Throughout the entire story there lurks the spectre of The Big One--a 15-foot alligator which terrorizes the locals.  When the boys are out frogging, will the Big One get them at last? Billie's grandparents are set in the old ways and refuse to accept life in a new camp.  And why won't his uncle teach him to wrestle an alligator, which earns good pay? <br /> This is a very thoughtful book with both physical and mental action.  Reminds us how hard it must be to walk the social tightrope beween two worlds in modern society, and how shamefully many whites treat  native Americans. There are men of honor and wisdom among all native populations, with words of dignity which all races should value. (A book with a similar locale but set 80 years ago is Lostman's River, by Cynthia De Felice.)	1998-05-25
3031300:US	52160649	R1MBGJAT3DPWP6	0152163220	319089209	Charlotte Sometimes	Books	5	7	8	N	N	IDENTITY CRISIS: CHARLOTTE ALWAYS?	This book has remained one of my favorite YA novels which I discovered as an adult, after the explosion of YA literature in the 60's (too late for my childhood!)<br /> Now any Time Travel book involves careful detailing by the author in advance, to establish the Laws of time travel and avoid anachronisms. How is the protagonist transported back and then forward again in time? (In this case the vehicle is a bed in a girls' dorm.) Must she go back far enough in time to preceed her own birth or can she witness herself at a younger age? Is she allowed to interact with her own ancestors or try to change national or even family history? Can she actually change places with a real person from the Past or merely fit in as an unknown entity in another age?  What happens to the person from the Past who is suddenly placed in a modern settting? Won't people in the Past and the Present realize that they are dealing with imposters?  Do they look and sound  that much alike? <br />Heavy problems to resolve,  but Penelope Farmer handles them all with grace and skill, leaving hardly any loose threads. Her heroine, Charlotte, attends a boarding school where she is pleased but puzzled to be taken under the wing of a kindly older girl--whose mother had asked her to be a special friend to Charlotte, if she ever met her.  All throughout the story we keep wondering which of the girls she meets in the Past will turn out to be this sympathetic mother. <br /> Charlotte is trapped on an endless temporal seesaw, never knowing in which Time (40 years' difference) she will awaken. She and her alter-ego, Clare, are doomed to never meet face to face, yet they each learn much about the other. I admired their ingenuity in keeping a mutual journal and hiding notes in the hollowed bedpost. But why does Charlotte allow the girls in the Past to accept her as Clare; she does not protest that they mistake her for someone else. She lets the girls of the Past claim her as their own, which gradually erases hertrue, contemporary persona. Is she so diss! atisfied with herself and her life that she is willing to become someone else? Will she be destined to remain forever in the Past as Clare? Does she lack the will and desire to preserve her true identity?  Will she ever become Charlotte Always? A Fabulous tale which will enthrall and mystify the reader!	1998-05-24
3031525:US	52160649	R2XWXNBBHG2L0Z	0027669904	924440652	All the Living	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A MORBID TASTE FOR GRIEF	Ten-year-old Karla and her 9-year-old brother, Jamie, unexpectedly spend the summer in a dilapidated old cabin in Maine, which the family has inherited from an uncle. Dad wants to sell, but the kids would really like to keep the sudden vacation windfall. <br /> Real estate matters aside, both children are carrying a lot of emotional baggage on this trip:  Karla is obsessed with the idea of death (innocent birds) and starts eating less. Meanwhile her non-athletic younger brother tries desperately to win his father's approval in some other arena.  Mom, a would-be writer, just manages to be cheerful and keep them all functioning as a family unit. <br /> This story reveals the struggle for self-esteem (Jamie) and the search for understanding of the meaning of death (Karla).  All the Living reveals the inner turmoil of pre-adolescents and is written with tender insight into childhood's coping mechansims. <br /> But Nature is saving up a dramatic denouement for our young heroes.  Will Karla choose Life instead of her morbid fascination with the death of innocent animals and vegetarianism?  Will Jamie gain his father's respect or be able to respect himself even if he will never be a jock? A serious story which will cause the thoughtful reader to ponder the importance of rejoicing in Life.	1998-05-23
3032582:US	52160649	R22U6X0FOKPSU2	0590328395	122508976	The Glass Mermaid	Books	3	3	4	N	N	CHRISTMAS EVE ODYSSEY	On Christmas Eve young Becca discovers tiny people climbing on her tree, trying to carry off her favorite ornament--a glass mermaid. She agrees to shrink to their size and join them in their quest to save the mermaid of Seatown.  They all disappear down a hidden door in the tree trunk. Becca, Sander and Jingle race against time to rescue both mermaids from the evil schemes of the Captain--a sorceress who terrorizes Seatown.  <br /> Becca has always been jealous of her older, graceful sister, but on this magic night she discovers that she has value and talents in her own right--she needs to be brave and strong to help her miniature friends. When her task is accomplished, she realizes that she truly belongs in her real family after all; she is NOT second best or a failure. A light read which elementary girls will enjoy. (Could introduce a class discussion of sibling rivalry and how we view ourselves.)	1998-05-19
3032766:US	52160649	R1SCEDDFODQ0S	052525563X	813543440	Among the Dolls	Books	4	2	2	N	N	GRIM STUDY IN DOLLHOUSE PLAY-THERAPY!	Disappointed that she did not receive a bicycle for her birthday and failing in school, Vicky acts out her frustration by being brutal with her newly-acquired Victorian dollhouse.  When she is magically reduced in size and transported Inside her own dollhouse, she discovers that they blame Her for their wretched existence and--incredulous as it seems--the dolls want Revenge! <br /> Can &quot;only dolls&quot; turn the tables and &quot;play' with mini human beings for a change? Can dolls capture, torture and enslave children (and even adults)?  We notice a subtle hint of an abusive family lifestyle when one doll explains unsympathetically: &quot;Yes, but one falls into patterns...even if you didn't come near us for a month, we'd still be doing this.&quot;<br /> This book reads quickly; I find that the real horror part of this read is less what happens to the heroine, than what we may be doing to our own children. Elementary kids though will just enjoy the plot; they always cheer for the kid up against Any antagonist--animal, adult or even vicious dolls. Isn't there one decent doll among the lot? And if Vicky learns her lesson, will she ever get out to show improvement?  (If nothing else, this book might encourage children to take better care of their dolls! Not to mention, encourage parents to take better care of their children!)	1998-05-18
3033199:US	52160649	R1VZT8A41FWDXL	1883332192	963278131	My Brother Sam Is Dead	Books	4	6	8	N	N	BIRTH PANGS OF A NATION	Set in Redding Ridge,CT, in the days immediately following the battles of Lexington and Concord, this story unfolds slowly but inexorably, presenting the harsh realities of war upon ordinary people. Not only soldiers but their immediate families must endure the horrors of revolution.  This was particularly poingant for the fictitious Meeker family: Father, Mother, Sam (16) and Timmy (10).  Compounding the local suffering is the fact that their political loyalties are dividied, for they live in a Tory area of Connecticut. <br /> Timmy resepcts his father who is smart and a loyal kingsman; but he also admires his daring older brother, who defies his father to run off and join a regiment of Rebels (or Patriots) depending on your viewpoint. Throughout the entire novel the young hero struggles to choose one side over the other, but he always tries to help and protect Sam.<br /> Don't be put off by the title, for the book offers hope along with anxiety over Sam's fate, as it portrays a realistic glimpse into a difficult era: the Civil war was not the only time in our history when families were torn assunder by politics. Readers may well reflect on the cost to those Colonial families, as we enjoy the benefits of their sacrifice. A thoughtful, provocative tale which strives to remain neutral, which will educate the mind and touch the heart of American readers. (Concludes with a note as to which events really happened and which characters actually existed.)	1998-05-16
3033647:US	52160649	R1SB2S6SV6WTWF	0781402336	382663422	The Story of Little Christmas	Books	4	8	9	N	N	HE &quot;BAPTIZIES THE IMAGINATION WITH GOODNESS&quot;	This quaint but charming tale is by the beloved and respected Scottish storyteller, George MacDonald (At the back of the North Wind.) Originally titled, &quot;My Uncle Peter&quot; this Victorian Christmas story was published in 1870 and recounts the heart-tugging adventures of a badly-abused street urchin who is adopted by a kindly gentlemen, then viciously, greedily kidnapped.  <br /> MacDonald 's literature (mainly for adults) exerted a great influence on subsequent writers, who freely admit the importance of his literary legacy. C.S. Lewis regards him as his master, claiming to have quoted from him in almost all his books.  JRR Tolkien used his work as a measuring stick for his own writitng in Lord of the Rings. MacDonald himself claims that he writes not for children, but for the childlike. <br /> Named Little Christmas this pitiful waif  is a character out of Dickens; she inspires both evil and generous reactions in those she meets, while suffering great injustice with stocisim.  This story transports the reader back into violent times, with an ingenuous heroine and a tender benefactor. A delightful book to remind us of Christian charity and rekindle the flame of Christmas generosity.	1998-05-14
3034146:US	52160649	R74UCYCHQVFFY	0396076920	911633256	How I Hunted the Little Fellows (English and Russian Edition)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	MARITIME MANIA	Eight-year-old Boris is sent to visit his grandmother for some months in turn-of-the-century Russia. Lonely and desperate for playmates, he has to make do with the kindly old lady and his own imagination.  He is intrigued by a realistic replica of a sailing ship which is stored high on a shelf in her kitchen.  This is the only ojbect in her humble cottage which she will refuses to let him play with, so naturally it acquires additional charm--the attraction of the Forbidden. <br />  But the young boy has a mind of his own, capable of reasoning like an adult.  Convinced that the ship actually is housing tiny, living beings, he becomes a master of deception and cunning as he plots how to catch them. He lies to granny and sneaks the tantalizing ship down in her absence. Proving the existence of the little fellows (and capturing one alive for public display) become his obsession. Which leads to inevitable disaster.  So, are they real or merely the result of an over-active imagination? <br /> This is an excellent short book to read aloud; be sure to take a vote on this burning question, before revealing the climax.  Although I was dissatisfied with the ending, I was spellbound  throughout--I only regret that I can read it for the first time but once! I believe this book was based on some incident in the author's childhood and that the manuscript was found by accident.  Wonderful pen and ink sketches by Paul O. Zelinsky make this gem a literary conspiracy of Russian Z's! Excellent Fantasy--or Reality...!	1998-05-12
3034736:US	52160649	R20VN8XC3SPQBJ	0380009102	72412683	The Mouse and His Child	Books	4	3	4	N	N	PROBLEM OF PERPETUAL E-MOTION!	Mechanical toys can not move by themselves--much less think, or have feelings and dreams, yet Hoban's father-son performing team prove more than mere wind-up toys. Seeking definition, direction and three-dimensional existence, the mouse child asks his father what they are. The patient father replies that he does not know either, but advises him to wait and see. Not a satisfactory answer for an eager youth, who first notices the world (a doll house and a plush elephant) in a toyshop. <br /> Stoic advice for two wind-ups who are very close--indeed they are permamently joined at arms' length, so that they can perform an amusing, circular dance, until they run down. But when they break the Rules of Clockwork, they themselves are broken by careless children and trashed. That is really just the beginning of their sylvan and aquatic odyssey in the callous world outside the protective toyshop and Christmas home.  <br /> The mouse child has a dream: a real home and family, while his gentle father just wants to protect his beloved son.  They will be victimized by various animal riffraff. They will encounter actors, con artists, militia, philosophers and brilliant engineers. Oh yes, there is a ubiquitous tramp who restarts the inertia of Motion, like a parenthesis at the beginning, and considers  causing the Inertia of Rest at the end.      <br /> There is humor, pathos, surprise twists of fate, noble dreams, and crushing defeats as the mouse duo labors in slow motion through their inexorable destiny. But do they have the right to choose that Destiny or must they accept whatyoung the world decides?  Are they meant to cower in terror all their lives, to depend on others to keep them activiated, or to slave for Manny rat, the king of the dump?  How will these long-suffering beings (for they ceased to be toys long ago) achieve the dual freedoms of perpetual movement AND self-determination? Do toys (or whatever they have become)deserve the right to pursue happiness? Not really  meant for teenagers, this thoughtful yet amus! ing book will both charm and entertain its readers.	1998-05-09
3036125:US	52160649	R3FJNUT4DY7ZJJ	0060219041	880697066	Path of the pale horse	Books	3	5	5	N	N	HEALING ARTS AND FRAUD IN YOUNG AMERICA	Fourteen-year-old Lep is apprenticed to a  village doctor, steadfastly following his father's dying dream for his son.  However news arrives from Philadelphia that the city has been stricken with Yellow Fever, so Lep takes off to rescue his sister visiting there. His faith in medicine and his ability as a healer are put to the test in the infectious city. The citizens do not realzie the role of mosquitoes in spreading this deadly disease; thus they fall victim to quacks and their own unscrupulous servants.  <br />  Lep battles with more than malaria as he tries to covnince his older sister that she is the victim of a clever mountebank; and his kindly benefactor that his servants are plotting to rob him blind. Lep's fith in Medicine is severely shaken, but he learns about life, death and most importantly, himself, as he comes of age in the city named for Brotherly Love. <br /> Not to be placed on any Must-Read list, this book still has much to recommend it in an elementary classroom. It represents Historical Fiction but also reveals to young people how primitive the medical practices were in post-Revolutionary times. How doctors treated malaria and other diseases is a topic often neglected in standard History books. An interesting tale with a good plot which will educate young readers.	1998-05-04
3036842:US	52160649	R3C22CLOH8RH09	0670681938	845380537	Summer of the Swans (Newbery Award & Honor Books)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	MIGRATION FROM GIRLHOOD	This book (like Me, Too by Vera and Bill Cleaver) deals with the effects of mental retardation upon the family. Sara's 14th summer proves unbalanced and utterly dissatisfactory. She feels unappreciated, unloved and unlovely, awkward in both heart and body. She deeply resents her<br />inability to communicate with her 10-year-old brother.  The one note of peace and beauty which touches her life is the temporary presence of some graceful, wild swans summering on a local lake. But even they--like her Charlie--are mute.<br /><br />Going through the gawky stage (half girl, half woman) Sara can't come to terms with the adults in her world, much less her peers. She just wants to<br /><br />&quot;fly away&quot; with the swans, to escape her dreary<br /><br />existence.  But she is painfully anchored to her stressful home, her unflattering appearance and<br /><br />to her lame-duck little brother.<br /><br />It is Charlie--who gets lost one day--who teaches her the meaning of sibling loyalty and gives her the courage to exert herself in a vital cause.<br /><br />Her quest showed her the value of a friend she had rejected, and revealed that she is proud to be a<br /><br />member of her family. Welcome to the flock, Sara!	1998-04-30
3037343:US	52160649	R3774WYEUFCXTR	0395109191	868368952	Sing Down the Moon	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Historical Ficton: Native Americans	This book reads quickly and captivates the reader, drawing one into the pre-Civil War Southwest.  Narrated in the first person by a teenage Navaho girl (whose true name we do not learn), this book describes the ongoing persecution of the Navaho tribe. The US government of course is determined to relocate them onto reservations.  While the  enterprising Spanish seek to line their pockets by kidnapping young girls and selling them into Slavery in Mexico.<br />  The young heroine falls victim to both evils;  the book is the story of her struggle for  personal freedom and more--her coming-of-age  to such an extent that she can inspire greatness from her warrior boyfriend/husband. Hers is a matriarchal society, where women control the wealth by virtue of owning the sheep.  Sometimes they have to herd the sheep with only two feet...  A fascinating tale of bravery and personal dignity which will enlighten and interest most readers.	1998-04-28
3037374:US	52160649	R26PNDAETRN6XS	0152928804	353840762	The Rifle	Books	5	3	7	N	N	FASTER THAN A SPEEDING BULLET...	This is a difficult book to categorize, since it is both Historical Fiction (American 18th century) and a warning to the danger of casually kept firearms.  Regardless of its genre placement, this is one powerful read!  Chapterless, but divided into four sections of differing lengths, this book is the &quot;biograpy&quot; of one particular rifle, handcrafted with love and precision in Colonial New England. <br />  The impact of this 1768 &quot;sweet&quot; rifle continues  long after the Revolutionary marksmen's death. It survives because it was hidden away and forgotten for several generations, but it's power to kill merely lies dormant. Gradually the reader comes to realize that a bizarre combination of random factors will culminate in some modern disaster. We are haunted by a sense of impending doom, despite the absence of malicious will.  This is a classic of coincidence, where History meets the Present,  when the timeline of a rifle intersects a human life, shattering many lives and attitudes.  A fabulous and compelling book that will grip the reader and challenge firearms' defenders.	1998-04-28
3037549:US	52160649	R1Z6A5WZA4QI0U	0689311435	661301876	The Agony of Alice	Books	3	6	8	N	N	BOOK BANNED BECAUSE OF BLUE BVD's!	Poor Alice McKinney--only ll years old and no mother to show her how to become a woman or even face impending Teenage-hood. Her father is  too busy at his music store and her much older   brother is worse than useless--as if either of them had first-hand experience in distaff duties.  Alice concludes that she needs to &quot;adopt&quot; some glamorous, spiffy, chic teacher as a fill-in mom. <br />  <br /> But she winds up in the Wrong class to realize that goal so easily: she considers herself  doomed when she lands in homely Mrs. Plotkin's class. Yet she secretly stalks and plots to hook her dad up with other &quot;desirable&quot; females. <br />  &lt;&gt;P&gt; Lighthearted with an undercurrent of poignancy for a motherless teen, this kick-off book for the ALICE series will appeal to middle school girls. Alice has to keep a journal for one class, in which she is expected to express her most private fears and personal feelings. She even makes lists to chart how she rates herself on growing up; Steps Forward and Steps Backward. Humor through the pathos! Will she ever get that first kiss? And when will she realize that you shouldn't judge a person solely on externals?   <br />  <br />  Our Alice has a variety of problems to test her coming of age: with her father and brother, of course; with teachers, snobby girls in her class,  and traveling overnight by train alone. So who in her limited environment will really help her become a young woman? She could write the book on The Most Embarrassing Way to Meet your Future Boyfriend, poor girl.  But to ban a cute book  because of references to bras and boys' underwear...YOU be the judge!  A light, fun read!	1998-04-28
3037561:US	52160649	R1UBAPJZO3Q07O	0606028838	228308721	The Cricket in Times Square	Books	4	0	0	N	N	SUBWAY SYMPHONIES	Can a country cricket from Connecticut make a successful career change in New York's Times Square? Can he make friends and influence people among the callous commuters? Can he find musical   fulfillment in a noisy subway station? Well, Chester is an excellent musician (who regretfully acquires a guilded, oriental cage) but how can he be heard in his new environment?  <br />  Honest and grateful as well as talented, Chester wants to help his hosts--the Bellini family--at their struggling newspaper stand. But will his noble ideals be tainted by metropolitan animal riffraff? He is bombarded by contrasting values: greed and compassion. Most of all, how can he reach an understanding about his personal freedom, without hurting the feelings of the gentle boy who cares for him? Or will they both be exploited on some TV talk show? A cute story which will amuse the reader.	1998-04-27
3037873:US	52160649	RM3GYB76OQQYC	0027184250	947145329	A Dusk of Demons	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A DARK BLEND OF GOTHIC HORROR AND SATANISM	Once again Christopher transports us into the future where civilization has disintegrated- probably our own fault....The hero is a 14-year-old boy named Ben who witnesses the terrifying destruction of his home. Worse still, he gradually learns more about his origins origins, but is determined to reunite his foster family. Yet another hero who embarks on a personal odyssey for truth, knowledge and spiritual coming-of-age.   <br />  This book promises an exciting trilogy if the author continues his three-in-one trend. Not just action, but self-discovery; just how much power should the son of THE MASTER wield? What caused the Madness which destroyed the old civilization?  Why is there such suspicion and prejudice against the Sea People, Gypsies and Landsmen? Who is this evil, mysterious Dark One universally feared? Why do his agents, the Summoners, hold such puitannical, religious powers? Can a mere teenage boy discover/challenge the beliefs of his elders in his quest for Truth?	1998-04-26
3037989:US	52160649	R1MXHAHB0EVDOM	0316517291	870364918	Mr. Revere and I: Being an Account of certain Episodes in the Career of Paul Revere,Esq. as Revealed by his Horse	Books	4	28	29	N	N	AMERICAN HISTORY STRAIGHT FROM THE HORSE'S MOUTH!	I was surprised that this book read so quickly; it's the story of the horse that Paul Revere rode as the American Revolution was gathering momentum--culminating his famous Midnight Ride. Narrated in the first person by a purebred English horse named Scheherezade, this book recounts her philosophical coming-of-age; she gradually changes from a conceited military parade horse from the Mother Country, into a fast-thinking patriotic mare of the Colonies.  She finally decides to &quot;cast in my lot with the champions of Liberty and Freedom.&quot; <br />  The first few chapters are full of Lawson's  delightful humor while the entire book showcases his pen and ink sketches.  One chapter, wherein we experience the danger of his Midnight Ride, is as long as three of his normal chapters.  But then, so much action was packed into one 24-hour period--culminating in the Battles of Lexigton and Concord.  <br /> We learn much about the personal life and skills of Paul Revere--not noted for his horsemanship, but rather for his work as a   silversmith and for being a good family man. He   sacrificed much of his homelife and basic physical comforts to help the Sons of Liberty;  he acted as courier to other colonies on many vital political missions before he responded to the signal from Old North Church. This book presents an easy and enjoyable introduction to   American studies; it should make elementary children want to learn more about our first steps into Nationhood.	1998-04-26
3038116:US	52160649	R306NO6Y3WBZEC	0020425740	257533309	The Sword of the Spirits (Sword of the Spirits Trilogy)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	SWORD? SPIRITS? BIG DISAPPOINTMENT...	The title does not mean much, either for the book itself or for the series.  The middle book ended on a sad note, but this one concludes on a tragic  (or pathetic) note. Christopher does leave room for a possible fourth book, but Luke, the protagonist, has not undergone any real character development after all the ordeals in this trilogy. Now he is a young adult who has antagonized almost everyone who likes or loves him. The author seems to have painted himself into a corner and chosen an unsatisfactory denouement. Too many loose threads and unresolved themes. <br />  The entire series raises serious questios about which fate is best for mankind, but Luke (or the author) seems unable to decide. Their options:  <br />  ---The Seers, with their deceit and technological trickery to stage a Machine Age Renaissance, when the national religion has banned all such inventions--many of which are as deadly in the Future as they were in the Past?  <br />  --The Christians, who preach peace, have widely diverse Bishops, and do not hesitate to act as human shields to defend their city or protect those luckless individuals condemned to the stocks?  <br />  --The Wilsh nation with their music, colorful clothing, penchant for perfumes and feasts, who both love and hate to extreme?  Who place revenge and Honor above their own kin... <br />     The genius of the Tripods series and the zest of Prince in Wiating have petered out and we are left with a disappinting read and the feeling of &quot;is that all there is?&quot; after an entire trilogy.  Whatever will happen to Luke; we don't care that much any more.	1998-04-25
3038264:US	52160649	R3TZLJ7A5IMOVT	088776116X	956897319	A Prairie Boy's Summer	Books	5	8	9	N	N	PICTORIAL VIGNETTES OF THE CANADIAN PRAIRIE	It only takes 30 minutes to read this charming book of 20 pictures, with text on the opposite page, but do yourself a favor and savor it longer. Don't expect any plot, theme or character development, yet this gem charms by its honest simplicity, as it celebrates a by-gone era of farming on the Canadian prairie.  <br />  The famous Canadian author/illustrator has captured the flavor of carefree, rural childhood in the 1930's and preserved it for future generations to discover and enjoy. Kurelek treats each topic with quiet dignity: chores, games, weather, special occasions, and adult life as viewed by irrepressible children. Both text and illustrations are rich in detail. This volume is a companion to his &quot;A PRAIRIE BOY'S WINTER,&quot; one of the New York Times' Best Illustrated books of 1973. A relaxing read for those who want to escape the hurried 90's and nestle into a time of agrarian innocence.	1998-04-25
3038367:US	52160649	R8X7OTBHLZ81F	0807276200	634271350	The Mystery of the Cupboard	Books	5	6	9	N	N	MINIATURES AND MYSTERIES HIDDEN UNDER THE THATCHING	Lynn Reid Banks has done it again, in this fourth book in her famous INDIAN series. When Omri insisted his father store the magic cupboard in a bank vault, so he would not be tempted to tamper with the Past, he vowed he would resist the temptation to visit with his tiny friends. But he never did understand exactly how and why this particular cupboard changed plastic toys into living, human beings from the past--with real names, occupations and lifestyles of their own.   <br />      Now his family has inherited a cottage in the English countryside from a mysterious and much-maligned great, great aunt of his mother's.  Omri discovers her diary which includes a confession of a great crime--one which precipitated multiple disasters for the family.  For the old thatching conceals a rusty strong box--what secrets and objects of value are hidden within? <br />  Soon it becomes imperative to revive the new plastic figures, but meddling with the Past can demand a heavy price--if Omri succeeds in  preventing one crime, he may also erase his parents' marriage and his very life! (Shades of BACK TO THE FUTURE!) How will old buddy Patrick help or hinder Omri's private quest to clear Jessica Charlotte's name?  Will Ormi's parents finally realize that something odd is going on  with their son?  A fascinating book which will delight THE INDIAN fans and all readers.	1998-04-24
3038383:US	52160649	R37BA29J9E3MPZ	0380708272	294268861	Redwall	Books	5	6	6	N	N	HAVE SWORD (almost)--WILL AVENGE!	The peaceful mice and woodland creatures of Redwall Abbey find themselves suddenly, without provocaton, under siege. The enemy wants not only their lives, but their sacred abbey itself--to convert into a fortress for murder and carmage in the surrounding Mossflower Wood.  Who can repel the vicious, audacious leader of the rat pack, Cluny the Scourge, (so named because he uses his long tail as a weapon)?  Bigger than life and twice as evil, he uses his one eye and whip-like tail to convert rats and other lowlife animals into his soldiers/slaves for his personal reign of horror.  <br />     If only the ancient hero of the abbey, Martin the Warrior, could return to life--HE would defend them all from this vile dictator! But the champion's body lies in a secret tomb; his valiant sword has disappeared and all that remains of the legend is a faded tapestry hanging in the Abbey.   Alas, Redwall needs a champion now, but the best they can proudce at short notice is a bumbling young novice named Matthias. The three major sections of the book (The Wall, The Quest, The Warrior) reveal the transformation of this young apprentice as he embarks on his private odyssey: to locate the Sword and slay the Scourge.    <br />     Redwall is an abbey of Healing, not of Religion, but the Father Abbot speaks with gentle authority as he strives for harmony among the various creatures.  Many species must cooperate to defend the Abbey, as we witness a catalog of medieval siege tactics. Cluny's cruelty and diabolical schemes produce unlikely allies in the Resistance, as well as dangerous games of counter-espionage; suspicion and treachery stalk the innocent and the unwary.      <br />     If Martin is encouraging Matthias, why does he prove so elusive?  His hints are veiled riddles and word puzzles--ancient mysteries to be solved   by the combined wisdom of both young and venerable minds. Cooperation and dedication to Justice are underlying themes, but the story rips right along, switching suddenly from the thrusts of the attackers to the parries of the defenders. Until the ultimate Confrontation, which will determine the fate of Redwall Abbey.  There is no end to Jacques' inventive plot, with frequent sudden twists and foiled schemes.  This fabulous Fantasy which recreates the medieval world will delight, amaze and enthrall the Reader.	1998-04-24
3038795:US	52160649	R1I0CVUHDARPGN	0961735724	461231305	Patty Reed's Doll: The Story of the Donner Party	Books	4	18	18	N	N	&quot;A WOODEN FACE CAN ENDURE A GREAT DEAL&quot;	The story of the Donner Party of 1846 as told by a pocket-sized doll who survived the entire ordeal--a silent witness! These 19 short chapters describe the hope, simple pleasures and ultimate grim saga of starvation of the ill-fated Donner party.  This pre-Gold rush wagon train took a bogus cutoff and fell into the pitiless trap of early an winter with record blizzards.  <br /> Many of the emigrants who had dreamed of a new life in California endured the bitterness of prolonged starvation; many died (adults and children) in the snowbound cabins by Donner Lake  and Summit Pass, but many others survived,  including a plucky 8-year-old girl named Patty Reed.  <br /> She has a special friend who helps her endure this Ordeal by Hunger--a tiny wooden doll which she keeps hidden in her clothing. This doll (now on display at the Donner Museum near Truckee, CA) bravely shares the fate of her young mistress without complaint, and Patty keeps no secrets from Dolly. &quot;I could not tell her, but I think she knew I lived on Love, not mortal food.&quot;       <br /> A tender story of incredible deprivation and the will to live. Young readers will be so caught up in the Reed family's struggle (shared by many other Irish families), that they will hardly notice how much they are learning about the Westward movement, wagon trains and the towering Sierra Nevadas. Here is a gentle dose of gritty American history.	1998-04-23
3039002:US	52160649	R2UQFHN3RMHXE8	0395348293	567627080	The One Hundredth Thing About Caroline	Books	3	4	5	N	N	DON'T JUMP TO CONCLUSIONS!	This book presents the dangers of children's overactive imaginations and their natural desire to play detective.  One new man in the apartment building, two strange letters from an &quot;Agent&quot; and three snoopy kids plotting to prevent multiple murders--maybe even their own! The tendency of Caroline's girlfriend to speak in imaginary newspaper headlines is cute. It's a silly plot resulting from misconceptions and jumping to conclusions based on circumstantial evidence--all of which causes social concerns and embarrassmet for Caroline's family. The book also suggests that museums are valuable to society. Clever puns and witty dialgoue make this a quick, fun read! This literary recipe represents Lowry Lite!	1998-04-22
3039431:US	52160649	R24OXNFKJ1A3DM	0385308388	720355441	Nightjohn	Books	5	0	0	N	N	&quot;THEY DON'T WANT US READING&quot;	Set in the slave-owning 1850's, this grimly concise novel narrates the impact of the arrival of John, a new slave on a modest plantation. He had actually escaped to the North to Freedom, but he chose to return surreptitiously in order to teach other slaves how to benefit from the white man's secret weapon: How to Read! This skill was for whites only and jealouslsy guarded--absolutely forbidden among the slaves, and viciously punished. His first pupil is 12-year-old Sarny, who trades him tobacco leaves in return for her first three letters: ABC. <br /> Narrated in the first person by plucky Sarny, this short book presents the gruesome reality of the  shocking conditions suffered by Black people in the 19th century. The author has spared no ghastly detail to recreate our national shame.  What is so appalling is the fact that the setting is NOT fiction.	1998-04-21
3039654:US	52160649	RVLG89TQK5UV4	0812523342	343453538	Tom Sawyer Abroad (Tor Classics)	Books	3	10	12	N	N	JUVENILE ARGONAUTS OVER THE SAHARA	This book picks up right after the hullaballo has died down from Tom and Huck's triumphal return.  Tom kinda craves notoriety as he competes for the unofficial title of Hannibal's First Traveler. Then Tom, Huck  and Jim are accidentally kidnapped by a mad inventor and go sailing off in a hot-air balloon. They eventually find themselves adrift over the Atlantic Ocean but when they sight land, it is not Europe! This book is told with youthful zest and slangy vocabulary by an admiring Huck in the first person, so that he can praise Tom's leadership skills and powers of argument!    <br />      The three unintentional argonauts finally realize that they are sailing over the Sahara Desert, where they have a variety of adventures, interspersed with juvenile deductions and debates.  Their adventures are right out of Arabian Nights: no magic lamp or genies, but caravans, lions, mirages, warring Bedouin tribes, devastating sand storms!  All interspersed with Tawin's wry humor as he slips in some snide remarks about more serious social issues (spoken through the mouths of babes).  Not much of a plot, but plenty of lively dialogue as the boys try to argue using logic and indulge in youthful dreams of sudden fortune. A fun read with sly social criticism.  But really, Mark Twain, Tigers--in Africa???	1998-04-20
3039803:US	52160649	R1NGWS7OI9TABW	0440406765	939899378	BLOSSOM CULP AND THE SLEEP OF DEATH	Books	3	5	7	N	N	AN EGYPTIAN QUEST THROUGH TIME AND SPACE	Blossom Culp is an unlikely heroine: living hand to mouth in dilapidated quarters, with a light-fingered mom who scrounges food and items to sell in the dead of night.   But she is also one of the few freshmen at her school with ESP. Yet not even Blossom could have predicted that she would be chosen as the natural contact (medium) in this world and time for the spirit of a wronged Egyptian princess!      <br />      Blossom and her mom live (more like squat) in squalor on the wrong side of the tracks in a small town in 1914, when women did not have the Vote.  Then a new History teacher sails into town and quickly gets both her class and their mothers into an uproar.  And just what ancient secret was left hastily forgotten in an old traveling show tent?  Does Alexander have what it takes to join a high school fraternity with dare-devil initiaion rites, while Blossom is ostracized by the girls? Clever plot and zippy dialogue combine to make this a fun read.	1998-04-19
3039883:US	52160649	R27C5SZND5AVKD	0606022678	360193033	Beyond the Burning Lands (Sword of the Spirits Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	VOLCANIC EMOTIONS AND EVENTS	Luke's adventures continue as he learns about the Seers and their scientific discoveries in their underground sanctuary near Stonehenge. Although he realizes that the national religion is pure bunk, Luke wants to use it to further his own ambitions. But he is too young and restless to wait for years until the Seers--who study and recreate ancient Technology on the sly-- are ready. <br />      The hot-headed hero sets off on his own to explore the lands beyond the volcanic barrier to the England of the medieval Future. Seeking the mythical city of Klan Gothlam in the country of the Wilsh, Luke meets a fair princess and a huge  sea monster.  Again he must evaluate an entirely new lifestyle, but despite the dangers of this journey, Luke must confront the greatest challenge to his Crown Prince status when he returns home.  Not on a par with PRINCE IN WAITING: a good story but unevenly paced.	1998-04-19
3039961:US	52160649	R3PPHR4W0RIB1H	0688216986	845799617	The Mouse and the Motorcycle (Ralph Mouse)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	WHEELS AND DEALS	Our hero is a spunky little mouse who talks--in this case to selected humans (a boy and an old man). Both Ralph Mouse and the boy long to be treated as grown up by their families.  This adventurous mouse befriends a boy whose family is staying at a second-rate motel for several days.  He learns to ride the boy's toy motorcycle (which operates on sound-effects power) and has many close escapes.  He proves he truly Is responsible after all, when he helps the boy recover from a fever. But Ralph has become hooked on motorcycle riding and can never go back to his dull existence again. Will his family ever give him the  respect which he deserves? This is a cute, light tale which will amuse the reader.	1998-04-19
3040061:US	52160649	R3UCVHICN6EEPU	0805009922	711445845	The Black Cauldron (The Chronicles of Prydain)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	AN ANCIENT IRON MENACE STALKS PRYDAIN!	The Companions, as the author frequently calls them, are summoned by Prince Gwydion and the venerable wizard, Dallben, to undertake a perilous quest: to march into the stronghold of the evil Lord of Annuvin, to remove and destroy the black cauldron of heavy iron, which Arawn uses to spawn a vicious breed of Middle World Undead. We are pleased to meet again our old friends from THE BOOK OF THREE: Taran, the Assistant Pig Keeper, who longs to be considered a man,  Princess Eilonwy with her ready tongue, the story-stretching bard with his fickle harp, and other faithful followers. Yet this book, #2 in a series of 5 Prydain Chronicles, retains its integrity when read alone. <br />    Alas, pride and treachery are rampant in the land bordering Annuvin, whence the dark lord of evil reigns and schemes. Our hot-tempered hero must use both his wits and his heart his to gradually acquire wisdom in this difficult and dangerous odyssey.  The small company of adventurers are eager to prove their valor and gain honor, yet they experience the inevitable personality conflicts. How will the companions ward off attacks by The Hunstmen and the foul Cauldron-born who do Arawn's bidding? And who can defeat the black beast that travels on Ellidyr's tattered shoulders? <br />     Yet there is much more to this book than a mere succession of adventures, traps and twists of fate.  Many serious themes bubble up between the mayhem that Alexander has set in motion.  One reminded me of a later book, THE GIVER: &quot;Give us--the nicest summer day you can remember!&quot;  Ah, but is it easy to part with something intangible like a dream or a memory which has become a part of onesself? And this black Crochan, as it is called, emanates evil and possessiveness towards those who think they own it--reminiscent of the ring in THE HOBBIT. Evil can completely dominate one's neutral or natural personality.  Just how much will Taran sacrifice  or allow his friends to sacrifice for him, in order to obtainand destroy the Black Cauldron?	1998-04-18
3040115:US	52160649	R38DB8AJ3YWEKQ	0590443526	963907684	The Loner (An Apple Paperback)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	WHAT'S IN A NAME?	A homeless, friendless, nameless young boy travels the country as a migrant worker, with the vague idea of reaching California.  He prides himself on being able to look out for  himself--relying on absolutely no one else for anything.  When he reaches Montana sheep country, he meets some people who actually come to care about him.  Can he overcome his natural (or acquired) suspicion and enforced independence to  allow human emotions to enter and flow from his embittered heart?<br /> He learns more than the responsibilities of a shepherd during the rough winter, when he battles his own reckless impulses and a growing jealousy of a young man he never met. This unlikely hero determines to settle down and win the respect of the Boss.  Many of the characters are driven (like Captain Ahab in MOBY DICK) to hunt down and destroy the Bear that killed Boss' son. A thoughtful book that will challenge the reader.	1998-04-18
3040179:US	52160649	R2ZLOY5ROPT8YC	0871781018	296483407	A Bonnet for Virginia	Books	3	0	0	N	N	THE IMPORTANCE OF A BLACK BONNET	This quiet little book of 20 short chapters is based on the diary of a young, teenage girl named Virginia, written presumably by her granddaughter.  It stresses the importance of family ties and the sacred trust of honoring one's promises to a dying parent.  Over the years we watch Virgie--the baby of a large family--undergo the transformation to Virginia, who comes of age in several ways.     <br />      We see her inner struggles to overcome shyness and the social stigma of poverty on the Nebraska plains. We witness the Dunkers' church and their value on outward Conformity.  Virginia learns that when the Lord opens a door, one should trust Him enough to go through it; something different and perhaps better may be waiting for us on the other side. He knows His plan for each of his children. With the emphasis on a simple, black bonnet as evidence of church membership, I am reminded of THEE HANNAH, whose young, vain heroine learns the importance of the plain, Quaker bonnet.	1998-04-18
3040408:US	52160649	R3RSLJ31Q50345	0140315233	615494300	The House of Wings	Books	3	2	2	N	N	SPREADING THEIR WINGS	Very short, intense tale about a 10-year-old boy's discovery of his aging grandfather and bird lore.  Resentful  of being temporarily abandoned by his parents with an crusty old man he never met before, Sammy spends two days finding out about himself as he starts to grow up. After his unsuccessful attempt to run away, he grudgingly helps the old man care for a wounded crane.  The boy is not at all likeable, but he learns to take into consideration both creatures and people besides himself, as he comes to respect the winged kingdom which his grandfather loves.  In so doing, he comes to appreciate the old man, who  finally addresses the boy by his name.	1998-04-17
3040543:US	52160649	R33VPNOAON9ETK	0590373617	893523493	Literature Guide: Danny the Champion of the World (Grades 4-8)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	WORLD'S GREATEST DAD!	Dahl has the wonderful gift of creating a warm and satisyfing relationship between young Danny (whose mother died when he was an infant)and his self-sufficient father. They live on a small pocket of land, surrounded by the vast estates owned by a cruel, would-be gentlemen farmer.  Danny has friends at school, but he won't share his dad with anyone.  Thus they mean the world to each other.<br /> The trouble starts when Danny discovers that his father has a secret passion (shared by half the village): Poaching from the forest of the local squire! It's a running battle between the crafty villagers and the vigilant gamekeepers, who think nothing of emptying buckshot into bucolic backsides!  Danny becomes initiated into the scared rites of Poaching by Dark, learns various methods used by his grandfather, and even invents one of his own!<br /> Their goal is more than to provide tasty dinners for free: they want to ridicule this vicious squire on his annual Pheasant Shoot, by removing most of his birds--just when he plans to impress his real-gentry guests. &lt;BP&gt;Will Danny or his father be caught? Can his father talk their way out of this time? This is a degihtful tale--highly improbable but not impossible. This is an excellent book to share by reading out loud!	1998-04-16
3041174:US	52160649	R36L11CDAONOHR	0020425759	738484051	When the Tripods Came	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Exciting Prequel to a Fabulous Series!	Although fourth in the series in terms of publication dates, this book is actually set  earlier in time than the famous triology, giving us a chance to witness the Invasion firsthand.        <br />      We meet all new heroes, of course. This story starts off slowly and seems somewhat bland after the first wave of tripods is exterminated.  But gradually we realize their insidious plan to take over the Earth by Mind Control--mass Brain Washing via the media. People--kids as well as adults--start Tripping Out; pretty soon the  majority of the population is saluting and chanting: Hail the Tripods! Is this tne end of  human civilization?     <br />        Young Laurie and his family (lead by the courageous father) undertake a dangerous, circuitous journey to escape the menace to free will in England; they feel that safety lies in distant Switzerland,Europe's Land of the Free. But can the mountain-bred and peace-loving Swiss both human and alien attack? Is the human race doomed as Capping becomes mandatory even in the snowy Alps? This book extolls the virtues of being Human: the right to choose one's own destiny and the inate will to survive. If you have read the triology, Now it all Falls into Place!  If you have not, Read This First!	1998-04-14
3041240:US	52160649	R22Z6VNS5MCSH2	0020425732	360193033	The Prince in Waiting (The Sword of the Spirits Trilogy)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	IMPATIENCE IN THE MEDIEVAL FUTURE	Very good read, but not on a par with Christopher's TRIPODS series.  Perhaps the sense of urgency is lost because so much time elapses in this book, instead of the plot pursuing its course remorselessly day after day. But John Christopher fans will want to complete this futuristic series set in a medieval England.<br />  Thirteen-year-old Luke Perry, the son of a commoner (promoted to Captain) hears a prophecy of the Seers (priests of the Spirits) that he will  become the next Prince-in-Waiting for the city of Winchester. But treachery from enemies, friends and even his own family stalk him as he impatiently waits to come into his own. Besides, Luke is confused about the very existence of the Spirits; he wants to scoff and deny this national religion, but their prophecy suits his ambition perfectly. Does a young teenager possess the intelligence, wisdom and skill to defeat adult rivals for the throne?	1998-04-14
3041332:US	52160649	R2FDMTR2W9KQR5	0606010769	715667135	Snow Treasure	Books	4	8	11	N	N	READS AS FAST AS A DOWNHILL SLEDRIDE!	Wow--this book is hard to put down; it skims along as swiftly as the kids riding their sleds downhill (smuggling gold bullion right past Nazi soldiers), to be loaded aboard a camouflaged ship and taken to America for safe keeping. What was a simple, childhood pasttime has now beome a matter of life and death.      <br />       Based on a probably true story, but Fact or legend, it could well have happened this way. This exciting little book is a tribute to the courage and dedication to Freedom of the people of Norway during the winter of 1940, when Nazis invaded even this tiny village.  No one thought they could be defeated, yet Peter's Uncle Viktor suggested a plan which involved school children in a fabulously daring smuggling adventure! If you want to read more about Scandinavian resistance to the Nazi's, try Lois Lowry's Number the Stars, set in Denmark. Snow Treasure is a literary treasure of tension, histoircal fiction which might have been historical fact!	1998-04-14
3041815:US	52160649	R10XIQO4AOR3QQ	0590454005	288235332	Summer of the Dancing Horse	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A YOUNG GIRL COMES OF AGE	Bessie Kobb was only 8 that summer, and her family was waiting for their father to recover from TB,  but she loved some things outside her family: the kindneess of quiet, thoughtful Ben; the golden palomino, who danced to harmonica music; and dreaming about shopping at Rosie's country store for impractical things like Ladies'Gloves. Set in the rural calm of 1923, this short book captures one magical summer for a very young girl, as she encounters the hurried materialism of the summer visitors, who just can't understand the value of honest, hard work to achieve one's goals or loyalty to old friends. No one has the right to destroy her simple pleasures: the anticipation as she chooses her own penny candy, or the joy of dancing beside Pegasus, the most beautiful horse she had ever seen. And for sheer exhilaration, the thrill of &quot;flying&quot; off a short cliff using an umbrella!  Yet tragedy strikes and she will never be the same, carefree child again. A simple tale about children--a quietly moving adventure of the human heart.	1998-04-12
3041816:US	52160649	RKB4QQ3554WBN	0689713916	499439286	Call It Courage	Books	4	3	5	N	N	SURVIVAL IN THE ANCIENT WORLD	Mafatu, whose name means Stout Heart, is a 12- year-old Polynesian boy living on the rocky atoll of Hikueru. As a child he watched his mother drown; ever since he has been a prisoner of the understandable terrors of his maritime environment.  Worse still, his fear of fishing has embarrassed his father, the chief, for all the  village knows that his son is a cowawrd. Desptie his nimble fingers and quick mind, he seems fit only for woman's work, yet his heart burns with shame at the vicious taunting of the other boys and his father's humiliation.  He longs to redeem himself in the eyes of his people and earn the his father's pride. <br />     This book has been a classic tale of survival for over 50 years, yet I had not heard of it  until I found a Pb version.  It read swiftly, albeit with little dialgoue. I wish the author had gone into more depth about how Mafatu fashioned the tools he neded to survive on the small island. It was interesting to learn about the man-eaters and their most sacred taboo: scacrifices to a monstrous stone idol on the Forbidden Island. The island that saved his life after a gruelling ocean voyage could prove his deathtrap. <br />    This slim volunme is appealing because it presents a young boy with a clearly-defined dream: to return in triumph as a brave warrior to his people. He has to clarify his goal and work out the details of each step in the process, but the arrival of the cannibals is ill-timed. He must face and conquer his fears of the ocean; he reveals the spirituality of this Pre-Columbian people by praying often to Maui. When threatened by elements of the sea, he hurls challenges to Moana, whom he feel has been stalking him since he almost drowned at the age of three. I admrie his courage to defend his faithful canine companion and the many times he must overcome real terror at his own physical peril, to achieve a greater goal. His will to live and ingenuity are a great inspiration; this story shows that even pre teens are capable of great achievement.	1998-04-12
