2633:US	52254603	R3DTHDXP53S7KX	0060559632	242396391	Every Night Is Ladies' Night: Stories	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Outstanding Debut	This debut collection of ten interconnected short stories revolves around the inhabitants of El Monte, a blue-collar Los Angles suburb best known for a 1995 sweatshop raid that raised awareness of the plight of indentured workers within American borders. Los Angeles occupies such a large place in American popular culture and myth that stories of its surroundings tend to be overshadowed -- but with these marvelous stories, the reader is offered a dramatic view of one such place. About 12 miles east of downtown LA, El Monte is a largely Hispanic community of 115,000 people clustered around the intersection of the 5 and 605 and Southern Pacific railway. Like Oscar Casares' excellent stories about Hispanic-American Texas in Brownsville and and Sandro Meallet's great debut novel Edgewater Angels, about the San Pedro area of LA, Jamie-Becerra has captured the everyday people and everyday dramas of El Monte with great skill, subtlety, and heart. Unfortunately, the book seem to have been missed by the general public and consigned to the Hispanic-lit ghetto, which is a big shame.<br /><br />The stories are mostly set in 1984-89, with one diversion back to 1956, and one story which switches back and forth between the late 1989 and 1940s. Characters come and go throughout the stories, and it takes a very good memory to keep track of them all -- I'll try to make most of the connections here. The possible linchpin (if there is one), is an auto repair shop run by an old Anglo named Georgie. The fifth story, \\"Georgie and Wanda\\" goes back to 1956 to tell about Georgie's career as a stock-car driver and wooing of the Mexican beauty queen who becomes his wife. One of Georgie's mechanics at the garage is the subject of the third story, \\"The Corrido of Hector Cruz\\". Set in 1984, it's one of the more social-realist stories, as the hardworking man and his pregnant wife Mini are suddenly faced with providing a home for their nephew Lencho, who is coming out of juvenile detention. Five years after getting a job at Georgie's garage with his uncle, Lencho is the focus of the sixth story, \\"Riding with Lencho.\\" Fellow mechanic Manny narrates, as he and Lencho take a road trip to the Baja coast to take a break from Lencho's problems with his girlfriend Josie. Hector and Mini come back in the last story, \\"Buena Suerte Airlines\\", another social-realist story focusing on the couple's money problems and Mini's decision to go back to work at McDonald's.<br /><br />Another set of interrelated people include teenage Gina and her boyfriend Max who are introduced in the slight 1987 story \\"Practice Tattoos,\\" narrated by Gina's little brother. The couple reappears two years later in \\"Gina and Max\\", as they take a bus crosstown to go to a Christmas party thrown by Max's friend Benny. This Benny turns out to be a rather dark and nasty dude who runs with some cholos, and the party takes a rather uncomfortable turn. However, Benny's better side can be seen in \\"La Fiesta Brava\\", also set in 1989. This story is mostly about Guillermo, his electronics repairman father, and his godmother Marta. However, when bullies come looking for Guillermo, Marta's boyfriend Benny gets involved with rather surprising results.<br /><br />One of the best stories is \\"Every Night is Ladies Night\\", about an ice-cream truck lady named Lily. A single mother, she lives with her tia Ruby, and embarks on a sweet romance with her boss. One of their dates is at a party thrown by Oscar's cousin Lupe and his girlfriend Evelyn. The story of their impending marriage and Evelyn's long absent grandfather is the basis of \\"Lopez Trucking Incorporated.\\" Lily's Tia Ruby is the subject of a quest in what most will regard as the shining star of the collection, \\"Media Vuelta\\", a story about an elderly mariachi player who makes his first trip to the U.S. after his wife dies. With nothing else to live for, he's trying to track down the girl he loved as a youth and lost. With limited funds and no English, he makeshis way to El Monte, where, with the sketchy help of Lencho, tracks Ruby down.<br /><br />Jaime-Becerra is a huge talent, vividly portraying the little dramas and oddities of daily life in Hispanic Southern California. At the same time he captures something of what it means to be part of the working poor in this country, and the struggle to stay out of poverty. The stories are determinedly multigenerational and the first person narration draws the reader into the family lives of his characters. The language is dead on (although those without any Spanish, such as myself, may miss a few lines here or there that are rendered in Spanish), and he's got a nice eye for description. This is a first-class debut, and I can't wait to read more from him.e makes his way to El Monte, where, with the sketchy help of Lencho, tracks Ruby down.  <br /> <br />Jaime-Becerra is a huge talent, vividly portraying the little dramas and oddities of daily life in Hispanic Southern California. At the same time he captures something of what it means to be part of the working poor in this country, and the struggle to stay out of poverty. The stories are determinedly multigenerational and the first person narration draws the reader into the family lives of his characters. The language is dead on (although those without any Spanish, such as myself, may miss a few lines here or there that are rendered in Spanish), and he's got a nice eye for description. This is a first-class debut, and I can't wait to read more from him.	2005-10-12
4071:US	52254603	R2XWZG7DKM9PNI	1400062705	282930219	Serpent Girl: A Novel	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Decent Pulp Fiction	First of all, be aware that this is not a novel, it is a novella that has been padded out to 200 pages via generous line spacing, broad margins, and a small book size. This is not a criticism in any way, just a forewarning that I read this book cover to cover in well under two hours. To Carnahan's credit, he doesn't waste a lot of words and manages to stuff a fair amount of vivid imagery and wacky action in a small package. When a book comes blurbed by Elmore Leonard, Carl Hiassan, and John Ridley, you pretty much know you're going to get an outsize crime caper populated with bizarro characters, snappy dialogue, and some kind of anti-hero -- and that's just what Carnahan delivers<br /><br />Protagonist Bailey is a 22-year-old slacker on break from college and in the midst of a run of larceny. From the moment we meet him, lying in the desert, holding his genitals, whacked out on peyote, and bleeding from his neck, we are propelled into an ultra-lurid cartoon underworld. The story flashes back and forth between Bailey's actions after getting off the desert floor, and giving the backstory as to how he got there. Basically, the story revolves around a payroll heist Bailey planned at the skanky circus he was working at. This was going to be the long con that would pay his college tuition and allow him to return to the normal world. It's a pretty standard neo-noir genre tale, with Bailey on the run from some nasty circus freaks (owners of the circus, they want their money back plus a pound of flesh), while also trying to track down his double-crossing partners in crime.<br /><br />This quest leads him to LA, where he meets an awfully nice hippie-chick/recovering addict named Sissy. She ends up tagging along with him to a Tarantinoesque climax at a SoCal biker meth lab where the freaks also manage to catch up with him. There's a rather predictable bloodbath of an ending, and it all ends rather neatly. The one major complaint I have with the story is that Sissy's presence at the end proves vital, but makes no sense based on her character. Carnahan establishes her as being tough, common-sense, and heavy into recovery, and yet after a single night with Bailey, she's going to tag along to a meet with some heavy biker meth dealers out in the middle of nowhere? A meeting that even Bailey admits has a good chance of ending with him dead? Even cartoons need to have internal consistency, and this is the one part of the ride that doesn't work.<br /><br />In any event, it's a mostly fun little diversion, if somewhat disposable and forgettable. The outsize characters are almost all given enough personality to stand on their own. I especially liked the weirdo who picks up hitchhiking Bailey at the start, and the titular Serpent Girl (a woman with no arms and legs) is a creepy but affecting character, and Carnahan manages to fulfill the clown stereotype with extreme nastiness. In the end, although the characters are pretty nifty, and there's some really nice descriptive moments and dialogue, the book still manages to feel derivative and lacking in something. It's perfectly fine pulp fiction, but not something I would recommend to anyone I know unless they like to read anything and everything relating to circuses.ce at the end proves vital, but makes no sense based on her character. Carnahan establishes her as being tough, common-sense, and heavy into recovery, and yet after a single night with Bailey, she's going to tag along to a meet with some heavy biker meth dealers out in the middle of nowhere? A meeting that even Bailey admits has a good chance of ending with him dead? Even cartoons need to have internal consistency, and this is the one part of the ride that doesn't work. <br /> <br />In any event, it's a mostly fun little diversion, if somewhat disposable and forgettable. The outsize characters are almost all given enough personality to stand on their own. I especially liked the weirdo who picks up hitchhiking Bailey at the start, and the titular Serpent Girl (a woman with no arms and legs) is a creepy but affecting character, and Carnahan manages to fulfill the clown stereotype with extreme nastiness. In the end, although the characters are pretty nifty, and there's some really nice descriptive moments and dialogue, the book still manages to feel derivative and lacking in something. It's perfectly fine pulp fiction, but not something I would recommend to anyone I know unless they like to read anything and everything relating to circuses.	2005-10-12
9649:US	52254603	R3SEJIVGH0T695	B0009WLSVO	885592247	Belshazzar's Daughter : A Novel of Istanbul (Inspector Cetin Ikmen, 1)	Books	2	9	10	N	N	Debut Goes Wildly Astray	The Inspector Ikmen series (currently eight books) gets off to a entirely over-the-top start with this very uneven first effort. Some of the book is quite interesting and well done, however it is continually undermined by the most outrageous plot twists and implausible characters. The story begins with the gruesome torture and disemboweling of an elderly Jewish man in his squalid apartment in a run-down Jewish neighborhood of Istanbul. The huge swastika painted in blood on the wall would seem to indicate an racist dimension, but is it that simple?<br /><br />Meanwhile, the reader is also introduced to Robert, a pathetic Englishman who has fled personal disaster back home to teach English to uninterested students in Istanbul. The major event in his life right now is his twice-weekly tryst with exotically beautiful Natalia (half Russian, half Turkish) who bestows her favors on him in exchange for expensive gifts (he, on the other hand, is besotted and in love with her). She is a mysterious woman who lives to exercise her sexual power over men, but her family of hermetically preserved White Russians is much more bizarre in a very gothic way. And when Robert thinks he sees Natalia fleeing from the murder site, he, her family, and an elderly German industrialist become a part of Inspector Ikmen's investigation.<br /><br />There's a lot to like about the mid-1990s Istanbul setting and the Turkish characters. Nadel has lived in the city and does a nice job of capturing some of the details of daily life. The central character, police Inspector Ikmen is a fine example of the grizzled, grumpy, but brilliant, veteran detective addicted to his job. The father of eight children, with a ninth on the way, he makes his way through a bottle of brandy and 50 cigarettes a day as he pursues justice. Equally compelling are his supporting cast, including the handsome but shyly devout Muslim Sgt. Suleyman (in the midst of avoiding an arranged marriage), Armenian medical examiner Dr. Sarkissian (like so many of his fictional counterparts, he's got a sharp tongue and sense of humor), lascivious Jewish officer Cohen, and Ikemn's acid-tongued ex-professor father, Timur.<br /><br />However, there's a lot not to like as well. Principally, the groan-inducing convoluted plot twists which drag the story's tendrils back to the end of Tsarist Russia. Similarly, Natalia's Russian emigre family is just far too strange to be taken realistically. They exist on a cartoon/horror movie level totally removed from the rest of the book. And as if an entire family of unhinged delusional isn't enough, by the end of the story, Robert has also completely lost control of himself. Nor does it help that the plot relies a little too heavily on people happening to be in places at just the right time. There's also a lame mystical element involving Inspector Ikmen's transvestite seer cousin which smacks of gratuitous exoticism for its own sake. The finale is so over-the-top that one comes close to chucking the book across the room in exasperation. Ultimately, the book is a disappointment, but the setting and Turkish characters are strong enough (although too calculatedly multi-cultural) that I may try the second book to see if gets any better.<br /><br />NOTE: The series continues A Chemical Prison (published in the U.S. as The Ottoman Cage), Arabesk, Deep Waters, Harem, Petrified, Deadly Web, and Dance With Death.Sarkissian (like so many of his fictional counterparts, he's got a sharp tongue and sense of humor), lascivious Jewish officer Cohen, and Ikemn's acid-tongued ex-professor father, Timur. <br /> <br />However, there's a lot not to like as well. Principally, the groan-inducing convoluted plot twists which drag the story's tendrils back to the end of Tsarist Russia. Similarly, Natalia's Russian emigre family is just far too strange to be taken realistically. They exist on a cartoon/horror movie level totally removed from the rest of the book. And as if an entire family of unhinged delusional isn't enough, by the end of the story, Robert has also completely lost control of himself. Nor does it help that the plot relies a little too heavily on people happening to be in places at just the right time. There's also a lame mystical element involving Inspector Ikmen's transvestite seer cousin which smacks of gratuitous exoticism for its own sake. The finale is so over-the-top that one comes close to chucking the book across the room in exasperation. Ultimately, the book is a disappointment, but the setting and Turkish characters are strong enough (although too calculatedly multi-cultural) that I may try the second book to see if gets any better.  <br /> <br />NOTE: The series continues A Chemical Prison (published in the U.S. as The Ottoman Cage), Arabesk, Deep Waters, Harem, Petrified, Deadly Web, and Dance With Death.	2005-10-08
9947:US	52254603	R3F5DSF9IS14ON	1401202012	550759506	Y: The Last Man, Vol. 3: One Small Step	Books	3	8	15	N	N	Series is Starting to Lose My Attention	I missed all the hype about this series, and just happened upon the trade paperbacks at the library. The first books are OK, decent storytelling and art, but perhaps not quite as amazing as the many gushing reviews I've since read make it out to be. The premise, as the title says, is that some kind of plague spontaneously kills every male on earth at the same instant -- except a 20something slacker named Yorick and his monkey Ampersand. Following the events of the first two books, this third picks up the story of Yorick, his government agent bodyguard (Agent 355), and the geneticist who might be able to solve save humanity. En route to San Francisco, they are diverted by a Russian woman who convinces them that a space capsule containing two males will soon be landing in a field in Kansas. Meanwhile, the Israeli army squad is still chasing Yorick, helped by intelligence from a rather surprising source in Washington, DC. The Israelis' murky motives for traveling halfway around the world to find Yorick are finally revealed, and the realpolitik rationale for it all is totally laughable and a major letdown. The groups converge in Kansas -- the heroes to await the space capsule, and the Israelis to ambush them. There's some cat-and-mouse with the Israelis, and a sequence in which the authors totally misrepresent how a Stinger surface-to-air missile works. In any event, once all this is done, the surviving astronaut is left at a top secret fallout shelter and the group proceeds onward.<br /><br />The final quarter of the book is unlike any other part of the series so far, as it takes the action away from the heroes and the main plotline. Penciled by a guest artist, the story is about a traveling group of players who have arrived at a small town to perform for food. There's kind of a hokey message about whether art should entertain or provoke, but what's more interesting is why Ampersand shows up in their midst. And even more intriguing is the question of who the ninja trying to kill the monkey is? By the end of this interlude, Yorick, Agent 355, and Dr. Mann have shown up again, but not before a rather racy production! As in the rest of the books the artwork and inking is serviceable, if rather rather pedestrian. The series is definitely all about the writing and scores zero in the style department. Oddly, some have commended it for portraying realistically built women. I would agree with that, except that whenever women are scantily clad in this series, they inevitably have figures that would not be out of place in a \\"men's\\" magazine. In the first book, there's Yorick's bikini-topped Barbiesque girlfriend, and in this one, see pages 149 and 159. Anyway, I guess I'll keep reading the series, but my enthusiasm for it has lessened with each book.ying to kill the monkey is? By the end of this interlude, Yorick, Agent 355, and Dr. Mann have shown up again, but not before a rather racy production! As in the rest of the books the artwork and inking is serviceable, if rather rather pedestrian. The series is definitely all about the writing and scores zero in the style department. Oddly, some have commended it for portraying realistically built women. I would agree with that, except that whenever women are scantily clad in this series, they inevitably have figures that would not be out of place in a \\"men's\\" magazine. In the first book, there's Yorick's bikini-topped Barbiesque girlfriend, and in this one, see pages 149 and 159. Anyway, I guess I'll keep reading the series, but my enthusiasm for it has lessened with each book.	2005-10-08
11812:US	52254603	RRASZ66R484DH	1852428511	342148377	Deadfolk	Books	3	5	9	N	N	Somewhat Disposable Dark Comedy	This book has been described as Jim Thompson meeting Guy Ritchie, and to a certain extent that's a pretty fair representation. It combines the sort of weird small town intrigue that Thompson did so well, with the cartoony gangster dialogue and violence Ritchie is known for, I guess the results might be considered a very poor man's Coen Brothers. The story takes place in the fictional West Country town of Mangel, a kind of anonymous place with one club and nothing to recommend it. It's the kind of place no one would ever want to come to, and like Jim Morrison sang \\"no gets out of here alive\\" -- literally. At the center of the story is Royston Blake, a thief turned hard man turned head doorman of the nightclub. The problem is that in the wake of his wife's death in a not so accidental fire, he's lost his nerve/bottle/courage, whatever you want to call it, and has let himself go to seed.<br /><br />The result is that local thugs the Munton Bros. are pushing him around, people are starting to disrespect him, and his job is in jeopardy. The obvious solution is to fight back, but there are three of them, and they're totally mad. When Royston does finally come up with a solution, it sets off a cascade of bloody events culminating in a hunt for a mysterious object everyone seems to want (a classic MacGuffin, here called \\"the doofer\\"). Along the way there's a lot of lager (no drugs), a fair portion of grubby sex, and loads and loads of violence. Violence with fists, foots, heads, sovereign rings, knives, monkey wrenches, handguns, shotguns, and a chainsaw. Various subplots come in and out of it all, like who is the foppish new owner of the nightclub, and what really happened to Royston's wife, but these all take a backseat to Royston's bumbling attempts to stay alive.<br /><br />I suppose it's a fairly decent stab at an ultra-dark comedy, but it never felt particularly fresh to me. The story is narrated in the first-person by Royston in a thick local accent, but even that seems a little tired. The idea of a town no one can escape from dates back to gothic literature, and I'm not sure that Williams' update has brought anything new to it. A much better recent dark comic exploration of this theme is Magnus Mills' \\"All Quiet on the Orient Express\\". There are other minor contrivances or jokes that grate, like the chainsaw being named \\"Susan\\", or Royston's obsession with his Capri 2.81 which will or won't start depending on what the plot demands. On the whole it's not bad, it just felt somewhat disposable -- might make a more amusing film. The sequel, also starring Royston, is called Fags and Lager.hat seems a little tired. The idea of a town no one can escape from dates back to gothic literature, and I'm not sure that Williams' update has brought anything new to it. A much better recent dark comic exploration of this theme is Magnus Mills' \\"All Quiet on the Orient Express\\". There are other minor contrivances or jokes that grate, like the chainsaw being named \\"Susan\\", or Royston's obsession with his Capri 2.81 which will or won't start depending on what the plot demands. On the whole it's not bad, it just felt somewhat disposable -- might make a more amusing film. The sequel, also starring Royston, is called Fags and Lager.	2005-10-07
16038:US	52254603	R1YMG48LHT5MWL	0553271989	424077500	The Odessa File	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Textbook Thriller	Master thriller writer Forsyth delivers big-time in this story of an intrepid freelance journalist tracking down an ex-Nazi in postwar Germany. Grounded heavily in research and reality, the story is based upon the disappearance of hundreds of wanted SS war criminals. As plenty of historians have since documented, there were organized efforts to help wanted Nazis disappear, especially to South America (see, for example, Uki Goni's book The Real Odessa). Here, Forsyth imagines the Odessa, a well-funded organization of former SS men who are taking the reins of German industry as it rebuilds, and helping Egypt with rocket technology with which to destroy Israel.<br /><br />One day freelance German photojournalist Peter Miller comes into possession of the diary of an old concentration camp survivor who has recently committed suicide. The diary details the man's physical and mental torture in Riga, and claims that the camp commandant is still alive and living in Germany. Miller is simultaneously appalled at the atrocities described and eager for a big scoop, and so sets out to track down SS Captain Roschman (the real life \\"Butcher of Riga\\"). He quickly discovers to his surprise that the newsmagazines aren't interested in the story, it's explained to him that no one wants to pay to read about horrors perpetrated on Jews in some other country.<br /><br />Miller decides to proceed on his own, and the book turns into a kind of procedural thriller as he doggedly pursues sources of information across Germany and it starts to dawn on him that no one is particularly interested in hunting down ex-Nazis. The combination of former Nazi influence in the police, along with the the realpolitik of the situation (live ex-Nazis vote, dead Jews do not), mean that the official channels are largely window dressing. Turning to other sources, like Simon Wiesenthal, Miller eventually finds himself in the company of a vigilante group of Jews dedicated to eliminating ex-Nazis. They, and their Mossad masters, want him to infiltrate Odessa by posing as an former SS man. What he doesn't know is that Odessa is on to him, and has assigned their \\"cleaner\\" to take care of him.<br /><br />The final part of the book is stuffed with high tension as Miller gets possession of a blockbuster piece of intelligence about the Odessa, and closer and closer to Roschman. Meanwhile, the SS killer gets closer and closer to Miller... It all culminates in a nail-biting finale with one of the best twists at the end I've ever come across. The core story is top-level thriller stuff, absolutely outstanding. I could have done without Miller's girlfriend character, who seemed to exist mainly as a bit of T&A and an attempt to give Miller a little dimension. I also could have done without the subplot involving the rockets for Egypt, as it distracted from the more interesting story of Miller's hunt. Still, these are minor quibbles about an outstanding book.r Mossad masters, want him to infiltrate Odessa by posing as an former SS man. What he doesn't know is that Odessa is on to him, and has assigned their \\"cleaner\\" to take care of him. <br /> <br />The final part of the book is stuffed with high tension as Miller gets possession of a blockbuster piece of intelligence about the Odessa, and closer and closer to Roschman. Meanwhile, the SS killer gets closer and closer to Miller... It all culminates in a nail-biting finale with one of the best twists at the end I've ever come across. The core story is top-level thriller stuff, absolutely outstanding. I could have done without Miller's girlfriend character, who seemed to exist mainly as a bit of T&A and an attempt to give Miller a little dimension. I also could have done without the subplot involving the rockets for Egypt, as it distracted from the more interesting story of Miller's hunt. Still, these are minor quibbles about an outstanding book.	2005-10-04
16885:US	52254603	R292VUI5S060VI	0452286549	495037638	Queen of the South	Books	3	38	40	N	N	The Girl from Sinaloa	After carving out a solid niche for himself in the \\"intellectual thriller\\" genre by writing a number of entertainments (some good, some not) revolving around the arcane and esoteric, bestselling Spanish novelist Perez-Reverte shifts gears here with a book that is neither thriller nor obsessed with high culture paraphernalia. Quite the contrary, this is the tale of a poor, uneducated Mexican girl who, over the course of twelve years, manages to become a hugely wealthy narcotics transporter. The story of Theresa Mendoza is told partially from her perspective as events happen, and partially by an investigative reporter who is trying to write a book about her and is interviewing anyone once connected to her. Before becoming a novelist, Perez-Reverte was a well-known journalist, and his former profession informs the entire book as his fictional journalist connects the dots, from Sinaloa, Mexico to Morocco to Marbella, Spain. Some readers seem not to care for the alternating voices, but it adds much needed depth and texture to what is otherwise a fairly flat and straightforward rags to riches story.<br /><br />However, unlike most gutter to penthouse tales, Theresa is not a character who always had large dreams and wanted to be \\"king of the world\\". Rather, her story shows her to be an emotionally dead soul who does whatever it takes to survive in the harsh environment she inhabits. While this is a nice change of pace from the usual Scarface hysterics, her cool reserve also means that there's no way for the reader to connect with her (unless you, too, have been on the run from hitmen). Which is not to say that she isn't believable, it's just that she's a character with a single motivation, survival, and this one track detachment gets kind of lame as she grows more and more powerful. While one can sympathize with her plight, she's not particularly sympathetic or unsympathetic--she's simply...present. Not that Perez-Reverte doesn't gamely try to make her sympathetic by showing her grant mercy more than once, and exhibit rather foolish loyalty, as well as refusing to transport heroin (since it's socially destructive, as opposed to hash and cocaine!), but this is all rather disingenuous. And contrary to what some reviewers have written, he definitely does play up her past: her dirt-poor childhood and alcoholic mother are alluded to more than once, as is her sexual abuse as a small girl. But none of this is really enough to make the reader care about a character who spends the entire story not understanding her own choices.<br /><br />The book is at its best when it wallows in the details of the international drug trade, all the intricacies and logistics of getting drug A to point B--small planes, speedboats, customs helicopters, dummy ships--it all reeks of heavy research. And at the heart of it all is epic corruption on all sides. The various locales are also well rendered, from the Mexican state capital of Culiacan to the sleazy ports of Spain and Morocco, and finally the gleaming high life of Marbella. The supporting cast of characters is quite good, from Theresa's various boyfriends, to her stoic bodyguard, and the amiable Russian gangster who acts as mentor. But as in the movies, it's never a good thing when the bit players have more personality than the lead. Stylistically, Perez-Reverte does try a few tricks, such as weaving \\"The Count of Monte Cristo\\" into the plot, and making Mexican narcocorridos a recurring (and tiresome) element. (Those interested in narcocorridos should check out Elijah Wald's aptly titled book Narcocorridos.) So, there's a lot to like in the book, however the central character and storyline are flat and lifeless.owing her grant mercy more than once, and exhibit rather foolish loyalty, as well as refusing to transport heroin (since it's socially destructive, as opposed to hash and cocaine!), but this is all rather disingenuous. And contrary to what some reviewers have written, he definitely does play up her past: her dirt-poor childhood and alcoholic mother are alluded to more than once, as is her sexual abuse as a small girl. But none of this is really enough to make the reader care about a character who spends the entire story not understanding her own choices. <br /> <br />The book is at its best when it wallows in the details of the international drug trade, all the intricacies and logistics of getting drug A to point B--small planes, speedboats, customs helicopters, dummy ships--it all reeks of heavy research. And at the heart of it all is epic corruption on all sides. The various locales are also well rendered, from the Mexican state capital of Culiacan to the sleazy ports of Spain and Morocco, and finally the gleaming high life of Marbella. The supporting cast of characters is quite good, from Theresa's various boyfriends, to her stoic bodyguard, and the amiable Russian gangster who acts as mentor. But as in the movies, it's never a good thing when the bit players have more personality than the lead. Stylistically, Perez-Reverte does try a few tricks, such as weaving \\"The Count of Monte Cristo\\" into the plot, and making Mexican narcocorridos a recurring (and tiresome) element. (Those interested in narcocorridos should check out Elijah Wald's aptly titled book Narcocorridos.) So, there's a lot to like in the book, however the central character and storyline are flat and lifeless.	2005-10-04
37805:US	52254603	R2BC6NFCA7VP4J	0374528748	717205135	Mr. Potter: A Novel	Books	1	2	3	N	N	Soporific	This is a book readers are either going to love or hate. If you've read and enjoyed any of Kincaid's previous quasi-autobiographical fiction, such as \\"My Brother\\" or \\"Autobiography of My Mother\\", you will probably like this one too. If you like dreamy, hazy, stream-of-conciousness style introspective writing, you may well like this too. I, on the other hand, had never read anything by Kincaid and was simply interested in reading a novel set in Antigua that might provide some kind of window upon the island. Something like Jean Buffong's \\"Snowflakes in the Sun\\", which revolves around an elderly couple in Grenada and is chock full of stories and local color. Alas, contrary to the book jacket writer's claims, Antigua most definitely does not come alive under the gaze of Mr. Potter. Indeed, the entire book does not contain Mr. Potter's gaze at all, but rather that of one of his adult daughters, who is writing the \\"story\\". The narrator is Kincaid, who has constructed this book based on the few details she knew about her own absent father. These few details and those additional ones she invents total maybe ten pages worth of prose (Mr. Potter's father is a fisherman, mother commits suicide, he is raised in quasi-servitude in a kind of orphanage, he grows up to be an illiterate taxi driver, he fathers many daughters with different women and fails to acknowledge any of them, he eventually has his own car hire business, he dies), however Kincaid spins this out to almost 200 pages.<br /><br />She does so in the service of attempting to show the course of an unexamined life. The idea that Mr. Potter is unwittingly trapped in his limited existence by the circumstance of his own upbringing and illiteracy (\\"And because Mr. Potter could neither read nor write, he could not understand himself\\"). However, again, this could have been accomplished in a few pages, and one gets the feeling that the book is more a personal therapeutic project (the narrator hovers between anger at abandonment and understanding) than anything else. Some will find her hyper-stylized prose, which employs heavy doses of repetition, doubling back and forth, restatements, paraphrases, and so on, highly lyrical, poetic, and in the words of one reviewer \\"spellbinding\\". I, on the other hand, found it to be insufferably calculated, mannered, and ultimately, soporific. Of course, this boils down to a matter of personal preference, but I would highly recommend that one reads an extract before purchasing the book -- had I done that, I certainly would not have gotten it. On the other hand, if you like sentences that run on for an entire page, this is the book for you! A complete disappointment, the most unengaging book I've read this year.onment and understanding) than anything else. Some will find her hyper-stylized prose, which employs heavy doses of repetition, doubling back and forth, restatements, paraphrases, and so on, highly lyrical, poetic, and in the words of one reviewer \\"spellbinding\\". I, on the other hand, found it to be insufferably calculated, mannered, and ultimately, soporific. Of course, this boils down to a matter of personal preference, but I would highly recommend that one reads an extract before purchasing the book -- had I done that, I certainly would not have gotten it. On the other hand, if you like sentences that run on for an entire page, this is the book for you! A complete disappointment, the most unengaging book I've read this year.	2005-09-23
38339:US	52254603	R2ZRZ2SEJMWFJU	1401200761	151032721	Y: The Last Man, Vol. 2: Cycles	Books	3	7	9	N	N	The Plot Barely Thickens	I missed all the hype about this series, and just happened upon the trade paperbacks at the library. So far, it's good, very solid storytelling and art that grabs you, but is perhaps not quite as amazing as the many gushing reviews I've since read make it out to be. The premise, as the title says, is that some kind of plague spontaneously kills every male on earth at the same instant -- except a 20something slacker named Yorick and his monkey Ampersand. Following the events of the first book, we pick up the story of Yorick, his government agent bodyguard (Agent 355), and the geneticist who might be able to solve save humanity, as they try to make it cross-country from Boston to San Francisco.<br /><br />The Amazon death squad (which melodramatically includes Yorick's sister) is still hot on his trail, and the mysterious Israeli army officer from the first book is also in hot pursuit. The bulk of the story takes place in Marrisville, Ohio, after the trio is forced to jump off a train. This is an apparently idyllic small town leaving in peace and seclusion compared to the big cities seen in the first book. Of course, the town of 67 women has a dark secret, and when it's revealed it doesn't really make a whole lot of sense. And when Yorrick is let in on the secret, he inexplicably flies off the handle about it in a jarring scene that comes out of nowhere. It's a major misstep by the authors, and one that has no storytelling purpose whatsoever. This volume climaxes in a showdown between the heroes and their Amazonian pursuers, and the meeting between Yorick and his sister is handled well.<br /><br />However, the most intriguing part of the story is a very minor person who makes only two appearances in the background of the story, but has some earthshaking information that no one seems to listen to. this leads to a great full-page reveal on the last page of the book, whetting the appetite for more. As in the first book, there's some nice humor and the artwork is adequate. Since the cross-genre premise has been established in the first book, this volume is a little less interesting, as it consists of little more than the heroes geographical advancement and a few other background plot points. But I'll certainly keep reading to see what happens in volume three.quate. Since the cross-genre premise has been established in the first book, this volume is a little less interesting, as it consists of little more than the heroes geographical advancement and a few other background plot points. But I'll certainly keep reading to see what happens in volume three.	2005-09-23
39177:US	52254603	R3HYD8ZTE6W7P7	1551990814	720236284	Sacre Blues: An Unsentimental Journey Through Quebec	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Outstanding Overview of Quebec	For those with more than a casual interest in what the province of Quebec is all about, this book by multilingual Canadian journalist Grescoe is an excellent, evenhanded place to start. The twelve chapters do an admirable job of untangling the complicated web of ethnic, linguistic, political, and religious identities that make up Quebec. Grescoe gets things off to a quick start in the first chapter, providing a grab bag of examples of how the province is different from its Canadian and American neighbors: attitudes toward cheese, margarine, gun control, gay rights, smoking, the legal system, pornography, and more quickly get the point across. The chapter also establishes the tone for the rest of the book, as it ranges freely over the subject matter, sometimes doubling back, sometimes repeating itself, often employing statistics, but always in the service of trying to understand Quebec.<br /><br />Chapter two has a brief history of the province's settlement, and quickly debunks the myth of the prevalence of \\"pure\\" francophone founders. This segues into an overview of Quebec's Jews, which leads to a discussion of recent immigration, and the whole notion of how a modern multicultural province can exist with a mythology of racial purity lurking in the background. Chapter three deals exclusively with the influence of France as a \\"mother country\\" which naturally leads to the next chapter, which is a lengthy examination of Quebecois French. Here, the author has an embarrassment of riches in terms of examples, however they are perhaps best appreciated by readers with a solid understanding of French.<br /><br />Grescoe is a journalist, so it's not surprising that he devotes the entirety of chapter five to an exploration of the robust Quebecois print media. It's an interesting way of looking at a place, and not a lens one commonly encounters -- ultimately he concludes that as in many places around the world: \\"in Quebec, we're not likely to see serious coverage of issues that would threaten political and corporate power.\\" It's a short hop from print to television, which is covered in the next chapter. Obviously television provides an interesting window onto a society and how it views itself -- especially in Quebec, where people watch more TV than in any other province. Grescoe dives right in, examining some of the popular genres and shows, as well as touching upon Celine Dion. The pop culture focus continues in chapter seven, which is a series of 21 brief profiles of Quebecois singers, writers, filmmakers, events, and stuff, most of which will be completely unfamiliar to outsiders (except for Circle du Soleil) but are well known in the province. It's cutely a good chapter to quickly dip into to get a sense of some of the differences discussed throughout the book.<br /><br />In contrast to the relative lightheartedness of the previous chapter, chapter eight is about Quebec's native population (currently around 75,000 from 11 different Indian nations) and their grievances. As in the rest of the continent, Quebec's native population has gotten the shaft ever since colonizers first arrived. Grescoe talks to various tribal representatives, and an ironically unpleasant picture emerges of a province clamoring for the right of self-determination in order to escape external cultural and economic domination -- only to deny these very same claims by the native population. The next chapter discusses both the actual Quebecois winter and the idea of winter in the province's mythology. This naturally also involves a trip to Florida, where a huge number of retired Quebecois spend the harsh winter months.<br /><br />Chapter ten is a good overview about the province's economy and business climate, including a visit to multinational transportation giant Bombardier. This is followed by a chapter about religion and change, more specifically about the shocking decline in practicing Catholics in the last forty years. Again, with remarkable evenhandedness, Grescoe finds a lot of good and bad in this cultural development. In many ways, it's a reflection of the same kind of cultural tug-of-wars that have gone on in the U.S. since the '60s, with many of the same tensions. The final chapter attempts to sum up Grescoe's three years of observing Quebec and perhaps unsurprisingly, for better and for worse, he sees increasing globalization as a erosive force on the province's distinct identity.<br /><br />Grescoe's done a wonderful job of cutting to the core of things while keeping his writing lively and accessible. Each chapter is about a topic that would take an entire book to completely cover, and yet with a mix of on the scenes reportage, statistics, interviews with politicians, businessmen, intellectuals, artists, experts, and people on the street, Grescoe manages to avoid superficiality and present the complex issues. Although occasionally repetitive and cursed with an awful cover, it's highly recommended for anyone with more than a passing interest in Quebec, especially those intending to visit.edness, Grescoe finds a lot of good and bad in this cultural development. In many ways, it's a reflection of the same kind of cultural tug-of-wars that have gone on in the U.S. since the '60s, with many of the same tensions. The final chapter attempts to sum up Grescoe's three years of observing Quebec and perhaps unsurprisingly, for better and for worse, he sees increasing globalization as a erosive force on the province's distinct identity. <br /> <br />Grescoe's done a wonderful job of cutting to the core of things while keeping his writing lively and accessible. Each chapter is about a topic that would take an entire book to completely cover, and yet with a mix of on the scenes reportage, statistics, interviews with politicians, businessmen, intellectuals, artists, experts, and people on the street, Grescoe manages to avoid superficiality and present the complex issues. Although occasionally repetitive and cursed with an awful cover, it's highly recommended for anyone with more than a passing interest in Quebec, especially those intending to visit.	2005-09-22
52063:US	52254603	RB9B5USNRES8R	0553587439	839232184	Pashazade	Books	2	24	33	N	N	Where's the Originality?	First of all, if anyone thinks setting a cyberpunk/noir in the Arab/Islamic world is a brand new idea, I would refer them to the late George Alex Effinger's '80s Marid Audran series (When Gravity Fails, A Fire in the Sun, and The Exile Kiss) and short story collection (Budayeen Nights). That series featured a down and out 22nd-century Arab gumshoe in grimy Cairo who is unexpectedly elevated into a powerful position and makes heavy use of brain implants in order to track down a few murderers, exact vengeance, and try and figure out just who his parents actually were. Hmmm... sounds an awful lot like this book, doesn't it?<br /><br />Grimwood's story is a fairly off-the-rack \\"reluctant hero\\" tale about Ashraf, a small time hoodlum unexpectedly sprung from jail in the U.S. and brought to Alexandria/Iskandriya by an aunt he didn't know he had. Apparently he's the son of the Bey of Tunis, and therefore a very important young man with carte blanche and legal immunity to almost anything. However, it's clear that he's also got all kinds of genetic modifications, the source of which is left deliberately murky. He's also got some kind of invisible advisor fox (in D&D days, we would have called it a familiar), and a whole host of issues. Soon after his arrival in \\"Isk\\", his aunt is killed and the police seem to think he did it. So naturally, he must carry out his own investigation in order to clear his name -- with the help of a ponytailed ex-American Chief of Police. At the same time, Ashraf's past -- from lonely boarding school upbringing, to working for Seattle Chinese gangster Mu San -- is measured out in italicized flashbacks.<br /><br />Actually, the entire first third of the book is rather confusingly arranged, with chapters in reverse chronological sequence and shifting points of view. It's an unnecessary and messy structure which only makes the story that much harder to get into. Eventually, things settle down and Grimwood sticks with telling the story from Ashraf's perspective -- albeit, still continually interrupted by flashbacks. It's as if the author was afraid neither Ashraf's present or past were interesting enough on their own to hold the reader's attention for extended periods of time, so he mixed them together to keep the reader from getting bored! Pacing is definitely a problem in the book, it's generally exceedingly slow, but also kind of choppy due to short chapters and the flashbacks mentioned above.<br /><br />The story trudges onward, with Ashraf racing to solve the murder before the authorities come down on him. Fortunately, his 9-year-old cousin adores him and sticks to him like glue. And as in so many cliche films, the kid will prove to have world-class computer hacking skills that will become pivotal in solving the mystery. His other ally is the woman he is supposed to get married to, the rebellious daughter of a mega-billionaire industrialist. Also as in so many cliche films, they get off on the wrong foot, bicker, and then predictably fall into bed together -- and of course, she's got a comic-book body. In the end, the villain is perfectly predictable, although the motive comes out of nowhere and seems quite ridiculous. The ending comes rather suddenly, and many readers will leave feeling rather frustrated -- there's a lot left to be answered in the second and third books.<br /><br />Having grown up in the Middle East, and being a moderate sci-fi fan and a big mystery fan, I was looking forward to this book. I was especially curious to see how the alternate history elements were going to be portrayed and used. And while on the one hand, it's nice that he didn't make the alternate history too intrusive, there didn't really seem to be a whole lot of point to it either. Perhaps the geopolitical differences will have a greater impact on the second and third books in the series, but in this one they don't enter into it that much. Also, many reviewers seem to be misunderstanding the alternate history. In this series, the Ottoman Empire is intact, but it is essentially just a regional power, not a world power. That's why a German is in charge and the Khedive is just a figurehead locked in a gilded palace. Also, if you're going to set up an alternate history setting, why are all the designer brand names the same as in our own world. Since in this setting Germany dominates Europe, wouldn't there be a lot more German designer brand names instead of Japanese and Italian?<br /><br />In addition to the above weaknesses, the \\"cyberpunk\\" elements lack any originality. I'm not a big fan of the genre, but everything seemed familiar: hacking, genetic modifications, pet robots, implants, drugs, viral music, even a ridiculous underground club. And in a nutshell, that's kind of the problem with the whole book -- it all feels recycled. The setting's been done before, the main character is a classic archetype, the relationships are all cliche, the plot is classic \\"must clear my name\\" material, I'm just not seeing any original ideas. That said, there are bits and peices of nice writing here (generally the flashbacks), and there are intriguing hints here and there, enough so that I probably will read the next in the series to see if it gets any better.In this series, the Ottoman Empire is intact, but it is essentially just a regional power, not a world power. That's why a German is in charge and the Khedive is just a figurehead locked in a gilded palace. Also, if you're going to set up an alternate history setting, why are all the designer brand names the same as in our own world. Since in this setting Germany dominates Europe, wouldn't there be a lot more German designer brand names instead of Japanese and Italian?  <br /> <br />In addition to the above weaknesses, the \\"cyberpunk\\" elements lack any originality. I'm not a big fan of the genre, but everything seemed familiar: hacking, genetic modifications, pet robots, implants, drugs, viral music, even a ridiculous underground club. And in a nutshell, that's kind of the problem with the whole book -- it all feels recycled. The setting's been done before, the main character is a classic archetype, the relationships are all cliche, the plot is classic \\"must clear my name\\" material, I'm just not seeing any original ideas. That said, there are bits and peices of nice writing here (generally the flashbacks), and there are intriguing hints here and there, enough so that I probably will read the next in the series to see if it gets any better.	2005-09-15
52188:US	52254603	RP2KKHD5V4SGG	0743264452	993613231	Killing Yourself to Live: 85% of a True Story	Books	3	54	57	N	N	Lack of Focus Leads to Excessive Navel Gazing	Chuck Klosterman's first two books were highly entertaining if sometimes exasperating melanges of pop culture and memoir. In this third book his writing is just a snappy and sharp, but there's a lack of focus that makes it several notches weaker than those. When his pop-culture addled wit and insight are aimed directly at something like '80s metal, or contemporary film, or breakfast cereals, the results can be amazing. However, he can also descend into weak or muddled rants, and when he becomes the main subject, it's just not that interesting. Unfortunately, the main subject of this third book is largely himself and his tortured love life.<br /><br />The premise that Chuck's going to go an Epic road trip (on Spin magazine's dime) to tour famous American rock and roll death sites proves to be mere pretense for an extended trip into Chuck's head as he drives cross-country. Sure, he visits a lot of places where people died, like Skynyrd, VanZant, Buckley, Holly, Cobain, et al, but he rarely has anything interesting to say. Very occasionally he does, such as pointing out that Sid Vicious' inability to play the bass was what made him the perfect punk icon. The best part is probably near the beginning, when he visits the Rhode Island site of a club fire during a Great White show which killed almost a hundred people. He discovers a site of pilgrimage and reflection (and coke snorting), and embarks on an excellent diatribe against the prevalence of ironic distance in modern music fans and how the people at the Great White show were the most authentic music fans around.<br /><br />However, despite nice bits like these, the focus is on Chuck's current and ex-girlfriends -- which gets annoying for a number of reasons. Probably the foremost of these is how in all his writing he self-deprecatingly paints himself as an awkward music geek, and yet here he is describing these multiple smart, sexy, rockin' women he has to chose between. Poor baby. Of course he describes the rise and fall of his various relationships in relatively humorous fashion, but it still comes across like so much self-indulgent navel gazing. There are some nice parts, like an imagined fourway conversation with the women in question, and a bit where he compares each to a member of KISS that is probably pretty funny if you know anything about KISS (I don't). He's a pining romantic at heart, and as one with a somewhat similar composition, I could identify with bits and pieces, but it all gets tiresome by the end.<br /><br />Stylistically, the writing is what one expects. Sharp, crackling stuff, with loads of digressions, asides, tangents, obscure references, and laugh out loud parts. Music fans will have plenty of little tidbits to keep them going, such as an interpretation of Radiohead's \\"Kid A\\" as unintended soundtrack for 9/11 (rather forced in my mind), the relative popularity of Pearl Jam to Nirvana when Cobain died (misguided analysis in my mind), the \\"truth\\" of Rod Stewart's voice (somewhat better: \\"Stewart may be a blond clown with bad judgment, but everything he says is true\\"), and the universal popularity of Led Zeppelin (ridiculous: \\"they are the only group in the history of rock n' roll that every male rock fan seems to experience in exactly the same way\\") , and best of all, a moving explanation of why The Replacements make him cry.<br /><br />Overall, if you like his writing, you might as well read this: it's quick and there are enough good tidbits to keep you going. However, lets hope that his future books will find more focus. The only other thing I'd add is that for someone who spends a page explaining the difference between \\"pot people\\" and \\"coke people\\" (in a very funny way) and why he's a pot person, he recounts enough coke anecdotes to make you wonder about his self-classification.e and fall of his various relationships in relatively humorous fashion, but it still comes across like so much self-indulgent navel gazing. There are some nice parts, like an imagined fourway conversation with the women in question, and a bit where he compares each to a member of KISS that is probably pretty funny if you know anything about KISS (I don't). He's a pining romantic at heart, and as one with a somewhat similar composition, I could identify with bits and pieces, but it all gets tiresome by the end.  <br /> <br />Stylistically, the writing is what one expects. Sharp, crackling stuff, with loads of digressions, asides, tangents, obscure references, and laugh out loud parts. Music fans will have plenty of little tidbits to keep them going, such as an interpretation of Radiohead's \\"Kid A\\" as unintended soundtrack for 9/11 (rather forced in my mind), the relative popularity of Pearl Jam to Nirvana when Cobain died (misguided analysis in my mind), the \\"truth\\" of Rod Stewart's voice (somewhat better: \\"Stewart may be a blond clown with bad judgment, but everything he says is true\\"), and the universal popularity of Led Zeppelin (ridiculous: \\"they are the only group in the history of rock n' roll that every male rock fan seems to experience in exactly the same way\\") , and best of all, a moving explanation of why The Replacements make him cry.  <br /> <br />Overall, if you like his writing, you might as well read this: it's quick and there are enough good tidbits to keep you going. However, lets hope that his future books will find more focus. The only other thing I'd add is that for someone who spends a page explaining the difference between \\"pot people\\" and \\"coke people\\" (in a very funny way) and why he's a pot person, he recounts enough coke anecdotes to make you wonder about his self-classification.	2005-09-15
53538:US	52254603	R221YE7CI0G3D5	1569473854	866900985	Slicky Boys (A Sergeants Sueo and Bascom Novel)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Great Atmosphere, Decent Mystery	The unique adventures of U.S. Army CID (Criminal Investigation Division) cops George Sueno and Ernie Bascom first appeared in Limon's striking debut, Jade Lady Burning. Set in mid-'70s Korea, the series draws upon Limon's own in-country CID experiences to paint a vivid picture of a large American army and its often seedy interaction with locals. The story kicks off with the murder of a British soldier which partially implicates Sueno and Bascom, and thus forces them to investigate, even though they'd rather be drinking and whoring.<br /><br />Their poking around leads them into the tangled world of organized black marketeering and the Korean \\"slicky boy\\" gangs who rule that world. Limon does a nice job of skewering the Army's obsession with halting petty black marketeering while turning a blind eye to much larger scams. Sueno's literal decent unto the slicky boy underworld is perhaps a little too pulp fictiony and melodramatic, but it's interesting, especially the historical ties back to the Japanese occupation. And just as in Fritz Lang's classic film \\"M\\", here the underworld and cops join forces to track down a vicious killer. A few bodies later it becomes apparent that there's a deadly deserter running around South Korea gathering secrets to sell to the Communists.<br /><br />At the peril of their careers and lives, Sueno and Bascom put it all on the line to get their man. Their manhunt strains credulity at times, although Limon is careful to build it up as a \\"this time it's personal\\" kind of situation for them. Sueno is a good leading character, an East LA orphan who has managed to pick up the local lingo and customs fairly easily. He's perhaps a little too culturally savvy, but that's balanced out by his hair-trigger white partner Ernie, a Vietnam vet who is liable to get bored if there isn't a fight or girl to look forward to in the near future. On the whole, the story is perhaps a little too \\"thrilleresque\\" for my taste, but it's well worth reading for the glimpse into an unknown world where teenage soldiers are comparatively rich, and everything has its price.e glimpse into an unknown world where teenage soldiers are comparatively rich, and everything has its price.	2005-09-15
56057:US	52254603	RC3SNLRYH0CHJ	1400079446	547017212	44 Scotland Street (44 Scotland Street Series, Book 1)	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Slight Serial Passes the Time	Back in the Victorian era, serial fiction was a hugely popular means of getting people to buy newspapers and other periodicals. It makes a certain amount of sense that in today's hypercompetitive media environment someone would resurrect the notion -- especially when there's a brand name author willing to try it. That's what Edinburgh's daily The Scotsman did when they asked the hugely popular Smith to try and write in serial form. Inspired by Armistad Maupin's Tales From the City, he created a band of intersecting characters who get into situations of varying comedic and dramatic import over 110 daily installments.<br /><br />The central character is Pat, a 20-year-old on her second gap year off college (we are told the first one went awry, and tantalizing hints are dropped, such as \\"she should have realized the man with the eye patch was not whom he seemed\\", but the exact nature of her misfortune is never revealed). We meet her as she rents a spare room in a flat at 44 Scotland Street run by a narcissistic 20something rugby-playing real estate appraiser named Bruce. Across the hall is a middle aged wise mother figure named Domenica, and downstairs is the Pollock family. They include the memorable 5-year-old Bertie who speaks Italian to hilarious effect and is being groomed as a child prodigy by his overbearing, insufferable mother Irene (who is far too keen on psychoanalysis) and his ineffectual father. Outside the building, but very much a part of the story are a crew of secondary characters. There is Matthew, an art gallery owner who knows nothing about art and thus hires Pat as his assistant. There is Bruce's boss, Todd, and his society dame wife and misanthropic daughter. There is Bertie's brisk teacher and the droll psychoanalyst brought in when Bertie starts rebelling against his mother's molding. There's the slightly strange woman who runs the cafe near the art gallery, a rookie policeman, bon vivant artist and wit Angus Lordie, and a unnecessary cameo by real-life crime writer Ian Rankin.<br /><br />The story takes little diversions into the lives of most of these people, offering little character sketches and portraits of daily life. However, the focus is generally on Pat, who has very minor romantic issues to resolve, and also thinks the gallery happens to have a valuable unknown work by the 18th-century painter Samuel Peploe on its wall. There's a bit of P.G. Wodehouse style comedy of errors as the painting goes missing, needs retrieving, and then has its secret ultimately revealed. It's all very light stuff, perfect for small daily doses in the newspaper on the way to work, but perhaps too insubstantial for sitting down and reading straight through. Every reader will have their own favorite character that they'll want more of (for me it's Angus Lordie), and the lack of resolution of some of the plotlines is a little jarring at the end. (Although perhaps these will be addressed in future installments, which have since been collected in a new book: Espresso Tales). Edinburgh natives will doubtless get small frissons as they recognize particular locales, but the book could just have easily been set in any major city in the Western world. Not bad stuff, but not great either, decent for passing time.y real-life crime writer Ian Rankin.  <br /> <br />The story takes little diversions into the lives of most of these people, offering little character sketches and portraits of daily life. However, the focus is generally on Pat, who has very minor romantic issues to resolve, and also thinks the gallery happens to have a valuable unknown work by the 18th-century painter Samuel Peploe on its wall. There's a bit of P.G. Wodehouse style comedy of errors as the painting goes missing, needs retrieving, and then has its secret ultimately revealed. It's all very light stuff, perfect for small daily doses in the newspaper on the way to work, but perhaps too insubstantial for sitting down and reading straight through. Every reader will have their own favorite character that they'll want more of (for me it's Angus Lordie), and the lack of resolution of some of the plotlines is a little jarring at the end. (Although perhaps these will be addressed in future installments, which have since been collected in a new book: Espresso Tales). Edinburgh natives will doubtless get small frissons as they recognize particular locales, but the book could just have easily been set in any major city in the Western world. Not bad stuff, but not great either, decent for passing time.	2005-09-13
56146:US	52254603	R1CVQ4OFFPTFC5	1400077087	703888041	Portuguese Irregular Verbs (Professor Dr von Igelfeld Series)	Books	1	27	44	N	N	Tepid Academic Satire	I have to admit to being somewhat perplexed by those who rave about this book, comparing it to the \\"British humor\\" stylings of Wodehouse, John Cleese, the Mr. Bean series, et al. The latter have each made me laugh out loud countless times -- while this slim volume of short stories barely rates a single smirk. Some have suggested that one needs to be somewhat familiar with academia in order to \\"appreciate\\" the \\"subtle\\" humor involved. Luckily, two of my closest friends are knee-deep in academia (one is a scholar of German philosophy no less!), and it's not that I don't get McCall's little jibes and jests, it's just that they're not particularly amusing. Satires of academia lie thick on the shelves, and the earnest, self-important, bumbling scholar of arcane knowledge is an archetype unto itself. There are plenty of plots revolving around such characters and their infighting, and many (such as David Lodge) do it much better.<br /><br />In Smith's varitation, we meet Herr Professor Dr. von Igelfeld of the Institute of Romance Philology, the author of a seminal work on Portuguese irregular verbs. The eight stories arranged here (and two subsequent books) follow him through various misadventures. These, alas, are not particularly interesting or funny or insightful or....anything. They just are. We find him in his school days, getting his friend into a saber duel (that should give you a sense of the time frame). As a newly minted PhD. and academic slave we follow him and his awful boss on a bewildering trip to Ireland. There are a few trips to Italy in which bad things happen. There is a trip to India where he meets a murderer and a guru. Back in Germany a trip to the dentist leads to heartache. When joined together, the stories form a portrait of a hapless figure seemingly destined to fail. But again, nothing happens, no insights are made, and generally all one gets is a light roasting of academic pretentiousness.<br /><br />The only moment in the entire book that lingers at all is a decent comic sequence in which three academics decide to learn to play tennis by reading the rules. Of course they are all so athletically incompetent that no one can hold serve. Thus, according to the rule book no one can seemingly win a game. They decide the game is defective and stop playing. That's kind of a funny image, and one that I might recall in the years to come. But that's it, otherwise the book has nothing to offer and I will not be seeking out the other two in the series.ngers at all is a decent comic sequence in which three academics decide to learn to play tennis by reading the rules. Of course they are all so athletically incompetent that no one can hold serve. Thus, according to the rule book no one can seemingly win a game. They decide the game is defective and stop playing. That's kind of a funny image, and one that I might recall in the years to come. But that's it, otherwise the book has nothing to offer and I will not be seeking out the other two in the series.	2005-09-13
66946:US	52254603	R1K7JGE8BDA8GO	1401201156	9230544	Sleeper, Vol. 1: Out in the Cold	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good Start to Series	This first Sleeper trade paperback starts things off on an intriguing enough tone and leaves enough interesting questions unanswered to have most readers heading for the next in the series. Set in a present day Earth with superheroes and supervillans, the story is about a government superhero spy who named Holden Carver, who has been sent to penetrate a powerful criminal organization. The story kind of hops back and forth in time a bit, as the authors dole out parts of the backstory here and there, which can be a little confusing at times. As a spy story, it's fairly basic stuff -- the Carver's in so deep he's losing his moral bearing, etc... And oh yeah, the one guy who knows about his mission, the one guy who knows he hasn't really gone rogue, that guy just happens to be in a coma....<br /><br />All of that is pretty familiar stuff, but it's nicely converted to a set of characters with powers and wacky nicknames (for example, Genocide, Triple X-Ray, Miss Misery). Each superperson has a distinct power, but it's not clear if some of these are biomechanical modifications, or genetically engineered, or simply spontaneous superpowers, or what. What stands out is how the writer has thought out the real-world implications of people with superpowers. For example, superheroes are like rock stars, with entourages and groupies hanging off them. And quite naturally, superfolks like to swap origin stories amongst themselves, which is a great device for getting that information to the reader. In any event, the story has Holden rising rapidly in the criminal outfit and getting glimpses of a hidden world of power. It's standard issue conspiracy plot material, but how his crime boss fits into it is unclear and therefore interesting.<br /><br />The book is filled with plenty of fights, plenty of swearing, and very explicit sexual material. None of this is particularly gratuitous (although, as per usual, all the women are drawn to comic fantasy proportions), but works within the storytelling. The artwork leaves something to be desired, a little blocky and simplistic for a story set in the real world. The inking is dark and heavy, appropriate the story. All in all, a fairly decent start to what may be a good series, certainly interesting enough for me to seek out the next in the series.e storytelling. The artwork leaves something to be desired, a little blocky and simplistic for a story set in the real world. The inking is dark and heavy, appropriate the story. All in all, a fairly decent start to what may be a good series, certainly interesting enough for me to seek out the next in the series.	2005-09-08
73355:US	52254603	R2CWWMEZKCP7Q5	1563899809	209291533	Y: The Last Man, Vol. 1: Unmanned	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Good but not Perfect	I missed all the hype about this series, and just happened upon the trade paperback at the library. It's good, very solid storytelling and art that grabs you, but is perhaps not quite as amazing as the many gushing reviews I've since read make it out to be. The premise, as the title says, is that some kind of plague spontaneously kills every male on earth at the same instant -- except a 20something slacker named Yorick and his monkey Ampersand. For some reason, this event also happens to sever his lame over-the-phone marriage proposal to his Playboy-proportioned girlfriend who is hiking around the Australian outback. Scenes of chaos from around the world are shown, and then we jump forward two months to find Yorick in Washington, D.C. trying to track down his Congresswoman mother.<br /><br />Meanwhile, the mysterious nappy-headed Agent 355 is rousting the Secretary of Agriculture from her bed to inform her that she is now the President. Agent 355 was shown previously in Jordan, recovering something called the Amulet of Helene from around the neck of a female doctor, a plot point that does not resurface in this book, but undoubtedly will prove key later on. Another unexplained plotline involves a gun-totin', liptick-wearin', female Israeli army officer intent on invading the surrounding Arab nations in the post plague chaos and the mysterious person in Washington, DC who contacts her about Yorick. But most of the book is about Yorick and the question of what his role is to be in this post-man world. It seems there's an expert in cloning up in Boston who might be able to analyze his blood and figure out some sort of solution. Agent 355 is tasked with getting him up there safely, since he's arguably the most valuable item on the planet.<br /><br />This is complicated by a growing movement of self-styled Amazons who celebrate the removal of men from the face of the Earth. When they get wind of Yorick, they send out a death squad to eliminate him -- a death squad which just happens to include his missing sister (an unnecessary bit of melodrama). They're totally over-the-top, reminiscent of some gang out of the film The Warriors, and their trademark is that they surgically remove one of their breasts! Despite the post-holocaust premise, there's plenty of sly humor to lighten things up. For example, in the background of one panel, Yorick's monkey is furiously hugging a teddy bear. Another example is the place women have selected as the memorial site for their men -- the Washington Monument. The straightforward artwork and paneling is appropriate for the subject matter, which is so story driven.<br /><br />And yet, much as I liked the book, there are plenty of missteps. For example, Yorick seems awfully oblivious to his own importance and repeatedly puts himself in stupid situations. The Amazons also seem far too extreme--the breast removal as symbolic gang badge is silly, and some of them carry bows and arrows in a kind of lame nod to Mad-Max, as if there aren't guns all over the place. There's also a laughable showdown between the wives of dead Republican leaders and Yorick's mother on the steps of the White House. It also seems a little ridiculous (and possibly sexist) that the infrastructure has apparently totally collapsed without men.<br /><br />The book does a great job of setting up a potentially interesting story that cuts across genres (horror, science-fiction, thriller), but this first volume is all questions and no answers. Reading it without volume two on hand is like watching the first episode of a mini-series and then having to wait a week for the next episode to figure out if you really like it. I'll definitely seek out the next.ch just happens to include his missing sister (an unnecessary bit of melodrama). They're totally over-the-top, reminiscent of some gang out of the film The Warriors, and their trademark is that they surgically remove one of their breasts! Despite the post-holocaust premise, there's plenty of sly humor to lighten things up. For example, in the background of one panel, Yorick's monkey is furiously hugging a teddy bear. Another example is the place women have selected as the memorial site for their men -- the Washington Monument. The straightforward artwork and paneling is appropriate for the subject matter, which is so story driven.  <br /> <br />And yet, much as I liked the book, there are plenty of missteps. For example, Yorick seems awfully oblivious to his own importance and repeatedly puts himself in stupid situations. The Amazons also seem far too extreme--the breast removal as symbolic gang badge is silly, and some of them carry bows and arrows in a kind of lame nod to Mad-Max, as if there aren't guns all over the place. There's also a laughable showdown between the wives of dead Republican leaders and Yorick's mother on the steps of the White House. It also seems a little ridiculous (and possibly sexist) that the infrastructure has apparently totally collapsed without men. <br /> <br />The book does a great job of setting up a potentially interesting story that cuts across genres (horror, science-fiction, thriller), but this first volume is all questions and no answers. Reading it without volume two on hand is like watching the first episode of a mini-series and then having to wait a week for the next episode to figure out if you really like it. I'll definitely seek out the next.	2005-09-05
74684:US	52254603	R1W1U9MYV8Z6FW	0316734942	60378634	The Closers	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Bosch Series Takes a Turn for the Better	This is the fourth I've read in the Harry Bosch series, and probably my favorite so far. One of the main reasons for this is probably that in the others, the plot has been a touch too over the top. I tend to not care for serial killer plotlines (as in Concrete Blonde), or grand conspiracies (as in The Black Echo), and this relatively straightforward cold case investigation is more to my liking. I'm also not a fan of the whole \\"detective constantly in trouble with his superiors\\" cliche, which seem an overly large dimension of the other books I've read in series. It's a welcome relief to finally have Bosch be under someone capable he can respect.<br /><br />The book starts with Bosch being rehired by the LAPD to work in the \\"Open-Unsolved\\" Homicide Unit with his old partner, the strangely named Kizmin Rider. This unit is tasked with digging through the archives and tackling old murder cases that were never resolved. This, of course, appeals to Bosch's deep-seated need to dispense justice, and since he's more or less unfit to be anything but a cop, the new assignment looks promising. Their first case dates back to 1988, when a mixed-race teenage girl was abducted from her home and shot. Now, new techniques in DNA evidence have been able to link a white supremacist to the murder weapon and it's up to Bosch and Rider to make the case.<br /><br />Connelly masterfully leads the reader through the procedural aspects of reopening the case, not to mention all the kinks in Bosch and Rider's partnership that need working out. The girl's mother is interviewed, and the father, who is now homeless, has to be tracked down. The original investigators are of little help, one is dead, and the other is now a police commander who is oddly unforthcoming about the case.It soon becomes clear that the original investigation was sloppy, if not outright botched, and Bosch starts trying to find out why. This brings his old nemesis, Deputy Chief Irving back into the picture. It also doesn't help that the person whose DNA has been matched is a tow-truck driver with no obvious connection to the girl. Overall it's a very solid procedural that augurs well for the rest of the series. The \\"Cold Case\\" Unit opens up a wealth of plotline possibilities, and the Connelly is definitely better at reconstructing these old cases than he is at constructing realistic contemporary scenarios.'t help that the person whose DNA has been matched is a tow-truck driver with no obvious connection to the girl. Overall it's a very solid procedural that augurs well for the rest of the series. The \\"Cold Case\\" Unit opens up a wealth of plotline possibilities, and the Connelly is definitely better at reconstructing these old cases than he is at constructing realistic contemporary scenarios.	2005-09-04
77182:US	52254603	R35F5IDJWRMSMW	1592641199	893005562	Double Blank: An Inspector Llob Mystery  (Toby Crime)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Pulp Fiction en Alger	Khadra's first Inspector Llob mystery (Morituri) was a wonderfully unexpected pulp fiction take on a large Arab city. This second in the trilogy is also set in Algiers in the mid-90s at the height of the Civil War. Like that book, it owes more than a little in style to Mickey Spillane and Dashiell Hammett, as the intrepid Inspector delves into a dark a corrupt world of powerful men and their vices. Inspector Llob is a classic seeker of justice, armed with battery of wisecracks and caustic insults -- backed up by a pair of distinctive policemen, pony-tailed Lino and hulking Seddig. The story concerns the beheading of a longtime intellectual who wrote a popular book critiquing the FLN regime, but just recently returned to Algeria. The obvious culprits would be a known cell of Islamic guerillas, but Llob isn't so sure. Just a few days before the murder, the victim had met with Llob and told him that he had explosive information that he was going to turn into a book that would rock the country.<br /><br />As Llob mobilizes his resources and races around the underworld trying to piece together what happened, the bodies start to pile up. Soon he's looking in high places, barging in on the rich and famous in order to find answers. True to Algeria's tragic Civil War, it's a bloody, messy affair, with severed necks, booby-trapped corpses, and dark dark humor (one notorious beheader's nickname is \\"The Hairdresser\\"). The writing is so pulpy and staccato that it's hard for the reader to really engage with the material, it's simply too stylized. Moreover, the entire subject matter is so steeped in such corruption and brutality that many Western readers will likely have a hard time getting a handle on it. One kind of wishes Khadra had slowed the pace down a little and toned down some of the stylistic tics to make it a little more realistic, which would have made it that much more powerful.	2005-09-02
82708:US	52254603	R1N03EUJAO96LB	089733213X	625970190	Sergeant Lamb's America	Books	2	20	26	N	N	Interesting Perspective Somewhat Boringly Presented	Originally published in England under the title \\"Sergeant Lamb of the Ninth\\", this is the first half of Graves' retelling of the life of a British soldier fighting against the American revolutionaries. As regimental historian in the Royal Welsh Fusiliers, he had come across the real Sgt. Lamb's record of service. Twenty years later, while living in America, Graves was near broke and casting about for an idea for a popular book when he remembered Sgt. Lamb. He then duly immersed himself in Revolutionary War history to create order to create this faux memoir. This first volume starts by recounting the childhood of the protagonist, an Irish boy raised near Dublin's docks and given to dreams of adventure. Seemingly destined for a life at sea, his hopes are derailed by his father, who has already lost one son in naval battle and refuses to lose the other.<br /><br />But the boy Lamb finds his way into the military nonetheless, and ends up a redcoat infantryman. The first third or so of the book outlines his path to the army and then training. This is followed by a lengthy background on the American Revolution, from the perspective of a British citizen of the time. For Americans, this is probably the most interesting part of the book -- a quite different perspective on events than one generally receives as a youth. Highlights include the venality of the \\"Founding Fathers\\" and the nastiness of the Boston mobs. Once Lamb actually gets to North America, the book started to lose my attention. His picaresque adventures aren't that enthralling, and while some of the detail of daily life in Canada is kind of interesting, it's not enough to grip one. One episode has him sent off to learn the ways of the Indians so that he may return to impart them to the redcoats, who were fairly hapless against the revolutionaries' guerilla tactics. Another plotline is his rivalry with a fellow soldier, revolving around a woman they both wooed in Ireland and the other married. This descends into melodrama of the Thomas Hardy type.<br /><br />Written in the stilted, formal style of a semi-educated 18th-century Englishman, the prose does a better job of mimicry than of actually being readable. While Lamb's fair-minded assessments of the Continental Army and its success make for a novel perspective, one would have to be greatly interested in Revolutionary War history to make reading this worthwhile. The bits and pieces about British vs. American tactics are decent, but scant. This first book ends with the capture of Lamb and his comrades at the Battle of Saratoga. His escape from prison camp and subsequent adventures are described in \\"Proceed, Sergeant Lamb\\", which I will not be reading. There are also editions available which combine the two books.to melodrama of the Thomas Hardy type.  <br /> <br />Written in the stilted, formal style of a semi-educated 18th-century Englishman, the prose does a better job of mimicry than of actually being readable. While Lamb's fair-minded assessments of the Continental Army and its success make for a novel perspective, one would have to be greatly interested in Revolutionary War history to make reading this worthwhile. The bits and pieces about British vs. American tactics are decent, but scant. This first book ends with the capture of Lamb and his comrades at the Battle of Saratoga. His escape from prison camp and subsequent adventures are described in \\"Proceed, Sergeant Lamb\\", which I will not be reading. There are also editions available which combine the two books.	2005-08-30
82896:US	52254603	R1IU73UI9R1PVL	0375422188	629465826	The Full Cupboard of Life (No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency, Book 5)	Books	2	5	7	N	N	Very Weak Entry in the Series	Like many others, I'm a big fan of the Ladies No. 1 Detective Agency series, but this is a really poor entry that barely even bothers to go through the motions. First of all, Mma Ramotswe has only one case to deal with, a wealthy woman who wants her four suitors checked out to eliminate any golddiggers. The first two she checks out are interesting enough, a bible-thumper seeking to reform bar girls, and a slick radio DJ. But Smith doesn't even get around to the other two, and wraps up that storyline in a very abrupt way. Another plotline revolves around Mr. J.L.B. Matakoni and a dishonest competitor garage, but this is small potatoes that doesn't really amount to much. A third plotline involves Mr. J.L.B. Matakoni's getting dragooned into a parachute jump to raise money for the orphanage, again, doesn't amount to much. The last major plotline concerns the marriage between Mma Ramotswe and Mr. J.L.B. Matakoni -- or rather, the lack thereof. The resolution to this is completely anti-climatic and doesn't do justice to the event. One might forgive the weak plotting if there was some really juicy character development, but there isn't. Even worse, some major characters almost totally disappear: Mma Makutsi has very little role, and the two orphan children adopted by Mr. J.L.B. Matakoni appear only once or twice. The book's got the same warmth and humor as the rest of the series, but it's all sort of perfunctory. One doesn't get nearly the same feel for the country and people. The overall is like looking forward to a weekend visit with old friends, only to find them totally distracted and distant. Big bummer of a book.	2005-08-30
83094:US	52254603	R2TSY8GWJP9035	1400031818	629465826	The Full Cupboard of Life (No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency, Book 5)	Books	2	11	12	N	N	Very Weak Entry in the Series	Like many others, I'm a big fan of the Ladies No. 1 Detective Agency series, but this is a really poor entry that barely even bothers to go through the motions. First of all, Mma Ramotswe has only one case to deal with, a wealthy woman who wants her four suitors checked out to eliminate any golddiggers. The first two she checks out are interesting enough, a bible-thumper seeking to reform bar girls, and a slick radio DJ. But Smith doesn't even get around to the other two, and wraps up that storyline in a very abrupt way. Another plotline revolves around Mr. J.L.B. Matakoni and a dishonest competitor garage, but this is small potatoes that doesn't really amount to much. A third plotline involves Mr. J.L.B. Matakoni's getting dragooned into a parachute jump to raise money for the orphanage, again, doesn't amount to much. The last major plotline concerns the marriage between Mma Ramotswe and Mr. J.L.B. Matakoni -- or rather, the lack thereof. The resolution to this is completely anti-climatic and doesn't do justice to the event. One might forgive the weak plotting if there was some really juicy character development, but there isn't. Even worse, some major characters almost totally disappear: Mma Makutsi has very little role, and the two orphan children adopted by Mr. J.L.B. Matakoni appear only once or twice. The book's got the same warmth and humor as the rest of the series, but it's all sort of perfunctory. One doesn't get nearly the same feel for the country and people. The overall is like looking forward to a weekend visit with old friends, only to find them totally distracted and distant. Big bummer of a book.	2005-08-30
84254:US	52254603	R2ENINFUICKNSA	1857542819	50185345	The Sergeant Lamb Novels (Robert Graves Programme)	Books	2	1	8	N	N	Interesting Perspective Somewhat Boringly Presented	Originally published in England under the title \\"Sergeant Lamb of the Ninth\\", this is the first half of Graves' retelling of the life of a British soldier fighting against the American revolutionaries. As regimental historian in the Royal Welsh Fusiliers, he had come across the real Sgt. Lamb's record of service. Twenty years later, while living in America, Graves was near broke and casting about for an idea for a popular book when he remembered Sgt. Lamb. He then duly immersed himself in Revolutionary War history to create order to create this faux memoir. This first volume starts by recounting the childhood of the protagonist, an Irish boy raised near Dublin's docks and given to dreams of adventure. Seemingly destined for a life at sea, his hopes are derailed by his father, who has already lost one son in naval battle and refuses to lose the other.<br /><br />But the boy Lamb finds his way into the military nonetheless, and ends up a redcoat infantryman. The first third or so of the book outlines his path to the army and then training. This is followed by a lengthy background on the American Revolution, from the perspective of a British citizen of the time. For Americans, this is probably the most interesting part of the book -- a quite different perspective on events than one generally receives as a youth. Highlights include the venality of the \\"Founding Fathers\\" and the nastiness of the Boston mobs. Once Lamb actually gets to North America, the book started to lose my attention. His picaresque adventures aren't that enthralling, and while some of the detail of daily life in Canada is kind of interesting, it's not enough to grip one. One episode has him sent off to learn the ways of the Indians so that he may return to impart them to the redcoats, who were fairly hapless against the revolutionaries' guerilla tactics. Another plotline is his rivalry with a fellow soldier, revolving around a woman they both wooed in Ireland and the other married. This descends into melodrama of the Thomas Hardy type.<br /><br />Written in the stilted, formal style of a semi-educated 18th-century Englishman, the prose does a better job of mimicry than of actually being readable. While Lamb's fair-minded assessments of the Continental Army and its success make for a novel perspective, one would have to be greatly interested in Revolutionary War history to make reading this worthwhile. The bits and pieces about British vs. American tactics are decent, but scant. This first book ends with the capture of Lamb and his comrades at the Battle of Saratoga. His escape from prison camp and subsequent adventures are described in \\"Proceed, Sergeant Lamb\\", which I will not be reading. There are also editions available which combine the two books.to melodrama of the Thomas Hardy type.  <br /> <br />Written in the stilted, formal style of a semi-educated 18th-century Englishman, the prose does a better job of mimicry than of actually being readable. While Lamb's fair-minded assessments of the Continental Army and its success make for a novel perspective, one would have to be greatly interested in Revolutionary War history to make reading this worthwhile. The bits and pieces about British vs. American tactics are decent, but scant. This first book ends with the capture of Lamb and his comrades at the Battle of Saratoga. His escape from prison camp and subsequent adventures are described in \\"Proceed, Sergeant Lamb\\", which I will not be reading. There are also editions available which combine the two books.	2005-08-30
84559:US	52254603	R1PE5FNIV2BD3L	0736617248	721150611	Sergeant Lamb Of The Ninth	Books	2	5	7	N	N	Interesting Perspective Somewhat Boringly Presented	Originally published in England under the title \\"Sergeant Lamb of the Ninth\\", this is the first half of Graves' retelling of the life of a British soldier fighting against the American revolutionaries. As regimental historian in the Royal Welsh Fusiliers, he had come across the real Sgt. Lamb's record of service. Twenty years later, while living in America, Graves was near broke and casting about for an idea for a popular book when he remembered Sgt. Lamb. He then duly immersed himself in Revolutionary War history to create order to create this faux memoir. This first volume starts by recounting the childhood of the protagonist, an Irish boy raised near Dublin's docks and given to dreams of adventure. Seemingly destined for a life at sea, his hopes are derailed by his father, who has already lost one son in naval battle and refuses to lose the other.<br /><br />But the boy Lamb finds his way into the military nonetheless, and ends up a redcoat infantryman. The first third or so of the book outlines his path to the army and then training. This is followed by a lengthy background on the American Revolution, from the perspective of a British citizen of the time. For Americans, this is probably the most interesting part of the book -- a quite different perspective on events than one generally receives as a youth. Highlights include the venality of the \\"Founding Fathers\\" and the nastiness of the Boston mobs. Once Lamb actually gets to North America, the book started to lose my attention. His picaresque adventures aren't that enthralling, and while some of the detail of daily life in Canada is kind of interesting, it's not enough to grip one. One episode has him sent off to learn the ways of the Indians so that he may return to impart them to the redcoats, who were fairly hapless against the revolutionaries' guerilla tactics. Another plotline is his rivalry with a fellow soldier, revolving around a woman they both wooed in Ireland and the other married. This descends into melodrama of the Thomas Hardy type.<br /><br />Written in the stilted, formal style of a semi-educated 18th-century Englishman, the prose does a better job of mimicry than of actually being readable. While Lamb's fair-minded assessments of the Continental Army and its success make for a novel perspective, one would have to be greatly interested in Revolutionary War history to make reading this worthwhile. The bits and pieces about British vs. American tactics are decent, but scant. This first book ends with the capture of Lamb and his comrades at the Battle of Saratoga. His escape from prison camp and subsequent adventures are described in \\"Proceed, Sergeant Lamb\\", which I will not be reading. There are also editions available which combine the two books.to melodrama of the Thomas Hardy type.  <br /> <br />Written in the stilted, formal style of a semi-educated 18th-century Englishman, the prose does a better job of mimicry than of actually being readable. While Lamb's fair-minded assessments of the Continental Army and its success make for a novel perspective, one would have to be greatly interested in Revolutionary War history to make reading this worthwhile. The bits and pieces about British vs. American tactics are decent, but scant. This first book ends with the capture of Lamb and his comrades at the Battle of Saratoga. His escape from prison camp and subsequent adventures are described in \\"Proceed, Sergeant Lamb\\", which I will not be reading. There are also editions available which combine the two books.	2005-08-30
87315:US	52254603	R347KBHFS3LZ7C	0747241392	42285780	Skinner's Rules (Bob Skinner Mysteries)	Books	2	6	7	N	N	A Series Debut Full of Missteps	The first of Jardine's 11-book (so far) Skinner series introduces us to Edinburgh's Detective Chief Superintendent Bob Skinner. Unlike a lot of series heroes, Skinner is a pretty well adjusted, good-looking, sharp-dressing, kind of guy. The only dark part to him is his wife's death in a car accident years ago, but he seems to have sorted that out in his head as well. It's kind of a nice change of pace to come across a policeman protagonist without tons of neurosis or baggage -- and yet he's almost boringly good. In addition to the above, he's a crack shot, a karate black belt, a good cook, a great father to his daughter, and a sensitive lover to his American doctor girlfriend. There's not a whole lot of room for him to develop as a series character, just wind him up and unleash him on the crime...<br /><br />The crime here is a nasty decapitation killing of a young advocate in the wee hours on the Royal Mile. Soon after Skinner has launched the investigation, a homeless man is set on fire and killed not too far away. There are very few leads and Skinner's team is getting nowhere, when a woman is killed with a meat cleaver and a young policeman has his throat cut in the same area. Now it's clear that there's some sort of maniac at work, but there's still no physical evidence to go on and not much else. When another advocate, the girlfriend of the first victim, jumps or is pushed in front of a train in Glasgow and dies, Skinner finally has something to go on. Jardine nicely covers the procedural aspect of the investigation into the lives of the two advocates, including searches of their homes, interviews with family and friends. This is all the usual stuff, but it's done quite well. When another victim from the past turns up, Skinner's got a motive and soon a suspect in custody.<br /><br />Unfortunately, this is where the book starts to veer into the ridiculous thriller zone. It seems the suspect has diplomatic immunity, and the Foreign Office is adamant that he can't be charged or publicly accused in any way. Why a businessman running a chemical plant in Scotland would be granted diplomatic accreditation is never explained, and Jardine seems to hope that the reader won't realize that this makes no sense at all. The FO's insistence that the Japanese not drop his diplomatic immunity because otherwise some sort of legal precedent might be set is equally off-base, there have been numerous instances of diplomats who've committed crimes and had their immunity revoked by their own governments. This is all a flimsy device to set up future plot developments.<br /><br />Naturally Skinner's not happy with this outcome, and weeks later a reason to reopen the investigation pops into his head. Now, however, he's proceeding with extreme discretion, using only a hand-picked team to sift over the evidence again, looking for links between the two dead advocates. Again, the procedural aspects of this are done quite well, and one gets to see a little more of the supporting police cast at work. Although, again, all the police seem fairly good, well-adjusted people who do their jobs well. As in so many crime novels, the answer lies deep in the past, and in the final third of the book, we're dropped into a ridiculous James Bond plotline. Without giving it away, this involves the impending visit of a fictitious new Syrian president to a participate in a debate at Edinburgh University (yeah, right!), shadowy SAS operatives, and \\"an enormously sophisticated operation, brilliantly conceived by totally ruthless men\\" leading to \\"economic enslavement\\" of the world. This is just awful, implausible stuff, the kind of conspiracy plotting that anyone with an ounce of sense could poke holes in without any effort whatsoever.<br /><br />I prefer my crime novels to stick to realistic plots, so by the end, I was pretty disappointed with this series debut. It may be a case of a first-time writer overreaching himself, so I might try one or two more in the series to see if they're any better and if the characters develop at all. Edinburgh never really comes alive in the book either, so hopefully future installments make more use of the city's atmosphere.ies to see if they're any better and if the characters develop at all. Edinburgh never really comes alive in the book either, so hopefully future installments make more use of the city's atmosphere.	2005-08-28
88422:US	52254603	R1G2FQTS8N67WU	0743241924	646193804	The Men Who Stare at Goats	Books	4	7	7	N	N	The Lunatics _Are_ Running the Asylum	It's hard to know where to begin with this book from British freelance journalist and documentarian Ronson. It is, in a sense, victim to a kind of clandestine catch-22. The claims made in it are so outrageously bizarre that they demand documentation to substantiate and take seriously. And yet, the matters involved are so ultra secret and frightening that it's unlikely such documentation could ever be produced without resorting to real espionage. So even though Ronson manages to get surprising number of former officers and others to go on the record about the American military's flirtation with the paranormal over the last 25 years, one has to kind of read the book with either a grain of salt or a bit of faith.<br /><br />The basic gist is that in the years following the end of the Vietnam War, there was a real malaise in the American military. An officer named Jim Channon took it upon himself to examine alternative forms of warfare and spent about a year traveling around the U.S. immersed in the new agey, positive self-transformation movement that was burgeoning at the time (and still does). He wrote a manual in 1979 based on his findings, full of suggestions, some wackier than others, some of which have been explored the military intelligence community. At the core of his manual was the notion that the military could create \\"warrior monks\\" trained in paranormal techniques such remote viewing, mind control, and invisibility. To that end, there was a secret unit established which was involved in remote viewing and, as the title indicates, attempts to psychically kill animals by staring at them. One of the less bizarre offshoots of this research is the blasting of music by the military and FBI in siege situations (such as Panama or Waco) and at detainees in Iraq and elsewhere. There's also some interesting stuff about subliminal messages, and the entirely strange detainee experience of a British man, who was subjected to Fleetwood Mac covers, Kris Kristofferson, and Matchbox 20 at normal volume for no apparent reason.<br /><br />The story is such a tangled one with so many bizarre threads that one has to applaud Ronson for keeping it all in some semblance of order -- although the bit about the Art Bell show and Heavens Gate cult seemed to stray a little too far from the core. Ronson's approach is to simply keep asking questions, acting naive to his interviewees and then devastatingly connecting the dots in writing. The writing style is so breezy and wittily deadpan that it somewhat undercuts the seriousness of the topics under discussion, although to be fair, when he does discuss detainee torture and the apparent murder of a civilian scientist, the tone does switch to appropriately respectful. Indeed, the parts of the book that trace how the more whimsical fancys of the late '70s got twisted into the very real torture at Abu Gharib prison (and elsewhere) are chilling. Similarly, his account of the famous CIA MKULTRA experiments of the '50s turn what might be comical into sobering stuff.<br /><br />The whole thing is rather unsettling, because even though much of it is pretty wacky stuff, there's no disputing that a good portion of it is true. And yes, it'll confirm the worst beliefs of those who are are distrustful of the American military establishment, but it should prove shocking to the rest of us as well. It's hard to know what to do after reading a book like this other than scream for greater transparency in the intelligence community. But when the president has authorized some $30 billion for \\"off the books\\" operations... one gets the uncomfortable sense this may be only the tip of the iceberg.<br /><br />PS. In conjunction with this book, Ronson put together a three-part documentary called The Crazy Rulers of the World which ran on BBC4 in the UK.d Matchbox 20 at normal volume for no apparent reason.  <br /> <br />The story is such a tangled one with so many bizarre threads that one has to applaud Ronson for keeping it all in some semblance of order -- although the bit about the Art Bell show and Heavens Gate cult seemed to stray a little too far from the core. Ronson's approach is to simply keep asking questions, acting naive to his interviewees and then devastatingly connecting the dots in writing. The writing style is so breezy and wittily deadpan that it somewhat undercuts the seriousness of the topics under discussion, although to be fair, when he does discuss detainee torture and the apparent murder of a civilian scientist, the tone does switch to appropriately respectful. Indeed, the parts of the book that trace how the more whimsical fancys of the late '70s got twisted into the very real torture at Abu Gharib prison (and elsewhere) are chilling. Similarly, his account of the famous CIA MKULTRA experiments of the '50s turn what might be comical into sobering stuff.  <br /> <br />The whole thing is rather unsettling, because even though much of it is pretty wacky stuff, there's no disputing that a good portion of it is true. And yes, it'll confirm the worst beliefs of those who are are distrustful of the American military establishment, but it should prove shocking to the rest of us as well. It's hard to know what to do after reading a book like this other than scream for greater transparency in the intelligence community. But when the president has authorized some $30 billion for \\"off the books\\" operations... one gets the uncomfortable sense this may be only the tip of the iceberg. <br /> <br />PS. In conjunction with this book, Ronson put together a three-part documentary called The Crazy Rulers of the World which ran on BBC4 in the UK.	2005-08-27
89045:US	52254603	R2YW3PTTZPE9HB	0399152695	863353547	Hitler's Peace	Books	3	38	39	N	N	Reasonably Average WWII Thriller	Fans of Kerr's brilliant Berlin Noir trilogy (such as myself), will likely be dismayed by his new this WWII thriller. The brooding mood and fine detail that made that series so memorable is almost entirely absent in this high-level espionage escapade. Which is not to say it isn't entertaining, because it is a reasonable beach/airplane page-turner. But at the heart, it's just a run of the mill 450 page potboiler.<br /><br />The basic idea is that in 1943, the outcome of the European theater was more or less a foregone conclusion. The Allies would win, and the only questions was how long it would take and at what cost. What Kerr is most interested in is showing all the jostling for position both between the Allies (eg. how much territory is Stalin going to get), and the various factions within Germany, as all parties engage in separate secret peace talks. Amidst this frantic backdoor maneuvering, the Nazi high command comes across less as fearsome masterminds of war and terror than a particularly cunning and nasty group of teenage girls, each attempting to sow dissention, backstab, and rise to the top of postwar Germany. Readers without a fairly good background in the German side of the war (such as myself) will need a scorecard to keep track of who hates who, why, and which people are plotting against each other. It gets so mind-boggling that one half-suspects that if all that energy had only been directed at defeating the Allies we might all be speaking German now.<br /><br />In any event, the book's protagonist is Prof. Willard Mayer, an American professor of empirical philosophy now employed as an analyst for the OSS due to his pre-war German background and language skills. He is asked by President Roosevelt to evaluate a report on the Katyn Forest Massacre, in which thousands of Polish officers were killed by the Soviets (remember, the Polish were Allied forces). Later, the President asks him to be part of his staff heading to the Tehran Conference where the \\"Big Three\\" (Roosevelt, Stalin, Churchill) would meet to strategize about the war and bargain about what would happen afterward. En route, Mayer slowly starts to believe he has uncovered some kind of plot to kill one of the Big Three, and most of the middle of the book has him poking around trying to prove this in the face of much skepticism. Meanwhile, we get a lot of stuff from the German side, including Gen. Schellenberg's audacious plot to kill the Big Three, and thus with a single stroke, change the entire complexion of the war. Here, there is a lot of stuff involving long-range bombers, paratroopers and the like (in a historical at the end of the book one learns that paratroopers were inserted to Iran for just such a purpose!).<br /><br />Other, less important historical tidbits are plastered all over the place, few of which add to the story. More problematic is Mayer, a protagonist bordering on anti-hero who is entirely self-centered, pretentious, and irritating. On the one hand, it's nice to come across a thriller protagonist who isn't a superhero, but did he have to be that annoying? His major transformation near the end feels totally unconvincing and ends the book on a particularly flat note. His presence also gives Kerr an excuse to inject a tiresome running debate concerning moral tradeoffs and realpolitik that reads high-school stuff -- on the level of \\"If you could go back in time and shoot Hitler, would you? Would that be a moral act?\\" Schellenberg is a much more interesting character, and the sections set in Germany tend to be the stronger ones. The entire book is populated by historical figures, who tend to overshadow everything else when they are on stage. All the usual suspects are there, Roosevelt, Churchill, Stalin, Hitler, Himmler, Borman, Goering, et al, but we also get a surprisingly indiscreet Kim Philby, as well as Lord Rothschild , and even Evelyn Waugh makes a rather silly cameo.<br /><br />Definitely not what fans of the Berlin Noir trilogywould have hoped for. Those who enjoy WWII thrillers will probably be a lot more forgiving -- after all, it is a pretty good read when compared with most of the genre. And to Kerr's credit, he does manage to unveil one big whammy of a twist and his fictionalization of famous historical figures rises well above caricature.ir trilogy would have hoped for. Those who enjoy WWII thrillers will probably be a lot more forgiving -- after all, it is a pretty good read when compared with most of the genre. And to Kerr's credit, he does manage to unveil one big whammy of a twist and his fictionalization of famous historical figures rises well above caricature.	2005-08-27
93124:US	52254603	RAPMX1OQ71U2	076791757X	765552687	Crossworld: One Man's Journey into America's Crossword Obsession	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Flawed and Rambling but OK	I picked this book up at the library for three reasons: (1) I had read and enjoyed Stephen Fastis's book about Scrabble (Word Freak); (2) I am a casual crossword solver, going through occasional jags but never venturing near anything as daunting as the NYT puzzle; and (3) my late grandmother was an inveterate crossword solver who could rip through the NYT puzzle. By the end I was more or less glad I had read the book, but not exactly eager for more. Romano's breezy overview of the crossword world is built around two trips to crosswording's big annual event, the American Crossword Puzzle Tournament. The first time he goes as a reporter, the second as a contestant/reporter bent on doing respectably well.<br /><br />The book that was born of this often has the feel of a decent essay puffed out and diluted to book length. We get the requisite potted history of crosswords, very rough speculation as to crossword puzzling demographics, profiles of a few crosswording luminaries, lots of discussion about how to solve puzzles faster, and some very hokey speculation about what kind of people crossworders are. There are a lot of stylistic tics to Romano's writing, and readers with an aversion to any of the following should consider themselves warned: tangential asides, jokey asides, show-offy vocabulary, borderline pretension, repetition, and disorganized presentation. Another irksome part is that since the book revolves around the author's own obsession with puzzling, and his performance at the tournament, the reader is constantly being told how fast he can do certain kinds of puzzles. So, unless you're one of the few hundred people in the country who are faster than him (eg. can you do the Sunday NYT puzzle in under 30 minutes?), it starts to feel an awful lot like boasting -- even thought it clearly isn't meant to be.<br /><br />The book is somewhat limited in that while he does talk briefly to a fair number of constructors (those who make puzzles), he only really spends a great deal of time with the guru of puzzling, New York Times editor Will Shortz, and one of the younger, hipper people on the crosswording scene, constructor Brendan Emmett Quigley. And make no mistake, the focus is entirely on the New York Times puzzle, which again, is kind of limiting. It would have been interesting for him to contrast the world of \\"high\\" puzzling the NYT represents with the world of \\"low\\" puzzling, say the TV Guide puzzle, or those little books you can get for 99 cents at the supermarket checkout. It would have been interesting to see the contrast between the kinds of people who do the different kinds of puzzles. Instead, the focus is on \\"Rainman\\"-like savants who solve puzzles faster than the normal population could fill them in with random letters. But the worst parts of the book are those sections where Romano tries to speculate that the desire to create and solve puzzles is driven from our unconscious need to \\"create order by proxy\\" and \\"put back together the pieces of our broken world.\\" This is terrible undergraduate psychology stuff, only outdone by his notion that being a crossworder can make you \\"a better, more informed, fairer, and more tolerant person.\\"<br /><br />So, if you can ignore a lot of hokum, there is a reasonably entertaining book about crossword puzzles buried in here. I personally quite liked all the asides, tangents, and humor in Romano's writing, but other aspects of it were profoundly irritating. Ultimately, I think one needs to be a little more than a casual crossworder to really enjoy the book.s a great deal of time with the guru of puzzling, New York Times editor Will Shortz, and one of the younger, hipper people on the crosswording scene, constructor Brendan Emmett Quigley. And make no mistake, the focus is entirely on the New York Times puzzle, which again, is kind of limiting. It would have been interesting for him to contrast the world of \\"high\\" puzzling the NYT represents with the world of \\"low\\" puzzling, say the TV Guide puzzle, or those little books you can get for 99 cents at the supermarket checkout. It would have been interesting to see the contrast between the kinds of people who do the different kinds of puzzles. Instead, the focus is on \\"Rainman\\"-like savants who solve puzzles faster than the normal population could fill them in with random letters. But the worst parts of the book are those sections where Romano tries to speculate that the desire to create and solve puzzles is driven from our unconscious need to \\"create order by proxy\\" and \\"put back together the pieces of our broken world.\\" This is terrible undergraduate psychology stuff, only outdone by his notion that being a crossworder can make you \\"a better, more informed, fairer, and more tolerant person.\\"  <br /> <br />So, if you can ignore a lot of hokum, there is a reasonably entertaining book about crossword puzzles buried in here. I personally quite liked all the asides, tangents, and humor in Romano's writing, but other aspects of it were profoundly irritating. Ultimately, I think one needs to be a little more than a casual crossworder to really enjoy the book.	2005-08-25
95069:US	52254603	RP4KOO7P0A72H	1400031540	313314270	The Fifth Woman (A Kurt Wallander Mystery)	Books	3	55	64	N	N	Kurt Plods After Another Serial Killer	This is the sixth book in the Wallander series, and probably the last I'll read for quite a while. The series started out promisingly enough with Faceless Killers, an interesting police procedural plot introducing the reader to the ever-forlorn Wallander and his southern Swedish district. However, subsequent books have strayed into over-the-top thriller areas, including plotlines involving a 14-year-old serial killer (Sidetracked) and the attempted assassination of Nelson Mandela (The White Lioness)! This book returns to the procedural format, although at 450 pages perhaps overdoes it a bit.<br /><br />Rather oddly, the story begins with the death of a woman in North Africa (presumably Algeria), which apparently gives her daughter the psychic release needed to embark on a series of killings from a list of names. The first of these involves a retired car dealer who falls into a punji-stake trap. Wallander, who has just come back from vacationing with his father in Italy, is once again drawn into an elaborate serial killer's plot. This time, there's very little to go on and as the investigative team attempts to dig into the background of the retired man, it takes a very long time for Wallander to get any traction on the case. Eventually a connection is made with the disappearance of a local florist and his body's subsequent discovery. Still, the pace is excruciatingly slow, even more so than others in the series. When a third body shows up, the motive for the killings is finally deduced, but there's still plenty of work to do in order to piece together the common element that will identify the murderer. As Wallander winnows down the massive amount of forensic, historical, and psychological data, he must also contend with the appearance of citizen vigilante groups and the sudden death of his father, not to mention his own ambivalence about his relationship with long-distance lover Baiba.<br /><br />Eventually, Wallander's trademark methodical analysis and a little inspiration guide him to the right answer. But by then the reader is pretty exhausted by the whole thing. True, it's realistic to show the massive amount of footwork that it takes to follow up every lead until it dead ends, but since the reader is given access to the killer all the way through, it doesn't make for great tension. It also rings somewhat false that Wallander and the other police are constantly moaning about how brutal the killings are. These are the same police who were dealing with a serial killer scalper a year or two previously, and in Faceless Killers the inciting crime is the brutal bludgeoning murder of an elderly couple! Similarly, for most of the book Wallander completely rules out the notion that a woman could be the killer. This seems like a rather unlikely blind spot, considering that they've just dealt with a serial killer who is barely more than a child in \\"Sidetracked\\". As in the other books in the series, Wallander ruminates on the rise of crime in Sweden, and contemplates quitting the police force. All in all, the book is dreary and plodding, and the insights into Swedish society are similar to those given in previous books in the series. Time for something new.e inspiration guide him to the right answer. But by then the reader is pretty exhausted by the whole thing. True, it's realistic to show the massive amount of footwork that it takes to follow up every lead until it dead ends, but since the reader is given access to the killer all the way through, it doesn't make for great tension. It also rings somewhat false that Wallander and the other police are constantly moaning about how brutal the killings are. These are the same police who were dealing with a serial killer scalper a year or two previously, and in Faceless Killers the inciting crime is the brutal bludgeoning murder of an elderly couple! Similarly, for most of the book Wallander completely rules out the notion that a woman could be the killer. This seems like a rather unlikely blind spot, considering that they've just dealt with a serial killer who is barely more than a child in \\"Sidetracked\\". As in the other books in the series, Wallander ruminates on the rise of crime in Sweden, and contemplates quitting the police force. All in all, the book is dreary and plodding, and the insights into Swedish society are similar to those given in previous books in the series. Time for something new.	2005-08-24
96325:US	52254603	R2TQSK2DEUGUTC	0966189965	850833689	Skytrain to Murder	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Weak Main Story, Good Local Color	There's no real reason to read this average pulp thriller unless you're specifically interested in the sights and sounds of Bangkok. The hero is an ex-CIA operative Scott Sterling, now living the expatriate life, eking out a living as a scuba dive instructor and part-time private detective. However, one gets the distinct impression that he spends most of his hours haunting the bars of Soi Cowboy. The story kicks off in true pulp fashion, with a sexy blonde walks into a bar and captures his attention. But before she can become a client, she turns up murdered. Feeling inappropriately obligated, Scott decides to investigate and soon finds himself in a predictably murky plot involving rich men, expensive call girls, and sexual shenanigans.<br /><br />Fortunately, this rather rote material isn't all there is to the book. The author provides a bridge to the Thai people via the sassy bar girls Scott knows (and lives amidst in his run-down apartment), and Dao, his kickboxer girlfriend. Of course the whole notion of the ex-CIA guy with the sexy (every woman in the book is sexy) local Muay Thai champ is pretty over-the-top, but that's the kind of book this is. There's a fairly significant subplot involving a gang of slum loansharks who kidnap a girl and Scott's mission to free her. This brings Dao's gangster/monk brother into the story, and the entire affair is kind of overpowers the main plot, which seems curiously commonplace next to the colorful local scene. A lot is made of Dao's character as well, plenty on her her training and then a long blow-by-blow account of her \\"big match\\".<br /><br />So, this is a curious failure of a book in that when Barrett leaves the main plot, it generally gets much better. The details of Dao's spartan kickboxing camp are quite interesting, as are the dynamics of the slums, the funny scenes in bars involving other colorful expatriates, and even the scuba instructor parts. In other words, all the local flavor stuff is nicely done and rings with authenticity, while the murder plot seems kind of paint-by-numbers. The hero seems rather too easily surprised in the climax, although the manner of his deliverance was quite clever. In sum, don't read this for thrills and a good murder mystery, read it because you want a sense of life as an expatriate boozer in Bangkok.s with authenticity, while the murder plot seems kind of paint-by-numbers. The hero seems rather too easily surprised in the climax, although the manner of his deliverance was quite clever. In sum, don't read this for thrills and a good murder mystery, read it because you want a sense of life as an expatriate boozer in Bangkok.	2005-08-23
97528:US	52254603	R18E9RQ7SI4RTS	0007122993	33250082	The Pirate	Books	3	0	0	N	N	OK but Gimmicky	Twin plots alternate in this somewhat unfulfilling novel about two Scots named Martin Law who -- in very different times and very different ways -- step outside of the bounds of law-abiding life. The first Martin is a young university student summering in the Riviera with a few classmates in the early 1990s. A chance meeting, coupled with a greater taste for adventure than his pals, leads contemporary Martin to ditch the campground and squat in a posh yacht with his enigmatic and shady new French pal. One thing leads to another, and soon he's ditched his studies and his family, and is into drug dealing, then some strange boating, before finally settling down with a Scandinavian beauty, having a kid, and opening a bar in Marbella. Meanwhile, alternating chapters tell the story of 18th-century Martin, who has completed his studies to become a doctor and signed on to be ship's doctor. The boat is a poorly commanded vessel destined to partake in the slave trade, and it doesn't take long for him to realize that he can't be a party to such evil. Some swashbuckling later, he emerges as a pirate captain. The parallel Martin's are basically good guys who drift into lives of crime, but the twin storylines don't add up to much more than a well-done gimmick.	2005-08-22
98326:US	52254603	RA7VDN4JKQGWF	0385514077	815646746	Small Crimes in an Age of Abundance	Books	2	6	7	N	N	Massively Disappointing	I loved, loved, loved Kneale's novel English Passengers and was utterly disappointed by this trite collection of short stories. Using the story of the settlement of Tasmania, English Passengers was a tightly controlled broadside against colonial racism, injustice, and cultural imperialism, allowing the anger to flow through the characters' voices in a way that worked organically. Here, although the theme is very similar, the modern situations feel contrived and artificial, each story a carefully constructed attempt to push the reader's buttons and raise awareness. Crisscrossing the world and ranging in length from under ten pages to almost forty, they feel less like stories than lessons one is supposed to learn.<br /><br />In \\"Stone\\" an English family goes on vacation to China due to their insecure need to keep up with the Joneses. Totally out of their element and off-track, when the wife loses a valuable piece of jewelry a cross-cultural misunderstanding predictable results in a terrible tragedy. Keeping up with the neighbors is more explicitly the theme of \\"Powder\\", in which a nebbish London lawyer stumbles onto bag of cocaine and cell phone. He starts dealing the stuff in order to fulfill material dreams, and the entire family spins into corruption they can't escape. Cocaine is also the catalyst in \\"Leaves\\", a short sketch which follows a Columbian family whose meager crop farm is destroyed by anti-coca spraying. Of course the law of unintended consequences takes effect as they move elsewhere to pursue farming of a different sort.<br /><br />\\"Weight\\" once again takes the reader to China, where a Texas oil worker meets a beautiful Chinese woman. He manages to stumble through the cross-cultural pitfalls of marriage, but when they return to Houston, jealousy predictably rears its ugly head. The very short \\"Pills\\" follows an Ethiopian villager making an arduous trek to intercept two Western travelers to get medicine for her child. \\"Metal\\" remains in Africa, where and English businessman on a trip gets in a car accident and then swept up in anti-government riot. He helps his driver and local shanty dwellers help him escape the riot. This experience of human connection gets him all touchy-feely and he vows to quit his job and do something more meaningful with his life. A day later he reconsiders, and the oh-so-ironic punchline is that he's an arms salesman selling military helicopters.<br /><br />The brief \\"Taste\\" has a wealthy and unfulfilled London peeress tracking down her Hispanic maid to accuse her of stealing small candied chestnuts and fire her, only to have the woman's warm apartment thaw her soul. In \\"Sound\\" a hipster London music writer buys flat in dodgy backstreet and gets paranoid about a black guy he keeps seeing. Each thinks the other is dangerous, but their confrontation has a rather unexpected result. It's a particularly sermonizing piece that reads like something a teenager would have done for some racial sensitivity writing contest. \\"Sunlight\\" is about a rich Englishwoman and her poor writer boyfriend who buy house in Italy on a romantic whim. Naturally the restoration goes badly, cross-cultural insults ensure, but the outcome is a bit more unexpected than the other stories.<br /><br />\\"Seasons\\" is a brief story that doesn't quite fit the pattern of the rest of the collection. It's simply about a group of old school friends meeting in pub before one heads off to Iraq. In \\"Numbers\\" an American military aviation engineer's precisely ordered life starts to derail when his wife's brother starts dying and she gets depressed. He's unable to understand and deal with the messier part of life, and his family life starts to fall apart until she bounces back. It's also somewhat different from the rest of the book and is a little more interesting for it. The final story is \\"White\\" a very well-imagined glimpse into the mind of a Palestinian suicide bomber crippled by doubt and fear as he recalls his brother's call from Canada telling him of the possibilities of a new life there. It's protagonist is much less certain and directed than others in the collection, and thus it feels more open and real.<br /><br />Ultimately, the book is about the baser sides of the human soul. The one that let us harm our fellow man through selfishness, greed, arrogance, or simple laziness or unwillingness to try and connect with others. This aim is certainly noble, but Kneale's attempt to bring home some of the human cost of globalization is simply far too calculated to have much impact. Which is a shame, because the prose is quite good, and he's good at sketching characters and situations in a minimum of space. And he's certainly good at creating a sense of time and place, from London to Africa to China to strip-mall Houston. But on the whole the collection is a failure because none of it seems real.from Canada telling him of the possibilities of a new life there. It's protagonist is much less certain and directed than others in the collection, and thus it feels more open and real.  <br /> <br />Ultimately, the book is about the baser sides of the human soul. The one that let us harm our fellow man through selfishness, greed, arrogance, or simple laziness or unwillingness to try and connect with others. This aim is certainly noble, but Kneale's attempt to bring home some of the human cost of globalization is simply far too calculated to have much impact. Which is a shame, because the prose is quite good, and he's good at sketching characters and situations in a minimum of space. And he's certainly good at creating a sense of time and place, from London to Africa to China to strip-mall Houston. But on the whole the collection is a failure because none of it seems real.	2005-08-22
98549:US	52254603	R3V6DS62LCN98L	189659784X	997890283	Clyde Fans: Book-1 (Bk.1)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Quiet Lives	Canadian graphic superstar Seth here collects issues 10-15 of his \\"Palookaville\\" comic book to tell the partial story of a pair of introverted Toronto brothers. The first half of the book is set in 1997, and is a rambling interior monologue by the older of the brothers, Abraham. The panels follow the elderly Abraham as he wanders through the downtown building that was the home and office for his family for the last fifty years. We see him getting dressed, making food, taking a bath, puttering around, checking the weather, and soforth while declaiming on the art of salesmanship and giving the history of the rise and fall of the family fan business and his own role in it. Most importantly, perhaps, he explains how he overcame his preference for solitude in order to operate in the \\"real\\" world, while his brother spent his whole life hiding from the world. The second part follows the younger brother Simon on his one attempt to brave the outside world, a spectacularly unsuccessful sales trip in 1957. Every encounter Simon has is one of negation and his lack of self-confidence feeds into a whirlpool of failure. There's not a lot that goes on over the course of the book, more the evocation of a sense of failure and unfulfilled lives. The art is beautifully printed in a mix of cyan and black on a natural color stock which greatly adds to the sense of wistfulness and nostalgia that permeates the story. However, like a well-crafted short story about a characters I can't identify with, the book didn't do much for me, although I can recognize its quality and potential to appeal to others.	2005-08-22
99232:US	52254603	R3N5E9BVN3VCKM	0312890230	651329819	The Child Garden: A Low Comedy	Books	1	5	9	N	N	Didn't Connect with Me at All	In an average year, I read about a hundred works of fiction ranging across all genres, and only fail to finish two or three. This Arthur C. Clarke Award-winner is one of this year's few... I had previously enjoyed Ryman's 253, and the book cover synopsis sounded promising, but I just could not connect with this one at all. The setup, a post-apocalyptic tropical London in which the population is all young and children are educated via viruses. In order to maintain civilization, subjects such as law, politics, and art are distributed via these viruses so that destiny is reduced to pure biology. There's a monolithic \\"Consensus\\" which runs the country, making sure that any unconformity is rooted out. This is all solid stuff that has formed the basis for many a disturbing exercise in speculative fiction.<br /><br />And of course, the story is about an outsider, a girl named Milena who is naturally resistant to viruses and is trying to hide this. She'd rather discover life on her own, and discovers the beauty of music through a talented outcast polar bear. This develops into a strange lesbian relationship with the bear and after about a hundred pages I just didn't care about any of the characters and the story didn't seem to be leading anywhere of interest. There were a few interesting bits and pieces, such as the genetically engineered postman who has instant recall and spends his days delivering messages around the neighborhood, but these are few and far between. I don't like to give up on books, and I don't necessarily think it's a bad book, but it certainly wasn't to my taste whatsoever.	2005-08-21
99925:US	52254603	R2UTOE9D1XXSGT	1592660355	83572768	Dia De Los Muertos	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Down and Out in TJ	The 36 hours chronicled in this hard-boiled crime novel are among the pulpiest one is likely to find. Set in Tijuana during the Day of the Dead festival on November 2, the story follows Vince Calhoun, a DEA agent gone totally off the rails. As a young man he was a teacher in Southern California -- that is, until he couldn't keep his hands off a sexy student and was brought up on statutory rape charges. He chose Marines over jail, and it's implied, spent some dirty years in Central America at the behest of Uncle Sam. Now, he's a man with nothing to lose, smuggling people across the border for a hefty fee and losing all of this back at the greyhound tracks. Although he's scum, he's not the lowest scum in Tijuana -- that would be an Englishman named Slaughter, the one Vince owes a lot of money to.<br /><br />The book all takes place in one crazy day and night, as Vince scrambles to cross four Chinese woman on one run, some wealthy Central Americans in another, borrow a boatload of money from a deadly loan shark for four hours, place it on a \\"can't miss\\" tip from a friend, all while trying to stave off dengue fever that has him bleeding from the eyes and ears. Oh yeah, there's also the small matter of the love of his life (the former student) getting released from jail today. Plus, the final job of the day, to cross Mexico's Most Wanted, an immobile 500 pound tub of lard drug dealer that everyone is gunning for. Get the picture?<br /><br />Basically, the book consists of Vince's non-stop running around trying desperately to hold things together amidst the chaos of Tijuana. There's plenty of violence, drugs, and of course sex -- notably involving a sexy statuesque Latina carrying a gun in one hand and a strap-on \\"marital aid\\" in the other. The book oozes local color, from the boy who parades the donkey to drum up business for the legendary show, to the \\"rat patrols\\" of off-duty judiciales who cruise the desert looking to rob and murder border-crossers, armband-wearing fascist party members rioting against foreigners, Indian girl fortune tellers, dead-eyed bartenders, crooked cops, and on and on and on. Not for the faint of heart, the book is one long binge of sleaze and grotesquery, every development crazier and more absurd than the next. The story of a doomed loser has been told many times, but other than an extra dollop of kaleidoscopic vividness, this version doesn't have a lot to offer.g fascist party members rioting against foreigners, Indian girl fortune tellers, dead-eyed bartenders, crooked cops, and on and on and on. Not for the faint of heart, the book is one long binge of sleaze and grotesquery, every development crazier and more absurd than the next. The story of a doomed loser has been told many times, but other than an extra dollop of kaleidoscopic vividness, this version doesn't have a lot to offer.	2005-08-21
100000:US	52254603	RAZ18HAXZ26M0	0380716453	120336271	A Dedicated Man (Inspector Banks Mysteries)	Books	2	16	21	N	N	Utterly Average	I was scouting around for a new British crime series to start and heard good things about Peter Robinson. So, when I came across this second in the Inspector Banks series, it seemed like fate was telling me to dive in. However, I and my wife both found it a severely disappointing, utterly unimpressive procedural. I can only surmise the series gets better over subsequent volumes, because this is utterly average stuff.<br /><br />Inspector Banks has recently relocated form London to sleepy rural Yorkshire and is still getting a feel for the lay of the land (following his first case in Gallows View). One day a retired historian turns up dead in a field near the village of Helmthorpe, leaving Banks with an old-fashioned whodunit. Pretty quickly, the stable of suspects is established: his widow (who inherits a nice legacy), his old friend and publisher, his mystery-writing drinking pal, his local GP and drinking pal, a local entrepreneur developer drinking pal, or the local folk singer he may have had a fling with a decade ago?<br /><br />Like a latter-day Miss Marple, Banks and his plod underlings go back and forth from house to house, interviewing suspects and trying to tease a semblance of motive and opportunity from their statements. Of course, like the old-fashioned constructions of Christie, we are left with lots of semi-plausible motives and seemingly few opportunities. Banks is convinced the answer lies in a fateful summer ten years ago. Meanwhile, a local teenage girl brags about seeing something the night of the murder, placing herself in danger. Will Banks be able to get to the bottom of things before the killer strikes again?!?!?<br /><br />It's all pretty bland stuff, and gimmick by which the murderer masks themselves is a bit of a groaner. The clues dovetail nicely, and Robinson's done a capable job of constructing a puzzler, but the story and characters are instantly forgettable. The writing is utterly without style or distinction and the Yorkshire setting never really came alive for me. It seemed a kind of generic green and pastoral land with insular people and cure stone cottages. All in all, very little to recommend here.setting never really came alive for me. It seemed a kind of generic green and pastoral land with insular people and cure stone cottages. All in all, very little to recommend here.	2005-08-21
100940:US	52254603	R2DQIOM5P478CT	1400078377	692528243	Out: A Novel	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Japanese Pressure Cooker	Like all the best crime novels, this lengthy Japanese import offers more social commentary than straightforward intrigue. In many ways it's a feminist book, taking as its subject four Tokyo women working a tough night shift factory job packing bento boxes. Each is living a miserable existence in one way or another, and there's little prospect of hope for any of them. Kuniko is a shallow woman in her mid-20s who has gotten deeply into consumer debt due to her belief that the right car or the right designer accessory will bring her lasting happiness. Yoshie is a widow in her late 50s struggling to stretch each paycheck while being responsible for both her demanding bedridden mother-in-law and her increasingly nasty teenage daughter. Yayoi is a very pretty woman in her late 30s with two young children whose husband has just squandered their life savings on gambling and a bar girl. Masako is in her early 40s, and has a teenage son who completely ignores her and a husband who comes home and locks himself away all night. The first fifty pages establishes their dreary daily routine -- from miserable home life to arduous assembly-line factory work. In it, we are also introduced to an ex-yakuza bar and casino owner named Satake, a psychotic who once killed a woman so brutally that he was exiled from his former gang.<br /><br />The inciting event in the story occurs when Yayoi snaps and strangles her husband after they fight. With no other friends, she confides in Masako, who coerces Yoshie and Kuniko into a scheme to dispose of the body and cover up for Yayoi. Fortunately for them, when the body does turn up, the police are inclined to think that the husband was killed due to gambling debts -- which leads them to Satake. The middle of the book builds a lot of tension around whether or not the police are going to prosecute Satake and whether the women have gotten away with the deception. Things get even more dangerous for them when the police clear Satake and start poking around again. Satake's businesses have been ruined by the investigation and the psychopath is focused on finding the true murderer and exacting revenge. What's kind of interesting is that the story is told primarily by the four women, who are transformed from normal people to egregious law-breakers to hunted prey over the course of the book. The daily lives of the women, as they struggle to keep their cool is probably the best part of the book.<br /><br />This is all fairly well done, but the author crams in a few too many subplots. There's the story of Chinese immigrant bar girl Anna, who is doted upon by Satake and is the object of Yayoi's husband's obsession. There is also a Brazilian-Japanese immigrant who works at the factory and has been assaulting female workers. Then there's also a loan-shark who enters the picture, complicating matters. While some of the details of these subplots are interesting in and of themselves, they really bloat the book to a an unnecessary length. The writing style is very straightforward, with a kind of understated deadpan to it which accentuates some of the dark humor. In terms of illuminating the Japanese character, the book does provide good insights into understanding the premium placed on duty and appearances, all of which can lead to incredible pressure, alienation, and outright bizarre behavior. The theme of the normal person snapping is a pretty common one in Japanese crime fiction and film, and this fits into that mold quite well. The book is far too long, but otherwise is well worth it for those interested in Japan.around again. Satake's businesses have been ruined by the investigation and the psychopath is focused on finding the true murderer and exacting revenge. What's kind of interesting is that the story is told primarily by the four women, who are transformed from normal people to egregious law-breakers to hunted prey over the course of the book. The daily lives of the women, as they struggle to keep their cool is probably the best part of the book.  <br /> <br />This is all fairly well done, but the author crams in a few too many subplots. There's the story of Chinese immigrant bar girl Anna, who is doted upon by Satake and is the object of Yayoi's husband's obsession. There is also a Brazilian-Japanese immigrant who works at the factory and has been assaulting female workers. Then there's also a loan-shark who enters the picture, complicating matters. While some of the details of these subplots are interesting in and of themselves, they really bloat the book to a an unnecessary length. The writing style is very straightforward, with a kind of understated deadpan to it which accentuates some of the dark humor. In terms of illuminating the Japanese character, the book does provide good insights into understanding the premium placed on duty and appearances, all of which can lead to incredible pressure, alienation, and outright bizarre behavior. The theme of the normal person snapping is a pretty common one in Japanese crime fiction and film, and this fits into that mold quite well. The book is far too long, but otherwise is well worth it for those interested in Japan.	2005-08-20
101378:US	52254603	R36A217QEZ3QH7	1400030889	89263190	My Life as a Fake	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Ern Malley Case + Frankenstein + Conrad?	I am generally very suspicious of novels whose plotlines revolve around writers and the world of letters, doubly so in this case, as it involves poetry, which I tend to dislike. However... this is Peter Carey at work, and by the end of this book I'm convinced he could rework an appliance manual into a penetrating and thoughtful story. What he's done here is take a real-life Australian literary hoax from the 1940s, fictionalized it, grafted the gothic Frankenstein story to it, and then superimposed a running theme on the construction of identity by the self. It's the kind of fictional razzle-dazzle that might have seemed arch or pretentious or self-congratulatory in the wrong hands, but Carey pulls it off with style.<br /><br />The story is narrated on its outer layer (there are numerous stories within stories and narrators within these) by Sarah, the editor of a prestigious, if perpetually bankrupt, English poetry magazine. She writes in the early 1980s, some ten years after the main events of the story, which take place in Kuala Lumpur in 1972. She was taken there by a friend of her deceased parents (and, she suspects, her mother's lover), and seeks to use the trip as a way to talk to him about the suicide of her mother when she was a child. However, one day while strolling the streets of KL, she sees a decrepit white man sitting in a hovel of a bike-repair shop reading Rilke. This piques her interest and she is soon drawn into the strange tale of Christopher Chubb, a man who thirty years previously perpetuated a hoax on a modernist literary review.<br /><br />Chubb found trendy modernist poetry to be vapid stuff and so submitted some nonsense material from a fictitious blue-collar mechanic poet to an editor he used to go to school with. The editor bought it hook, line and sinker, but eventually was prosecuted on obscenity charges. This is based on the \\"Ern Malley\\" case, and follows the real-life case in all its bizarre twists and turns. However, as Chubb relates to Sarah, his fictional poet actually showed up and started harassing him. Chubb had created a fake picture of the poet by grafting three photos of different people together, Frankenstein-like, and the embodiment of this picture appears at his house! Eventually \\"the monster\\" kidnaps Chubb's adopted daughter Tina (she is the result of a subplot involving a charismatic and sexy artiste in the '50s) and Chubb embarks on a long quest across Indonesia and Malaysia to try and recover the girl. As Chubb relates his story in Malay-peppered Australian English, one gets a strong whiff of Conrad about the whole affair (Heart of Darkness meets Lord Jim).<br /><br />Sarah is kept enthralled by this tale because Chubb has shown her a page from another \\"McCorkle\\" work that she recognizes as genius. Desperate to finally publish something groundbreaking, she sticks around for the whole convoluted story, even though she's not sure whether or not Chubb is lying to her or possibly even mad. Along the way, there are all manner of stories in miniature -- secrets from Sarah's past and present are revealed, we get a part bit on the Japanese occupation of Malaysia, a Sri Lankan master poisoner is introduced, and as a side bonus there is some great descriptive writing about Kuala Lumpur. Sometimes the framework gets a bit complicated and the reader has to work hard to keep track of which layer of narration or time frame one is in. Readers who like clear resolutions are forewarned that Carey isn't interested in that -- the ultimate point of the book is that we all construct our own identities, to the point that sometimes we lose track of who we are.ates to Sarah, his fictional poet actually showed up and started harassing him. Chubb had created a fake picture of the poet by grafting three photos of different people together, Frankenstein-like, and the embodiment of this picture appears at his house! Eventually \\"the monster\\" kidnaps Chubb's adopted daughter Tina (she is the result of a subplot involving a charismatic and sexy artiste in the '50s) and Chubb embarks on a long quest across Indonesia and Malaysia to try and recover the girl. As Chubb relates his story in Malay-peppered Australian English, one gets a strong whiff of Conrad about the whole affair (Heart of Darkness meets Lord Jim).  <br /> <br />Sarah is kept enthralled by this tale because Chubb has shown her a page from another \\"McCorkle\\" work that she recognizes as genius. Desperate to finally publish something groundbreaking, she sticks around for the whole convoluted story, even though she's not sure whether or not Chubb is lying to her or possibly even mad. Along the way, there are all manner of stories in miniature -- secrets from Sarah's past and present are revealed, we get a part bit on the Japanese occupation of Malaysia, a Sri Lankan master poisoner is introduced, and as a side bonus there is some great descriptive writing about Kuala Lumpur. Sometimes the framework gets a bit complicated and the reader has to work hard to keep track of which layer of narration or time frame one is in. Readers who like clear resolutions are forewarned that Carey isn't interested in that -- the ultimate point of the book is that we all construct our own identities, to the point that sometimes we lose track of who we are.	2005-08-20
102131:US	52254603	R37K9RT35KAXEA	1561632996	47186078	The Birthday Riots (ComicsLit)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Nothing Special	Kanan's graphic novella competently covers familiar turf in 64 pages without any great surprises, only to flounder in an unconvincing climax. Set in contemporary London and its The ex-urbs, the story is about Max Collins and his family. Once a leftist political science professor, he abandoned academia to become an advisor for an up-and-coming politician. With his new job, Max is able to afford to move his family out of the city to a bigger, better house in the country. While on the surface, the family is a happy unit, there are flashbacks of Max's infidelity with a student and broken promises to his daughter.<br /><br />Now, his candidate is running for Mayor of London amidst a nationwide furor over a new land law designed to prevent travelers or squatters from occupying vacant property. The issue is literally brought home to Max when a group of gypsies move into the field behind his house. What results is pretty textbook stuff -- when the issues move from the abstract to the personal, the former radical (and artist wife) shed their liberal skin and get just as nasty as anyone else. Of course, the teenage daughter rebels against this and becomes friends with a gypsy boy, leading to other complications.<br /><br />Everything culminates in an election day riot by protesters which results in a rather ridiculous ending. Max's method of self-redemption (or atonement) is both empty, cowardly, and implausible. The themes of selling out to the man and disappointing one's children are unreeled in kind of a paint-by-number manner. That said, the dialogue is pretty good, much better than most found in graphic novels. Especially good are the little family scenes Kanan creates, it feels like a real family interacting. The artwork is very solid and restrained, in the realist style. The panels tend to be really really crammed with text though, so it doesn't breathe or flow very well. The result is that when he does stop and offer a still, wordless moment, it leaves a much greater impact. On the whole, though, the book didn't do much for me.eater impact. On the whole, though, the book didn't do much for me.	2005-08-20
107108:US	52254603	R2ZOLPG9TVP445	0595327826	125260983	Once in Kazakhstan: The Snow Leopard Emerges	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Mostly Mediocre Amateur Account	Ever since the dissolution of the Soviet Union, I've had an interest in Central Asia and the Caucuses. In 1994, two good friends were in Kazakhstan working on privatization, and I've read the more readily available books on the area, such as Eastern Approaches and all the excellent Hopkirk volumes. Rosten's self-published diary of his time in Kazakhstan as a Fullbright scholar in 1993 is a moderately informative account of the large nation's baby steps as a modern nation. With a background as a lawyer and business school training, Rosten is well qualified to tell this tale of a country trying to sort out a legal system, elections, and a functioning economy. However, his fluency in Russian is what really allows him to mix with people at different levels of society and get the flavor of the place. For the most part, his diary is typical of books by Westerners spending a year or two abroad: the problems of finding a place to live, breakdowns in municipal services like garbage collection, hot water, heat, etc., arbitrary taxi fares, strange foods, the prevalence of vodka, transportation problems, and so forth.<br /><br />His coverage of the emerging nation is a little more in-depth, as the country struggles to arrange reasonable elections and constitution. All of which is intertwined with the ever-present thorny \\"nationalities\\" question, which boils down to whether ethnic Russians will get a fair shake in a Kazakh nation. This is a pretty contentious issue of course, since the Kazakh population was nearly halved under Stalin's rule, and a program of Russian settlement was set up (much as China has done in its far Western provinces and Tibet over the last thirty years). Probably the best bits in the book are the details about the first election and the problems with it, although its outcome is depressingly familiar stuff, with the ex-communist bosses all still in power. Indeed, Kazakhstan's autocrat, Nazarbayev is ever-present in the narrative, but Rosten doesn't offer nearly as much criticism of his as one might expect. Strong-men like Nazarbayev have little to offer other than vague assurances of stability, and the world seems to shrug in disinterest when the elections are rigged or he announces constitutional changes that give him total control over the country. Add endemic corruption to the mix and it's hardly any wonder that repressed and frustrated people eventually turn to political Islam or other external outlets to try and effect change. Indeed, other than commenting on how disorienting it must be for people Rosten doesn't really comment much at all on the drive to privatize and potential effects of encouraging rampant capitalism. Of course, the result has been a tiny corrupt elite skimming the cream, and a great deal of problems at the lower end of society. Joma Nazpary's book (which I have not read) \\"Post-Soviet Chaos: Violence and Dispossession in Kazakhstan \\" examines this in some detail via fieldwork and interviews.<br /><br />In any event, Rosten's book has a great number of weaknesses. First and foremost is the diary format. I certainly enjoy the personal perspective, which tends to be much more readable than straight dry history or reportage. A good example is Tom Bissell's narrative of Uzbekistan, Chasing the Sea, which weaves personal experience with a good cribbed history lesson. However, Rosten's account is so choppy that it becomes a real nuisance to read as he jumps willy-nilly from topic to topic. It also means that certain topics are covered in multiple places, and a great deal of information and anecdotes are repeated, some three times over! A good editor could have chucked the diary format and arranged a more flowing narrative that covered each piece in turn and greater depth. For example, it would have been nice to learn a little more about the large Korean population. Or why it is exactly that the Jewish population hasn't fled en masse. More disturbingly, although I am no expert by any means on the region or culture, I did come across a very obvious factual error towards the end which made me question Rosten's accuracy about other things. On page 228 he writes \\"Nauryz is a traditional Moslem holiday celebrating the New Year.... It is celebrated on March 22. \\" The Muslim New Year is called \\"Al-Hijra\\" and because Islam uses a lunar calendar, it falls on completely different days in each of the Gregorian calendar years. \\"Nauryz\\" (more commonly Nowruz) marks the Persian New Year, falls on the vernal equinox (usually March 21 or 22) and is based in the Zoroastrian religion.<br /><br />The actual prose leaves a great deal to be desired as well. In some places he gets into a groove and writes fluidly and easily, and in others it is very very choppy and wooden. Strings of sentences, each containing a single fact. Again, an editor could have easily cleaned this up and made it a much better read. Attempts at humor generally fall flat, and never does one get a true sense of the emotional confusion and frustration that many of the people he talks to must have felt. On an aesthetic level, the self-publishing format means that there is a notable deficiency in the supplementary material. There is no map (these tend to be very expensive), which is a huge flaw for a book about an unfamiliar country. And although the book has lots of photos, the quality of the reproduction is exceedingly low--worse than a typical newspaper (this is a function of the print-on-demand technology used to print the book).<br /><br />Ultimately, the book isn't awful, it just isn't that great. Much of what is recounted is pretty typical travelers tales type stuff, and one is going to get a very basic introduction to the country and people. It's true, there isn't a great deal out there on modern Kazakhstan, but most readers will be better served by the 2nd edition of Martha Brill Olcott's \\"The Kazakhs\\", which includes a fifty pages on independence and the next few years. Her subsequent book \\"Kazakhstan: Unfulfilled Promise\\" gets into recent years in rather more detail than most will want, and the subtitle gives on the gist of it. This is not a book I'd recommend to anyone except those who feel the need to read every word published on the region.region or culture, I did come across a very obvious factual error towards the end which made me question Rosten's accuracy about other things. On page 228 he writes \\"Nauryz is a traditional Moslem holiday celebrating the New Year.... It is celebrated on March 22. \\" The Muslim New Year is called \\"Al-Hijra\\" and because Islam uses a lunar calendar, it falls on completely different days in each of the Gregorian calendar years. \\"Nauryz\\" (more commonly Nowruz) marks the Persian New Year, falls on the vernal equinox (usually March 21 or 22) and is based in the Zoroastrian religion. <br /> <br />The actual prose leaves a great deal to be desired as well. In some places he gets into a groove and writes fluidly and easily, and in others it is very very choppy and wooden. Strings of sentences, each containing a single fact. Again, an editor could have easily cleaned this up and made it a much better read. Attempts at humor generally fall flat, and never does one get a true sense of the emotional confusion and frustration that many of the people he talks to must have felt. On an aesthetic level, the self-publishing format means that there is a notable deficiency in the supplementary material. There is no map (these tend to be very expensive), which is a huge flaw for a book about an unfamiliar country. And although the book has lots of photos, the quality of the reproduction is exceedingly low--worse than a typical newspaper (this is a function of the print-on-demand technology used to print the book).  <br /> <br />Ultimately, the book isn't awful, it just isn't that great. Much of what is recounted is pretty typical travelers tales type stuff, and one is going to get a very basic introduction to the country and people. It's true, there isn't a great deal out there on modern Kazakhstan, but most readers will be better served by the 2nd edition of Martha Brill Olcott's \\"The Kazakhs\\", which includes a fifty pages on independence and the next few years. Her subsequent book \\"Kazakhstan: Unfulfilled Promise\\" gets into recent years in rather more detail than most will want, and the subtitle gives on the gist of it. This is not a book I'd recommend to anyone except those who feel the need to read every word published on the region.	2005-08-17
107694:US	52254603	R1KUN2D4GSU1SO	0060084537	317386419	Sharpe's Prey: Richard Sharpe & the Expedition to Denmark, 1807	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Sharpe in Transition	This 18th installment in the Sharpe series is set in 1807, following the events of Sharpe's Trafalgar. The story kicks off in high gear with the cold-blooded murder of British officer in London at the hands of a traitorous fellow officer. Meanwhile, Sharpe is first encountered in a rather comic scene at the offices of a firm that handles the monetary affairs of military men. It comes as some shock to find that he is attempting to sell his battlefield commission in order to leave the army! It seems he is disenchanted with being a quartermaster and is penniless following various nefarious legal actions following the death of his paramour Lady Grace. Fortunately for the continuity of the series, selling a battlefield commission is not permitted (no matter how threatening Sharpe is to the priggish clerks!), and he's stuck in his position for the moment.<br /><br />Larger events are at work however -- it seems Denmark has built a very nice fleet, which the French want in order to replace their losses at Trafalgar and the British want in order to keep the French from having it. Following a brief episode in which Sharpe revisits the orphanage he was reared in (the most unconvincing part of the book), he is assigned to replace the murdered officer as the bodyguard for the nefarious Captain Lavisser. Lavisser is an aide to the Duke of York who has been charged with a secret mission to take 43,000 guineas and bribe the Danish prince into \\"storing\\" his fleet with the British for safekeeping. Alas, he is also a traitor and French agent who is planning on killing Sharpe and making off with the gold.<br /><br />And so Sharpe is tossed into a James Bond role as he attempts to stay alive, foil Lavisser, and boink the beautiful daughter of Britain's agent in Copenhagen. More suited to the battlefield than intrigue, Sharpe is generally a step or two behind Lavisser until he finally gets to go mano-a-mano with him in the midst of a bombardment. Ah yes... the British bombardment of Copenhagen... one of the earliest deliberate attacks on a civilian population using modern armaments. Not the finest moment for the British fleet, and Cornwell pulls no punches in describing the horror and destruction it wreaked.<br /><br />On the whole I found the book to be as entertaining and gripping as any in the series. True, there's not as much battlefield action as some might prefer, but there is a well described action in which British regulars rout a rag-tag group of Danish militia. And you have to like the irony of Sharpe being on the wrong end of volley fire for once! There are also little cameos by series regulars Wellesley, Harper, and the first action of the riflemen. There's even the rather shocking scene of Sharpe weeping! All in all, a little bit of a hodge-podge, but one built solidly upon an obscure piece of military which Cornwell once again capably brings to light.Copenhagen... one of the earliest deliberate attacks on a civilian population using modern armaments. Not the finest moment for the British fleet, and Cornwell pulls no punches in describing the horror and destruction it wreaked. <br /> <br />On the whole I found the book to be as entertaining and gripping as any in the series. True, there's not as much battlefield action as some might prefer, but there is a well described action in which British regulars rout a rag-tag group of Danish militia. And you have to like the irony of Sharpe being on the wrong end of volley fire for once! There are also little cameos by series regulars Wellesley, Harper, and the first action of the riflemen. There's even the rather shocking scene of Sharpe weeping! All in all, a little bit of a hodge-podge, but one built solidly upon an obscure piece of military which Cornwell once again capably brings to light.	2005-08-17
108080:US	52254603	R2KIMEFA3X67NW	0312199317	13982957	Investigations of Avram Davidson	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Nice Collection	Davidson is best known for his work in the sci-fi and fantasy genres, but his 200+ published short stories included many mysteries. This volume collects thirteen of his best, most of which appeared in the pages of Ellery Queen's Mystery Magazine between 1956-86. As with a lot of collections, the quality of the plotting varies (some of the stories are a little to obvious or gimmicky), but the prose is very good, and Davidson does a remarkable job of setting scenes with very few words. Moods and places other writers would take pages to create are accomplished here in a mere paragraph or two. Similarly impressive is the range of material, as Davidson displays an impressive ability to translate his erudition into compelling material.<br /><br />\\"The Necessity of His Condition\\" is a clever little piece about a slave broker in pre-Civil War America who ends up hoisted by his own petard. The kind of piece one might imagine as an episode of the Twilight Zone or some similar series. The next story, \\"Thou Still Unravished Bride\\", was made into an episode of Alfred Hitchcock Presents and takes place in a modern small American city. This tale of a bride to be gone missing doesn't hold up as well to the test of time -- most readers will have it figured out from the start. However, \\"The Cost of Kent Castwell\\" holds up quite well, and still packs a nice punch of dark humor. It's the story of what happens when a nasty man from the big city moves to a small town in New England and upsets the order of things. It falls squarely into the tradition of folklore in which a disruptive outsider is firmly dealt with by seemingly placid locals.<br /><br />The next story (\\"The Ikon of Elijah\\") moves the action overseas, to Cyprus, where a greedy passel of antiquarians vie for possession of a priceless icon held at a monastary. Here, the mystery is perhaps less interesting than the scene-setting, as pre-partition Nicosia is drawn in vivid detail. The ending does pack a nice little bite though, again, in a Twilight Zonesque style. \\"The Cobblestones of Saratoga Street\\" returns to Davidson's native New York, where forces of civic modernization threaten to destroy the last cobblestone street in the city. It isn't really clear why this story is in a mystery anthology until the final page, and the reveal is pretty slick and funny. Perhaps the weakest story in the book is \\"Captain Pasharooney\\", about a boy at boarding school and a rare appearance by his father. Kind of tepid and never really goes anywhere, with a pretty obvious twist at the end. \\"The Third Sacred Well of the Temple\\", although set in a small expatriate community in a bucolic Mexican village, is basically the same story as \\"The Cost of Kent Castwell\\", albeit with a travel writer as status quo upsetter.<br /><br />\\"Murder is Murder\\" is a brief riff on Crime and Punishment, fun but disposable. \\"The Deed of the Deft-Footed Dragon\\" is a Chinese-set story with local color drawn from Davidson's time in China at the end of World War II. Again, his ability to get the small details right is more interesting that the actual plot. \\"A Quiet Room with A View\\" is rather like the two earlier stories in which established order is threatened. Here, however, the setting is an upscale nursing home, and the killer seeks not only to protect something, but gain something else. \\"Mr. Folsom Feels Fine\\" is a slight piece about a man seeking to live off a meager pension. It was inspired by Davidson's own battles with the Veteran's Administration, and lacks the spark and imagination of the better stories.<br /><br />Two of the stories weigh in at about 40 pages (double the length of the rest of the pieces) and their high quality definitely whets one's appetite for trying one of Davidson's novels. \\"The Lord of Central Park\\" and has a much different feel from the rest of the book. It begins with separate plotlines following an eccentric English peer in exile, a family of Dutch subterranean river pirates, a Miss Lonelyhearts,New York Mafia Dons, a bunch of small time hoods, and a sinister plot. It's a kind of breathtakingly madcap romp in which everything converges and is terrifically enjoyable. \\"The Importance of Trifles\\" is a very well done tale set in 1840s New York, with Chief Constable Jacob Hays as its hero. It's a meticulous historical procedural revolving around murder and stolen goods, and alas, the only in what was to be a series of stories starring Hays.<br /><br />All in all, a nice collection for fans of short mysteries and one that will doubtless drive many to seek out more of Davidson's work. A little dated and contrived at times, but generally fufills the thirst for a good yarn before bedtime.lyhearts, New York Mafia Dons, a bunch of small time hoods, and a sinister plot. It's a kind of breathtakingly madcap romp in which everything converges and is terrifically enjoyable. \\"The Importance of Trifles\\" is a very well done tale set in 1840s New York, with Chief Constable Jacob Hays as its hero. It's a meticulous historical procedural revolving around murder and stolen goods, and alas, the only in what was to be a series of stories starring Hays.  <br /> <br />All in all, a nice collection for fans of short mysteries and one that will doubtless drive many to seek out more of Davidson's work. A little dated and contrived at times, but generally fufills the thirst for a good yarn before bedtime.	2005-08-16
108114:US	52254603	R2WST3YQWIMEUU	0060394412	803980453	Citizen Vince: A Novel	Books	4	41	42	N	N	Walter Aims High and Almost Succeeds	Redemption is one of the big themes in fiction and narrative film. Alas, the sheer pervasiveness of redemption stories means that they really have to sparkle to stand out. Here, Walter flirts with greatness but never quite achieves it with a semi-crime story set in the days leading up to the 1980 presidential election. Vince Camden is a donut-maker in Spokane, Washington, living a fairly quiet routine of work, sleep, and late nights of cards at Sam's Pit -- a place kind of like Cheers, but with cops, crooks, and hookers as patrons. (This was a real place at 528 E. 2nd St. that shut down in the early '90s after several police raids.) The reader quickly learns that Vince is in the FBI's witness-protection program, having given evidence in a small-time New York mob case after getting stuck with a loan he couldn't repay to people that really don't like it when you don't repay loans. In addition to his donut gig, Vince is building up a little nest egg by running the same credit card number scam he ran in New York and dealing a little pot. He's even got a little romantic interest, with a crush on legal secretary who comes in for donuts every day, plus the hooker with a heart of gold he met at Sam's Pit. With his new identity, he's even eligible to vote for the first time, a symbol of his \\"rebirth\\" that becomes a totem of his new life.<br /><br />However, as in all the great noir films, the past comes a-knockin'. First, his partners in the credit card scam start getting all squirrelly on him, and then a face from \\"the world' shows up. \\"The World\\" is, of course, the East Coast mob scene he ran away from. And like all good heroes from Mythology 101, Vince realizes he must journey to the underworld to face his demons in order to actualize his redemption. In his case, it means a harrowing journey back to New York to face up to the mobsters he wronged--including a dangerously capricious young John Gotti. Meanwhile, in Spokane, sharp rookie Detective Dupree realizes Vince is at the center of the bodies that are starting to pile up, and is hot on his trail.<br /><br />This is all pretty normal crime genre stuff, but Walter makes it sparkle and sizzle with vivid scene-setting and crisp dialogue. Some of the scenes, such as Vince's epic poker game back in New York are simply scream to be filmed. Many of the characters are larger than life, but they never really get over the top. It's quality stuff that brings to mind another young American writer, David Benioff (The 25th Hour). It's not perfect though -- Walter gets a little ambitious and tries to weave in a whole parallel thing about the Reagan/Carter election and the zeitgeist of the country, and it doesn't really work. Two portions which imagine the inner thoughts of the presidential hopefuls are too precious and self-concious, although I did like how he worked an Anderson volunteer and a local Republican candidate into the action. But Vince's agonizing over who to vote for and his insistence on casting his ballot end up feeling rather forced by the end. Still, it's a good read and one that will have me checking out more of Walter's writing in the future.t the center of the bodies that are starting to pile up, and is hot on his trail.  <br /> <br />This is all pretty normal crime genre stuff, but Walter makes it sparkle and sizzle with vivid scene-setting and crisp dialogue. Some of the scenes, such as Vince's epic poker game back in New York are simply scream to be filmed. Many of the characters are larger than life, but they never really get over the top. It's quality stuff that brings to mind another young American writer, David Benioff (The 25th Hour). It's not perfect though -- Walter gets a little ambitious and tries to weave in a whole parallel thing about the Reagan/Carter election and the zeitgeist of the country, and it doesn't really work. Two portions which imagine the inner thoughts of the presidential hopefuls are too precious and self-concious, although I did like how he worked an Anderson volunteer and a local Republican candidate into the action. But Vince's agonizing over who to vote for and his insistence on casting his ballot end up feeling rather forced by the end. Still, it's a good read and one that will have me checking out more of Walter's writing in the future.	2005-08-16
109582:US	52254603	R2TGRL7LWXXDE6	0156029952	652796189	Timoleon Vieta Come Home: A Sentimental Journey	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Left Me Unmoved Either Way	I have to admit I only read this because I was stuck in a corner of Thailand without reading material, and this was the best-looking thing on the shelf where I was staying (alternatives being technothrillers, bodice-rippers, DaVinci Code, and books in languages I cannot read). Having been pretty much unmoved by the novel, it's interesting to see how extreme other people's reactions to it are. Certainly, the publishers have manipulated reader expectations with the jacket design and copy -- I, like many others, started off thinking this was going to be some kind of borderline sickly-sweet \\"an old expatriate and his dog\\" quasi-comic jaunt. It's actually something quite different, and if you don't see the ending coming, it does pack a graphic punch, so I can see why some readers reacted so strongly. Still, one has to admit that a book that manages to evoke such extreme outbursts of anger, tears, and delight in so many people (although not me), has done something right....hasn't it?<br /><br />The first half of the book revolves around the lonely, aging, selfish, homosexual composer Cockroft (an unnecessarily arch name, cock-croft, get it?) who lives alone in rural Italy with his faithful mutt pining for a long-lost love -- the boy in the silver shorts. One day, a surly, good-looking young man turns up, apparently in response to some long-forgotten invitation. Cockroft is delighted to have this strapping mysterious \\"Bosnian\\" fixing up the decrepit house and paying the rent with weekly fellatio. This could be taken as a kind of lame satire on the \\"Under the Tuscan Sun\\" genre, but mostly it comes across as an improbable setup for something else. Unfortunately, the Bosnian and the titular dog do not like each other one bit, and Cockroft falls into the age-old trap of letting the shiny new thing take precedence over the reliable old thing. Eventually, the Bosnian coerces Cockroft into abandoning the dog, which leads to the second half of the book.<br /><br />This is a bit of a stylistic problem, because after building up this quirky, claustrophobic, somewhat menacing story, Rhodes abandons it to embark on a series of short stories very loosely linked by the appearance of the abandoned dog making his way back home. Here, we can see the author truly in his element, crafting strong short pieces with a strong sense of place. There's one about a Cambodian girl's hard childhood in a village and the pain of leaving family and friends behind to marry a Westerner. There's a semi-magical one about a deaf-mute Italian girl who fulfills a prophecy by winning the heart of the town hooligan. There's a more conventional one about a Welsh college student who falls for an Italian guy on vacation, chucks it all to move to Italy, and is quickly made aware of the reality of situation. These are all stories about thwarted love and hope for a happier life, and one can see the connection to Cockroft and his long-ago true love.<br /><br />The stories share a kind of wistful whimsy, and when they dovetail back into the world of Cockroft and the Bosnian at the end, the transition is rather jarring. It's this sudden change in tone that many readers seem to react strongly to, although I personally found it to be kind of clumsy. It does drive home the point that our own weaknesses and selfishness can sometimes lead to great suffering in others, but Rhodes' vehicle for that message, while visceral, seems rather unimaginative. Certainly, the book touches on some deep dark themes, aging, selfishness, sex vs. love, and so forth, but it's too light and breezy to do justice to the weight of these themes. This is perhaps why I found it an ultimately unremarkable and unmoving work of fiction.bit of a stylistic problem, because after building up this quirky, claustrophobic, somewhat menacing story, Rhodes abandons it to embark on a series of short stories very loosely linked by the appearance of the abandoned dog making his way back home. Here, we can see the author truly in his element, crafting strong short pieces with a strong sense of place. There's one about a Cambodian girl's hard childhood in a village and the pain of leaving family and friends behind to marry a Westerner. There's a semi-magical one about a deaf-mute Italian girl who fulfills a prophecy by winning the heart of the town hooligan. There's a more conventional one about a Welsh college student who falls for an Italian guy on vacation, chucks it all to move to Italy, and is quickly made aware of the reality of situation. These are all stories about thwarted love and hope for a happier life, and one can see the connection to Cockroft and his long-ago true love.  <br /> <br />The stories share a kind of wistful whimsy, and when they dovetail back into the world of Cockroft and the Bosnian at the end, the transition is rather jarring. It's this sudden change in tone that many readers seem to react strongly to, although I personally found it to be kind of clumsy. It does drive home the point that our own weaknesses and selfishness can sometimes lead to great suffering in others, but Rhodes' vehicle for that message, while visceral, seems rather unimaginative. Certainly, the book touches on some deep dark themes, aging, selfishness, sex vs. love, and so forth, but it's too light and breezy to do justice to the weight of these themes. This is perhaps why I found it an ultimately unremarkable and unmoving work of fiction.	2005-08-16
110038:US	52254603	R4CWJGWYH8FMV	1590581482	977499364	Thicker Than Blood (Rachel Chavez Mysteries)	Books	1	4	5	N	N	Exceedingly Weak	I'm all for crime novels starring interesting, strong, non-standard female characters--alas, this ain't one of 'em. The story starts off fairly interesting as we meet Rachel Chavez, recovering addict/alcoholic and the owner and inhabitant of a parking garage in downtown LA. Across the street is her top client, the local water agency. Events start rolling when one of the executives there is killed in a hit and run accident and Rachel notices one of the fleet cars in her garage has a damaged fender covered in something that looks like blood. As in far too many crime stories, Rachel decides not to inform the police (the author works mightily to explain why, but it's not particularly convincing to begin with and becomes even less so as the bodies start piling up). And so, she sticks her nose into the middle of an intrigue revolving around California water politics.<br /><br />For someone who lives alone and apparently has no friends other than an old family friend who's a farmer up in the delta, she manages to amass an impressively loyal and brave bunch of allies in a matter of days. This includes another water agency employee Hank (who inevitably turns into a romantic interest), the feisty black woman who leads the might cleaning crew at the water agency, and the most responsible and articulate homeless woman you've ever met. Why these people would want to stick their necks out for this woman they've just met isn't really satisfactorily explained, but with the author throwing so many things at Rachel there's no time to care. Plot twists pile up faster than one can count, and far far too many of these are coincidences designed to allow Rachel to continue along with the story. There's a distinctive cufflink/tietack set that plays far too prominent in a role in everything, and while one might accept the cleaning crew turning up one important clue, they instead turn up two! Not to mention Rachel constantly running into people by happenstance. The worst part of it all is that the identity of the villain and the scope master plan is totally obvious about a third of the way into the book. In fact, this is one of the most transparent plots I've come across in crime fiction.<br /><br />Comparisons with Chinatown are inevitable, but this doesn't hold a candle to Polanski's 1974 Oscar-winning film. California's water wars do make a great backdrop for stories of intrigue, but this is mediocre stuff. Character development is perfunctory and Rudolph's prose is unremarkable and occasionally jarring. For example, she has a SoCal teenager use the term \\"player piano\\" -- I would bet good money that perhaps 1 in 100 teenagers know what a player piano is. Or the middle-aged cleaning woman who uses the terms \\"storm trooper\\" and \\"death camp\\" at various times. Is she a History Channel buff or something? There are enough break-ins, chases, fights, and general mayhem for a trilogy, but all to little effect. The actual history of water in the West is far more gripping than this hectic book and interested readers should check out Mark Reisner's magisterialCadillac Desert or Norris Hundley's The Great Thirst for the real story. Finally, if you want an interesting recovering alcoholic Hispanic female character, check out George Pelecanos' Drama City.<br /><br />PS. This book also sports one of the worst book jackets I've seen in a while. Not the author's fault of course -- but there it is...that the identity of the villain and the scope master plan is totally obvious about a third of the way into the book. In fact, this is one of the most transparent plots I've come across in crime fiction. <br /> <br />Comparisons with Chinatown are inevitable, but this doesn't hold a candle to Polanski's 1974 Oscar-winning film. California's water wars do make a great backdrop for stories of intrigue, but this is mediocre stuff. Character development is perfunctory and Rudolph's prose is unremarkable and occasionally jarring. For example, she has a SoCal teenager use the term \\"player piano\\" -- I would bet good money that perhaps 1 in 100 teenagers know what a player piano is. Or the middle-aged cleaning woman who uses the terms \\"storm trooper\\" and \\"death camp\\" at various times. Is she a History Channel buff or something? There are enough break-ins, chases, fights, and general mayhem for a trilogy, but all to little effect. The actual history of water in the West is far more gripping than this hectic book and interested readers should check out Mark Reisner's magisterialCadillac Desert or Norris Hundley's The Great Thirst for the real story. Finally, if you want an interesting recovering alcoholic Hispanic female character, check out George Pelecanos' Drama City.  <br /> <br />PS. This book also sports one of the worst book jackets I've seen in a while. Not the author's fault of course -- but there it is...	2005-08-15
141540:US	52254603	R3AO5L6XNX3H8Q	0812550927	781459831	20,000 Leagues Under the Sea (Tor Classics)	Books	1	15	23	N	N	"Long and Monotonous"	As someone who tends to enjoy older adventure fiction more than the average person (I quite like Conan Doyle's non Sherlock books, like most Stevenson, love Sabatini, etc.), I was looking forward to plunging into this classic tale of adventure and exploration. Somewhere near the middle its narrator captures the essence of the book with the following unintentionally prescient sentence: \\"To anyone but myself, who had a great love of the sea, the hours below must have seemed long and monotonous.\\" That's an excellent summation of Verne's story of the almost magical electric submarine The Nautilus, it's imperious and mysterious Captain Nemo, and the three outsiders who circumnavigate the globe in it. Basically, unless you have some kind of strong interest in marine biology, it is an incredibly tedious read. Granted, it is an impressive feat of imagination for its time (the 1860s), but the amazing technologies described don't pack any kind of punch for the modern reader, and the exotic locales are now the stuff of the Travel Channel.<br /><br />The story is very simple. There is some kind of large creature menacing sea traffic around the world, so an international expedition is launched to try and find it and capture or kill it. Among those joining this voyage are the famous French naturalist Professor Aronnax, his heroic servant Conseil, and legendary French-Canadian harpoonist Ned Land. When the American frigate leading the expedition finally encounters the beast, combat ensues and they are thrown into the water, only to wind up the prisoners of the Nautilus. Captain Nemo decides that having seen his vessel's interior, they must remain prisoners for life. Thus, they embark on a grand tour of ocean with this man who has forsaken mankind and its evil ways.<br /><br />Alas this tour turns out to be a barrage of naturalist classifications of everything they see, complete with Latin names and various characteristics. This is fairly evocative the first time, but by the third has gotten repetitive, and by the tenth just downright sleep-inducing. Not to mention a litany of latitudes and longitudes to mark their path, as if one were reading in one hand and following along with an atlas in the other. Which is not to say that stuff doesn't happen, it does--it's just not very interesting. They visit underwater forests, the South Pole, Atlantis, coral reefs, famous shipwrecks, encounter danger from a tricky passage, icebergs, giant octopi, and fierce island people, and yet none of it is particularly dramatic or well done.<br /><br />Matters aren't helped by stilted scenes where Professor Aronnax asks Nemo how some aspect of the submarine works and receives a lengthy lecture outlining the scientific basis and processes for how such and such works. There are far too many instances where Aronnax is simply playing the straight man to Nemo's genius: \\"Gosh, we're really in a jam now Captain Nemo, what are we going to do!\\" \\"My dear professor, yet again you underestimate the capabilities of the Nautilus, all I have to do is....\\" etc. In that sense, Verne's imagination is deployed in a relatively wooden manner which does little to make it compelling for the modern reader.<br /><br />Finally, the central conflict of the three captives versus their captor is lame. They're stuck, they can't do anything to escape, and that never changes until the merciful end, where they are whisked away yet again. Again, no tension or drama. The one really intriguing character is Captain Nemo, who rails misanthropically about mankind and refuses to divulge his nationality, and speaks to his crew in an unrecognizable language. Throughout, one keeps waiting for a revelation as who he is and why he hates the world of men, but other than brief allusion to his having had a wife and child who were killed, there's no payoff! This final straw is an infuriating end to a stultifying book. Sometimes the \\"classics\\" ain't what they used to be.has gotten repetitive, and by the tenth just downright sleep-inducing. Not to mention a litany of latitudes and longitudes to mark their path, as if one were reading in one hand and following along with an atlas in the other. Which is not to say that stuff doesn't happen, it does--it's just not very interesting. They visit underwater forests, the South Pole, Atlantis, coral reefs, famous shipwrecks, encounter danger from a tricky passage, icebergs, giant octopi, and fierce island people, and yet none of it is particularly dramatic or well done.<br /><br />Matters aren't helped by stilted scenes where Professor Aronnax asks Nemo how some aspect of the submarine works and receives a lengthy lecture outlining the scientific basis and processes for how such and such works. There are far too many instances where Aronnax is simply playing the straight man to Nemo's genius: \\"Gosh, we're really in a jam now Captain Nemo, what are we going to do!\\" \\"My dear professor, yet again you underestimate the capabilities of the Nautilus, all I have to do is....\\" etc. In that sense, Verne's imagination is deployed in a relatively wooden manner which does little to make it compelling for the modern reader.<br /><br />Finally, the central conflict of the three captives versus their captor is lame. They're stuck, they can't do anything to escape, and that never changes until the merciful end, where they are whisked away yet again. Again, no tension or drama. The one really intriguing character is Captain Nemo, who rails misanthropically about mankind and refuses to divulge his nationality, and speaks to his crew in an unrecognizable language. Throughout, one keeps waiting for a revelation as who he is and why he hates the world of men, but other than brief allusion to his having had a wife and child who were killed, there's no payoff! This final straw is an infuriating end to a stultifying book. Sometimes the \\"classics\\" ain't what they used to be.	2005-07-30
147947:US	52254603	RKYXSSQXW5BJO	0435905821	232935863	Harvest of Thorns (African Writers Series)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Well-told Tale of the Bush War	Divided into four parts, this prize-winning novel provides a glimpse of the guerrilla war fought against the apartheid rule of Ian Smith following Rhodesia's split from Britain in 1965. It's not very clear why the book is broken into four parts, or why they fall out of chronological sequence (indeed, I am inclined to suggest reading them in the following order: Part 2, 3, 1, 4). Chronologically, the story starts with a young rural girl in the 1950s who is ardently wooed by a polite and dapper young man who serves tea at a colonial district office. The seventy pages of Part 2 tells of their marriage, move to township housing, religious conversion, and raising of three children. By the end of this section, it is the mid-'70s and their teenage son Benjamin is chaffing at their strict rules, and along with everyone else his age, protesting against the oppressive racist government. Here, the author is clearly drawing upon his own experiences, as some of Benjamin's encounters mirror that of the author. The details of township life and daily life under white rule, are all well-handled and quite interesting.<br /><br />Part 2 is the longest (130 pages) and details Benjamin's flight to join rebels hiding out in the border countryside, training, and several years of soldiering with a small squad in the bush. The physical and moral hardships of the guerilla life are given vivid detail here, as Benjamin's squad spends a great deal of time waiting around, with brief bursts of activity, including political education of villagers, ambushes of army troops, fleeting encounters with women, and brutal retribution against informers. In a sense, the events and mood are no different from portrayals of any other bloody guerilla war of liberation, but it's well done and well worth reading by anyone with an interest in Zimbabwe's Bush War.<br /><br />Parts 1 and 4 take place after the war has been won, as Benjamin returns home after several years away. Although he's now a citizen of a free Zimbabwe, he finds that has little practical meaning, as he can't find a job, and has to fight all kinds of administrative red tape concerning his service in the liberation forces. He a freedom fighting hero who not only never gets a hero's welcome or laurels, but also now must live with the things he's seen and done. Further compounding the tragedy is the depressing reality of what has befallen the country since independence under the corrupt Mugabe regime. After strong-arming his way into power, he and his cronies have been lining their own pockets for years while abstaining from any true effort to rebuild their country--disgracing the sacrifices of people like Benjamin.free Zimbabwe, he finds that has little practical meaning, as he can't find a job, and has to fight all kinds of administrative red tape concerning his service in the liberation forces. He a freedom fighting hero who not only never gets a hero's welcome or laurels, but also now must live with the things he's seen and done. Further compounding the tragedy is the depressing reality of what has befallen the country since independence under the corrupt Mugabe regime. After strong-arming his way into power, he and his cronies have been lining their own pockets for years while abstaining from any true effort to rebuild their country--disgracing the sacrifices of people like Benjamin.	2005-07-26
148382:US	52254603	R1DGKIRGWKZQGX	1903399211	287056337	Underexposed: Censored Pictures and Hidden History	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Well Worth Seeking Out	This large and handsomely produced volume seeks to take a look at examples of photographs being either banned or altered in some way, and is bound to provoke. The contents are divided (often arbitrarily) into seven sections, each introduced by an essay, and each photo is accompanied by a full explanation of the subject and context for its inclusion. Be warned, there is plenty of very graphic material here, including executions, and a large number of corpses. Definitely not a book to leave around in the presence of kids.<br /><br />The first section covers photos that were banned or suppressed in some way, including: Ayatollah Khomeini's near naked corpse, Boer War images of a British field hospital and concentration camp, mangled corpses from WWI, Hitler practicing his \\"spontaneous\\" speech gestures, a burned Iraqi corpse from Gulf War I, victims of the Paris police massacre of October 1961, and Chinese army execution of alleged arsonists. The next section is about censorship, and includes: photos smuggled out of Turkey of police hassling Kurds, Nazi book burning, Soviet church destruction, Cultural Revolution destruction of a Confucian shrine, a policeman trying to rip an American flag from the hands of a young black boy during the Civil Rights movement, several instances of London police trying prevent photos being taken at demonstrations,<br /><br />Next is a longer section addressing the choices that photographers make in their subjects and how that affects what the public believes, including: a series about life under Soviet rule, several from Northern Ireland and South Africa, a disturbing series in Bangladesh where a mob kills a man, the well known photos of Somalis dragging a U.S. soldier's corpse through the streets, famine in Sudan, AIDS in Zimbabwe, and street children in India. A large section on propaganda covers a wide range of subjects, including: China's Great Leap Forward and the Cultural Revolution, Dorothea Lange's famous FSA portrait, photo doctoring involving Martin Luther King, Soviet propaganda, Weege's Brooklyn Beach shot, Japanese internment during WWII, Castro (including a great shot of him and Nixon shaking hands), a lot of Vietnam War material, and the atomic bomb.<br /><br />The \\"recovered memory\\" section seems rather unfocused, but includes: lynchings, the bombing of Dresden and HIroshima, Tiananmen Square (including a horrific photo of corpses piled up at a hospital), fascism, Northern Ireland, truth and reconciliation in South Africa, multiple genocides in Cambodia, Armenia, Bosnia, Ukraine, and Chechnya, and my own favorite in the whole book, a spread that convincingly makes the case that Robert Capa's famous \\"Death of a Republican\\" photo was staged. The brief \\"Relative Values\\" section relates to sexual mores, attitudes to animals, the environment, race, and art, and isn't very striking compared to the rest of the book. Finally, there is a fascinating section on ambiguity and how photos whose meaning seems obvious can utterly mislead the viewer about what was actually happening.<br /><br />The book is probably best encountered in small doses at a time, as the images are so provocative and the stories relating to them so powerful. The groupings seem somewhat artificial and arbitrary at times, but this is a minor quibble. It is a must have for anyone with an interest in photojournalism, or those with an interest in how photography is used and misused in forming our perceptions. Those with an interest in modern world history and contemporary politics will likely find it a fascinating volume well worth seeking out. It would also be of great value if used selectively in a high school current events or modern history class.octoring involving Martin Luther King, Soviet propaganda, Weege's Brooklyn Beach shot, Japanese internment during WWII, Castro (including a great shot of him and Nixon shaking hands), a lot of Vietnam War material, and the atomic bomb.  <br /> <br />The \\"recovered memory\\" section seems rather unfocused, but includes: lynchings, the bombing of Dresden and HIroshima, Tiananmen Square (including a horrific photo of corpses piled up at a hospital), fascism, Northern Ireland, truth and reconciliation in South Africa, multiple genocides in Cambodia, Armenia, Bosnia, Ukraine, and Chechnya, and my own favorite in the whole book, a spread that convincingly makes the case that Robert Capa's famous \\"Death of a Republican\\" photo was staged. The brief \\"Relative Values\\" section relates to sexual mores, attitudes to animals, the environment, race, and art, and isn't very striking compared to the rest of the book. Finally, there is a fascinating section on ambiguity and how photos whose meaning seems obvious can utterly mislead the viewer about what was actually happening.  <br /> <br />The book is probably best encountered in small doses at a time, as the images are so provocative and the stories relating to them so powerful. The groupings seem somewhat artificial and arbitrary at times, but this is a minor quibble. It is a must have for anyone with an interest in photojournalism, or those with an interest in how photography is used and misused in forming our perceptions. Those with an interest in modern world history and contemporary politics will likely find it a fascinating volume well worth seeking out. It would also be of great value if used selectively in a high school current events or modern history class.	2005-07-26
148857:US	52254603	R3S3HHJPTVRUGX	0452283264	807923881	The Rackets	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Loaded with Cliches	Years ago I read Kelly's first book (Payback) and found it a decent if unmemorable riff on the fairly well-worn topic of the recently released convict. This one is written with much greater descriptive detail and density, but also heads down well-traveled roads and is altogether too heavy on the cliches. Basically, if you like the whole New York working class Irish shtick, you'll probably like this. Most of the central characters come from the way upper Manhattan neighborhood of Innwood, a formerly heavy Irish-Catholic community now being subsumed by the latest wave of Latino immigrants. There's a deep sense of nostalgia permeating the story, as various characters lament the decline or change of the old neighborhood. The protagonist is Jimmy Dolan, former construction worker (as was Kelly), turned advance man for the mayor (as was Kelly), who's made it out of the old neighborhood.<br /><br />The story finds him in the middle of an election campaign, where an altercation with a slimy Teamster boss named Keefe costs him his fancy job. It just so happens that Jimmy's father has been running a quixotic campaign against Keefe for the presidency of the local, and so he's out to destroy the Dolans. What follows is a fairly predictable tale of tit-for-tat revenge amidst a backdrop of corrupt city and union politics. Jimmy's fall from grace lands him back in the old neighborhood and into the orbit of his rather wild best friend (and Gulf War vet) Liam, and ex-flame Tara (now a cop). They are both stock characters, and Tara is especially so, a combination of action heroine and girl next door. In fact, most of the characters are straight out of central casting, such as Jimmy's father (a classic union crusader), two hitmen (Russian psychos of course), a bevy of slimy FBI agents, an old-fashion mafia don with a goofy name (Frankie Magic), and starring Keefe as the over-the-top wiseguy-wanna-be villain.<br /><br />The story hinges on the impending union election and Keefe's increasingly perilous grasp of the presidency in the face of the Dolan's obstinate squeaky clean campaign. Corruption is the order of the day, and if Kelly's based his tale on things he's seen and heard in his days as mayoral advance man, it's a depressing picture. There's all kinds of intrigue, as Keefe's right-hand man looks to play both sides against the middle, and Jimmy's wheeler-dealer uncle sticks his oars in. As the plot progresses, Kelly appears compelled to up the ante by killing off character after character so that one starts to wonder if anyone's going to survive until the end. The writing tries way too hard to be hard-boiled and almost comes off as parody at times. In fact, the whole book tries to hard in general, and never feels organic--the results is a book that will momentarily divert the reader, but hardly linger long in the mind.ncreasingly perilous grasp of the presidency in the face of the Dolan's obstinate squeaky clean campaign. Corruption is the order of the day, and if Kelly's based his tale on things he's seen and heard in his days as mayoral advance man, it's a depressing picture. There's all kinds of intrigue, as Keefe's right-hand man looks to play both sides against the middle, and Jimmy's wheeler-dealer uncle sticks his oars in. As the plot progresses, Kelly appears compelled to up the ante by killing off character after character so that one starts to wonder if anyone's going to survive until the end. The writing tries way too hard to be hard-boiled and almost comes off as parody at times. In fact, the whole book tries to hard in general, and never feels organic--the results is a book that will momentarily divert the reader, but hardly linger long in the mind.	2005-07-25
148983:US	52254603	R2HVXH3OBXPJ09	0440241359	520405863	The Rule of Four	Books	2	9	12	N	N	Another "Intellectual Thriller" Flop	Intellectual thrillers are tough genre to get right, too often they are simple potboilers dressed up in fancy clothes or elaborate crackpot conspiracy theory ramblings masquerading as high art, or else they are heavy on intellect (or the semblance thereof) and light on thrill. Whatever their specific failings, few of their number live up to advance billing and breathless reviews that accompany them. One such work is this cowritten bestseller, which starts off intriguingly enough before dragging the reader in a long downward slide into disinterest.<br /><br />The book is centered on a suite of four male Princeton seniors, two of whom are obsessed with decoding the riddles hidden in a turgid Renaissance novel penned by an mysterious unknown figure. The story is narrated by Tom, the son of an academic who was also obsessed with the book (the Hypnerotomachia Poliphili, apparently a real work). He is helping Paul, whose senior thesis is based on decoding the work. A very crucial premise to the entire story is the notion that while the book is largely ignored by the academic community, it inspires a fervor amongst those who seek to unlock its presumed secrets. If you don't find such academic questing interesting or believable, don't bother to pick this up. The supporting cast includes the two other suitemates, Gill (the effortlessly charming, handsome, great guy, blue blood, born and bred to Princeton and Wall Street type) and Charley (the token minority, paramedic, athletic, great guy), and Tom's girlfriend Katie (the smart as a whip sophomore, philosophy major, with a great head on her shoulders and a great a** type), along with an assortment of beady-eyed professors, a squirelly grad student, and the art dealer who is Paul's patron.<br /><br />The story takes place entirely on the Princeton campus, and does a decent job of integrating undergraduate life into the plot. Dining clubs play a big role, as well as more low-brow activities such as the Nude Olympics, laser tag in the steam tunnels, and the end of the year club formals. If reading about student escapades on an elite campus annoys you, this is probably a book to avoid--although honestly, these elements are handled far better than anything else in the book (which makes sense, since the authors went to Princeton). Tom's on-again, off-again relationship with Katie is supposed to illustrate the severe hold the book's mysteries hold for him, as he can't seem to manage a balance between working on it and seeing her. And although it's made painfully clear that working on the book is some kind of therapeutic way for tom to connect with his dead father, most readers will simply shake their heads and wonder what Katie sees in him to begin with.<br /><br />Finally, after 100 pages or so, someone is killed, and the pace picks up momentarily. Actually pace is a bit of a problem throughout, as confusing chronological jumps interrupt what little flow there is. The long middle bit is filled with various adventures in code-breaking, which rely on all kinds of arcane knowledge of nuances of ancient languages, mathematics, art, science, and Humanism in general. It's all explained, and it all makes sense, but more than a few readers will find it hard to swallow that two undergraduates are able to pull off such feats of encyclopedic prowess. (It is worth pointing out that one recent study of \\"genius\\" found a trend that major intellectual breakthroughs seem to occur at a fairly young age and are less likely to occur as one gets older.) As the boys get closer and closer to a breakthrough at the end, they are forced to contend with cracks in their various friendships, as well as the expected academic infighting that erupts around them. This all gets a bit tiresome, and isn't helped by some rambling passages about the nature of friendship and love. In the end, the identity of the killer comes as little surprise, and the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow is about what one would expect. In sum,neither a page-turner, nor particularly well-written (it is not, however, pretentious, as some reviewers would have it), this has little recommend it.<br /><br />I do find it interesting that it has provoked some the most unhappy reviews I've come across on Amazon. It strikes me as interesting that a number of people claim to have bought it based on the tag line that it is \\"The DaVinci Code for People with Brains\\", and then proceed to say it's no where near as good as The DaVinci Code (which I have not read). Now, if you read and enjoyed The DaVinci Code, why would you buy a book whose marketing explicitly mocks DaVinci Code readers? The book's own marketing positions itself against The DaVinci Code, why would you think you'd like it?In sum, neither a page-turner, nor particularly well-written (it is not, however, pretentious, as some reviewers would have it), this has little recommend it. <br /> <br />I do find it interesting that it has provoked some the most unhappy reviews I've come across on Amazon. It strikes me as interesting that a number of people claim to have bought it based on the tag line that it is \\"The DaVinci Code for People with Brains\\", and then proceed to say it's no where near as good as The DaVinci Code (which I have not read). Now, if you read and enjoyed The DaVinci Code, why would you buy a book whose marketing explicitly mocks DaVinci Code readers? The book's own marketing positions itself against The DaVinci Code, why would you think you'd like it?	2005-07-25
149197:US	52254603	R3HBHGOS0BB0BL	0297819240	928797893	My Affair With Stalin	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Stalin vs. Billy Hunt	Montefiore, a well-regarded biographer of Stalin (Stalin: The Court of the Red Tsar) and Potemkin, here retools his knowledge of Stalin to recreate the history of the evil dictator's rise and fall via the fortunes and misfortunes of a young English boy over the course of a school year. William is a much picked-upon nerd/weakling at an undistinguished English boarding school in the early 1970s. In the life of Stalin he discovers the means to usurp the existing power dynamics of his school and reduce the rugby/cricket-playing elite to nonentities. Naturally, various other of the school outcasts are enlisted in the revolution to fill historical roles: a huge Nigerian boy, a relation of the Shah of Iran, and various weedy kids all join the Party, and townie toughs are even brought in as mercenary shock troops.<br /><br />As William unleashes his reign of terror, each plot development runs parallel to his hero Stalin's career. William's speech is sprinkled throughout with Stalinist quotes, and the reader must accept the notion that a young schoolboy has managed to memorize everything Stalin ever said or did. Of course, the greater one's knowledge is of Stalinist history, the more enjoyable it all is (although there is a timeline at the rear of the book, and Montefiore is careful to spell things out along the way). In addition to all this, there's an additional subplot about William's crush on a female teacher, and the mysterious onset of puberty. There's a good deal of dark comedy to all this, even as the story recreates the cruel \\"Lord of the Flies\\" syndrome that occurs whenever adolescent zeal is coupled with a taste of real power. Ultimately, the book is a gimmicky coming-of-age type work, albeit a well-executed one with some very funny bits.	2005-07-25
162208:US	52254603	R2Y5AO9TH1Y54L	0253204828	268451636	The Day Lasts More than a Hundred Years	Books	3	21	26	N	N	Decent Central Asian Novel -- But of Limited Interest	Set mostly in a small railroad crossing in Kazakhstan's Sarozak desert sometime in the latter part of the 20th-century, this novel tells the story of Burrunyi Yedigei's effort to bury his coworker and friend in the ancient cemetery used by the few people of the area. In doing so, Aitmatov mounts a subversive critique of the Soviet system that crushes traditions and unfairly persecutes people. The story is told through Yedigei, a long-suffering worker who recounts episodes from his life along with a old tales drawn from Central Asian folklore. A running subplot involves a nearby cosmodrome (presumably Baikonur), and a joint Soviet-American space station which makes contact with a utopian alien race. This seems to be an attempt to link the lives of insignificant workers with earth-shattering events, or is perhaps an allegory about the Iron Curtain vis a vis the West. Or more likely, Aitmatov is attempting to tell a story in the past (folktales), present (the burial plot), and future (space). Whatever the intent, the space material feels very awkward and anyone coming to the book for science-fiction will be disappointed.<br /><br />The real core and strength of the story is the insight into the hard lives of the Kazakh rail workers and the way in which Aitmatov uses the genre trappings of Soviet Realist literature to mount a rather subversive critique of life in the USSR. We learn of the post-WWII hardship that took Yedigei and his wife Ukubala to the rail crossing, and of their daily struggle to survive there. There are plenty of other threads, most importantly the arrival of a politically suspect family looking for a place to start over, their friendship with Yedigei, the desire the wife arouses in him (echoing one of the folktales), and finally the Orwellian tragedy that takes them away. Here, Aitmatov is directly criticizing the Stalinist purges in which his own father was executed in the 1930s (the book first appeared in 1980, so he does so from a position of relative safety). There is also a running thread about Yedigei's fierce camel, a barely domesticated proud and fierce beast which is a metaphor for the Central Asian people subjugated under Soviet rule.<br /><br />The death of Yedigei's friend Kazangap is the inciting event that allows for everything else to be told, as Yedigei organizes the community for the wake and burial, to be done in the traditional way. However, tradition is not what it used to be, and Kazangap's son and relations are less than enthusiastic about the whole matter, long having fled for the modern world of the city. Moreover, the traditional funeral train of camels is augmented by a truck and tractor to assist in the grave-digging. Indeed, the clash of the modern Soviet world with the traditional Kazakh extends even to burial grounds, as the procession is denied access to the old Ana-Beiit cemetery. This relates directly to what is perhaps the novel's primary theme: cultural memory. One of the folk tales recounts how Mongol conquerors tied bands around the heads of captured enemies and allowed them to shrink, turning the wearer into a mindless slave without a memory. This crops up in the space subplot, when two cosmonauts who glimpse the utopian future are doomed to have their minds wiped. All of which relates to the Soviet attempt to eliminate cultural memory in Central Asia (embodied here in the denial of access to the traditional cemetery). This is without a doubt a book of great importance to those interested in Soviet or Central Asian literature, but others will probably not find it that compelling.lative safety). There is also a running thread about Yedigei's fierce camel, a barely domesticated proud and fierce beast which is a metaphor for the Central Asian people subjugated under Soviet rule.  <br /> <br />The death of Yedigei's friend Kazangap is the inciting event that allows for everything else to be told, as Yedigei organizes the community for the wake and burial, to be done in the traditional way. However, tradition is not what it used to be, and Kazangap's son and relations are less than enthusiastic about the whole matter, long having fled for the modern world of the city. Moreover, the traditional funeral train of camels is augmented by a truck and tractor to assist in the grave-digging. Indeed, the clash of the modern Soviet world with the traditional Kazakh extends even to burial grounds, as the procession is denied access to the old Ana-Beiit cemetery. This relates directly to what is perhaps the novel's primary theme: cultural memory. One of the folk tales recounts how Mongol conquerors tied bands around the heads of captured enemies and allowed them to shrink, turning the wearer into a mindless slave without a memory. This crops up in the space subplot, when two cosmonauts who glimpse the utopian future are doomed to have their minds wiped. All of which relates to the Soviet attempt to eliminate cultural memory in Central Asia (embodied here in the denial of access to the traditional cemetery). This is without a doubt a book of great importance to those interested in Soviet or Central Asian literature, but others will probably not find it that compelling.	2005-07-17
162549:US	52254603	R30RFRHLJ4EE4P	0061031151	578821021	The Bride's Kimono	Books	2	5	7	N	N	Forgettable Book with an Annoying Heroine	This is the fifth book in the Rei Shimura series and the first I've read. It will also be the last. Massey tries really hard, building the story on the potentially interesting premise of the hero (a young woman of American and Japanese descent) being asked to act as an art courier. She is to hand carry a priceless collection of Edo-era kimonos from Japan to an exhibit in Washington, DC at the (fictitious) Museum of Asian Arts. Of course one of these will go missing, and Rei will need to track it down to clear her name. Meanwhile, there's all kinds of wackiness involving her current boyfriend Takeo (brooding wealthy Japanese hipster playboy), ex-boyfriend Hugh (fancy Scottish lawyer), a dead Japanese girl she meets on the plane, and Rei's parents.<br /><br />Alas, Rei is an intensely irritating heroine who annoys rather than engages. Sometimes she's smart, sometimes she's incredibly stupid, sometimes she's sassy, and sometimes she's meek, but mostly she comes across as remarkably naive and silly. Indeed, the whole plot is set in motion when she agrees to move from the business class seats she has tickets for, to a seat in economy in order to placate an implausibly rude American. Who gives up their business-class seat on a 14+ hour flight from Tokyo to D.C.? The book is littered with implausibilities like these. Why would she ever sign a legal document she can't read? And are we really supposed to believe that a 30-year-old college-educated woman has zero comfort or facility with computers?<br /><br />The mystery about the missing kimono and dead girl is passable, though hardly gripping. What's more interesting are some of the cross-cultural details about Japanese culture and etiquette that Massey weaves in (rather clumsily for the more part). However, it's hard to know how accurate they are, because her take on the U.S. side of that is rather strange. Almost every American character is portrayed in a negative light, and while she's clearly done some surface level research in D.C., it's all superficial. A particularly ludicrous example is when Rei is suspected of being a prostitute by county police in Virginia. First of all, the police in that particular county are extremely sophisticated and the premise that they would think she is a hooker is silly. Secondly, their allegation relies upon video from a Metro train. Metro doesn't have security cameras in trains yet (as of mid-2005), only in stations and some buses. Another small throwaway example is when rei wakes up to the hotel radio playing Cibo Matto at 6 AM. Much as I wish otherwise, there is no radio station in the D.C.-area where one will be hearing Cibo Matto at 6 AM, or indeed any hour. Individually, these are minor missteps, but they just keep on coming one after the other.<br /><br />It doesn't help that there's a whole lot of screwball antics relating to Rei's love life. Her attempt to figure out who she really cares for is laughable, and her attempts to juggle men and her parents is probably supposed to be funny, but falls flat. Her two men are plausible, if somewhat stock characters, but her mother is an entirely over the top piece of work. All in all, I plodded through the book little caring whodunit or why and it would have been a complete dud had there not been some interesting tidbits about kimonos and museum lending practices. But I certainly won't waste any more time on this clumsy series.el research in D.C., it's all superficial. A particularly ludicrous example is when Rei is suspected of being a prostitute by county police in Virginia. First of all, the police in that particular county are extremely sophisticated and the premise that they would think she is a hooker is silly. Secondly, their allegation relies upon video from a Metro train. Metro doesn't have security cameras in trains yet (as of mid-2005), only in stations and some buses. Another small throwaway example is when rei wakes up to the hotel radio playing Cibo Matto at 6 AM. Much as I wish otherwise, there is no radio station in the D.C.-area where one will be hearing Cibo Matto at 6 AM, or indeed any hour. Individually, these are minor missteps, but they just keep on coming one after the other. <br /> <br />It doesn't help that there's a whole lot of screwball antics relating to Rei's love life. Her attempt to figure out who she really cares for is laughable, and her attempts to juggle men and her parents is probably supposed to be funny, but falls flat. Her two men are plausible, if somewhat stock characters, but her mother is an entirely over the top piece of work. All in all, I plodded through the book little caring whodunit or why and it would have been a complete dud had there not been some interesting tidbits about kimonos and museum lending practices. But I certainly won't waste any more time on this clumsy series.	2005-07-17
162774:US	52254603	R1IT0THO4TDZD8	1856693368	949056677	magCulture: New Magazine Design	Books	3	13	13	N	N	More Designer Porn	This attractive book falls firmly into the category of what I call \\"designer porn\\". Like any number of design books that look to provide an overview of the latest wave in whatever field, it's both mouthwatering and entirely impractical. The six essays that open the book do a decent job of setting the context for what follows and providing an overview of consumer magazines, newspaper magazines, indie mags (mircrozines), corporate/brand magazines, and even web magazines, but the real-world designer is unlikely to find any helpful tips or advice (granted, the book isn't intended to do that to begin with). The 150 or so pages that follow are chockablock with beautifully shot examples of the latest and greatest magazine design from the late '90s and early '00s (almost all the examples are from Western Europe). Organized into sections on overall format, cover design, flow, typography, and photography, these make for great eye candy, and act as a sort of sourcebook for potential inspiration, but that's about it. Overall, it's a nice book, but almost all the examples are of magazines supported by fancy ads or fancy corporations. What would be nice is if someone could put together a similar book based on low-budget magazines. That's something that would transcend the usual designer porn and actually be useful to more of us.	2005-07-17
224781:US	52254603	R28HSXGZNG41SR	1901969150	720210173	Brixton Rock	Books	1	7	8	N	N	Plods Along to Inevitable End	Contrary to reviews, this book is neither \\"explosive\\", nor \\"very funny\\", nor \\" energetic\\", nor \\" witty\\", nor \\"heartwarming\\", nor \\"a real page turner.\\" Rather, it is a fairly plodding story about a troubled teenage boy trying to find his way into adulthood, with little to recommend it. The setting is (as one might guess from the title) South London circa 1980, and Brenton is a mixed-race 17-year-old living in a hostel for those coming out of social care. He was abandoned by his mother and father and grew up in a series of awful orphanages, leading to considerable inner turmoil.<br /><br />The story follows Brenton as he mopes around, bumming cigarettes, cashing his giro, listening to tunes, smoking herb, and generally being mad at the world. Following an incident in which Brenton is knifed quite badly by a neighborhood guy whom he has a beef with, a social worker tracks down his mother and reintroduces him. This attempt to bring some measure of love and psychological comfort to his life has the unfortunate side-effect of also bringing his beautiful half-sister into his life. And let's just say that the familial love he was seeking comes in a rather taboo form... Indeed, I don't think I've ever come across a piece of literature or film that treats incest so off-handedly. It's treated as little more than a particularly vexing impediment to love, a sort of uber Romeo and Juliet situation. Very strange.<br /><br />Things end pretty much as one might expect, as Brenton takes baby steps to self-improvement, only to have society push him back. The title appears to be a play on the well-known (and overrated in my mind) early Graham Greene novel Brighton Rock. Both feature troubled 17-year old males, but whereas Brighton Rock's Pinkie is a sociopath and real gangster, Brenton is merely a confused boy posing as a man. His story is not particularly interesting or compelling, and the writing is so simple I kept thinking it was a book intended for children. However, if you've never been exposed to Jamaican patois, it's not a bad introduction. The dialogue is littered with terms like bredren, iretion, suitcase, beast, spar, batty, seen, ram, mash up, and the like. (If you don't know what these mean, you may need to read the book next to a computer with an internet Jamaican/English dictionary on screen.)<br /><br />Wheatle does do a decent job of capturing the vibe of the times, as racist cops harass black kids, sound systems clash at all-night discos, and there's a lot of tension on the street. Brenton's forever popping the roots music in the suitcase and people like Denis Brown, Barrington Levy, and Johnny Osbourne all get namechecked frequently, with chapter titles riffing on song titles and lyrics of the day. Ultimately, however, as a portrait of multicultural London, it's all surface and no depth. One might be better off reading other fiction, such as Colin MacInnes' City of Spades (about the first wave of Caribbean immigrants), or Victor Headley's Yardie (basically \\"Scarface\\" in early '90s Jamaican London), or even Zadie Smith's White Teeth (which I grudgingly have to admit is pretty good).<br /><br />PS. Two peripheral characters from this book (Biscuit and Coffinhead) are the protagonists of Wheatle's next book, East of Acre Lane, set in the same time and place.e never been exposed to Jamaican patois, it's not a bad introduction. The dialogue is littered with terms like bredren, iretion, suitcase, beast, spar, batty, seen, ram, mash up, and the like. (If you don't know what these mean, you may need to read the book next to a computer with an internet Jamaican/English dictionary on screen.) <br /> <br />Wheatle does do a decent job of capturing the vibe of the times, as racist cops harass black kids, sound systems clash at all-night discos, and there's a lot of tension on the street. Brenton's forever popping the roots music in the suitcase and people like Denis Brown, Barrington Levy, and Johnny Osbourne all get namechecked frequently, with chapter titles riffing on song titles and lyrics of the day. Ultimately, however, as a portrait of multicultural London, it's all surface and no depth. One might be better off reading other fiction, such as Colin MacInnes' City of Spades (about the first wave of Caribbean immigrants), or Victor Headley's Yardie (basically \\"Scarface\\" in early '90s Jamaican London), or even Zadie Smith's White Teeth (which I grudgingly have to admit is pretty good). <br /> <br />PS. Two peripheral characters from this book (Biscuit and Coffinhead) are the protagonists of Wheatle's next book, East of Acre Lane, set in the same time and place.	2005-05-28
227846:US	52254603	R2AWHE8K83L8EN	0425179826	394001520	The Mineral Palace	Books	1	8	10	N	N	Rather Weak Debut Novel	This Depression-era novel does little to evoke the Great Depression, but may well instill readers with their own private depression after they slog through this miserable tale. Doom and gloom hover over the Janssen family from the very outset of this overwrought and overwritten book. Forced to move from St. Paul, Minnesota to the small town of Pueblo, Colorado so that the man of the family can work as a doctor, they set off on a cross-country road trip. Ominous portents abound for Bena and Tom, with their newborn acting strangely, a crow hitting the windshield, and an encounter with Bonnie and Clyde all en route.<br /><br />But this is just the warm-up for their arrival and installment in the strangely gothic town of Pueblo. Bored and unhappy with her life in general, and her marriage in particular, Bena gets a job at the local newspaper. This leads her to ignore what is considered proper and correct in order to poke around other people's lives and the town's past. Bena can't seem to turn around without meeting someone who is physically or emotionally scarred (sometimes both). But the dark underside of Pueblo isn't enough, Bena's got her own dark past -- namely the death of her brother. The material is the stuff of lurid pulp fiction, the kind of ingredients Jim Thompson handled so well. But here it becomes mostly melodrama and overstuffed imagery and metaphor. Lust, betrayal, addiction, suicide, incest, and infanticide are all present, and the sheer volume of life's dark side numbs the reader to any impact.<br /><br />This might have been forgivable had their been a strong sense of time or place, or even an unpredictable payoff at the end. But the Depression seems to have little effect on the people of Pueblo, or at least no one seems particularly put out by it. And rather strangely, the author set the story in a real town with a real past, but seems to have more or less ignored the local geography, climate, and history. There is some good imagery at times, but the people are all far too outsize and knowing to be real. Finally, the denouement is entirely too predictable--having been foreshadowed into the ground. On the whole, the book has little to offer.ut the people are all far too outsize and knowing to be real. Finally, the denouement is entirely too predictable--having been foreshadowed into the ground. On the whole, the book has little to offer.	2005-05-25
228209:US	52254603	R1WH21G8L8UNZE	0770110436	969834565	Under the Streets of Nice	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Fascinating True Crime Caper	Rather confusingly, this brief and engaging true crime chronicle (it is NOT a novel) has appeared in English under three different titles over the years: The Heist of the Century, Under the Streets of Nice, and The Gentleman of 16 July. To make things even more confusing, although the book was largely the work of French journalists writing under the pseudonym Rene Maurice, some editions prominently bear the name of bestselling thriller-writer Ken Follett on the cover. As Follett explains on his web site, the original translated manuscript was a mess, and he was hired (before he was an established brand) to \\"fix\\" it. He spent about two weeks on it and since then has more or less disavowed it: \\" Not only was it not my best effort, it was well below what I could do.... It's still not a good book, but I turned a completely unpublishable manuscript into something more or less respectable.\\"<br /><br />More or less respectable is more or less accurate, the prose is far from great, but the story itself is absolutely fascinating. It tells of an astounding bank heist in Nice, France in the summer of 1976. A gang of twenty criminals, under the direction of a self-mythologizing right-wing dreamer named Albert Spaggiari spent two months digging a 25-foot tunnel from the city sewer system into a bank vault. Once in, they proceeded to spend the weekend breaking into safe deposit boxes before leaving with some $8 to $10 million in cash, gold, and jewelry and daubing the phrase \\"sans haine, sans violence et sans arme\\" on the wall! The book focuses on the heist and the small details that led to Spaggiari's eventual capture. He's a fascinating figure, an ex-paratrooper, OAS member who came within a phone call of assassinating President de Gaulle, but also a photographer who rubbed shoulders with the city elite and had connections with the underworld. The improbable end to the story includes his escape from imprisonment and subsequent flight to Paraguay, where he lived a life of high style and luxury.<br /><br />The book speaks frequently about how Spaggiari heist and escape was received with general applause by the European public, and how he became a kind of folk hero. Much of this can be attributed to the general human affection for those who poke fun at the authorities (Spaggiari granted numerous magazine interviews until his death in 1989, always taunting the police) without causing any violence. But this obscures the rather darker question surrounding his connection to underground far-right organizations. The book is a little frustrating due to murkiness surrounding the affair. There are some disturbing mistakes made by the police and several indications that Spaggiari was well-connected to France's right-wind elite. In the following years, there were several similar heists elsewhere in France and Europe, including one executed only a month after the Nice job and thus could not possibly be a copycat. There's even an appearance by the CIA!<br /><br />It would be interesting to know if any further details have come to light in subsequent years. Spaggiari has written at least one memoir of his own (Fric-frac: The Great Riviera Bank Robbery) but this is not likely to be very truthful. The entire affairs is perfectly suited to the movies, and indeed, a French film called Les &eacute;gouts du paradis (The Sewers of Paradise) was released in 1979. More recently, there are some indications that Warner Bros. is developing a new version with the title \\"Under the Streets of Nice\\".tyle and luxury.<br /><br />The book speaks frequently about how Spaggiari heist and escape was received with general applause by the European public, and how he became a kind of folk hero. Much of this can be attributed to the general human affection for those who poke fun at the authorities (Spaggiari granted numerous magazine interviews until his death in 1989, always taunting the police) without causing any violence. But this obscures the rather darker question surrounding his connection to underground far-right organizations. The book is a little frustrating due to murkiness surrounding the affair. There are some disturbing mistakes made by the police and several indications that Spaggiari was well-connected to France's right-wind elite. In the following years, there were several similar heists elsewhere in France and Europe, including one executed only a month after the Nice job and thus could not possibly be a copycat. There's even an appearance by the CIA!<br /><br />It would be interesting to know if any further details have come to light in subsequent years. Spaggiari has written at least one memoir of his own (Fric-frac: The Great Riviera Bank Robbery) but this is not likely to be very truthful. The entire affairs is perfectly suited to the movies, and indeed, a French film called Les &eacute;gouts du paradis (The Sewers of Paradise) was released in 1979. More recently, there are some indications that Warner Bros. is developing a new version with the title \\"Under the Streets of Nice\\".	2005-05-25
228874:US	52254603	RIL80AWVL2NRO	0006352022	485713148	The heist of the century	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fascinating True Crime Caper	Rather confusingly, this brief and engaging true crime chronicle (it is NOT a novel) has appeared in English under three different titles over the years: The Heist of the Century, Under the Streets of Nice, and The Gentleman of 16 July. To make things even more confusing, although the book was largely the work of French journalists writing under the pseudonym Rene Maurice, some editions prominently bear the name of bestselling thriller-writer Ken Follett on the cover. As Follett explains on his web site, the original translated manuscript was a mess, and he was hired (before he was an established brand) to \\"fix\\" it. He spent about two weeks on it and since then has more or less disavowed it: \\" Not only was it not my best effort, it was well below what I could do.... It's still not a good book, but I turned a completely unpublishable manuscript into something more or less respectable.\\"<br /><br />More or less respectable is more or less accurate, the prose is far from great, but the story itself is absolutely fascinating. It tells of an astounding bank heist in Nice, France in the summer of 1976. A gang of twenty criminals, under the direction of a self-mythologizing right-wing dreamer named Albert Spaggiari spent two months digging a 25-foot tunnel from the city sewer system into a bank vault. Once in, they proceeded to spend the weekend breaking into safe deposit boxes before leaving with some $8 to $10 million in cash, gold, and jewelry and daubing the phrase \\"sans haine, sans violence et sans arme\\" on the wall! The book focuses on the heist and the small details that led to Spaggiari's eventual capture. He's a fascinating figure, an ex-paratrooper, OAS member who came within a phone call of assassinating President de Gaulle, but also a photographer who rubbed shoulders with the city elite and had connections with the underworld. The improbable end to the story includes his escape from imprisonment and subsequent flight to Paraguay, where he lived a life of high style and luxury.<br /><br />The book speaks frequently about how Spaggiari heist and escape was received with general applause by the European public, and how he became a kind of folk hero. Much of this can be attributed to the general human affection for those who poke fun at the authorities (Spaggiari granted numerous magazine interviews until his death in 1989, always taunting the police) without causing any violence. But this obscures the rather darker question surrounding his connection to underground far-right organizations. The book is a little frustrating due to murkiness surrounding the affair. There are some disturbing mistakes made by the police and several indications that Spaggiari was well-connected to France's right-wind elite. In the following years, there were several similar heists elsewhere in France and Europe, including one executed only a month after the Nice job and thus could not possibly be a copycat. There's even an appearance by the CIA!<br /><br />It would be interesting to know if any further details have come to light in subsequent years. Spaggiari has written at least one memoir of his own (Fric-frac: The Great Riviera Bank Robbery) but this is not likely to be very truthful. The entire affairs is perfectly suited to the movies, and indeed, a French film called Les &eacute;gouts du paradis (The Sewers of Paradise) was released in 1979. More recently, there are some indications that Warner Bros. is developing a new version with the title \\"Under the Streets of Nice\\".style and luxury. <br /> <br />The book speaks frequently about how Spaggiari heist and escape was received with general applause by the European public, and how he became a kind of folk hero. Much of this can be attributed to the general human affection for those who poke fun at the authorities (Spaggiari granted numerous magazine interviews until his death in 1989, always taunting the police) without causing any violence. But this obscures the rather darker question surrounding his connection to underground far-right organizations. The book is a little frustrating due to murkiness surrounding the affair. There are some disturbing mistakes made by the police and several indications that Spaggiari was well-connected to France's right-wind elite. In the following years, there were several similar heists elsewhere in France and Europe, including one executed only a month after the Nice job and thus could not possibly be a copycat. There's even an appearance by the CIA! <br /> <br />It would be interesting to know if any further details have come to light in subsequent years. Spaggiari has written at least one memoir of his own (Fric-frac: The Great Riviera Bank Robbery) but this is not likely to be very truthful. The entire affairs is perfectly suited to the movies, and indeed, a French film called Les gouts du paradis (The Sewers of Paradise) was released in 1979. More recently, there are some indications that Warner Bros. is developing a new version with the title \\"Under the Streets of Nice\\".	2005-05-25
229019:US	52254603	R1OWOFQM7Y0X35	0523416555	942875855	Gentlemen of 16 July	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Fascinating True Crime Caper	Rather confusingly, this brief and engaging true crime chronicle (it is NOT a novel) has appeared in English under three different titles over the years: The Heist of the Century, Under the Streets of Nice, and The Gentleman of 16 July. To make things even more confusing, although the book was largely the work of French journalists writing under the pseudonym Rene Maurice, some editions prominently bear the name of bestselling thriller-writer Ken Follett on the cover. As Follett explains on his web site, the original translated manuscript was a mess, and he was hired (before he was an established brand) to \\"fix\\" it. He spent about two weeks on it and since then has more or less disavowed it: \\" Not only was it not my best effort, it was well below what I could do.... It's still not a good book, but I turned a completely unpublishable manuscript into something more or less respectable.\\"<br /><br />More or less respectable is more or less accurate, the prose is far from great, but the story itself is absolutely fascinating. It tells of an astounding bank heist in Nice, France in the summer of 1976. A gang of twenty criminals, under the direction of a self-mythologizing right-wing dreamer named Albert Spaggiari spent two months digging a 25-foot tunnel from the city sewer system into a bank vault. Once in, they proceeded to spend the weekend breaking into safe deposit boxes before leaving with some $8 to $10 million in cash, gold, and jewelry and daubing the phrase \\"sans haine, sans violence et sans arme\\" on the wall! The book focuses on the heist and the small details that led to Spaggiari's eventual capture. He's a fascinating figure, an ex-paratrooper, OAS member who came within a phone call of assassinating President de Gaulle, but also a photographer who rubbed shoulders with the city elite and had connections with the underworld. The improbable end to the story includes his escape from imprisonment and subsequent flight to Paraguay, where he lived a life of high style and luxury.<br /><br />The book speaks frequently about how Spaggiari heist and escape was received with general applause by the European public, and how he became a kind of folk hero. Much of this can be attributed to the general human affection for those who poke fun at the authorities (Spaggiari granted numerous magazine interviews until his death in 1989, always taunting the police) without causing any violence. But this obscures the rather darker question surrounding his connection to underground far-right organizations. The book is a little frustrating due to murkiness surrounding the affair. There are some disturbing mistakes made by the police and several indications that Spaggiari was well-connected to France's right-wind elite. In the following years, there were several similar heists elsewhere in France and Europe, including one executed only a month after the Nice job and thus could not possibly be a copycat. There's even an appearance by the CIA!<br /><br />It would be interesting to know if any further details have come to light in subsequent years. Spaggiari has written at least one memoir of his own (Fric-frac: The Great Riviera Bank Robbery) but this is not likely to be very truthful. The entire affairs is perfectly suited to the movies, and indeed, a French film called Les &eacute;gouts du paradis (The Sewers of Paradise) was released in 1979. More recently, there are some indications that Warner Bros. is developing a new version with the title \\"Under the Streets of Nice\\".style and luxury. <br /> <br />The book speaks frequently about how Spaggiari heist and escape was received with general applause by the European public, and how he became a kind of folk hero. Much of this can be attributed to the general human affection for those who poke fun at the authorities (Spaggiari granted numerous magazine interviews until his death in 1989, always taunting the police) without causing any violence. But this obscures the rather darker question surrounding his connection to underground far-right organizations. The book is a little frustrating due to murkiness surrounding the affair. There are some disturbing mistakes made by the police and several indications that Spaggiari was well-connected to France's right-wind elite. In the following years, there were several similar heists elsewhere in France and Europe, including one executed only a month after the Nice job and thus could not possibly be a copycat. There's even an appearance by the CIA! <br /> <br />It would be interesting to know if any further details have come to light in subsequent years. Spaggiari has written at least one memoir of his own (Fric-frac: The Great Riviera Bank Robbery) but this is not likely to be very truthful. The entire affairs is perfectly suited to the movies, and indeed, a French film called Les gouts du paradis (The Sewers of Paradise) was released in 1979. More recently, there are some indications that Warner Bros. is developing a new version with the title \\"Under the Streets of Nice\\".	2005-05-25
244386:US	52254603	R1DU23LO9ZE6J7	0375421262	924953718	The Bird Man and the Lap Dancer: Close Encounters with Strangers	Books	5	42	43	N	N	Completely Fascinating Essays	Years ago I enjoyed Hansen's book Motoring With Mohammad, and so when I saw this compellingly titled new collection of nine essays I immediately picked it up. Three of these are essentially profiles of interesting people Hansen has come across in his years of globe trotting, and the other six could be grouped under the heading of travel writing, although they tend to transcend the genre. All of the essays are immensely readable and engrossing, as Hansen is one of those rare travel writers who writes beautifully and insightfully about places, people, and experience.<br /><br />The first profile, \\"Arlette and Madame Perruche\\", is also the shortest piece in the book. It's an 8-page sketch of the friendship between an elderly Russian ballerina and a homeless woman in the south of France. The brief piece gives a deep sense of the power of generosity and friendship. Another elderly Russian woman is the subject of the second profile, \\"Cooking With Madame Zoya.\\" Here, the subject lives in New York and is renown for her authentic Russian cuisine, catering for massive parties from the tiny kitchen of her Washington Heights tenement. The mini-biography over twenty pages is compelling in its own right, but what it really does is make one reflect upon how every old person around us has rich stories to tell if we are willing to listen. The final profile gives the collection its provocative title, and is about a wildlife biologist in northern California and his unlikely friendship with a group of strippers. Like the first profile, it's about a very unlikely friendship, and Hansen spends 35 pages trying to get at what makes it work.<br /><br />The six travel pieces span approximately thirty years of Hansen's life and are utterly unique and compelling reading. In \\"Life at the Grand Hotel\\", Hansen is working on a shrimp trawler off the Australian coast in 1974. In only a few pages he very effectively sketches what life on a shrimper is like, and then Cyclone Tracy hits. This was a horrific storm in which several other trawlers sank, some 16 people died at sea, and Hansen's home port of Darwin was leveled. Barely making it through the storm, the boat lays up at Thursday Island and a shaken Hansen is drawn to the nexus of social life there, the Grand Hotel. This becomes his home for the next several months, and his tales of the wild people and antics there are quite funny. This is the kind of story that will make the reader want to run away from home and embark on strange adventures. It's also a postcard from the past, as globalization has clearly reached in and tamed the island since then.<br /><br />\\"Listening to Kava\\" is a 15-page piece that would be very much at home in one of the more interesting travel magazines. In it, Hansen journeys to Vanuatu to learn about the rites that revolve around the kava root, which is central to native culture there. It's no-holds-barred experiential journalism as he gets whammied by the powerful hallucinogenic effect and lives to write about it. \\"Life Lessons From Dying Strangers\\" is an oddly funny and spiritual piece from 1977. Hansen was in Calcutta and wanted to send several steamer trunks of various Asian artifacts he'd collected back home in San Francisco. Alas, the Indian bureaucracy was more than his match, and a task that should have taken a week turned into months of frustration. As part of alleviating that frustration, he offhandedly wandered into Mother Teresa's hospice for the dying poor, and found spiritual calm through volunteering. Those with a spiritual bent will probably find this the most compelling of the essays.<br /><br />\\"Night Fishing With Nahimah\\" also dates from 1977, however here Hansen is in the Maldives, embarking on a rather dubious scheme to smuggle dried fish to Sri Lanka. The appetite for this delicacy is such that it's apparently a lucrative endeavor, and his machinations require him to journey to outlying islands to purchase his stock directly from fishermen. Fascinating adventures ensue, including near death from hepatitis, a surprising lesson in local sexual customs, a stay in a remote village, and most importantly a one night affair with a beautiful native woman. Again, this is the type of essay that makes one want to run off and try something crazy.<br /><br />\\"Three Nights on the Mountain\\" recounts how Hansen was hired in 1991 to travel to Borneo to help a Texan search for his wife's engagement ring, lost when she died in a plane crash on a remote part of the island. The man came across Hansen's book \\"Stranger in the Forest: On Foot Across Borneo\\" and wouldn't take no for an answer. The trip is brief, but very eerie and poignant. Finally, \\"The Ghost Wind\\" is about a tall-ship race from San Francisco to Los Angeles in 2000. Hansen talks his way onto a creaky rustbucket Indonesian naval training ship which against all odds, mounts a serious challenge to the ultramodern Japanese entry. This last essay ends things on an emphatic upbeat note.<br /><br />Hansen is a brilliantly talented writer, able to bring the reader not only into his physical world, but into his emotional world. It's rare that travel narratives are able to accomplish this without feeling false or descending into mawkish sentimentality, but Hansen pulls it off. But most importantly, he has incredibly interesting stories to tell -- this is a collection whose stories will stay with the reader for quite a long time.ting adventures ensue, including near death from hepatitis, a surprising lesson in local sexual customs, a stay in a remote village, and most importantly a one night affair with a beautiful native woman. Again, this is the type of essay that makes one want to run off and try something crazy.  <br /> <br />\\"Three Nights on the Mountain\\" recounts how Hansen was hired in 1991 to travel to Borneo to help a Texan search for his wife's engagement ring, lost when she died in a plane crash on a remote part of the island. The man came across Hansen's book \\"Stranger in the Forest: On Foot Across Borneo\\" and wouldn't take no for an answer. The trip is brief, but very eerie and poignant. Finally, \\"The Ghost Wind\\" is about a tall-ship race from San Francisco to Los Angeles in 2000. Hansen talks his way onto a creaky rustbucket Indonesian naval training ship which against all odds, mounts a serious challenge to the ultramodern Japanese entry. This last essay ends things on an emphatic upbeat note.  <br /> <br />Hansen is a brilliantly talented writer, able to bring the reader not only into his physical world, but into his emotional world. It's rare that travel narratives are able to accomplish this without feeling false or descending into mawkish sentimentality, but Hansen pulls it off. But most importantly, he has incredibly interesting stories to tell -- this is a collection whose stories will stay with the reader for quite a long time.	2005-05-11
244616:US	52254603	R2OHNSBISIP50V	037572754X	196574717	Chasing the Sea: Lost Among the Ghosts of Empire in Central Asia	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Top-Rank Modern Travel Writing	I came to this book as someone who enjoys a good travelogue and has a long-standing general interest in Central Asia (I've read all the Hopkirk books). I have to say that despite Bissell's cautionary notice at the beginning that he is not attempting history or reportage or travel writing, but that the book is \\"a personal, idiosyncratic account of a place and a people and the problems and conflicts they share,\\" this is one of the best modern travelogues I've encountered. Like all the best in the genre, it is outstanding precisely because it is such a personal work. Those interested in just the logistics of getting around and seeing the sights of Uzbekistan can always just pick up a good guidebook or three, and those interested in pure history have plenty of works to pick from. What Bissell brings is sparkling prose and a refreshingly open-hearted approach that admits his own limitations.<br /><br />Bissell's relationship with Uzbekistan began with an ignominious Peace Corps stint in the 1996, which saw him leaving after less than a year due to a mental breakdown. He returned in 2001, ostensibly to research and write an article about the decline of the Aral Sea, but in a large part, to confront his demons from that earlier experience. As the title foreshadows, he spends most of his trip bouncing around the country in an attempt to come to grips with it (indeed, it isn't until the final 50 pages that he gets to the Aral and discusses its plight). Bissell isn't on any particular itinerary so much as he wants to see the high points and take care of a few tasks (like smuggling money to someone). Because his Uzbek is shaky and his Russian is almost non-existent, he hires a 20-something Uzbek translator named Rustam. This college student peppers his speech with \\"dude\\" and \\"bro\\", and is a Depeche Mode devotee, not to mention a bit of a ladies man. More importantly, he provides a forum for Bissell to bounce his impressions of the country, its Soviet legacy, and Islam, off of -- and their disagreements are often highly illuminating.<br /><br />Bissell travels around, from Tashkent to Gulistan, to Samarkand, the Ferghana valley, the T'ien Shan Mountains, and finally to Nukus and the Aral Sea. Modes of travel vary from local bus to hired car to Uzbek Air, and he experiences all the grime and discomfort such travel involves, including a harrowing encounter with some militia who stop their hired car, rather casually club the driver to the ground, take Rustam away for a full body search, and menace Bissell. Contrary to several reviews on Amazon, the most laughable of which reads that he \\"keeps the indigenous people of Central Asia at arms-length\\" Bissell interacts heavily with the people and places he visits. Upon arrival in a new place, the first thing he usually does is head out for an aimless hour-long walk to try and get a sense of the place.<br /><br />Interspersed with his travels, Bissell recounts the political, cultural, and religious history of the country and the region. This ranges all over the place, from linguistics, to British and Russian Imperial history, ethnography, political economy, folk tales, internal Soviet politics, modern corruption, and all manner of things besides. These are generally largely cribbed summaries from other sources (listed in the bibliography), but Bissell does a nice job of putting it altogether in highly readable prose lightly sprinkled with jokes, asides, and personal commentary. Some might find this approach too freeform or meandering, but Bissell makes it work. It all wraps up with the sad tale of Karakalpak people, who used to fish and live off the Aral Sea and now live over 100 miles from its shore, and Bissell is left contemplating the rusting hulks of fishing vessels adrift in an ocean of sand. A brilliant piece of non-fiction from a very talented writer.f -- and their disagreements are often highly illuminating. <br /> <br />Bissell travels around, from Tashkent to Gulistan, to Samarkand, the Ferghana valley, the T'ien Shan Mountains, and finally to Nukus and the Aral Sea. Modes of travel vary from local bus to hired car to Uzbek Air, and he experiences all the grime and discomfort such travel involves, including a harrowing encounter with some militia who stop their hired car, rather casually club the driver to the ground, take Rustam away for a full body search, and menace Bissell. Contrary to several reviews on Amazon, the most laughable of which reads that he \\"keeps the indigenous people of Central Asia at arms-length\\" Bissell interacts heavily with the people and places he visits. Upon arrival in a new place, the first thing he usually does is head out for an aimless hour-long walk to try and get a sense of the place.  <br /> <br />Interspersed with his travels, Bissell recounts the political, cultural, and religious history of the country and the region. This ranges all over the place, from linguistics, to British and Russian Imperial history, ethnography, political economy, folk tales, internal Soviet politics, modern corruption, and all manner of things besides. These are generally largely cribbed summaries from other sources (listed in the bibliography), but Bissell does a nice job of putting it altogether in highly readable prose lightly sprinkled with jokes, asides, and personal commentary. Some might find this approach too freeform or meandering, but Bissell makes it work. It all wraps up with the sad tale of Karakalpak people, who used to fish and live off the Aral Sea and now live over 100 miles from its shore, and Bissell is left contemplating the rusting hulks of fishing vessels adrift in an ocean of sand. A brilliant piece of non-fiction from a very talented writer.	2005-05-11
244855:US	52254603	R1F3IONP9YZPR0	0060751525	439989310	Puff: A Novel	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Excellent '70s-tinged Comic Coming of Age Novel	There's a whole subgenre of fiction which I call the \\"semi-autobiographical hapless guy coming of age in the '70s bittersweet comedy.\\" A recent high-profile example might be Jonathan Lethem's Fortress of Solitude, although there are others that are much much better, such as John McNally's Troublemakers, Tom Perrota's collection Bad Haircut, and the late Chris Fuhrman's The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys. This debut from Flaherty ranks right up there with the best of them in terms of pure storytelling and enjoyment, and it's a good bet that someone will be making it into a movie one day.<br /><br />Set in the unspecified mid to late '70s in the Irish-Catholic working class suburb of Morton (just outside of Boston), the story follows the Gullivan brothers over the course of two wild winter days, with numerous flashbacks to childhood events in the '60s. Now in their early 20s, John and Gully are a matched pair of chronically unemployed reckless burnouts. With their father long-dead, and their mother dying of cancer in the hospital, the dynamic duo pretty much lounge around the house reading comics, watching TV, listening to the radio, and getting high. However, their laziness leads to big problems when they put off resupplying their pot stash one day.<br /><br />The next day they wake up after an epic blizzard and have to make their way to Braintree to purchase a their buddy/dealer's last ounce of \\"Dominican Sin\\", which he will hold for them until 4pm. The problem is that the city has decreed that no one is allowed to drive. Fortunately, their pal Doody (the tale of his nickname is an unfortunate one), has Red Cross paraphernalia that will allow them to hit the road in their father's old panel truck. Alas, when you dress up as paramedics, people might actually think you are paramedics. And since despite their strong anti-authoritarian streaks the brothers are essentially good people, they can't refuse when flagged down to take a woman to the hospital. Of course, this only plunges them deeper into a series of wacky adventures involving: various villains from their past who are also out and about (a fiendish Monsignor, a bully turned cop, the world's most vicious cat), damsels in distress (the girl next door who has grown up into a delectably sarcastic cutie, a little girl with frozen doggie, an old lady in need of insulin), and a other random folks, like a knife-wielding maniac and a priest with a crisis of faith.<br /><br />All of these adventures, which include multiple evasions from the police and numerous ER visits, trigger reminisces of their childhood in the '60s. The most poignant of these involve their now-dying mother, and her quiet attempts to keep the big family under some semblance of control. Their hardworking and hard put upon father gets plenty of space too, as does his frustrating job as a newspaper distributor. While all the stories and adventures make for great fun, the two days mark a period of transition in the brothers' lives, as the spark of maturity starts to become visible. With wonderful pacing, the story moves along at an entertaining clip and ends on just the right note. One of the best American comic novels I've read in recent memory.s only plunges them deeper into a series of wacky adventures involving: various villains from their past who are also out and about (a fiendish Monsignor, a bully turned cop, the world's most vicious cat), damsels in distress (the girl next door who has grown up into a delectably sarcastic cutie, a little girl with frozen doggie, an old lady in need of insulin), and a other random folks, like a knife-wielding maniac and a priest with a crisis of faith. <br /> <br />All of these adventures, which include multiple evasions from the police and numerous ER visits, trigger reminisces of their childhood in the '60s. The most poignant of these involve their now-dying mother, and her quiet attempts to keep the big family under some semblance of control. Their hardworking and hard put upon father gets plenty of space too, as does his frustrating job as a newspaper distributor. While all the stories and adventures make for great fun, the two days mark a period of transition in the brothers' lives, as the spark of maturity starts to become visible. With wonderful pacing, the story moves along at an entertaining clip and ends on just the right note. One of the best American comic novels I've read in recent memory.	2005-05-11
249532:US	52254603	R2QMU0523108T7	0553583123	956860008	Last Citadel: A Novel of the Battle of Kursk	Books	2	8	13	N	N	Mediocre Military/Historical Fiction	I've never read any of Robbins other books, but I'd heard good things about The War of the Rats, so I thought I'd give this a go. I knew very little about the Battle of Kursk and my knowledge of the Eastern Front in general is somewhat shaky (although I did read and enjoy Guy Sajer's memoir The Forgotten Soldier). By the end of this book, it struck me that it's very much like a lot of historical and military fiction: decent at getting across the salient facts, decent at putting the reader in the middle of the action, woeful at pacing, characterization, drama, and woodenly written.<br /><br />The story revolves around the pivotal battle in July 1943 for the Soviet city of Kursk. Around two million soldiers were arrayed against each other, along with the largest collection of tanks ever seen. A German offensive, code named \\"Citadel\\", was an attempt by Hitler to create a breakthrough in Russia before he would be forced to reallocate troops and tanks to deal with the impending American invasion of Italy. The protagonists are a Spanish SS Panzer officer and a Russian family, two of whom serve in the same T-34 tank. The Spaniard is the son of a famous Barcelonan bullfighter and is part of the \\"Blue Division\\" sent by Franco to fight with the Germans. A sniper shot outside Leningrad took him out of action for almost a year and turned him into a pale, shriveled shell of what he used to be. Now he's back, escorting a final shipment of Tiger tanks to the front lines, and looking for revenge, honor, and glory to sustain the rest of his years. If this isn't cheesy enough, we have on the opposite side, the Berko family. Of Cossack linage, the cartoonish father is a tank driver for his son, a serious and distant Communist, while the daughter is a fearless member of an all-female night bomber unit. Supporting cardboard-thin characters include a gung-ho SS tank commander, a series of Ukrainian partisans, a noble Russian pilot, and a German intelligence officer spying for the Russians.<br /><br />On the German side, the story mostly consists of Vega safeguarding the transport of a final shipment of Tiger tanks to the front and eventually being assigned to command one of them in the battle. On the Russian side, we have the two Berko men in their latest T-34, dealing with two new recruits and preparing for the battle. Their daughter/sister, meanwhile, is engaged on nightly bombing runs. However, when her male pilot friend gets shot down, she naturally tries to rescue him, resulting in her getting absorbed into a partisan unit with a traitor in its midst. Naturally, by the end, Vega and the Berkos will meet on the field of battle and dance their inevitable dance. Many of the story elements are poorly handled and are utterly lacking in drama or tension, such as the woman's love interest, the subplot about the traitor, and most especially the German officer spy. In contrast, the actual tactical and technical details come across rather well. Robbins does a very clear job of explaining the relative strengths and weaknesses of every tank. Similarly, he does a very good job of recreating the noise, smells, and confusion of simply driving a tank. The battle scenes are very capably handled, and one gets a reasonable impression of what it might have been like. The problem is that none of the characters are compelling or convincing, and therefore it's impossible to care very much about what happens to them.<br /><br />This is military and historical fiction at its most mediocre, it's not awful, just not good. It's the kind of book I might have liked a lot when I was 16 or 17, but seems awfully thin as an adult. To be fair to Robbins, I'm not really sure how you could really make a massive tank battle that compelling to begin with. If one really is really interested in the battle, I'd suggest skipping this and checking out a decent web resource called \\"Battle of Kursk On the Web\\" that has tons of links.ans. <br /> <br />On the German side, the story mostly consists of Vega safeguarding the transport of a final shipment of Tiger tanks to the front and eventually being assigned to command one of them in the battle. On the Russian side, we have the two Berko men in their latest T-34, dealing with two new recruits and preparing for the battle. Their daughter/sister, meanwhile, is engaged on nightly bombing runs. However, when her male pilot friend gets shot down, she naturally tries to rescue him, resulting in her getting absorbed into a partisan unit with a traitor in its midst. Naturally, by the end, Vega and the Berkos will meet on the field of battle and dance their inevitable dance. Many of the story elements are poorly handled and are utterly lacking in drama or tension, such as the woman's love interest, the subplot about the traitor, and most especially the German officer spy. In contrast, the actual tactical and technical details come across rather well. Robbins does a very clear job of explaining the relative strengths and weaknesses of every tank. Similarly, he does a very good job of recreating the noise, smells, and confusion of simply driving a tank. The battle scenes are very capably handled, and one gets a reasonable impression of what it might have been like. The problem is that none of the characters are compelling or convincing, and therefore it's impossible to care very much about what happens to them.  <br /> <br />This is military and historical fiction at its most mediocre, it's not awful, just not good. It's the kind of book I might have liked a lot when I was 16 or 17, but seems awfully thin as an adult. To be fair to Robbins, I'm not really sure how you could really make a massive tank battle that compelling to begin with. If one really is really interested in the battle, I'd suggest skipping this and checking out a decent web resource called \\"Battle of Kursk On the Web\\" that has tons of links.	2005-05-07
249887:US	52254603	R1GLZSJB5PE8FY	0813920221	328891063	Waiting for the Vote of the Wild Animals (CARAF Books: Caribbean and African Literature Translated from French)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Post-Colonial West Africa's Sad Story	First, it must be noted that this Francophone novel has two different English translations: one by Frank Wynne (published by Heinemann in the UK), and one by Carrol Coates (published by the Univ. Press of Virginia in the US). I borrowed both from the library and read the first ten pages of each to determine which to proceed with. I found the Wynne translation to be far more readable, and perhaps equally importantly, the typesetting of the Coates edition is atrocious, far too dense and hard to read. Therefore, although the basic content of the two versions is the same, my comments are based on the Wynne/UK edition of the book. However, the Coates edition does have a brief and informative afterword that's worthwhile.<br /><br />This is the third of Kourouma's novels to appear in English, following The Suns of Independence and Monnew. Taken together, the three books form a full-bodied portrait of West Africa from the time of colonialism up to the present. (His latest book, Allah is Not Obliged, is about a child soldier in Liberia). Here, the story is told through a traditional storyteller/praise singer engaged by Koyaga, president for life of a fictional West African nation. The storyteller and his fool apprentice are to tell the president's life story, warts and all, over the course of a six-day ritual, for a reason not revealed until the final pages. The tale that emerges is a wicked satire of post-colonial African despotism. Like many writers, Kourouma has fictionalized the targets of his outrage, although those familiar with modern African history will be able to spot S&eacute;kou Tour&eacute; (Guinea), King Hassan II (Morocco), Bokassa (CAR), Houphonouet-Boigny (Cote d'Ivoire), and Mobutu Sese Seko (Zaire) amongst the various leaders Koyaga visits for advice in one lengthy section. Born in and exiled from Cote d'Ivoire, Kourouma lived in France, Cameroon, Algeria, and Togo, and has modeled Koyaga on the Togolese dictator Gnassingb&eacute; Eyadema (who died earlier this year and was succeeded by his son following some very dubious elections in April).<br /><br />Koyaga's life story is mostly as one would expect, mythical beginnings, leading to a distinguished career in the French colonial armies serving in Vietnam (as Kourouma himself did), leading to the inevitable military coup, oceans of offspring, and lifelong rule. And, as anyone who follows Africa could guess, there's plenty of corruption, torture, and tragedy to follow, all backed by the Western powers seeking to win the Cold War. And when the Cold War ends, and Koyaga is confronted by demands for Structural Adjustment Programs and the like, he must scramble to keep the disaffected youth from joining with returned elite exiles to overthrow his rule. Kourouma is clearly angry and bitter at what Africa became after independence, and he does yeoman work in bearing witness to this without ever becoming strident or editorial. The main flaw is that it is a rather lengthy work (there is a long section which digresses into the life of Koyaga's right-hand man), and can be a bit exhausting. Yet it remains a great deal more readable than a much African fiction in translation. Those with a strong interest in modern African literature will obviously want to check it out, and anyone with a strong interest in Togo should have a look as well.succeeded by his son following some very dubious elections in April).  <br /> <br />Koyaga's life story is mostly as one would expect, mythical beginnings, leading to a distinguished career in the French colonial armies serving in Vietnam (as Kourouma himself did), leading to the inevitable military coup, oceans of offspring, and lifelong rule. And, as anyone who follows Africa could guess, there's plenty of corruption, torture, and tragedy to follow, all backed by the Western powers seeking to win the Cold War. And when the Cold War ends, and Koyaga is confronted by demands for Structural Adjustment Programs and the like, he must scramble to keep the disaffected youth from joining with returned elite exiles to overthrow his rule. Kourouma is clearly angry and bitter at what Africa became after independence, and he does yeoman work in bearing witness to this without ever becoming strident or editorial. The main flaw is that it is a rather lengthy work (there is a long section which digresses into the life of Koyaga's right-hand man), and can be a bit exhausting. Yet it remains a great deal more readable than a much African fiction in translation. Those with a strong interest in modern African literature will obviously want to check it out, and anyone with a strong interest in Togo should have a look as well.	2005-05-07
251707:US	52254603	RH9BBUKIYIZMV	1400031559	188410681	The White Lioness	Books	2	69	87	N	N	Derivative and Rambling	This is the third Kurt Wallander book, and it regrettably marks the series' continued decline in quality since Mankell's promising debut. The first book (Faceless Killers) was a solid police procedural, while the second (The Dogs of Riga) threw the provincial detective inspector into a wildly improbable espionage tale. This next book strays even further from Mankell's strengths and the result is a rather lame and entirely too long attempt at shoehorning Wallander into an international thriller. The story starts promisingly enough-in the opening chapter the reader is shown the seemingly random murder of a real estate agent in southern Sweden. The next 100 pages are quality police procedural stuff, as Wallander leads the hunt for the missing woman. It's a good puzzle, as he pokes into her apparently spotless life and tries to reconstruct her final movements. Then the book takes a U-turn as the story moves to South Africa. It's 1992, Nelson Mandela has recently been released from jail and President de Klerk is trying to steer the country to some kind of peaceful post-apartheid political arrangement. The next 100 pages detail how a secret committee of powerful right-wing racists led by an intelligence operative seek to derail the process -- and have decided to have Mandela assassinated. Rather improbably they complicate matters by having their South African hitman smuggled into Sweden to be trained by an ex-KGB operative. The rationale for this convoluted scheme doesn't really make any sense, and its only purpose is to serve as a flimsy way to link Sweden and Wallander to the story.<br /><br />Things move along back in southern Sweden, as the woman's body is found and the missing persons case turns into a murder investigation. The procedural aspects are handled as ably as ever, although three books into the series, Wallander's colleagues are still flat, unexplored characters. With the discovery of a powerful radio transmitter, a rare handgun specific to South Africa, and the severed finger of a black man, you'd expect the investigation to become a little more intensive. However, mostly Wallander muses on how odd it all is. As in the last book, once he does get on the trail of the killer (Mankell does this very clumsily, as Wallander is given the ex-KGB agent's name by a bartender who would have no logical reason to know it), he does all manner of improbable stuff. It's appears to be a trademark of the series that just when Wallander's on exactly the right track, he goes home to drink or sleep instead of calling in a raid or picking suspects for interrogation, thus allowing them just enough time to escape. One of the major failings of the series that Wallander is alternately persistent or lazy, depending on what the plot calls for. In any event, while Wallander and the ex-KGB man chase each other back and forth across the Swedish hinterland, another investigation is taking place in South Africa where two loyal government agents unravel the plot from the other end.<br /><br />In the end, it's all too obvious that Mankell has read Frederick Forsyth's classic thriller The Day of the Jackal, because the similarities are striking: A secret committee plans the assassination of a world leader in order to thwart political change that will do away with their privileged status. A cold-blooded hitman is contracted with. The killing will be done via high-powered sniper rifle. Intrepid investigators will race against time to uncover the plot. Even the ending is the same, in Forsyth's book the police race up stairs just in the nick of time, here the police race up a hillside just in the nick of time. Mankell's version of all this just isn't very compelling. It doesn't help that the book is cluttered with rather insipid lengthy digressions into the psyche of various characters and cheesy expositions on Africa. For example, we learn all about the importance of the \\"spirit world\\" for the hitman. More problematically, the reader is told that apartheid is to blame for his becoming a cold-blooded killer. The entire book is overly ambitious, and whenever we leave Wallander and his investigation, it doesn't work. With this book, and to a lesser extent the previous one, it's clear that Mankell's attempts to combine contemporary world affairs with the life of a depressed provincial cop just doesn't work. Fortunately, the next in the series (Sidetracked) stays at home.rtheid is to blame for his becoming a cold-blooded killer. The entire book is overly ambitious, and whenever we leave Wallander and his investigation, it doesn't work. With this book, and to a lesser extent the previous one, it's clear that Mankell's attempts to combine contemporary world affairs with the life of a depressed provincial cop just doesn't work. Fortunately, the next in the series (Sidetracked) stays at home.	2005-05-05
252567:US	52254603	RO60DKQTS98G6	0802117880	459227645	Sightseeing	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Very Strong Debut Collection of Short Stories	Although translated fiction from Thai writers remains almost completely unavailable in this country, this debut collection of short stories (Some of which appeared in publications like Granta and Zoetrope) from a young Thai-American writer offers at least a partial insiders view of a country best known as a tourist destination. The cultural collision between rich Western countries and developing countries is a recurring theme in literature from the non-Western world, and all too often the indignation and anger this arouses overpowers the storytelling. Here, however, Lapcharoensap manages the tricky task of balancing the characters and stories with his need to critique the effects of globalization. And in doing so, he always manages to bring modern Thailand to life, making it an integral part of each story, rather than an exotic backdrop.<br /><br />The opening story, \\"Farangs\\" (Foreigners), sets the tone of the relationship between West and impoverished East, as a teenage Amerasian narrates the simple story of meeting an American girl on holiday. He has fond memories of his long-gone American G.I. father, who gave him a pet pig named Clint Eastwood before leaving. The girl represents the unattainable world his father inhabits, and while he can taste it, the ending shows he will never be a part of it. There's a very nice moment in the story that captures its essence, when the very literate boy recounts his offer to correct a misspelled sign for an elephant hire service, only to be told to leave it alone, as the foreigners find such mistakes charming. In another, more pointed anecdote, he recounts how he used to climb coconut trees for small change from tourists, making monkey noises.<br /><br />In \\"At the Caf&eacute; Lovely\\", the narrator is another fatherless adolescent boy. Here, instead of searching for love in the eyes of American girls, he looks up to his teenage brother. In the most overt metaphor in the book, their father died when a crate of cheap toys destined for America fell and crushed him. In case the reader misses the point, it's reinforced later when the kid gets taken to a newly opened and very expensive McDonalds by his brother. Dressed in their best clothes for this visit to the temple of Western taste, the outing turns into a debacle when the young boy can't stomach his first hamburger and vomits. Most of the story is about the love between the two brothers, and it ends up on a hauntingly poetic note, as they speed home from a bar/brothel on a motor scooter with the younger brother driving for the first time.<br /><br />\\"Draft Day\\" is a pretty short and straightforward expose of the national service lottery every teenage Thai male must take part in. Two friends of different backgrounds go forth, one has had his draw \\"fixed\\", the other hasn't. Even with a limited story to tell, Lapcharoensap manages to create a vivid scene and strike a chord with the reader. \\"Priscilla the Cambodian\\" is also about class differences within Thailand, although here the split is between native Thais and Cambodian refugees. The story follows two young boys who live in an unfinished middle-class development adjacent to a tiny refugee shantytown. They become friends with a ferocious, goldtoothed tomboy refugee girl named after Priscilla Presley and learn that the refugees aren't awful people. The story ends on a rather dark note, as the local Thai men get all worked up and torch the shantytown.<br /><br />\\"Sightseeing\\" is about the relationship between a young man about to go to college and his mother, who is suddenly going blind. They embark on a last vacation together, so she can finally see the \\"paradise\\" that all the foreigners come to visit. It's a fairly sentimental and poignant story, but didn't connect with me as much as others. \\"Don't Let Me Die Here\\" is another story about the parent/child relationship, but in this case the narrator is an infirm old American man who's been moved to Thailand to live with his son and his family, including a Thai wife and grandchildren. As the only story narrated by a complete outsider, it feels somewhat out of place and doesn't have the subtlety that the others stories exhibit. Still, the ending scene at a fairground bumper car ride leaves a vivid and uplifting image.<br /><br />The final story, \\"Cockfighter\\", is novella-length, and the only piece narrated by a female. The girl's father is a villager who is engrossed in cockfighting and does reasonably well at it. However, when he beats the psychotic son of the local strongman, things take a turn for the worse. Soon, a Filipino cockfighting expert is brought in, and the father's pride leads the family to catastrophe. The increased length only serves to draw events out longer and doesn't add a great deal to the proceedings. As a whole, however, the collection is outstanding for the freshness of the characters, the humor throughout, and moments of unexpected emotional resonance. The stories capture the small struggles of daily life in Thailand without ever lapsing into despair and stress the importance of family. Deserves to be read by every tourist headed to Thailand and every fan of the short story.ily, including a Thai wife and grandchildren. As the only story narrated by a complete outsider, it feels somewhat out of place and doesn't have the subtlety that the others stories exhibit. Still, the ending scene at a fairground bumper car ride leaves a vivid and uplifting image.  <br /> <br />The final story, \\"Cockfighter\\", is novella-length, and the only piece narrated by a female. The girl's father is a villager who is engrossed in cockfighting and does reasonably well at it. However, when he beats the psychotic son of the local strongman, things take a turn for the worse. Soon, a Filipino cockfighting expert is brought in, and the father's pride leads the family to catastrophe. The increased length only serves to draw events out longer and doesn't add a great deal to the proceedings. As a whole, however, the collection is outstanding for the freshness of the characters, the humor throughout, and moments of unexpected emotional resonance. The stories capture the small struggles of daily life in Thailand without ever lapsing into despair and stress the importance of family. Deserves to be read by every tourist headed to Thailand and every fan of the short story.	2005-05-04
253099:US	52254603	R2WG0QN0FM4LE0	0375701613	113689382	The White Castle: A Novel	Books	1	28	45	N	N	Pamuk's First Novel is a Disappointment	Like many others in my book group, I had been looking forward to finally reading something by Pamuk. And like most of my book group, I was fairly disappointed by this short early novel from him. Originally published in Turkey in 1985, the story is prefaced by an introduction in which one Faruk Darvinoglu purports to have discovered the manuscript in a dusty archive. He then goes on to explain that parts of the story can be historically corroborated, but much of it can't. This should immediately alert the reader not to take everything in the book as it comes. Even more so if the reader knows that Darvinoglu is the protagonist of Pamuk's earlier book The House of Silence. Such intertextual tricks immediately bring to mind the works of Calvino, Borges, and their ilk.<br /><br />The basic plot is very straightforward: in the mid 17th-century, a young Venetian gentleman is captured by Turkish raiders and sold into slavery to an aspiring Turkish scholar who happens to look just like him. The two men then spend the next few decades cloistered together, engaged in various psuedo-intellectual investigations of astronomy, biology, engineering, and so on. These bring them to the attention of the Sultan (based on Mehmet IV), whose patronage waxes and wanes, culminating in a lengthy attempt to construct a powerful war machine. Along the way, their claustrophobic relationship swings back and forth, and is interrupted by an outbreak of the plague, whose outcome they are tasked with predicting. The book concludes with a brief section which will challenge the reader's assumptions and calls into question everything that comes before it. Namely, are there two characters or are they just manifestations of two aspects of a single person?<br /><br />This all unfolds at a glacial pace, and the two \\"characters\\" are mere ciphers. Their clashing of wills and ideas take up page after page, but the reader is always told about the conflict rather than shown it, and this makes for disengaging reading. Pamuk seems much less interested in storytelling or characters than in grand themes such as the nature of identity, the collision of cultures, and the very nature of reality. But none of these are addressed in a way that is particularly fresh or interesting. The tension between East and West is handled in a fairly superficial manner, as the Turkish master is obsessed with Western advances in science and technology, while the Sultan has a credulous appetite for tall tales and soothsayers. This all comes across as a rather ambivalent satire of the fluidity of Turkish national character. In the end, this is not a particularly good introduction to major modern writer whom many have compared to Eco, Calvino, Borges, Kafka, and Kundera. However, readers who enjoy highly ambiguous works about self-identity with unreliable narrators may find this a satisfying read.g reading. Pamuk seems much less interested in storytelling or characters than in grand themes such as the nature of identity, the collision of cultures, and the very nature of reality. But none of these are addressed in a way that is particularly fresh or interesting. The tension between East and West is handled in a fairly superficial manner, as the Turkish master is obsessed with Western advances in science and technology, while the Sultan has a credulous appetite for tall tales and soothsayers. This all comes across as a rather ambivalent satire of the fluidity of Turkish national character. In the end, this is not a particularly good introduction to major modern writer whom many have compared to Eco, Calvino, Borges, Kafka, and Kundera. However, readers who enjoy highly ambiguous works about self-identity with unreliable narrators may find this a satisfying read.	2005-05-04
253130:US	52254603	R2ZJNRAB7BIHR7	0393324818	346106080	Moneyball: The Art of Winning an Unfair Game	Books	5	231	247	N	Y	Great Baseball/Business Book for Non Baseball/Business Fans	Lewis, who previously wrote some of the best books on Wall Street's go-go '80s (Liar's Poker) and Silicon Valley's go-go '90s (The New New Thing), here turns his attention to professional baseball. Now, I should preface this by saying that I used to love baseball and these days it doesn't interest me much at all. There was a time when I was a total stats geek, I bought all the Bill James abstracts, played tabletop games, etc., but a combination of playing in college and the escalating money completely turned me off to the game. I knew this was supposed to be a good book but had no intention of reading it until Nick Hornby's rave review in his column in The Believer. I figured if one of my favorite British novelists liked the book, there must be something to it. I picked it up and within ten pages I was totally hooked.<br /><br />The basis for the book is the question of how the Oakland A's, one of baseball's poorest teams as measured by payroll, managed to win so many games in the first few years of the new millennium. Lewis's potentially boring answer revolves around inefficiencies in the market for players, but he weaves this story around the A's General Manager, Billy Beane. Now, if you have some axe to grind with Beane, you might as well not read the book, 'cause Lewis tends to be rather fawning in many places. Still, Beane's own background and mediocre career form the perfect framework upon which to build this story about evaluating baseball talent. Beane was a hugely athletic, \\"can't miss\\" prospect, who turned down a joint football/baseball scholarship from Stanford to sign with the New York Mets out of high school. His pro career turned out to be utterly undistinguished, and this disconnect is what drove him to seek new methods of scouting and evaluating baseball talent. It also helped matters that the A's new owners refused to spend any excess money, and demanded that the team be treated as a business. Beane jettisoned conventional scouting wisdom (and to a certain extent, methods), to focus on statistical indicators not widely followed inside baseball. Here, the book takes a detour into the realm of \\"sabremetrics\\" (the statistical analysis of baseball), and various attempts to arrive at more meaningful ways to calculating a player's offensive value.<br /><br />The result of developing a criteria of player valuation that was radically at odds with the prevailing wisdom of the market was that Beane was able to get the players he liked for very cheap. The rest of the book is devoted to detailing this process. Chapter 5 is probably the best, detailing how the A's orchestrated the 2002 amateur draft so that they got an inordinate amount of players they coveted for below market value. Chapters 6 and 7 discuss the loss of their three star players after the 2001 season and how managed to compensate for this. To show the Beane methodology in action during the season, the reader is taken inside several trades and roster moves. This includes a chapter on the mid-season trade for relief pitcher Ricardo Rincon, bracketed by chapters detailing Beane's pursuit of certain players who were not considered major-league material (Scott Hatteberg and Chad Bradford). The book ends on a valedictory note, as the A's set a record by winning 20 games in a row and other teams start to buy in to their methods.<br /><br />It should be noted that the book is far from perfect. Lewis has an unfortunately tendency for repetition when it comes to important points and themes, hammering them home, again and again. And although he does point out many of Beane's logical inconsistencies and emotional flaws, Lewis does often come across as more of an enamored fan than a strict journalist. Some critics feel that the A's success detailed in the book was based on several star players obtained the old-fashioned way, thus disproving the whole premise. However, it has to be understood that the practices detailed in the book can't really be proven to work one wayor another for another decade or so. Still the insights into challenging conventional thinking and searching for alternative data or data patterns will likely appeal to readers of Lewis' other works and are applicable far beyond baseball. And while the jury is still out, several other teams have since hired general managers with the same basic philosophy as Beane. Ultimately, it's an interesting story, and one that Lewis tells very well -- even for non baseball fans.ne way or another for another decade or so. Still the insights into challenging conventional thinking and searching for alternative data or data patterns will likely appeal to readers of Lewis' other works and are applicable far beyond baseball. And while the jury is still out, several other teams have since hired general managers with the same basic philosophy as Beane. Ultimately, it's an interesting story, and one that Lewis tells very well -- even for non baseball fans.	2005-05-04
262692:US	52254603	R1I4XYDIFU38A0	1400031524	938118032	The Dogs of Riga	Books	3	12	18	N	N	Mankell Missteps	After mostly enjoying the first in the Kurt Wallander series (Faceless Killers), I definitely found this one to be a significant step down in quality. Set in 1991, it starts off promisingly enough with a pair of smugglers discovering two dead men adrift in a life raft. The good samaritan criminals tow the raft closer to the Swedish shore, where it winds up washing up in Inspector Wallander's territory. For a while, the story proceeds as a straight crime procedural, as he attempts to find out who the men are and why they were killed. As usual, in the background is Wallander's shaky personal life and his coping with the death of his closest friend on the police force.<br /><br />However, once it's determined that the men are from Eastern Europe, the story morphs into an international thriller. First, Major Liepa of the Latvian police arrives to try and assist on the case. Then, Wallander is himself dispatched to Latvia to help with a related murder there. Rather improbably, Wallander simply steps off the plane and is whisked away by his Latvian police liaisons. At the time, one would think the Swedish Embassy would have someone on hand make sure all went smoothly. However, this would make it harder to develop the plot, which revolves around Wallander's confusion over the forces at work and the Latvian police he's working with. Soon, the book is awash with amateur spycraft, as Wallander goes to clandestine meets with mysterious figures. Next thing you know, the dour detective has launched himself headfirst into a ridiculous scheme involving illegal border crossings, false papers, car theft, and wild shootouts. Even worse, these over the top Mission Impossible style theatrics are due to his infatuation with a woman he's only briefly met. If all of this smacks of a bad Hollywood film rather than a solid crime novel, that's unfortunately how it reads as well.<br /><br />At the time of the book's writing, the Soviet Union was still in the midst of dissolution and reformers and hardliners in the USSR's various satellite republics were struggling to determine the future of their new states. Through Wallander, Mankell attempts to contrast orderly, progressive, first-world Sweden with chaotic, repressive, third-world Latvia. Alas, the city never really comes to life, and the atmosphere feels ersatz. Mankell attempts to make a connection between organized crime and the political power structure of the emerging post-Soviet states, but it kind of falls flat. It doesn't help that the characterization isn't particularly good, even for critical characters such as Wallander's platonic love interest. Like the first book, the writing is fairly straightforward and plain. One rather severe misstep involves the Latvian Major and Wallander, who are both described as having very shaky English, and yet their conversations are rendered in more or less grammatically sound, highly idiomatic English.<br /><br />Note: The book was made into a film for Swedish television in 1995 which is apparently unavailable in English.mers and hardliners in the USSR's various satellite republics were struggling to determine the future of their new states. Through Wallander, Mankell attempts to contrast orderly, progressive, first-world Sweden with chaotic, repressive, third-world Latvia. Alas, the city never really comes to life, and the atmosphere feels ersatz. Mankell attempts to make a connection between organized crime and the political power structure of the emerging post-Soviet states, but it kind of falls flat. It doesn't help that the characterization isn't particularly good, even for critical characters such as Wallander's platonic love interest. Like the first book, the writing is fairly straightforward and plain. One rather severe misstep involves the Latvian Major and Wallander, who are both described as having very shaky English, and yet their conversations are rendered in more or less grammatically sound, highly idiomatic English.  <br /> <br />Note: The book was made into a film for Swedish television in 1995 which is apparently unavailable in English.	2005-04-26
263266:US	52254603	RVTI1SACHVBX9	074340615X	825511748	Two O'Clock, Eastern Wartime	Books	2	14	17	N	N	Muddled Melodrama	Half paean to old-time radio, half murder mystery, this overly melodramatic WWII-era set novel lurches along for far too long before petering out, exhausted with itself. I've enjoyed Dunning's \\"Bookman\\" series, and I like historically set mysteries, so picking this up seemed like a no-brainer. But Dunning overextends himself with this one. The story revolves around Jack Dulaney, a down-and-out racetrack horse-walker who gets in a fight that lands him in jail. His buddy helps to spring him from a work gang, but is then killed. This is the catalyst for Jack's incredibly complicated search for the killer and reason behind the murder. The trail leads him to a New Jersey beach town and the radio station where his buddy used to work as an actor. There, further disappearances and deaths are revealed, including that of Carnahan, the father of the woman he pined for years before. As it happens, the woman is also in town, working as a nightclub singer under an assumed name. Jack manages to get work at the station as a writer, allowing him to poke around and try to get to the bottom of everything (not to mention rekindle his old flame).<br /><br />Here is where the book starts to have real problems. Namely, all the detail about old-time radio production is far more fascinating than the murders. I'm not particularly (nor are most readers likely to be) interested in how dramatic radio shows were put together back in the '30s and '40s, but Dunning makes the station come alive and does a fascinating job of detailing the inner workings. From the scripting, to the management, the actors, the sound effects, it's all very well dramatized. So much so, in fact, that it's hard for the reader to care very much about the deaths of some characters met only very briefly or in flashbacks. The station's attempt to create original dramatic programming that pushed the limits of what was considered acceptable material--such as a scripted serial about black Americans, an anti-war prison camp series, and soforth--ends up being much more interesting. Unfortunately, the story eventually leaves the radio setting (via a lame piece of misdirection lifted from Hamlet) to dive into the world of German spies in America, the Irish Republic Army, and all manner of melodrama.<br /><br />The melodrama is enhanced by a certain thinness to the characters. The protagonist is an especially poorly drawn hero figure with altogether too keen a resemblance to the hero of Dunning's \\"Bookman\\" series. He's one of those all-purpose strong, capable men. Street-fighting? No problem. Writing a critically well-received Steinbeck/Dos Passosesque novel? No problem. Escaping a work gang? No problem. Master writing radio drama overnight? No problem. Expert tracking through the woods? No problem. When the hero of a story turns out to be exceptional at everything, the whole story is diluted. Beyond Jack, the cast of characters is so large that Dunning doesn't really have the time or space to develop any of them in any meaningful way. It's not generally a good thing when the villain in a mystery is a character you can barely remember being in the story. This is a pity, because there are a number of characters with potential, and the old-time radio setting is certainly well done. As a historical novel about a small group of people striving in a creative field, it works fairly well--in no small part due to the subsequent total demise of the world depicted in the book. Just don't expect to pick this up and find yourself immersed in a thriller.soforth--ends up being much more interesting. Unfortunately, the story eventually leaves the radio setting (via a lame piece of misdirection lifted from Hamlet) to dive into the world of German spies in America, the Irish Republic Army, and all manner of melodrama.    The melodrama is enhanced by a certain thinness to the characters. The protagonist is an especially poorly drawn hero figure with altogether too keen a resemblance to the hero of Dunning's \\"Bookman\\" series. He's one of those all-purpose strong, capable men. Street-fighting? No problem. Writing a critically well-received Steinbeck/Dos Passosesque novel? No problem. Escaping a work gang? No problem. Master writing radio drama overnight? No problem. Expert tracking through the woods? No problem. When the hero of a story turns out to be exceptional at everything, the whole story is diluted. Beyond Jack, the cast of characters is so large that Dunning doesn't really have the time or space to develop any of them in any meaningful way. It's not generally a good thing when the villain in a mystery is a character you can barely remember being in the story. This is a pity, because there are a number of characters with potential, and the old-time radio setting is certainly well done. As a historical novel about a small group of people striving in a creative field, it works fairly well--in no small part due to the subsequent total demise of the world depicted in the book. Just don't expect to pick this up and find yourself immersed in a thriller.	2005-04-26
268454:US	52254603	R3REK8L4C35FO	1563898586	702953874	The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen, Vol. 1	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Yes, It is That Good!	If you're a fan of Victorian genre literature and have any interest in comics, this will very probably appeal to you. I'm a very casual comics reader, never buying any but borrowing anything that's at the library except for manga or pure superhero fare. As for 19th-century genre lit, when I was a child, I read some Stoker, H.G. Wells, Robert Louis Stevenson, and the like. All that said, this is a highly entertaining work, probably the most purely enjoyable trade comic volume I've encountered.<br /><br />The concept is pretty outstanding: Moore's taken public-domain \\"heroes\\" of the 19th-century and remixed them into a classic superhero team in the spirit of Justice League, X-Men, etc. They are tossed into a steampunk version of Victorian London to do battle with a nefarious villain from the same era of genre-lit. In this volume, the head of the British Secret Service orders his minion (Campion Bond), to assemble a team for a secret mission. He starts with Ms. Murray (the widowed wife of Mr. Harker from Dracula), who drags the gaunt former adventurer Allan Quartermain (the intrepid explorer of H. Rider Haggard's stories) from the depths of a Cairo opium den. They are spirited to safety by H.G. Wells' incomparable stern Sikh pirate, Captain Nemo, in his magnificent submarine technological wonder The Nautilus. Next stop, the backstreets of Paris, where a beast is terrorizing the prostitutes of the Rue Morgue. This ends up being the terrifying Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, whom they barely manage to subdue. The final stop is to the \\"Rosa Cootes' Correctional Academy for Wayward Gentlewomen\\", where a mysterious spirit has been \\"possessing\\" some of the boarders. This bizarre combination of boarding school and S&M academy is where we meet Hawley Griffin, aka The Invisible Man.<br /><br />These initial adventures do a very good job of both establishing the marvelous setting and the individual nature of the five heroes. Each is a formerly respected, now somewhat fallen member of society. When a storyteller assembles such a team of flawed misfits, the result is usually either slapstick comedy or some form of redemption. In this case redemption is the order of the day, as the team is assigned to recover a stolen container of \\"cavorite\\", a mysterious compound which makes flight possible. It seems an evil Chinese East End triad leader named Fu Manchu has stolen it in order to build a superweapon. The remaining 2/3 of the book details their attempt to infiltrate his Bond-villainesque secret base and recover the material. A major plot twist halfway through reveals yet another literary criminal mastermind at work, one that many readers will have guessed at early on. Things build to a climactic and chaotic aerial battle above London's East End, with crazy fighting kites, firebombs, and plenty of wild action.<br /><br />There's a lot to like in the book, notably an attention to detail that is head and shoulders above most graphic adventures. When Arabic and Chinese speaking characters are encountered, their dialogue is rendered in the actual script. The story and visuals are packed with 19th-century literary inside jokes that will reward repeated reading and the curious who seek out their meaning. (Alternatively, you can pick up Jess Nevins outstanding Unofficial Companion to The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen, which decodes the inside jokes and tells you where everything came from.) This is not to imply that the book is stuffy or dull, because the writing is actually quite witty and arch -- providing you like puns, double-entendres, and other such wordplay. The artwork perfectly supports the story, as O'Neil's techno-gaslight London vibrates with energy and activity. The paneling is traditional and straightforward, as befits a retro-romp such as this, and full-page pieces teem with background activity and wit. There's a lot to look at in these pages, such as pickpockets and thieves operating in the background, or more amorous silhouettes... And when things get violent, they get very violent, as we are shown limbs getting ripped asunder, heads getting blown off, and soforth.<br /><br />This is an outstanding work, although definitely not for younger children. Without being overly sensitive, one has to also keep in mind that in keeping with the setting and origin of the characters, one of the villains is a pretty vile stereotype of an evil \\"Oriental\\". Perhaps more disturbingly, the serial rape committed by the Invisible Man is treated as a subject of humor. This latter is slightly counterbalanced by having the team led by Ms. Murray, a setup which seems improbable for the setting. However, minor caveats aside, this is a splendid work of escapist adventure that is much better than the movie made from it. There is a second volume, which finds the team battling a Martian invasion.And when things get violent, they get very violent, as we are shown limbs getting ripped asunder, heads getting blown off, and soforth. <br /> <br />This is an outstanding work, although definitely not for younger children. Without being overly sensitive, one has to also keep in mind that in keeping with the setting and origin of the characters, one of the villains is a pretty vile stereotype of an evil \\"Oriental\\". Perhaps more disturbingly, the serial rape committed by the Invisible Man is treated as a subject of humor. This latter is slightly counterbalanced by having the team led by Ms. Murray, a setup which seems improbable for the setting. However, minor caveats aside, this is a splendid work of escapist adventure that is much better than the movie made from it. There is a second volume, which finds the team battling a Martian invasion.	2005-04-22
269235:US	52254603	R22IHITAOH0A4W	1558590161	320614277	Russian Graphic Design: 1880-1917	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Decent Overview of Pre-Revolutionary Design	This coffee-table book covers the period of 1880-1917, providing a glimpse into the world that was brought to an end with the October Revolution. Chernevich visited Moscow in the late '80s and drew upon the holdings of the Lenin State Library for the book, unearthing items that had not been public displayed since the Revolution. A capable introduction gives the cultural and economic background to put the rest of the book in context. Alas, all the text is rendered in a condensed typeface that is somewhat difficult to read.<br /><br />The selections are divided into five chapters, each starting with several pages of text leading into lush color reproductions. Chapter One covers the \\"Style Russe\\", as exemplified in ornate menus, proclamations, announcements, posters and programs reminiscent of illuminated medieval manuscripts. There are also examples drawn from illustrated folk tales, the most remarkable of which were by Ivan Bilibin. Chapter Two covers the Russian Art Nouveau, mostly via posters, cosmetics and candy packaging, the Russian versions of which weren't strikingly different from their Western European counterparts. Chapter Three covers the \\"World of Art Group\\", a sort of loose collective of energetic and prolific St. Petersburg artists underwritten by various industrialist philanthropists. Much of their work falls into the realm of illustration and design of posters, books, theater programs, and smaller pieces to accompany articles, poems, and stories in journals. It's hard to find any kind of unifying style amidst their somewhat unremarkable work.<br /><br />The largest section of the book is Chapter Four, which deals with\\"Commercial Graphics\\". It's stuffed with materials, mostly posters and broadsheets, advertising products ranging including horseshoes, gunpowder turbines, galoshes, various foodstuffs, Singer sewing machines, and of course cigarettes. There are also plenty of examples of packaging and even wine labels. These are incredibly vivid and elaborate works that are somewhat eerie given the revolution that was to come. The final section is about \\"Political Graphics\\", which is limited to posters for war bonds and war-related charities, and a great deal of examples of \\"luboks\\". These were popular prints showing brightly colored cartoonish war scenes, usually with some kind of off-color verse below about kicking Prussian butt.<br /><br />On the whole, a decent overview of pre-Revolutionary design work from Russia, probably mostly of interest to those with an interest in Russian art or the history of graphic design. in certain sections the selections get a little repetitive, but that's a minor point.rate works that are somewhat eerie given the revolution that was to come. The final section is about \\"Political Graphics\\", which is limited to posters for war bonds and war-related charities, and a great deal of examples of \\"luboks\\". These were popular prints showing brightly colored cartoonish war scenes, usually with some kind of off-color verse below about kicking Prussian butt.<br /><br />On the whole, a decent overview of pre-Revolutionary design work from Russia, probably mostly of interest to those with an interest in Russian art or the history of graphic design. in certain sections the selections get a little repetitive, but that's a minor point.	2005-04-21
269482:US	52254603	R82263ETVQ0N5	1582403414	30870495	Rex Mundi Volume 1: The Guardian Of The Temple	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Great Art, Lame Story	This book collects the first six issues of the Rex Mundi (King of the World) series, set in an alternate Earth circa 1933. The major differences are that the Reformation never happened and Catholicism dominates Europe, the Inquisition is a powerful force of masked priests, the American Civil War ended in a stalemate (dividing the country into the CSA and the FSA), the global economy hinges on a multinational guild system, and sorcery exists. Otherwise, things aren't too different, nation-states vie for power and have more or less carved up the rest of the world amongst themselves (or are trying to).<br /><br />The story revolves around a doctor in Paris who stumbles into a conspiracy of very powerful people involving the Holy Grail. My own view is that the last thing the world needs another Grail conspiracy tale, but there is apparently an insatiable appetite for this kind of thing. The good doctor, a kind of generic hero figure who treats the poor at no cost, etc., soon finds himself entangled in a web of gory ritual killings, a missing medieval scroll, a deadly dapper sorcerer, a secret society akin to the Knights Templar, secret passages, machinations at the highest levels of society, and so on. Again, none of this is in the slightest way original, and the story left me rather bored.<br /><br />The art, on the other hand, is quite remarkable. Eric Johnson's inkwork is incredibly detailed and every frame is crammed with people, background, or texture. He's especially strong in architecture: his streets look real, his buildings worn and faded from smog with signage breaking things up. Alas, he's less good at faces, particularly that of the protagonist, whose features change rather drastically at times. The coloring is very dense and heavily saturated, plenty of black, dark browns, dark reds, deep grays, and so on. It perfectly captures the tone and creates the right atmosphere, but unfortunately it means one needs to read the book with a bright light when a candle would be more appropriate to the subject matter! Also of note are the faux newspaper pages that divide each chapter. These allow the authors to create a greater depth for their world, providing lots of background and context in a limited space.<br /><br />In the end I give a thumbs up to the art and a thumbs down to the story. But plenty of other people seem to find it gripping, so if you like Grail-related conspiracy stuff, give it a try.ndle would be more appropriate to the subject matter! Also of note are the faux newspaper pages that divide each chapter. These allow the authors to create a greater depth for their world, providing lots of background and context in a limited space. <br /> <br />In the end I give a thumbs up to the art and a thumbs down to the story. But plenty of other people seem to find it gripping, so if you like Grail-related conspiracy stuff, give it a try.	2005-04-21
273984:US	52254603	R2HSTL1APGR4O1	1564967662	82130273	Then Is Now: Sampling the Past for Todays Graphics, a Handbook for Contemporary Design	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Interesting but Flawed	This handsomely produced book is intended for graphic designers looking to incorporate elements from the past century into their current work. Starting with 1900, it proceeds decade by decade to give an overview of the popular colors, typefaces, and graphics of the day, and how they have been used by designers in recent years. Each section starts with a spread outlining the major global headlines and developments in art, technology, etc. of that decade. Next is a spread called \\"color cues\\", in which Pantone guru Leatrice Eiseman shows the 10-15 colors that are evocative of that decade, and includes their modern Pantone system numbers. Next is a spread called \\"type tracker\\" which discusses the influences, characteristics, and specific fonts characteristic of that decade, and shows a sampling of Monotype fonts under the heading \\"Fonts you probably own that evoke the era.\\" This is one of the weaker elements of the book, considering the importance of type, the writeups aren't particularly detailed, and by limiting the displayed selection to Monotype products, it feels rather incomplete. These introductory parts are followed by the meat of each section, \\"Contemporary Design Looks Back.\\" This gathers many examples of how designers have used that decade's design in their own recent work, and is set up in the typical design book format, with credits for all involved in the work and a little blurb about each.<br /><br />The book isn't really big enough to give each decade its proper due. Only the major trends are nodded to, and especially in the latter decades, things seem rather limited and muddled. For example, the '60s section concentrates almost exclusively on counterculture graphics and pop art. The '70s section is a mish mash of stuff, including two projects that use dolls that don't look like they have anything to do with the decade. More egregiously, there is a poster for Quantas that looks distinctly '60s, and most blatantly wrong of all, there is a poster mimicking the art of Sergio Leone's spaghetti westerns. The blurb says, \\"The poster plays to the seventies penchant for what was dubbed 'spaghetti westerns'...\\" The problem is that (A) the American penchant for spaghetti westerns occurred in the late '60s, and (B) the films and graphics first appeared in the mid-60s in Italy! The \\"Dollars\\" trilogy cited in the copy were released in 1964, 1965, and 1966. Things don't improve in the useless final section, which lumps together the 1980s and 90s. The book's author clearly had no clue what to do here, and simply threw a bunch of mostly interactive work together. It would appear that without the passage of time to clarify the defining aspects of '80s visuals, she was adrift. This is a shame, because if you look hard enough the '80s do have a distinct look.<br /><br />All in all, it's nice book to have sitting around the designer's library, but hardly essential. It's decent enough from 1900-1950, but thereafter, one is probably better off looking at period movie posters or book jackets or magazines to get a true sense of the decade. The concept for the book is a good one, and it'd be nice to see it tackled with a little more precision and at greater length some time in the future.ng the art of Sergio Leone's spaghetti westerns. The blurb says, \\"The poster plays to the seventies penchant for what was dubbed 'spaghetti westerns'...\\" The problem is that (A) the American penchant for spaghetti westerns occurred in the late '60s, and (B) the films and graphics first appeared in the mid-60s in Italy! The \\"Dollars\\" trilogy cited in the copy were released in 1964, 1965, and 1966. Things don't improve in the useless final section, which lumps together the 1980s and 90s. The book's author clearly had no clue what to do here, and simply threw a bunch of mostly interactive work together. It would appear that without the passage of time to clarify the defining aspects of '80s visuals, she was adrift. This is a shame, because if you look hard enough the '80s do have a distinct look.  <br /> <br />All in all, it's nice book to have sitting around the designer's library, but hardly essential. It's decent enough from 1900-1950, but thereafter, one is probably better off looking at period movie posters or book jackets or magazines to get a true sense of the decade. The concept for the book is a good one, and it'd be nice to see it tackled with a little more precision and at greater length some time in the future.	2005-04-17
274033:US	52254603	R31Y7W733C7NXB	3775710116	172121647	Ken Schles: The Geometry Of Innocence	Books	4	5	5	N	N	This Is the Modern World	Open this ovesize book, turn the first few pages, and you'll quickly get a sense of what's in store. The endleaf is a huge, grainy spread of a smashed-up Los Angeles Police cruiser. Turn and you get suited men silhouetted against concrete, with no discernable features, they look like mysterious government agents up to no good. Turn and you get an old drunk man staring at the camera, bleeding from his hand. In other words -- this is the modern world, both violent and controlled at once.<br /><br />The body of the book begins with an excerpt from \\"The Invisible Man\\" leading into a series of black and white shots of city streets, New York, Detroit, London, culminating in one strange photo of a street brawl and a blurry image of kids smoking. Next we're taken into subcultures: a protest against homophobic violence, a Pentecostal revival, a gang bar in Iowa, corner boys in Greenwich Village, Brooklyn gangsters, and inside night clubs. A few arresting black and white city figures segue into a section on the police and military, including a whole series taken from an LAPD helicopter ride-along, and another series taken aboard a US Navy aircraft carrier. Next is a long section that winds its way through prisons, hospitals, churches, and a birthday party -- a panorama of human experience.<br /><br />The book then shifts to a rather less interesting set of portraits, both posed and candid. From a South Philly black family, to \\"white trash\\" in the Poconos, Nevada tourists, Beverly Hills bridesmaids, ADD kids, carnival goers, and Alzheimer's patients. A small set of photos of Las Vegas rounds out the large format section of the book. The final forty photos appear in a small running band, several to a page, making for rather constrained viewing. This is a somewhat annoying layout decision, since many of them appear just as interesting as the rest of the photos, but at only a few inches each, they're hard to examine properly.<br /><br />Although there is no narrative to the images shown, the book concludes with a rather overwrought cautionary essay by Schles. Here's a taste from the end: \\"I see us isolated within our communities, supporters of institutions that exploit and dominate us. And we are complicit in all of this.\\" Clearly, Schles is disturbed by what he sees through his lens, and this beautifully printed book is bound to unsettle its readers as well.e images shown, the book concludes with a rather overwrought cautionary essay by Schles. Here's a taste from the end: \\"I see us isolated within our communities, supporters of institutions that exploit and dominate us. And we are complicit in all of this.\\" Clearly, Schles is disturbed by what he sees through his lens, and this beautifully printed book is bound to unsettle its readers as well.	2005-04-17
274266:US	52254603	RW5CCZMC9JB5Q	3775710663	692263855	Open City: Street Photographs since 1950	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Exhibit Catalogue is a Mixed Bag	Published as a catalogue to an exhibit that debuted at the Oxford Museum of Modern Art, this coffee-table book gathers the work of 19 photographers under the somewhat hazy concept of \\"street photography.\\" If you are familiar with Roberto Rossellini's groundbreaking 1945 film, which lends its name to the book and exhibit, cocurators Russell Ferguson and Kerry Brougher were attempting to bring together work that explores the notion of the camera liberated from the carefully controlled confines of the studio. And as Ferguson puts it in his accompanying essay, \\"The city offers itself as ready-made compositions constantly formed new patterns, an endlessly regenerating trove of pictoral opportunity.\\" Both his essay and Brougher's rather ably and briefly explain the history of technology in photography that led to the photographer's literal freedom, as well as the shifts in the art world that led to the photographer's artistic freedom to wander the streets looking for material. In both cases, there is a lot of overlap with motion pictures, especially the neorealist movement, cinema verite, and the French new wave. The two essays also provide brief overviews of the photographers included and their respective careers (an appendix also offers additional biographical detail on each).<br /><br />However, the whole notion of \\"street photography\\" remains rather ill-defined and broad. The book includes cityscapes cluttered with people and cityscapes devoid of people, aerial shots, ground level shots, unstaged shots of real people, staged shots of models, combat photojournalism from Nicaragua, and conceptual work by Nikki Lee that has pretty much nothing to do with cities whatsoever. Indeed, the only organizing principle seems to be that the photos are outdoors and not obviously rural -- although in the case of Raghubir Singh's Indian photos, even the latter is violated. Which is not to say there's not some beautiful work here. The best is from some of modern photography's big names, such as Robert Frank's William Klein's gritty candid shots from the '50s, Lee Friedlander and Garry Winogrand's beautifully composed work from the '60s, and bunch of vivid Eggleston shots from 1985. Legends of Japanese photography are present as well, with several pieces from Nobuyoshi Araki's 1963 series \\"Satchin and Mabo\\" and 1988 series \\"Tokyo Story\\", and Daido Moriyama's menacing late '60s work. There are some very good photos from Britain, including two from Thomas Struth, some very campy magaziney Terrence Donovan stuff, and two very nice early '50s shots from Nigel Henderson.<br /><br />The remainder of the work was rather less impressive and/or out of place. Adam Secula's series of workers walking up stairs in the '70s left me unmoved. Philip-Lorca Dicorcia's early '90s series of pedestrians in various cities were pretty unremarkable save a nice one of a shambling rough character in Los Angeles. Jeff Wall's recreated scenes look as fake as they are -- and seem kind of pointless on top of it all. Tomas Struth's two shots from China come off like good amateur work -- the kind of photos where the subject matter does all the work. Catherine Opie's wide format empty streetscapes didn't do much for me. Nikki Lee's conceptual series is interesting but out of place. Wolfgang Tillmans seems split between fashion photography and more interesting abstract stuff, the selections here vary. Raghubir Singh's work is uneven and out of place. Susan Meiselas's coverage of street combat in late '70s Nicaragua is immediate but also out of place. Finally, Beat Streuli's series of New York pedestrians is utterly banal.<br /><br />All in all, the essays are better than average and it's a decent taster's menu of photographers that might turn you on to someone new. However, the overall concept and selection don't really hold together very well. Few are likely to truly love the entire book.mes, such as Robert Frank's William Klein's gritty candid shots from the '50s, Lee Friedlander and Garry Winogrand's beautifully composed work from the '60s, and bunch of vivid Eggleston shots from 1985. Legends of Japanese photography are present as well, with several pieces from Nobuyoshi Araki's 1963 series \\"Satchin and Mabo\\" and 1988 series \\"Tokyo Story\\", and Daido Moriyama's menacing late '60s work. There are some very good photos from Britain, including two from Thomas Struth, some very campy magaziney Terrence Donovan stuff, and two very nice early '50s shots from Nigel Henderson. <br /> <br />The remainder of the work was rather less impressive and/or out of place. Adam Secula's series of workers walking up stairs in the '70s left me unmoved. Philip-Lorca Dicorcia's early '90s series of pedestrians in various cities were pretty unremarkable save a nice one of a shambling rough character in Los Angeles. Jeff Wall's recreated scenes look as fake as they are -- and seem kind of pointless on top of it all. Tomas Struth's two shots from China come off like good amateur work -- the kind of photos where the subject matter does all the work. Catherine Opie's wide format empty streetscapes didn't do much for me. Nikki Lee's conceptual series is interesting but out of place. Wolfgang Tillmans seems split between fashion photography and more interesting abstract stuff, the selections here vary. Raghubir Singh's work is uneven and out of place. Susan Meiselas's coverage of street combat in late '70s Nicaragua is immediate but also out of place. Finally, Beat Streuli's series of New York pedestrians is utterly banal.  <br /> <br />All in all, the essays are better than average and it's a decent taster's menu of photographers that might turn you on to someone new. However, the overall concept and selection don't really hold together very well. Few are likely to truly love the entire book.	2005-04-17
274983:US	52254603	REFO3H9A2DDH8	1400031575	342108579	Faceless Killers	Books	4	41	41	N	N	Solid Swedish Series Debut	Maj Sjowall and Per Wahloo invented the modern Swedish police procedural with their ten-book Martin Beck series, which ended in the late 1970s. Mankell picks up where they left off, introducing a new weary policeman with this first in the Kurt Wallender series, which was originally published in 1991. Just as the Martin Beck series was a lens for the authors' liberal view of a changing Swedish society, Mankell uses the crime novel as a way of addressing the dilemmas of modern Sweden. In this first book, an elderly couple in the southern coastal town of Ystad are brutally tortured and murdered, and the only clue is the word \\"foreigners.\\" As there are a number of refugee camps in the nearby countryside, the issue of immigration and asylum becomes central to the story.<br /><br />With the chief out of town, Wallender spearheads the investigation into the apparently motiveless crime, while at the same time struggling to cope with his disintegrating personal life. His wife has just left him, his teenage daughter is estranged from him, and his aging father gives new meaning to the word cantankerous. It doesn't help that Wallender eats junk food for meals and drinks himself to sleep. Soon a firebombing of a refugee camp increases the pressure for a quick solution, and then a Somali is shotgunned to death, making for even more problems. Despite the best efforts of Wallender's team, they just can't seem to get anywhere as the months drag on. The breakthrough that leads to the solution seems to come out of nowhere, but it works nonetheless.<br /><br />The story is written in prose that can perhaps best be described as methodical, and when combined with the bleak weather, it ably captures the reserved nature of Scandinavia. The immigration issue is handled fairly well and raises difficult questions. Wallender, probably like most of his countrymen, finds himself troubled by the situation and straddling the fence in many ways. Alas, other than Wallender, who himself is a borderline parody of a middle-aged alcoholic mess of a cop, the characters aren't developed very much. One gets the sense that some, such as his father, daughter, and the new prosecutor will be developed in the future, but his colleagues all blend together in a faceless mass. This is a disappointment, for as sympathetic a character as Wallender is, he can't really carry the book on his own. Hopefully future installments will see a more well-rounded cast of supporting characters. Still, the procedural aspect is very good and the overall atmosphere will be interesting to those who like crime novels from foreign climes.<br /><br />Note: The book was made into a 3 1/2 hour mini-series for Swedish television in 1994 which is apparently unavailable in English.erline parody of a middle-aged alcoholic mess of a cop, the characters aren't developed very much. One gets the sense that some, such as his father, daughter, and the new prosecutor will be developed in the future, but his colleagues all blend together in a faceless mass. This is a disappointment, for as sympathetic a character as Wallender is, he can't really carry the book on his own. Hopefully future installments will see a more well-rounded cast of supporting characters. Still, the procedural aspect is very good and the overall atmosphere will be interesting to those who like crime novels from foreign climes. <br /> <br />Note: The book was made into a 3 1/2 hour mini-series for Swedish television in 1994 which is apparently unavailable in English.	2005-04-16
275359:US	52254603	R2KBCKGYVOK5Q	0142001538	358494324	Baghdad Express: A Gulf War Memoir	Books	2	7	14	N	N	The Reluctant Marine Goes To War (Sort Of)	This short book is a rather weak stab at a coming of age story masquerading as a Gulf War I memoir. It's got some value as sheer reportage, offering an interesting view of rear-echelon support troops in that earlier war. However, the thrust of the book is really Turnipseed's attempt to figure out his place in the world while in uniform as part of the Marine Corp Sixth Motor Transport Battalion. A none-to-stable childhood led him to enlist in the Marine Corps as a teenager, and the start of the war finds him several years later as a philosophy student at the University of Minnesota. Of course, by this point in his life, he's a reluctant Marine, and is less than thrilled about being deployed.<br /><br />It comes as little surprise that once called up he faces a good deal of derision from his fellow soldiers. Much as I wanted to empathize with his effort to get along with everyone, I continually found myself cringing at his pretentious hyperironicism, pedantic intellectualism, and borderline<br /><br />sneering. I mean, the guy writes \\"Know Thyself\\" on his helmet, starts off smoking a pipe, and drags a duffelbag of Plato, Thoreau, Emerson, Kierkegaard, Wittgenstein et al to a warzone! And of course he relishes his outsider status, nose buried in The New Republic, when everyone else is passing Guns & Ammo, Motor Trend, and Rolling Stone around. Sure, he muses at length about whether or not he's really the sucker, whether he's really the one who needs to fit in more, but it's pretty clear that underneath it all, he believes -- just like Holden Daufield -- that he's surrounded by phonies. The exception to this is the \\"Dog Pound\\", a group of black guys from Philadelphia he shares a tent and bonds with, and a Vietnam vet Gunny Sergeant who's dialed in to the truth.<br /><br />As for the war, enough happens to break up the lame wanna-be existentialist shtick. Most war memoirs are by combat troops, and so it's a nice change of pace to see the war from the rear. There are SCUD warnings and typical overreactions to them. There are convoys to the middle of nowhere, including one excursion where he gets utterly lost, which is fairly comical. There are front line combat guys selling grisly souvenirs to the support troops. There is a brief excursion to a POW camp, which shocks him. Probably most disturbing is his description of the medication of the troops with an unspecified cocktail of drugs whose risks and side effects were never communicated -- possibly the source of Gulf War Syndrome. The book is supported by some very good cartoon interludes showing the scenes, and there are some nice touches here and there, such as a rather funny chart from the \\"United States Marine Corps Philosophy Instruction School\\" that looks like it's straight out of McSweeny's. On the whole, however, Turnipseed seems less interested in what's going on around him than what's going on inside his head. Alas, the latter just really isn't interesting.warnings and typical overreactions to them. There are convoys to the middle of nowhere, including one excursion where he gets utterly lost, which is fairly comical. There are front line combat guys selling grisly souvenirs to the support troops. There is a brief excursion to a POW camp, which shocks him. Probably most disturbing is his description of the medication of the troops with an unspecified cocktail of drugs whose risks and side effects were never communicated -- possibly the source of Gulf War Syndrome. The book is supported by some very good cartoon interludes showing the scenes, and there are some nice touches here and there, such as a rather funny chart from the \\"United States Marine Corps Philosophy Instruction School\\" that looks like it's straight out of McSweeny's. On the whole, however, Turnipseed seems less interested in what's going on around him than what's going on inside his head. Alas, the latter just really isn't interesting.	2005-04-16
277306:US	52254603	R9RORIJZFQCJP	0618224165	656193336	Nature Noir: A Park Ranger's Patrol in the Sierra	Books	4	13	16	N	N	California Dreamin'	I'm not the hugest nature buff--lived in cities my whole life, never been camping, find hiking kind of boring, do like impressive landscapes (especially deserts), never been hunting or fishing, been white water rafting once, etc. but this memoir by a former California State Park Ranger captured and mostly held my interest. Smith was a ranger from 1986-99 in the Auburn State Recreation Area, a piece of wilderness off I-80, about halfway between Sacramento and Lake Tahoe. Through a complicated quirk, the land actually belongs to the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation, and has long been marked for submersion due to the imminent building of a dam that would create a reservoir flooding most of the area. Because of this, the California park bureaucracy allocated the recreation area a skeleton staff and minimal funding, resulting in a much more wild atmosphere than one finds at most state parks.<br /><br />Indeed, the dam (or lack thereof) is a thread that runs throughout the book and looms large over the daily affairs of the rangers. Fisher writes compellingly about these daily affairs, and about how the contrast between the dream of working at some magisterial landscape revered throughout the country and the down to earth reality of being stuck in a backwater park with little support. Like many rangers, he has a deep and abiding love of the wilderness and respect for its beauty and dangers. The difficulty of the park ranger's central task -- to somehow balance the preservation of wilderness with the right of the taxpayers to safely enjoy it -- pervades the narrative. Indeed, the human element is the most interesting aspect of the book. The lack of staff and the unwillingness of local authorities to prosecute park scofflaws makes the large wilderness a magnet for misfits, including typical weekend drunks, meth lab operators, homeless squatter families, and any number of sketchy people trying to keep a low profile and live \\"off the grid.\\" The most fascinating of these to me are the roughscrabble types seeking to eke gold out of them thar hills, or more usually, suck it off the streambeds using dredges and pumps.<br /><br />Over the course of his thirteen years, Fisher is involved in all manner of awful stuff, including a rape, an unsolved murder, people jumping off a high bridge to escape their problems, plenty of folks walking around with guns, and the state's first fatal cougar attack in decades. However, he does mix in plenty of flora and fauna specifics (which I tended to skim), as well as a history of the area. There is a running, and rather detailed, discussion of the hydrology, seismology, and ecological issues surrounding the proposed dam, and a long section about the political struggle to block it. Some may find this a bit tedious, but it's a crucial part of both Fisher's experience and is a valuable microcosm of the importance of water for the whole state. There's also a somewhat dark undercurrent to the whole book, as it is clear that Fisher is no longer a ranger, but the reason for this is never mentioned. Then, at the very end, there is a rather stunning revelation to explain this, providing a quite dramatic ending to this intriguing brief glimpse into a profession most of us take for granted.the roughscrabble types seeking to eke gold out of them thar hills, or more usually, suck it off the streambeds using dredges and pumps. <br /> <br />Over the course of his thirteen years, Fisher is involved in all manner of awful stuff, including a rape, an unsolved murder, people jumping off a high bridge to escape their problems, plenty of folks walking around with guns, and the state's first fatal cougar attack in decades. However, he does mix in plenty of flora and fauna specifics (which I tended to skim), as well as a history of the area. There is a running, and rather detailed, discussion of the hydrology, seismology, and ecological issues surrounding the proposed dam, and a long section about the political struggle to block it. Some may find this a bit tedious, but it's a crucial part of both Fisher's experience and is a valuable microcosm of the importance of water for the whole state. There's also a somewhat dark undercurrent to the whole book, as it is clear that Fisher is no longer a ranger, but the reason for this is never mentioned. Then, at the very end, there is a rather stunning revelation to explain this, providing a quite dramatic ending to this intriguing brief glimpse into a profession most of us take for granted.	2005-04-14
279189:US	52254603	R3I8QK6AX3LA9R	0312983425	930385819	The Veteran	Books	3	13	14	N	N	Two Great Stories, Two Lame Stories, One Cliche Novella	I loved Forsyth's earlier collection \\"No Comebacks\\" and was looking forward to the five stories here. While each is well written, they vary wildly in plotting and overall quality. Throughout, Forsyth takes the reader inside particular settings which are almost as interesting as the stories. The first two are top-notch stuff, great, nasty 70-80 page fables that would translate very well onto the large screen. The middle two stories are shorter shaggy-dog pieces (about 35 pages each) whose twists are far too obvious. The last piece is a somewhat polarizing 140 page novella set in Montana that readers will probably either love or find tiresome (as I did).<br /><br />The book kicks off with an Indian shopkeeper in London witnessing the mugging of an elderly man (who later dies) by two street thugs. The story is followed through the police inspector assigned to the case, who must locate the two killers and find out who the old man was. Once this is accomplished, the case proceeds to the courts, where it looks to be an open and shut case with the eyewitness, fingerprints, everything. However, when a high-powered barrister takes the case of the two thugs pro bono, it becomes a lot more uncertain whether or not justice will prevail. I won't give away the resolution, but it's excellent.<br /><br />The second story is just as strong, and takes place in the rarified world of London auction houses. Here we meet a struggling middle-aged bit player in films, an odious piece of the upper crust, and a self-made young man from the hinterlands, whose intersection results in a classic con caper with a lot of humor. The inside look at auction houses is fascinating, and the supporting cast of appraisers, computer hackers, forgers, and others completes the rich setting. Those who enjoy tales of scams, cons, and greedy people getting their just desserts will love this.<br /><br />\\"The Miracle\\" is mostly a lengthy monologue delivered by a man in Siena to a pair of American tourists who happen by his courtyard on festival night. He weaves them a tale about World War II and the Allied drive up Italy that pushed the Germans out of Sienna, and the miracle that occurred in that very courtyard. As with all the stories, there's a twist, but just not a very surprising one. \\"The Citizen\\" attempts to build suspense from a trio of passengers on board a flight from Bangkok to England and the question of which of them might be smuggling drugs. The red herrings are all too obvious and the story kind of fizzles out.<br /><br />The final piece, \\"Whispering Wind\\", starts off as a fairly standard slice of historical fiction about the lone white survivor of Custer's army at the Battle of Little Big Horn. This time the twist is in the middle however, and the reader suddenly finds himself in a Rip Van Winklesque time-travel story. The conceit is that a century later, the characters from the first half of the story must play out unfinished business. Forsyth has obviously researched the old West and is having fun with the sci-fi elements of the story, but it is utterly lacking in the fine characterization that made the first two stories in the book so fun to read. Instead, the protagonist, his love interest, his foes, and basically all the characters, are archetypes, and thus it's hard to get too involved with them.<br /><br />So, while all are enjoyable on a certain level for the atmospheric detail Forsyth brings to them, only the first two are really worth reading. Those with a strong interest in Siena may enjoy \\"The Miracle\\" and those with a strong interest the old West may find \\"Whispering Wind\\" diverting, but most will be better served skipping those.ho happen by his courtyard on festival night. He weaves them a tale about World War II and the Allied drive up Italy that pushed the Germans out of Sienna, and the miracle that occurred in that very courtyard. As with all the stories, there's a twist, but just not a very surprising one. \\"The Citizen\\" attempts to build suspense from a trio of passengers on board a flight from Bangkok to England and the question of which of them might be smuggling drugs. The red herrings are all too obvious and the story kind of fizzles out. <br /> <br />The final piece, \\"Whispering Wind\\", starts off as a fairly standard slice of historical fiction about the lone white survivor of Custer's army at the Battle of Little Big Horn. This time the twist is in the middle however, and the reader suddenly finds himself in a Rip Van Winklesque time-travel story. The conceit is that a century later, the characters from the first half of the story must play out unfinished business. Forsyth has obviously researched the old West and is having fun with the sci-fi elements of the story, but it is utterly lacking in the fine characterization that made the first two stories in the book so fun to read. Instead, the protagonist, his love interest, his foes, and basically all the characters, are archetypes, and thus it's hard to get too involved with them. <br /> <br />So, while all are enjoyable on a certain level for the atmospheric detail Forsyth brings to them, only the first two are really worth reading. Those with a strong interest in Siena may enjoy \\"The Miracle\\" and those with a strong interest the old West may find \\"Whispering Wind\\" diverting, but most will be better served skipping those.	2005-04-13
279406:US	52254603	R22UF6Z2G73M6D	0345457749	500826137	Market Forces	Books	2	10	13	N	N	Unconvincing Mess	Like many others, I adored Morgan's first book (Altered Carbon), liked his second (Broken Angels) only slightly less, and found this sci-fi satire of the New World Order to be a disappointing mess. Set in the not-to-distant future, it posits a dystopian Earth created through the nasty synergy of free-market capitalism and globalization. In this ugly future, the real inequalities of wealth that have been growing throughout the latter half of the 20th century have led to a less abstract division of classes. The wealthy elite have freedom of movement and security, while those on the lower rungs are imprisoned in walled-off \\"cordoned zone\\" ghettos requiring permits to leave. Most of the action takes place in London and Morgan doesn't do a very good job of explaining how this society works on a broader scale. Are non-urban areas restricted or open? How come most of the rest of the world doesn't operate this way? If the cordoned zones are basically zones of anarchy, how come the gangsters there can't seem to get their hands on black market guns? It's the kind of premise that works in a short story, where the reader will accept there's no room to explain it all, but in a 400+ page book it simply doesn't hold up.<br /><br />The story centers around Chris, one of the few who's managed to claw their way out of the zones and into the elite. He's basically made it as an operator for one of the massive multinational investment banks that now run the world. The twist is that they invest in conflict, financing dictators and revolutionaries in the \\"small wars\\" that the lesser developed nations are constantly awash in. The premise is that these investment banks make huge sums brokering arms deals all over the world whilst engineering and managing various regime changes. While this is kind of cute from a satirical standpoint, it doesn't really measure up on the plausibility scale. Yes, there are plenty of Western multinational corporations who make a boatload of money in the small wars of today, and it would be naive not believe they don't engage in all manner of dirty tricks to maximize this revenue stream. However, it's totally implausible that this would somehow become the driving sector of the global economy.<br /><br />In any event, Chris has risen to the top due to his skill at the (again) implausible practice of corporate advancement and contract tenders: road duels. Basically, this is equal parts mano-a-mano combat, Mad Max, and Car Wars (the tabletop game, look it up if you're not familiar with it). This too, makes little sense by any measure, although it's fairly amusing. The idea that in the matter of multi-billion dollar deals, these major multinationals would agree to abide by the results of a rather arbitrary autoduel runs counter to the logic of the basic premise. One would expect major corporations to settle things between themselves with either more precision or more arrangement than a totally unpredictable autoduel, ditto for internal corporate promotions.<br /><br />The story revolves around Chris's climb up the ladder and the effect of this on his relationship with his mechanic wife. She and her Swedish family exist primarily to act as the voice of conscience, prodding at Chris's unease about the nastiness of what he does for a living. It also offers him the potential to turn traitor to the system and go to work for a toothless UN as an omsbudsman -- but can he turn his back on the life of wealth, privilege and power? This basic tale of ethics and redemption plays out against a backdrop of corporate infighting, the seductive powers of an sexy TV presenter, and a developing coup in Colombia. Ultimately, the whole Wall Street Gordon Gecko American Psycho Patrick Bateman Mad Max Noam Chomsky mish-mash just doesn't work -- even though I wish it did. To a certain extent Morgan has to be applauded for attempting to take his anger at the state of the global economy, corporate rapacity, and the dark side of globalization, and turning it onto a popular work of fiction that could carry his message to a much greater audience than any newspaper op-ed piece. But the framework just doesn't work for the sweeping indictment he launches from it. Morgan's style is still solidly enjoyable, and there are plenty of his trademark slang words like \\"indesp\\" (industrial espionage), \\"mobcon\\" (mobile consultants), and clever twists, like the services offered by subcontractors at \\"Langley Consulting\\" or \\"Special Air\\", but his previous readers will likely be let down.turning it onto a popular work of fiction that could carry his message to a much greater audience than any newspaper op-ed piece. But the framework just doesn't work for the sweeping indictment he launches from it. Morgan's style is still solidly enjoyable, and there are plenty of his trademark slang words like \\"indesp\\" (industrial espionage), \\"mobcon\\" (mobile consultants), and clever twists, like the services offered by subcontractors at \\"Langley Consulting\\" or \\"Special Air\\", but his previous readers will likely be let down.	2005-04-13
286906:US	52254603	R7KMHF44V90TP	0881842346	842427446	The Doomed Oasis	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Doomed to Remain Out-of-Print	In 1954 Innes visited the Persian Gulf with one of the earliest British oil exploration ventures, that trip, coupled with his longtime interest in ecological issues led to this somewhat stilted novel. The story is narrated by a Welsh lawyer, who begins by recounting his involvement in the affairs of a working class family in Cardiff. This dovetails with his handling of affairs for Charles Whitaker, a kind of modern T.E. Lawrence knockoff who has adopted Islam and lives among the Bedouin of the Arabian Peninsula. It turns out that David, the ne'er-do-well teenager of the working class family, is the bastard son of Whitaker. In trouble with the law and obsessed with his absent father, the boy contrives to stowaway and make for Arabia with the minor assistance of the lawyer.<br /><br />After some years, the lawyer is forced to head to Arabia to track down Whitaker in order to meet concerning his affairs. Once there, he discovers that David has recently disappeared into the desert in suspicious circumstances. His probing reveals a certain resistance from the oil company David was employed by, and some minor assistance from an Italian journalist and an Algerian prostitute leads him to the oasis town of Saraifa (perhaps modeled on Buraimi, near the Saudi/Omani border). The plot then spirals into a muddled mish-mash involving the search for oil, the need for water, border disputes, father-son rivalry, corporate greed, and an accusation of murder. The story is far from being thrilling, and the courtroom climax proves a tepid ending.<br /><br />The characters are fairly uninteresting, David is a one-dimensional obsessive, his father is the stereotype colonial figure \\"gone native\\", the Arabs are all either cunning, cowardly, or steadfastly loyal, the Italian is a sensationalist, etc. The narrator is the most interesting one of the lot, but he exists primarily to tell the tale. An uninteresting work that probably deserves to remain out-of-print.	2005-04-06
300853:US	52254603	RXEVBRJOIDPG5	0312978340	931377968	The Skull Mantra (Inspector Shan Tao Yun)	Books	3	15	20	N	N	Strong Setting but Too Convoluted and Long	This award-winning debut by veteran journalist Pattison starts strongly, only to slow down and stagger under the weight of its convoluted plot and mystical imagery. I love reading mysteries set in exotic locales, and this fits the bill. The setting is fascinating, as the reader is introduced to the People's 404th Construction Brigade, hard at work carving a road through the mountains of a county in Chinese-occupied Tibet. The 404th is a penal labor outfit, populated mostly by Tibetan monks and dissidents, with a smattering of Chinese, including Shan Tao Yun, former Inspector General of the Ministry of Economy. The story is set in motion when the work crew discovers the headless corpse of a wealthy-looking man one day. In a setup strikingly similar to that of Martin Cruz Smith's Polar Star, the prisoner Shan is released from his regular duties by the authorities and ordered to lead an investigation. Very much like the exiled head of Moscow's murder squad in Polar Star, Shan tries to refuse, only to succumb to the siren song of doing something useful. Naturally, once he's begun, he refuses to play along with what his superiors intended and sweep it all under the rug.<br /><br />The plot is very complicated, as it turns out the dead man was the regional prosecutor. The Chinese authorities want to blame a hermit monk for the murder, but Shan's conversion to Buddhism gives him insights that make him scoff at this claim. And when the body's head turns up in a shrine filled with the skulls of ancient monks, the complications mount. Especially when two Americans leading a joint-venture boron mining project seem involved somehow. And why is the new acting prosecutor always turning up where Shan is? And who is the mysterious scarfaced Major who keeps appearing in the margins? More importantly, what about the reported sightings of the Buddhist demon Tamdin? What about the looting of priceless Buddhist valuables? Oh yes, and this all needs to be wrapped up before the American tour groups start arriving with the good weather.<br /><br />There are a lot of threads woven throughout the book, and for the all this complexity, most readers will likely identify the killer very early on (there's a very obvious clue given), if not the motive. As the story unfolds, the reader is taken on a very bumpy ride which gets a little overwhelming with all the nuances of Chinese bureaucracy and infighting, not to mention heavy doses of Tibetan Buddhism and folklore. The book is strongest when describing the specifics of Chinese physical and cultural atrocities against the monks and the monks' grace and resilience in the face of brutal oppression. But the pacing is such that the mystery side of thing loses all momentum and drags on and on and on, and for all Pattison's journalistic descriptive skill, the characters tend to be rather flat. If the book had been about 100 pages shorter, I might have enjoyed it more, but as it was, it got somewhat tedious by the end. The book also would have benefited from a glossary of the Chinese and Tibetan terms that appear throughout. Not a bad debut book, but not one I'd recommend to anyone aside from those with a particular interest in Tibet. For Chinese mysteries, I much prefer Qiu Xiaolong's Shanghai-set series Death of a Red Heroine, A Loyal Character Dancer, and When Red is Black.tour groups start arriving with the good weather. <br /> <br />There are a lot of threads woven throughout the book, and for the all this complexity, most readers will likely identify the killer very early on (there's a very obvious clue given), if not the motive. As the story unfolds, the reader is taken on a very bumpy ride which gets a little overwhelming with all the nuances of Chinese bureaucracy and infighting, not to mention heavy doses of Tibetan Buddhism and folklore. The book is strongest when describing the specifics of Chinese physical and cultural atrocities against the monks and the monks' grace and resilience in the face of brutal oppression. But the pacing is such that the mystery side of thing loses all momentum and drags on and on and on, and for all Pattison's journalistic descriptive skill, the characters tend to be rather flat. If the book had been about 100 pages shorter, I might have enjoyed it more, but as it was, it got somewhat tedious by the end. The book also would have benefited from a glossary of the Chinese and Tibetan terms that appear throughout. Not a bad debut book, but not one I'd recommend to anyone aside from those with a particular interest in Tibet. For Chinese mysteries, I much prefer Qiu Xiaolong's Shanghai-set series Death of a Red Heroine, A Loyal Character Dancer, and When Red is Black.	2005-03-26
301038:US	52254603	R43GRMAPL6BGK	0893816450	693829490	Dark Odyssey	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Outstanding Photojounralism	Welshman Jones Griffiths is one of the world's foremost photojounralists, and it's hard to believe that this is first book in since his highly influential 1971 work \\"Vietnam, Inc.\\" This collection opens with a six striking early portraits from Wales and England in the 1950s-60s. The most memorable is of a litlte boy about to smash a large rock on top of a pian aso left in a scrap heap. These represent his budding career taking shots in his spare time, and are remarkable for the amount of expression he is able to capture, whether it's on the faces of weary coal miners, wary schoolchildren, or waiting mourners.<br /><br />Following a laudatory introduction by New Yorker writer Murray Sayle, the bulk of the book is comprised of Jones Griffiths' international work, undertaken as a member (and president) of the presitgious Magnum photographers cooperative. His photography is informed by a strong sense of compassion and empathy for the victims of opression and war. The compositions are strong and many of the images are loaded with stark symbolism. From the very front of the book we get shots of a fat white missionary in knee high socks standing amidst natives in New Guinea, scantily clad European tourists lounging with drinks by a river in Gambia, a white Rhodesian golfer considering her shot with three black caddies and the African savannah in the background.<br /><br />His series of ten photos from Northern Ireland in the early '70s is loaded with surreal and striking images: a soldier crouches behind a wall in a garden while a woman mows the lawn right behind him; another soldier is prone behind sandbags on a street while women push strollers past him; one of the best portraits in the book is of a grim-faced paratrooper reloads a CS gun. A middle section is scattered with a hodgepodge of images from around the world from the 60s to the early 90s. The book ends with forty images from Vietnam and Camodia, most of which are from his three years there during the war and also appear in Vietnam, Inc.<br /><br />Defintely a must have for anyone interested in photojournalism.d also appear in Vietnam, Inc.  <br /> <br />Defintely a must have for anyone interested in photojournalism.	2005-03-26
301179:US	52254603	R23CFYR0NNAWOS	0446612731	498818576	The Black Echo (A Harry Bosch Novel)	Books	2	34	44	N	N	Cliche Cop + Major Coincidence Fails to Convince	I've read bits and pieces of the Harry Bosch series with moderate enjoyment, so I figured I should check out the beginning. The book starts with Detective Bosch on the Homicide Squad of the Hollywood division, having apparently been demoted from the elite LAPD Robbery Homicide division for his questionable action in a high-profile serial killer case a year previously. (The events of that \\"Dollmaker\\" case are detailed in the book The Concrete Blonde, and be warned that key information about that case is revealed in this book.) This backstory establishes Bosch as a highly capable high profile detective who's somewhat of a loose cannon and marked man for LAPD Internal Affairs.<br /><br />The story starts with a glue-sniffing graffiti artist (the one somewhat interesting character in the book) witnessing a body being dumped in a storm drain pipe by the LA reservoir. This leads to Bosch being hauled out of bed to come check out the scene. Here, the reader is forced to make a huge leap of faith, because it just so happens that the victim is an old comrade-in-arms from Bosch's Vietnam War days as a tunnel rat. (For those unfamiliar with the term, it's slang for the U.S. soldiers sent into the vast Viet Cong tunnel networks that honeycombed the South. They were generally sent down in ones and twos armed with .45s, flashlights, and demolitions charges.) This is a major coincidence to build a story on, and the revelation leaves a bit of a sour aftertaste throughout the rest of the book.<br /><br />Once it's clear that there's been a murder, Bosch latches onto the case like a pit bull, pushing it through the procedural red tape. Connelly spent many years covering local crime for the LA Times, and as in the other books of his I've read, has a good eye and ear for bringing all the little bits and pieces of procedure to life. The investigation seems to point at the dead man's involvement with a recent high-profile bank heist, and soon Bosch finds himself tangled up with the FBI agents tasked with that investigation. Meanwhile, Internal Affairs has targeted him big time, and he spends a lot of energy evading their slimy grasp. There's a good deal of internal police politics at work, and Connelly does a nice job of bringing the depressing realities of this into the story.<br /><br />Somewhat less convincing is the character of Bosch himself. He's the ultimate embodiment of the maverick, anti-establishment, \\"lone wolf\\"cop, always rubbing superiors the wrong way for no good reason, and generally being obnoxious and provocative in a way that only gets him in hotter water. For someone as self-avowedly committed to justice as he is, you'd think he would be a little smarter about when to mouth off, since the trouble he gets himself into only diverts him from pursuing justice. And of course, he drinks a bunch, smokes a bunch, listens to jazz, and doesn't have a lot of luck with women. So, of course, his FBI liaison is a beautiful, water-drinking, anti-smoking woman agent. Sparks fly, and it comes as no surprise that they fall into bed with each other.<br /><br />The plot grows slightly complicated as the search for the killer intertwines with the search for the bank robbers. Connelly smoothly guides the reader through the various databases, files, and people Bosch deals with in order to advance the investigation. It rapidly becomes apparent that the key to the case somehow ties back to the Vietnam War. This is an interesting premise, but one that ultimately becomes a bit too conspiracy-thrillerish by the end. It also doesn't help that Connelly gives away what should be a shocking twist toward the end by providing a very obvious clue halfway through the book. These flaws, combined with the coincidence the story is built on and the clich&eacute; nature of Bosch, result in a book that works in fits and starts, but isn't nearly as good as it could have been.FBI agents tasked with that investigation. Meanwhile, Internal Affairs has targeted him big time, and he spends a lot of energy evading their slimy grasp. There's a good deal of internal police politics at work, and Connelly does a nice job of bringing the depressing realities of this into the story.  <br /> <br />Somewhat less convincing is the character of Bosch himself. He's the ultimate embodiment of the maverick, anti-establishment, \\"lone wolf\\"cop, always rubbing superiors the wrong way for no good reason, and generally being obnoxious and provocative in a way that only gets him in hotter water. For someone as self-avowedly committed to justice as he is, you'd think he would be a little smarter about when to mouth off, since the trouble he gets himself into only diverts him from pursuing justice. And of course, he drinks a bunch, smokes a bunch, listens to jazz, and doesn't have a lot of luck with women. So, of course, his FBI liaison is a beautiful, water-drinking, anti-smoking woman agent. Sparks fly, and it comes as no surprise that they fall into bed with each other.  <br /> <br />The plot grows slightly complicated as the search for the killer intertwines with the search for the bank robbers. Connelly smoothly guides the reader through the various databases, files, and people Bosch deals with in order to advance the investigation. It rapidly becomes apparent that the key to the case somehow ties back to the Vietnam War. This is an interesting premise, but one that ultimately becomes a bit too conspiracy-thrillerish by the end. It also doesn't help that Connelly gives away what should be a shocking twist toward the end by providing a very obvious clue halfway through the book. These flaws, combined with the coincidence the story is built on and the clich nature of Bosch, result in a book that works in fits and starts, but isn't nearly as good as it could have been.	2005-03-26
301216:US	52254603	R1V6SS3XRI1W0H	1584231491	734889899	Black and White Graphics	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Skim and Skip	As a graphic designer I love the idea of this book, namely its declared intent to \\"restate the value of one color creativity\\" in a technicolor world. The attractively produced coffee-table work collects the work of some 32 Western European and American designers, presenting about 4-6 examples of their work. There are a few big names, like Sagmeister, Emigre, and Tomato, but most in the book are unknowns to me. Probably that's because I'm mainly interested in functional design, as opposed to design for art's sake. Very few of the projects in the book are identifiable as actual objects. There are a few posters, flyers, a business card, a CD cover, and ridiculous Marilyn Manson photo shoot, but most of the works are typographic masturbation or more abstract collages, best suited for framing and display. To that extent, I found the bulk of the book to be fairly uninteresting and self-indulgent. There were only three designers whose work I found both distinctive and interesting: Housegrafik's bold poster series from Zurich, Dirk Rudolph's German CD cover featuring lovely wet ink smears and swirls accented with lovely understated custom typography, and Norwegian designer Kim Hiorthiy's strange and compelling experimental fashion sketches. It doesn't help that the captioning and text throughout the book is Raygun-style illegible. All in all, a book to be skimmed and skipped.	2005-03-26
301272:US	52254603	R2GDXR33G3SKDO	1885254784	323326050	Broken Dream: 20 Years of War in Eastern Europe	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Strong Photojournalism	Czech exile photojournalist Kratochivil's first book is a collection of his work in Eastern Europe, mainly in Poland, Romania, and Russia from 1976-80 and then 1989-95. The seventy black and white images are laid out one per spread, giving each stark image room to breathe. There are three running themes to the work, religious practice and rites, the transition from socialism to capitalism, and most strikingly, humanity overwhelmed by a horrific landscape of its own making. The religious photos aren't that striking, and are of the usual stuff, Eastern Orthodox rites, funerals, festivals, processions and the like. There is, however, one symbolically powerful photo of a modern cemetery in the Czech Republic consisting of running walls of aboveground crypts that bear a striking resemblance to the soulless apartment blocks in the background. The political transition photos are quite good, though typical of the genre: statues of Lenin lying in scrap heaps, the wealthy feasting, the poor starving, a demonstration in Poland, people shying away from the camera, and so on.<br /><br />The real strength of the book lies in the third kind of photos. A huge earth-moving machine looming over a man and child, a grim shadow of a man in the smoke of an industrial town, masked men and dogs in Chernobyl, two men dismantling a tank with giant cranes hovering above them, men leaning on the rail of a crumbling Polish apartment building, figures walking through the black smoke of a Romanian tar factory, and most moving of all, children playing in the benighted landscape of industrial wasteland. Of particular interest are a series depicting \\"gazari\\", poor people who make a short and precarious living digging gasoline out of the ground near a leaking petroleum refinery. All of this makes for pretty depressing viewing, albeit one that photojournalism aficionados will find very compelling. A strong collection that will obviously have particular resonance for those with an interest in modern Eastern Europe.<br /><br />Note: A reasonably good web search will lead you to a site where about fifty of the photos are available for viewing on a small scale.Eastern Europe.  <br /> <br />Note: A reasonably good web search will lead you to a site where about fifty of the photos are available for viewing on a small scale.	2005-03-26
302256:US	52254603	R3B01GPXFYXXS1	0385020384	431351790	Rule Britannia	Books	1	5	8	N	N	A Wasted Premise	I generally read about 100-150 books a year, and of that, there are usually only two or three I don't finish. This is one of them. I picked this up intrigued by the Du Maurier name and the premise of a union between the United States and United Kingdom. Alas, around halfway through this last of Du Maurier's seventeen novels, I realized I was bored to distraction by the tepidness of the satire and generally lackluster prose. The story is set contemporarily (it was published in 1972), and like so many of her works, in Cornwall. The idea is that a former stage actress of some repute and wealth has retired to a large mansion where she has taken in a series of orphan children, allowing them a great deal of freedom to develop their imaginations. To a certain extent, this character seems semi-autobiographical, and the way the children are raised parallels her own relatively unrestrained upbringing. One day the household arises to discover American planes flying overhead, marines landing on the shores near the house, and an announcement of a political union between the U.S. and U.K. This is apparently in response to some kind of European Unionish fiasco that is left to the reader's imagination. The real point seems to be that Britons will never never never become slaves, nor even the little brother to America's big brother. The household's first sighting of the Americans occurs when a nervous Marine shoots a neighbors beloved dog, which sets the standard for the subtlety of satire. Soon, the elderly lady is predictably leading a local revolt against the occupation, American soldiers are brawling with locals over girls, and so on. The problem is that the Du Maurier can't seem to decide if the story is supposed to be a satire, a farce, cautionary, realistic, or what. And since none of the characters were developed enough or interesting enough to care about, I realized my time might be better spent reading something else.	2005-03-25
302697:US	52254603	R3BY1VQEP4TTY6	0930523032	349166880	To Bury Our Fathers: A Novel of Nicaragua (English and Spanish Edition)	Books	2	6	6	N	N	Rearranged and Clarified, It Gets 4 Stars	This novel from former Sandinista Vice-President Ramirez, apparently the first Nicaraguan novel to be translated into English, is not an easy read. Preceding the novel are two pages summarizing \\"The Main Lines of the Story,\\" and a four page \\"Chronology of Events\\" appears at the end. Readers will want to bookmark those pages, because there will be a lot of flipping back and forth to figure out when, where, and to whom things are happening. Ramirez has chosen to chop his narrative up into lots of shards and remix them back together into a chaotic jumble that's less than the sum of the parts. This is a shame because it serves no apparent purpose (other than literary experimentalism), and diminishes the individual parts, some of which are quite good. One is almost tempted to cut the book up and rearrange it in strict chronological order. It doesn't help matters that all three main characters go by different sets of names at different times.<br /><br />The events of the book span 1930-1960 and in very broad terms, the book is about the Nicaraguan experience during the Somoza dictatorship, as seen through the eyes of soldiers, musicians, workers, whores, and so on. Most of the story revolves around three friends. One is the grandson of a populist reformer whose election to office was nullified by Somoza's regime. Another is the son of an itinerant worker, and eventually joins the National Guard, only to desert and turn traitor. The third is another former National Guard officer. Their stories intersect with those of many others, especially those of their families, two old bartenders, a National Guard colonel, and some prostitutes. It's a rather picaresque, kaleidoscopic read, and is probably best undertaken by those with a reasonable grasp of 20th-century Nicaraguan politics, especially the installation of the Somoza regime by the United States, the murder of Sandino, and the development of exile groups in neighboring countries. Each little section or vignette is quite vivid, and Ramirez is very good at assembling details to build a scene. However, when that scene is chopped up and scattered throughout the book, it loses much of its grip.<br /><br />On the whole, this is probably best left to those with a strong interest in Latin American literature or Nicaraguan history. Others will likely grow frustrated with it.vivid, and Ramirez is very good at assembling details to build a scene. However, when that scene is chopped up and scattered throughout the book, it loses much of its grip. <br /> <br />On the whole, this is probably best left to those with a strong interest in Latin American literature or Nicaraguan history. Others will likely grow frustrated with it.	2005-03-25
310059:US	52254603	R309WT959MY4JL	0451459652	960632728	The Last Light of the Sun (Kay, Guy Gavriel)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Enjoyable, if Long, Historical Fantasy	About ten years ago I read Kay's \\"The Lions of Al-Rassan\\" and enjoyed it a great deal, so when I was looking for something fairly long to settle in with, this caught my eye at the library. Some 500 pages later, I felt much as I do at the end of lengthy Hollywood epics like Gladiator: I was suitably engaged for a long time by an occasionally excellent, occasionally cheezy, generally solid work of entertainment. The book is set in the slightly alternate Earth Kay used for The Lions of Al-Rassan and The Sarantine Mosaic, a world very much the same as ours, with some glimmerings of magic, and different names. Here, the story takes place in roughly 9th-century Britain, and is devoted to showing the interactions between Anglo-Saxons, Welsh, and Viking people during a time of profound change.<br /><br />This is done by introducing a fairly large cast of characters from each side. We have the Anglcyn king Aeldred (based on Aldred of Wessex) who spends his lifetime trying to build a society that can withstand Erling (Norse) raids. At his side are his four children: the playful heir, the cerebral younger son, the fiery daughter, and the good daughter with fey powers. The Cyngael (Welsh) people are represented by Alun, a prince of one of the three lands, along with Brynn, the lord of another, and his family. A priest of Jad (a benign light/sun-based faith standing in for Christianity) named Cenion travels the land trying to bring greater tolerance and understanding between Cyngael and Anglcyn. The Erling are mainly shown through a retired warrior exiled in his middle age for killing a man in a pub, and his disgraced son, who runs away to join a mercenary force of raiders. These characters are all reasonably well-drawn and come alive on the page, but tend to fall within well-worn archetypes: noble and wise king, grief-struck prince, mysterious princess, estranged father, prodigal son, proud aging warrior, wise and beloved priest, cruel and evil villain, and finally, faithful hound. This creates a little distance from the characters--we may be interested in their trials and tribulations, but it's much harder to care for them.<br /><br />The book unfolds through the interactions of these and many other characters, a technique that sacrifices a strong central perspective for a wider, and arguably richer, range of viewpoints. While some readers may find the minor digressions into the lives of outlying characters distracting, I found them to be very complementary to the story. They do take one out of the specific moment, but they also provide a depth and context that is central to what Kay's attempt to show how life is a continual unfolding of interrelated events and encounters, rather than a three-act play. They also serve as primary examples the recurring theme that individual actions can change the world. Of course, the result is that the plot is somewhat formless. Things happen, which then influence other events and people, and on and on. There is a basic running theme of civilization/good vs. warfare/evil, but that's not a plot. Yet a further central theme is the idea of the world of magic fading away as people become more enlightened. This is a delicate thing to tackle, and Kay did about as good a job as possible considering that the stuff with faeries, and the dark woods, and the half-world is all pretty old hat. So, there are some biggish ideas running throughout the book, and sometimes they overwhelm the actual storytelling and characterization.<br /><br />It should be said that while Kay's portrayal of time and place is very well done, and clearly a great deal of research has gone into the book, the writing is kind of staccato. Sentences are short, and paragraphs are extremely short, making for choppy reading. There are also frequent instances of excessive authorial \\"voice-over\\" in which Kay feels the need to highlight some particular aspect of the story. These often begin with the phrase \\"There are times...\\" and feel awfully heavy-handed. There's also no doubt that for a story in which geography is so important, the absence of a map is sorely felt. Still, on the whole, this is a very readable work of historically-based fantasy. It's also notable in that the villan dies in a rather unexpected and refreshingly realistic manner. One does get a sense of the difficulty of 9th-century life, especially the woeful plight of women, and any author who can pull that off deserves respect.eavy-handed. There's also no doubt that for a story in which geography is so important, the absence of a map is sorely felt. Still, on the whole, this is a very readable work of historically-based fantasy. It's also notable in that the villan dies in a rather unexpected and refreshingly realistic manner. One does get a sense of the difficulty of 9th-century life, especially the woeful plight of women, and any author who can pull that off deserves respect.	2005-03-18
321599:US	52254603	R3UJ5DODYZAVXN	1560256257	988894364	Let Fury Have the Hour: The Punk Rock Politics of Joe Strummer	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	A Somewhat Haphazard but Welcome Message of Hope	Bottom line? This somewhat haphazard collection of twenty-five or so articles about Joe Strummer is more or less exactly the homage one would expect, with few (if any) surprises. The focus here is to celebrate the passing of a highly influential musician and his legacy as a progressive and hopeful force, while putting him in the context of his times. Most diehard Clash and Strummer fans won't find anything new here, and those unfamiliar with him may find it a bit overwhelming, but taken in small pieces, it's an inspirational tribute to Strummer's spirit. While the book would certainly benefit from from greater thematic organization (not to mention attention to detail), its heart is in the right place, and it's hard to imagine any collection of clippings and essays being any better.<br /><br />The book is organized into four loose sections proceeded by a very brief piece by Chuck D about The Clash's influence on Public Enemy, along with an introduction by editor D'Ambrosio. The first (and longest) section covers Strummer's career as leadman for The Clash. These are all pieces that originally appeared elsewhere, beginning with D'Ambrosio's lengthy overview which ran in the Monthly Review in 2003 and is available on their web site. There's the 1976 interview from Sniffin' Glue, gushing pieces from Trouser Press (1978), Rolling Stone (1979), Sounds (1979), a 50-page excerpt from Lester Bangs' seminal book Psychotic Reactions and Carburetor Dung, and a much-revised piece by Greil Marcus that has appeared in a number of places. These reprints are all fine, and as a collective, give a reasonable sense of the power and importance of The Clash for those not already in the know.<br /><br />The second and third sections are divided rather arbitrarily, and are a hodgepodge of essays and interviews mostly about Strummer's post-Clash career. The first of these is a pretty decent overview of his work in film from D'Ambrosio, who interviewed Alex Cox, Jim Jarmusch, and Dick Rude for the piece. This is followed by a nice short 1988 piece from Sounds focusing on Strummer's soundtrack work, especially Walker. The next essay, titled \\"The Politics of Punk's Permanent Revolution,\\" attempts to posit that the Clash \\"helped precipitate a permanent revolution.\\" It reads like something from an academic journal, and invokes philosophers from Hegel to Kant to Kouvalakis with a little Marx thrown in. There are a few promising ideas, but it's hard to take the author seriously when he writes that the album London Calling is \\"a perfectly awful mish mash of musical styles.\\" Freelance writer Amy Phillips contributes an interesting article about the influence of The Clash on women, and D'Ambrosio adds one about The Clash and antiracism.<br /><br />Section three starts with a rather boring essay by D'Ambrosio which attempts to reframe Strummer as a political folk artist in the vein of Victor Jara or Silvio Rodriquez. It's probably more interesting if you know those artists, but is to be commended for highlighting some of Strummer's more obscure influences. Two good personal interviews from Punk Planet (2000) and Arthur (2003) follow, a brief profile from Metropolis (2001), and a brief piece from Arthur about Strummer's relationship with Jamaican music. None of these are anything breathtaking, but worth checking out if you missed them the first time around. The final piece about the importance and legacy of The Clash isn't particularly strong, and can be read at poppolitics.com.<br /><br />The final section is dedicated to essays attempting to give hope for the future. In the first D'Ambrosio profiles musician/activist Michael Franti and actor/activist Tim Robbins as two socially-conscious artists in the tradition of Joe Strummer. Alas, if those are the best we have to offer, the future looks bleak. This is followed by tributes from fellow musicians like Not4Prophet, Billy Bragg, and the singer for Radio 4. This latter group I'd not heard of and will definitely bechecking out. These last voices, along with D'Ambrosio coda detailing a late collaboration between Strummer and Johnny Cash, act as a welcome call to action, a reminder that as bad as things look, one should never lose hope and stop striving to change the world around you. That,nitely be checking out. These last voices, along with D'Ambrosio coda detailing a late collaboration between Strummer and Johnny Cash, act as a welcome call to action, a reminder that as bad as things look, one should never lose hope and stop striving to change the world around you. That,	2005-03-09
322982:US	52254603	R1K84XW4TQ70W5	061825773X	718040875	London Bridges: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great Fun -- Perfect For a Rainy Weekend	This extremely well-written and entertaining book is a quasi-thriller constructed around an exploration of how people meet and forge their own communities. Set in London, the story is populated by a disparate upper-middle class cast of professionals who are entwined in a plot revolving around some valuable South Bank real estate owned by a Greek monastery. Events are set in motion when two different groups discover the existence of the property, as well as the possibility of the existence of priceless antiques in a safe-deposit box. The story opens with a prologue out of chronological order that foreshadows events to come. Then the reader is taken back a few weeks to meet the villain of the piece, a snobby but poor lawyer who is given the task of wrapping up the affairs of an estate that puts him in contact with the South Bank property and forgotten relics. It also puts him in touch with a cunning Greek businesswoman, and the two convince each other that they might be able to get their hands on these precious items by conning an elderly Anglo-Greek banking agent into assigning the lawyer power of attorney.<br /><br />Meanwhile (a phrase much used in the book), an enthusiastic preservationist has discovered an old fountain and thinks the South Bank property (currently an ad hoc community garden) is just the place for it. He's comes up with the grand scheme to get the monastary to donate the land for the project, and ropes in his friend Hattie, who works for a foundation (trust in the UK) dedicated to the nebulous task of improving London. She brings on board her friend who is a campy gay classics professor who just happens to know the abbot of the monastary. It all gets rather complicated to explain, but soon these characters all start to cross paths, along with an Australian graduate student in the classics program who moonlights as a pharmacist, an Indian lawyer born and bred in London who works at the villain's firm, and various other minor characters. These are all well-drawn figures that occasionally border on clich&eacute; at times, but whenever we see them at work or at home, they are always doing things that give them depth and life, and Stevenson shows a nice ear for dialogue. Of course, everything is pretty much constrained to the well-meaning striving set of law, academia, trusts, art, and so on, but it's still well done.<br /><br />The story walks that fine line of being literate without becoming pretentious. The \\"thriller\\" aspect almost borders on a Scooby-Doo story where the gang starts to put the puzzle together, but a murder keeps things dark enough to avoid tounge-in-cheekitis. There is comedy and wit, and the climax is perhaps a bit over-the-top in the wackiness, but Stevenson makes it work nonetheless. The plot does require one to go along with a heavy dose of coincidence in terms of these people all knowing each other, but if one can get past that, it's vastly entertaining stuff. The book also mainly succeeds as a slice of London life that is a homage to the bonds of friendship. There is perhaps a little too much detail of what people wear and their home decor, but its all within context. Of course, it helps if one is predisposed to books about London and Londoners, but it should appeal to metropolitan dwellers anywhere. A thoroughly fun book that will have me seeking out more of Stevenson's works.e all well-drawn figures that occasionally border on clich at times, but whenever we see them at work or at home, they are always doing things that give them depth and life, and Stevenson shows a nice ear for dialogue. Of course, everything is pretty much constrained to the well-meaning striving set of law, academia, trusts, art, and so on, but it's still well done.  <br /> <br />The story walks that fine line of being literate without becoming pretentious. The \\"thriller\\" aspect almost borders on a Scooby-Doo story where the gang starts to put the puzzle together, but a murder keeps things dark enough to avoid tounge-in-cheekitis. There is comedy and wit, and the climax is perhaps a bit over-the-top in the wackiness, but Stevenson makes it work nonetheless. The plot does require one to go along with a heavy dose of coincidence in terms of these people all knowing each other, but if one can get past that, it's vastly entertaining stuff. The book also mainly succeeds as a slice of London life that is a homage to the bonds of friendship. There is perhaps a little too much detail of what people wear and their home decor, but its all within context. Of course, it helps if one is predisposed to books about London and Londoners, but it should appeal to metropolitan dwellers anywhere. A thoroughly fun book that will have me seeking out more of Stevenson's works.	2005-03-08
323673:US	52254603	R39ZHPW29M0WWN	0743264533	358812860	Dr. King's Refrigerator: And Other Bedtime Stories	Books	3	3	6	N	N	An Overly Self-Conscious and Affected Collection	This slim collection of eight short stories (all but one have previously appeared in various magazines, reviews, and anthologies) by National Book Award winner Johnson carries the subtitle \\"Bedtime Stories\\" for a good reason. Like old-fashioned bedtime stories, these are tales that only have room for one idea, and generally function on the level of fable or parable. And as such, they are likely to elicit widely varying reactions from different readers. On the whole, though, the stories have a self-consciousness and affectation that keeps the reader from ever fully immersing themselves in them.<br /><br />The first story, \\"Sweet Dreams,\\" is probably my favorite. It's set in a near future in which the government budget imbalance has grown so bad that it can only be remedied by finding something new to tax. And thus we are presented with the Twilight Zone scenario of a man facing a \\"dream audit\\". It's a clever conceit, and one which allows Johnson to satirize the friendly bureaucrat outlining the dream tax system (nightmares are taxed at a triple rate). Those seeking to escape this dystopian America by dreaming must pay for the privilege. \\"Cultural Relativity\\" is a modern riff on a classic fairy tale which offers quick little lesson in respecting cultural traditions. The title story may offend some by treating Martin Luther King as a fictional character, but Johnson's already done this in his novel Dreamer, and his portrayal here is richly human. In it, we find a young Dr. King behind schedule in writing his weekly sermon. A fit of midnight munchies drives him to the kitchen where he is struck by how the food comes from all over the world, symbolizing the interconnectedness of humanity.<br /><br />The collection then takes a turn for the worse with \\"The Gift of the Ouso.\\" This story is set among the fictional African tribe of the Allmuseri, who were introduced in his collection The Sorcerer's Apprentice, and featured in his award-winning novel Middle Passage. In it, two wizards pose the Cartesian problem of Mind vs. Matter to their king, resulting in a magical folktale that never really worked for me. In \\"Executive Decision\\" Johnson attempts a fictional treatment of the dilemma faced by a CEO who must chose between a black man and white woman for a top position in his firm. It's a woefully weak and lame attempt to present the issues of affirmative action. Even worse is \\"Better Than Counting Sheep\\", a dashed off joke based on the flat punch line that sitting in an academic committee meeting can cure insomnia. \\"The Queen and the Philosopher\\" is woven around the death of Descartes at the court of Queen Christina of Sweden in 1650. It's unlikely to leave an impression on anyone outside the local Philosophy club.<br /><br />The final story is \\"Kwoon,\\" which has won prizes, been heavily anthologized, and even used in several high-school textbooks. It's about a young man who starts a martial arts studio in Chicago only to one day be badly beaten in front of his students by an older, tougher streetfighter. While I can recognize the elements that would make it potentially useful for discussing violence, humility, ego, and self-identity, it never drew me in as a story. And that's really the difficulty with many of the works here, they feel almost pedantic in their attempts to hold up an idea for the reader's inspection. On the whole, a very uneven collection with some very nice moments, but nothing that is going to inspire me to seek out Johnson's other work.t, two wizards pose the Cartesian problem of Mind vs. Matter to their king, resulting in a magical folktale that never really worked for me. In \\"Executive Decision\\" Johnson attempts a fictional treatment of the dilemma faced by a CEO who must chose between a black man and white woman for a top position in his firm. It's a woefully weak and lame attempt to present the issues of affirmative action. Even worse is \\"Better Than Counting Sheep\\", a dashed off joke based on the flat punch line that sitting in an academic committee meeting can cure insomnia. \\"The Queen and the Philosopher\\" is woven around the death of Descartes at the court of Queen Christina of Sweden in 1650. It's unlikely to leave an impression on anyone outside the local Philosophy club. <br /> <br />The final story is \\"Kwoon,\\" which has won prizes, been heavily anthologized, and even used in several high-school textbooks. It's about a young man who starts a martial arts studio in Chicago only to one day be badly beaten in front of his students by an older, tougher streetfighter. While I can recognize the elements that would make it potentially useful for discussing violence, humility, ego, and self-identity, it never drew me in as a story. And that's really the difficulty with many of the works here, they feel almost pedantic in their attempts to hold up an idea for the reader's inspection. On the whole, a very uneven collection with some very nice moments, but nothing that is going to inspire me to seek out Johnson's other work.	2005-03-08
324333:US	52254603	R1UVDVXWD2IAAP	0375505024	677665484	Semiautomatic: A Novel	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Very Weak	I picked up this short crime novel 'cause I was in a rush and it had a nice blurb on the cover from George Pelecanos (one of my favorite writers). Well, haste definitely made waste for me, and I'm sad to report that Pelecanos gave me a bum steer. This story about a murder trial in Brooklyn is an utterly tepid and uninteresting piece of work. Part of the problem is that a lot of the backstory to the protagonist Giobberti, a 40-year-old homicide prosecutor for the District Attorney's office, resides in Reuland's debut, Hollowpoint. Apparently in that book Giobberti screwed up so badly that he was exiled in disgrace to the backwater of the Appeals Bureau. He also either then or subsequently lost his daughter in a traffic accident and his wife walked out on him. Now, some 18 months later, he is unexpectedly told to take over a routine case involving a teenager who killed a bodega owner in a stickup.<br /><br />Already on the case is inexperienced junior prosecutor Laurel Ashfield, who's never tried a homicide. Most of the book revolves around Giobberti and her getting a feel for each other and the case. Almost immediately, Giobberti (and the reader) realizes there's something not quite right about the case, and it takes an awfully long time for the specifics to be revealed. Once revealed, the specifics end up being woefully uninteresting, revolving around the completely unshocking reality of cops and DAs playing fast and loose with the truth in order to put away bad guys in order to score political points. The theme of corrupt a corrupt legal system and bent cops has been exhaustively explored in film and fiction for over a century, and Reuland brings nothing new to the table here.<br /><br />The author was himself a lawyer for the Brooklyn DA's Homicide Bureau, so the book does benefit from a certain authenticity of detail. Reuland is particularly strong in describing places and creating vivid mental images of the courtroom, apartments, bathrooms, offices, and so on. Unfortunately, the people moving through these spaces don't talk or think the way real people do. The dialogue tends to be so clipped and elliptical that one wonders if the author is trying to parody of pulp films. At one point Giobberti actually addresses Ashfield as \\"sister\\" and another character laughably tells Giobberti to \\"take your meathooks off me!\\" Worst of all, there's no suspense and no dramatic tension to be found anywhere in this entirely skippable book.on. Unfortunately, the people moving through these spaces don't talk or think the way real people do. The dialogue tends to be so clipped and elliptical that one wonders if the author is trying to parody of pulp films. At one point Giobberti actually addresses Ashfield as \\"sister\\" and another character laughably tells Giobberti to \\"take your meathooks off me!\\" Worst of all, there's no suspense and no dramatic tension to be found anywhere in this entirely skippable book.	2005-03-07
326688:US	52254603	RVPGPDMB97OX1	0345461509	812787082	The Savage Tales of Solomon Kane	Books	3	13	24	N	N	Decent Pulp Anthology	I've never read any of Howard's stuff, nor am I a huge fan of pulp fantasy, but the premise of a Puritan avenger was intriguing enough for me to seek out this collection of Howard's Solomon Kane stories and poems. Set sometime in the Elizabethan era, the stories revolve around Kane, who strides the earth seeking to mete out divine justice at the end of his rapier or from the barrels of his matchlock pistols. Written in the 1930s and published mostly in Weird Tales, these are classic pulp stories, mixing the eerie and supernatural, with the exotic and wicked, and always with a heavy dose of action.<br /><br />The stories are more or less evenly split between those set in Europe and those set in Africa. Three of these, \\"Skulls in the Stars,\\" \\"The Right Hand of Doom,\\" and \\"Rattle of Bones,\\" are fairly straight-up horror/ghost stories in which Kane finds himself in a situation where he is a witness or participant in vengeance. More interesting is a longer story without any fantastical element called \\"The Blue Flame of Vengeance,\\" in which he helps a worthy young man against a tyrannical local lord in league with smuggler/pirates. The book includes two brief fragments of unfinished stories along the same themes. Kane's move to Africa is handled in the story \\"Red Shadows,\\" which details his years-long pursuit of a murderer called \\"The Wolf.\\"<br /><br />The African-set stories are much more colorful and action-packed on the whole, albeit tinged with rather unfortunate portrayals of Africans and Arabs. The modern reader will have to bear in mind that Howard was a young man in a small town in Texas in the 1930s when writing these, and the crude racial characteristics he ascribes were par for the course in pulp writing. In \\"The Moon of Skulls\\", Kane rescues a kidnapped European woman by tracking her to a lost city run by a sadistic evil priestess. The lost civilization theme appears again in two promising story fragments, \\"Hawk of Basti\\" and \\"The Children of Asshur,\\" the latter of which posits a thriving Assyrian city in the heart of Africa. Two of the better complete stories are \\"The Hills of the Dead\\" and \\"Wings in the Night.\\" In the first, Kane rather implausibly befriends a witch-doctor, who helps him smite down an army of zombie/vampire creatures with the aid of a magic staff and astral projection! In the latter, a race of avian carnivores destroys a village Kane is staying in, and so he must take his vengeance yet again. \\"The Footfalls Within\\" is a rather lame encounter with Arab slavers that leads to a Lovecraftian encounter with an ancient crypt deep in the jungle.<br /><br />On the whole, the stories are fairly one-dimensional pulpies. Kane is repeatedly described as a fanatic (without really ever spelling out what it is he's fanatical about), with a very personally arbitrated mandate to roam the world destroying evil in a never-ending crusade. He's a dour, humorless figure, with the requisite courage, stamina, speed, brawn, etc. to overcome all foes. Probably best taken in small doses, and only by those with a general taste for pulp fiction. The book does benefit greatly from the fantastic black and white line drawings of Gary Gianni, which appear throughout. They capture the period and essence of the stories perfectly, and are themselves much better than the stories they illustrate! The typography leaves something to be desired however, and the book is rather awkwardly sized, floppy, and hard to hold comfortably to read. Also included are a piece by Howard's contemporary H.P. Lovecraft and an brief biography of Howard.latter of which posits a thriving Assyrian city in the heart of Africa. Two of the better complete stories are \\"The Hills of the Dead\\" and \\"Wings in the Night.\\" In the first, Kane rather implausibly befriends a witch-doctor, who helps him smite down an army of zombie/vampire creatures with the aid of a magic staff and astral projection! In the latter, a race of avian carnivores destroys a village Kane is staying in, and so he must take his vengeance yet again. \\"The Footfalls Within\\" is a rather lame encounter with Arab slavers that leads to a Lovecraftian encounter with an ancient crypt deep in the jungle. <br /> <br />On the whole, the stories are fairly one-dimensional pulpies. Kane is repeatedly described as a fanatic (without really ever spelling out what it is he's fanatical about), with a very personally arbitrated mandate to roam the world destroying evil in a never-ending crusade. He's a dour, humorless figure, with the requisite courage, stamina, speed, brawn, etc. to overcome all foes. Probably best taken in small doses, and only by those with a general taste for pulp fiction. The book does benefit greatly from the fantastic black and white line drawings of Gary Gianni, which appear throughout. They capture the period and essence of the stories perfectly, and are themselves much better than the stories they illustrate! The typography leaves something to be desired however, and the book is rather awkwardly sized, floppy, and hard to hold comfortably to read. Also included are a piece by Howard's contemporary H.P. Lovecraft and an brief biography of Howard.	2005-03-05
326844:US	52254603	R1M9P8CHC475TP	0575074019	262899367	The Hollow Chocolate Bunnies of the Apocalypse (Gollancz)	Books	3	45	48	N	N	Fairly Amusing Premise Goes On Too Long	Basically, this is the kind of book where your reaction to the title and/or cover is a pretty good indicator of whether or not you'll enjoy the contents. It's silly stuff, sometimes dark, but mostly the kind of outsize fantasy/comedy British writers seem to manage to handle so well (Rankin is often mentioned in the same breath as Terry Pratchett and Douglas Adams). The concept at work here is that a serial killer is on the loose in a city populated by toys, striking down the rich and famous -- namely notables from nursery rhyme fame, such as Humpty Dumpty, Little Boy Blue, et al. Into this killing zone stumbles Jack, a 13-year-old boy come to \\"seek his fortune\\" in the big city. But almost immediately upon his arrival, the big city seeks his fortune instead, leaving him mugged and penniless in an alleyway. Fortunately, a kindly teddy bear named Eddie comes along to take him under his paw and get him involved the mystery. It seems Eddie is the sidekick of Toy City's eminent detective Bill Winkie (aka Wee Willie Winkie), who has gone missing. Soon Jack and Eddie are racing across Toy City in clockwork cars, checking out murder scenes, visiting Madam Goose's house of ill repute, and getting sloshed at Tinto's Bar, as they attempt to solve the case. If this sounds somewhat reminiscent of the 1988 film \\"Who Framed Roger Rabbit?\\", it should.<br /><br />Part of the fun comes from the spoofing of nursery rhymes and childhood toys, including comically gruesome murders, thriller/noir goofing, and totally tongue in cheek action. The other part of the fun comes from the wacky wordplay. Rankin is fond of alliteration, punning, double-entendres, repetition of stock phrases, and from the mouth of Eddie, the incomplete simile. If there's one thing one will remember from this book it's the construction \\"It's as good as!\\" or \\"I was scared as!\\" It has to be said that the book runs on about 50-100 pages too long as the jokes start to wear a bit thin and the action starts to get too repetitive. Alas after all the buildup, the mystery itself is a bit of a shaggy dog story, and somewhat of a letdown. It is fairly inventive stuff, and kind of fun for the most part, but unless you think the title is hilarious you probably won't love the book.petitive. Alas after all the buildup, the mystery itself is a bit of a shaggy dog story, and somewhat of a letdown. It is fairly inventive stuff, and kind of fun for the most part, but unless you think the title is hilarious you probably won't love the book.	2005-03-05
330225:US	52254603	RSA2J9PIZP55M	0520223551	411747318	Understand This (California Fiction)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Solid Debut About Life in South Central	Tervalon grew up in South Central LA and taught high school in Watts, so it should come as no surprise that his 1994 debut novel set in the same milieu is a gripping polyphonic work that rings with authenticity. Eight different narrators alternate over fifteen chapters to bring to life the problems of growing up in the 'hood in story bookended by shootings. The book starts with teenage football player Francois tossing a football in the street with his old friend turned dealer Doug, who is promptly gunned down by his girlfriend Rika. The first three chapters follow Francois and his tough-as-nails, straight-talking girlfriend Margot, as he struggles to deal with the murder and avoid Doug's brother Ollie, who's intent on revenge.<br /><br />Chapter four shifts to Francois and Margot's English teacher Michaels, a figure who appears to be modeled on Tervalon and provides the first adult view on these struggling kids. Next chapter is Ollie, whose efforts to step into his big brother's shoes as player/dealer are quickly squashed. Francois's mother Ann steps in to provide the perspective of a long-despairing mother trying to keep her kids on the right path, but without a too much conviction. Crackhead Rika appears next, and is shown to have quickly shed her privileged background to become be a hardened femme fatale figure. Unfortunately, her backstory feels rather incomplete, and as she's a pivotal figure in the narrative, it's a pity Tervalon didn't devote a little more time to her story.<br /><br />The story then shifts back to Francois and Margot, whose stormy relationship appears to be destined to wreck upon the imminent shores of Margot's departure for college at UC-Santa Cruz. She details a one-week orientation trip up there that might as well be to a foreign country for its strangeness. Meanwhile, Francois dabbles in the drug trade up in Santa Barbara with his shady friend Tommy, who narrates the next chapter. Tommy isn't a particularly distinctive figure, and his voice feels somewhat similar to the braggadocio of Ollie. Francois returns to Los Angeles, where Ann picks up the story again, having decided to move to Atlanta. She struggles with Francois' inexplicable (to her) depression and refusal to go to school and graduate.<br /><br />Ann calls in Michaels, who half-heartedly tries to convince Francois to finish school up in the subsequent chapter. in the latter part of this, Michales meets up with Margot and shares an awkward dinner with her. He has a weird, uneasy attraction to Margot the whole book which is never fully articulated and feels kind of forced. Francois returns to explain his new setup as the manager of a check-cashing store for another dealer and his final date with Margot, escorting her to Michaels' wedding. Things take a turn for the melodramatic when Ollie's sister Sally appears to reveal the discovery of Rika as a pregnant homeless woman. Sally is a fierce Christian who doesn't take any backtalk from Ollie and comes across as a younger, firmer version of Ann. She and Ann attempt to help Rika out, until a final climactic shooting. The coda is provided six months later by Michaels, who has left to go to law school, but returns to meet up with Margot after her first semester of college.<br /><br />Overall this is a very impressive debut, although it might have been strengthened by sticking with fewer narrators. Michaels could have been fleshed out a bit more too--as the former insider, now an outside observer, he could have offered a more interesting perspective. Still, for the most part, the dialogue sparkles with reality as we see these kids struggling to operate within their highly constrained environment. A strong start for Tervalon, who has since moved into period fiction about New Orleans and is now embroiled in legal problems with his publisher.s voice feels somewhat similar to the braggadocio of Ollie. Francois returns to Los Angeles, where Ann picks up the story again, having decided to move to Atlanta. She struggles with Francois' inexplicable (to her) depression and refusal to go to school and graduate.  <br /> <br />Ann calls in Michaels, who half-heartedly tries to convince Francois to finish school up in the subsequent chapter. in the latter part of this, Michales meets up with Margot and shares an awkward dinner with her. He has a weird, uneasy attraction to Margot the whole book which is never fully articulated and feels kind of forced. Francois returns to explain his new setup as the manager of a check-cashing store for another dealer and his final date with Margot, escorting her to Michaels' wedding. Things take a turn for the melodramatic when Ollie's sister Sally appears to reveal the discovery of Rika as a pregnant homeless woman. Sally is a fierce Christian who doesn't take any backtalk from Ollie and comes across as a younger, firmer version of Ann. She and Ann attempt to help Rika out, until a final climactic shooting. The coda is provided six months later by Michaels, who has left to go to law school, but returns to meet up with Margot after her first semester of college. <br /> <br />Overall this is a very impressive debut, although it might have been strengthened by sticking with fewer narrators. Michaels could have been fleshed out a bit more too--as the former insider, now an outside observer, he could have offered a more interesting perspective. Still, for the most part, the dialogue sparkles with reality as we see these kids struggling to operate within their highly constrained environment. A strong start for Tervalon, who has since moved into period fiction about New Orleans and is now embroiled in legal problems with his publisher.	2005-03-02
333875:US	52254603	RB58OQ4TUW1UF	0060932295	987571353	Sharpe's Devil: Richard Sharpe & the Emperor, 1820-1821 (Richard Sharpe's Adventure Series #21)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Outstanding Post-Napoleonic Wars Adventure	Six years after the end of the Napoleonic wars, ex-Rifleman Richard Sharpe toils on his French wife's farm in Normandy. Times are a little tough, so when the fabulously wealthy wife of a former Spanish comrade asks him to travel to Chile to find her missing husband, he can't refuse the gold that comes with the request. Naturally, Sharpe rounds up the now-rotund and prosperous tavern-keeper Patrick Harper before setting sail for South America. Their vessel is a Spanish one, ferrying a number of patronizing and foppish Spanish officers who are off to fight the Chilean rebels (who are led by the intriguing half-Spanish, half-Irish gentleman Bernardo O'Higgins). These Spaniards decide to take a minor detour to St. Helena to gawk at the imprisoned Napoleon, and of course Sharpe and Harper can't resist the chance to pay their own respects. The ex-emperor is by now rotting away in his dank mansion, with peeling wallpaper, a poor wine-cellar, and a large British garrison to keep him company. Treated like a curiosity in a zoo, he is disdainful of the Spaniards, but is intrigued by Sharpe and Harper, who are clearly fellow warriors. Cornwell has a lot of fun with this section, as the two old soldiers talk shop, honor each other, and Sharpe, with his customary naivite is unwittingly drawn into intrigue.<br /><br />Eventually, the ship arrives in Chile, where Sharpe is told the man he is seeking, Captain-General Vivar, is actually dead. Of course, Sharpe is suspicious when a body can't be produced, and soon he and Harper have run afoul of the thoroughly evil Spanish Governor-General Bautista. Events entertainingly run their course, and soon the dynamic duo find themselves on the side of the rebels seeking to eject the Spaniards from Chile. They come under the wings of Admiral Cochrane, a Scottish Lord turned rebel seaman, and all around adventurer. Cochrane is a wildly daring and bold leader, a real life figure of such improbability that many readers will want to rush out and read one of the biographies about his exploits (The Audacious Admiral Cochrane by and The Sea Wolf by being two). Once in Cochrane's company, the action ratchets up until the climactic battle at Valdivia, where the ragtag rebel navy crushed the entrenched and more numerous Spanish defenders in an audacious action, heralding an end to Spanish rule. The rout also allows Sharpe to unravel the mystery of what befell Captain-General Vivar, and of course, exact retribution on the nasty Bautista.<br /><br />This is indubitably a change of pace and setting from the regular Sharpe books, but a welcome one. As always, the military action is well described, there are evil villains, interesting supporting characters, and a heavy dose of vivid personages from history on hand. It's hard to imagine anyone making the nominally drab topic of Chilean independence come alive more vividly than Cornwell does here. There's a lot packed into this one, and Cornwell even manages to raise the specter of one of history's more interesting \\"what ifs\\" via an audacious plot. All in all, great fun.<br /><br />PS. Anyone interested in St. Helena is advised to read Harry Ritchie's excellent travel book, The Last Pink Bits, which has a good section on how the island fares in modern times.d read one of the biographies about his exploits (The Audacious Admiral Cochrane by and The Sea Wolf by being two). Once in Cochrane's company, the action ratchets up until the climactic battle at Valdivia, where the ragtag rebel navy crushed the entrenched and more numerous Spanish defenders in an audacious action, heralding an end to Spanish rule. The rout also allows Sharpe to unravel the mystery of what befell Captain-General Vivar, and of course, exact retribution on the nasty Bautista. <br /> <br />This is indubitably a change of pace and setting from the regular Sharpe books, but a welcome one. As always, the military action is well described, there are evil villains, interesting supporting characters, and a heavy dose of vivid personages from history on hand. It's hard to imagine anyone making the nominally drab topic of Chilean independence come alive more vividly than Cornwell does here. There's a lot packed into this one, and Cornwell even manages to raise the specter of one of history's more interesting \\"what ifs\\" via an audacious plot. All in all, great fun. <br /> <br />PS. Anyone interested in St. Helena is advised to read Harry Ritchie's excellent travel book, The Last Pink Bits, which has a good section on how the island fares in modern times.	2005-02-28
333964:US	52254603	R1FVJT79B1PVYV	0743230043	597848159	Wake Up, Sir!: A Novel	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Agreeable Page-Turner for Wodehouse Fans	This comic novel from Ames (the first of his I've read) is a fairly amusing pastiche/homage to the Jeeves novels and stories of P. G. Wodehouse blended with Woody Allenesque neurotic Jewish writer angst. Surprisingly, the mixture mostly works, although readers who aren't familiar with Bertie Wooster and Jeeves are going be missing a great deal of the humor as Ames does his best to channel Wodehouse while jettisoning the genteel innocence of Edwardian England and adding sex and drugs (though no rock-n-roll).<br /><br />The story centers around Alan, a thirtyish alcoholic, and feckless, Jewish writer living with his aunt and uncle in Montclair, New Jersey. He's apparently been in and out of rehab, and was kicked out by his Manhattan roommate (a character who apparently features prominently in Ames' earlier novel The Extra Man), and must resort to bunking at the home of his only living relatives. Fortunately, he was recently awarded a quarter-million for injuries incurred clipping on an icy Park Avenue sidewalk and now has the funds to fulfill the lifelong dream of hiring a valet, who just happens to be named Jeeves. Those familiar with Bertie Wooster will immediately note the similarities: a man of wealth through no effort of his own, a man who enjoys his booze, a man of sartorial peculiarities, the growing of a dubious mustache, a man without living parents, a man who goes to extremes to avoid one of his relatives, and of course, a man who relies on his unflappable valet.<br /><br />Growing restless in Montclair, Alan and Jeeves decamp for a sabbatical amongst the Hasidic Jews of Sharon Springs, New York, where Alan intends to get cracking and finish his second novel. Mischief and mayhem ensue. Almost immediately, however, he learns he has finally been accepted to the prestigious Rose Colony artists' retreat in nearby Saratoga Springs, and so the dynamic duo head yonder. Clearly modeled on the real life artist colony Yaddo, where Ames himself has been in residence, this grand old mansion filled with some forty writers, painters, sculptors, and so on provide Ames ample opportunity to update Bertie Wooster's many visits to weekend parties at country estates, complete with skulking around to thieve. More wacky antics ensue. The sum effect of all this is rather negligible, although thoroughly enjoyable in a page-turning way. Alan provides Ames a voice to free-associate on all manner of things, though mostly sex, Jewishness, and personal weakness. The plot is as crackers as any Bertie and Jeeves were run through, and Ames does a remarkably good job of mimicking the dry Wodehouse banter. Ultimately, it's a fun romp for those who love Wodehouse, and that's about it.<br /><br />Note: Some reviewers have complained that Jeeves in this book isn't nearly the active, catalytic personality he in the the Wodehouse stories. The reason is that he's not there. Careful readers will note that no one else in the whole book speaks to or mentions Jeeves, and it seems entirely probable that he is the imaginary construct of the neurotic Alan.ce, this grand old mansion filled with some forty writers, painters, sculptors, and so on provide Ames ample opportunity to update Bertie Wooster's many visits to weekend parties at country estates, complete with skulking around to thieve. More wacky antics ensue. The sum effect of all this is rather negligible, although thoroughly enjoyable in a page-turning way. Alan provides Ames a voice to free-associate on all manner of things, though mostly sex, Jewishness, and personal weakness. The plot is as crackers as any Bertie and Jeeves were run through, and Ames does a remarkably good job of mimicking the dry Wodehouse banter. Ultimately, it's a fun romp for those who love Wodehouse, and that's about it. <br /> <br />Note: Some reviewers have complained that Jeeves in this book isn't nearly the active, catalytic personality he in the the Wodehouse stories. The reason is that he's not there. Careful readers will note that no one else in the whole book speaks to or mentions Jeeves, and it seems entirely probable that he is the imaginary construct of the neurotic Alan.	2005-02-28
334367:US	52254603	R32W1LK42IYYLI	0671567829	195903904	The Bookman's Wake (Cliff Janeway Novels)	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Weak Second Outing For Janeway	This second in Dunning's Cliff Janeway series picks up several months after the events of Booked To Die. Ex-cop Janeway is quietly running his used bookstore in Denver when another ex-cop walks in and offers him a very sweet deal to run up to Seattle and bring back a woman who jumped bail. Janeway balks at this bounty-hunter gig, but when it's revealed that there's a connection with a rare copy of \\"The Raven\\", he finally bites. Of course, if something sounds to good to be true...<br /><br />In Seattle he easily catches up with the bail-jumper, but she's a pretty young book scout, so it doesn't take him long to ditch the idea of turning her in. Turns out she's connected to The Grayson Press, a (fictional) small specialty press well-known in the collecting world. This piques Janeway's interest even more, and soon he's embroiled in a very very convoluted mystery involving collectors of Grayson books and the possible murder some forty years ago of the two brothers who were The Grayson Press. This allows Dunning to wax prosaic about the craft and artisanry of small presses and the processes employed in days of yore. I'm as big an admirer of fine bookmaking as anyone, but it gets irksome he makes blanket statements about how bookmaking a dead art. While it's true that there the vast majority of books published are given only the most rudimentary design treatment, there are plenty that have been sweated over and given loving attention to detail. Even though they're using computers instead of moveable type, there are plenty of designers paying close attention to typeface selection, kerning, binding materials, and so on.<br /><br />In any event, as in the first in the series, the book distinguishes itself via the immersion in the world of collectible books. The reader is given a fascinating insider's glimpse into aspects of book scouting, used book dealing, and bookmaking. This is all good stuff, but probably of much greater interest to those who already know a little about such things than the uninitiated. However, the plot itself is far too complicated and long-winded to make for a satisfying read. There are so many different threads that when everything is brought to a head and the motive for all the mayhem is revealed it's a pretty big letdown. It also doesn't help that some of the characters feel like repeats from the previous book: in each Janeway meets and befriends pretty and clever troubled young women early, there are thuggish goons he takes an instant dislike to, and he meets and beds a smart, pretty woman. Overall, a bit of sophomore slump, but hopefully the next one will be back on form.about such things than the uninitiated. However, the plot itself is far too complicated and long-winded to make for a satisfying read. There are so many different threads that when everything is brought to a head and the motive for all the mayhem is revealed it's a pretty big letdown. It also doesn't help that some of the characters feel like repeats from the previous book: in each Janeway meets and befriends pretty and clever troubled young women early, there are thuggish goons he takes an instant dislike to, and he meets and beds a smart, pretty woman. Overall, a bit of sophomore slump, but hopefully the next one will be back on form.	2005-02-27
334494:US	52254603	RH5FQE2NHJSBA	0375703632	916255888	The Love of a Good Woman : Stories	Books	2	23	31	N	N	Not My Cup of Tea	It has to admitted right up front that this is not a book I would ever have chosen to read on my own. However, as it was a selection for our bookgroup, I plowed in, and unlike many others in the group, finished it. Now, I'm sure that there is a demographic somewhere, for whom these eight stories really resonate and connect with -- but it sure isn't me. Set in the mid-1940s through the 1980s, the stories (five of which were first published in The New Yorker) take place in Munro's own milieu: Ontario and and British Columbia.<br /><br />In general, they are about everyday life and the quiet desperate struggles that go on in ordinary lives, and are thematically bound by a sense of disappointment. Indeed, this is not a book to give to the newly affianced, filled as it is with dissolving marriages and forlorn women (good luck finding a positive male character anywhere in the pages). Repeatedly in these stories, the reader is confronted with women whose lives have not evolved the way they had expected or desired. Now, this is certainly a truth in life, but the stories all start to run together after a while. And when there is an incident that stands out, it feels unbelievable. For example, one story climaxes with a girl getting set on fire, another has a moment where a grandmother feels a sexual frisson when touched on the leg by a young woman, another has a daughter unwittingly talking to her father's corpse, another has a loving mother abandon her children, and so on. In each case, a tale of the problems of ordinary life is suddenly turned into melodrama with a jarring change of pace.<br /><br />Certainly Munro is a skilled craftswoman, her prose is clearly labored over with great care and precision, but that only gets you so far. None of the characters are particularly interesting or compelling, and one is hard-pressed to care about their respective situations. There's a wan fatalism holding them all down, and that makes for gloomy reading. It might be that coming across them over time in The New Yorker, they'd feel a little more individual, but when collected, it feels like a one note concert. It should be noted that the title story is a bit different, much longer and much more scattered in style, it's also much more interesting. The last story is also stands out, as it is the only one that offers a sense of hope or happiness, which is probably why it was placed at the end of the book. So, while Munro does have a dab hand at description, the lack of interesting people in the stories and the uniformity of tone leave me unlikely to recommend this collection to anyone I know.across them over time in The New Yorker, they'd feel a little more individual, but when collected, it feels like a one note concert. It should be noted that the title story is a bit different, much longer and much more scattered in style, it's also much more interesting. The last story is also stands out, as it is the only one that offers a sense of hope or happiness, which is probably why it was placed at the end of the book. So, while Munro does have a dab hand at description, the lack of interesting people in the stories and the uniformity of tone leave me unlikely to recommend this collection to anyone I know.	2005-02-27
340957:US	52254603	R2WCCGGZCWE9ID	0435905902	517689595	The Case of the Socialist Witchdoctor and Other Stories (African Writers Series)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Ethiopia's Dark Days	This collection of 23 stories from Ethiopian exile writer Tuma takes the reader deep into the darkest days of modern Ethiopia, namely the terror that dominated the country from the overthrow of King Haile Selassie in 1974 to the 1991 routing of the ruling military junta (the \\"Derg\\") led by Mengistu. It was seventeen years of ongoing border wars with Somalia and Eritrean nationalists, combined with a brutal civil war waged between democratic rebels and government militias, in which an estimated 1,000,000 people died. Emulating Lennist-Stalinist terror techniques, the Derg were unstinting in the use of torture, kangaroo courts, gulags, and \\"disappearing\\" anyone who caught their attention. Tuma's stories are the darkest kind of satire, laying open the opportunist dictatorship to withering criticism and disdain.<br /><br />The first twelve stories are grouped as a series of comic court cases, as observed and narrated by an anonymous citizen. Among the various accused are a man who unwittingly urinated against a government building (arrested as a saboteur), a torturer who insulted a superior for not providing enough victims (arrested as a counter-revolutionary), a woman who smiled in during a political meeting (arrested as a subversive) , a newspaper printer who reversed two letters (another subversive/saboteur), an admitted shoplifter who wants to return to prison so he can have shelter and food, and so on. Hedonists, queue-jumpers, novelists, free thinkers -- all are hauled before the revolutionary court to be found guilty (as if any other result was possible). In recounting these cases, Tuma typically begins with a little background on the situation, which provides a little insight into culture or politics, and then lets the prosecutor and defendant engage. The absurdity of each case is revealed in direct exchanges that make it clear that justice and logic are to be left at the door. A sample passage illustrates the tone of all these pieces: \\"To think itself, as we all know, is counter-revolutionary and wasteful. The State thinks for us all, the finely-tuned genius-brain of Our Great Chairman thinks for us all, saving time and energy which we should devote to production as loyal and grateful citizens.\\"<br /><br />The second half of the collection aren't satirical, but are rather straightforward tales of the hardships suffered under the brutality of the Derg. As such, they are less distinctive, but no the less dark and illustrative of the plight of the people. With tales like \\"Betrayal,\\" \\"Vendetta,\\" \\"Death of a Renegade\\" it should be clear that these are stories about death -- over and over. There are stories of brothers betraying brothers, fathers killing sons, lovers killing each other, and on and on. Obviously art cannot hope to capture even a slice of the terror under the Derg, but this is probably as close as it can come. Essential reading for anyone trying to understand modern Ethiopia and its sad history.all know, is counter-revolutionary and wasteful. The State thinks for us all, the finely-tuned genius-brain of Our Great Chairman thinks for us all, saving time and energy which we should devote to production as loyal and grateful citizens.\\"  <br /> <br />The second half of the collection aren't satirical, but are rather straightforward tales of the hardships suffered under the brutality of the Derg. As such, they are less distinctive, but no the less dark and illustrative of the plight of the people. With tales like \\"Betrayal,\\" \\"Vendetta,\\" \\"Death of a Renegade\\" it should be clear that these are stories about death -- over and over. There are stories of brothers betraying brothers, fathers killing sons, lovers killing each other, and on and on. Obviously art cannot hope to capture even a slice of the terror under the Derg, but this is probably as close as it can come. Essential reading for anyone trying to understand modern Ethiopia and its sad history.	2005-02-22
342790:US	52254603	RO5DNB8RS0B7K	0893818402	89102430	Inside Algeria	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Photojournalism At Its Best	Swiss photojournalist von Graffenried made eight trips to Algeria during the 1990s to document the horrific effects of the conflict that started smoldering in the late '80s and burst into open civil war with the cancellation of the 1991-92 elections. One has to admire the sheer bravery of the effort, as this was a period in which some seventy or so journalists were killed by Islamic guerillas, and some 100,000 people were killed by guerillas and the army. Beyond this obvious danger, there is no \\"camera culture\\" in Algeria (nor indeed in most Arab countries). Traditionally, the camera is reserved for documenting special occasions, and in Algeria it is tainted by its association with the French, who used it during Algeria's struggle for independence as a tool of control. To overcome these obstacles, von Graffenried used an old a Widelux panoramic camera which produces 150 views without any lens or shutter noise. Armed with this camera which looks like a pair of binoculars, he would shoot from the hip, guessing at what was in frame. This technique is one that makes for interesting ethical debates, and even von Graffenried admitted in an interview that \\"it makes you feel dirty.\\" Thankfully he was able to rise to this challenge and come away with such a stunning collection of ninety black and white photographs, beautifully reproduced in this stark coffee-table book.<br /><br />The breadth of subject matter is amazing: a FIS rally, children and poverty in the Bab el Oued, black marketeering in the Casbah, beautiful Berber children in Kabyle, the funerals of president Boudiaf, writer Tahar Djaout, and Islamist fighters, behind the scenes of the \\"ninja\\" (special forces police) barracks and in operations, the aftermath of a car bomb, teenagers trying to live normally at the clubs and beaches, the aftermath of a village massacre, and so on. There is a lot of pain and suffering in this book, and as someone who spent their childhood in Algeria, it's a heartbreaking portrait. Still, it's an outstanding work of photojournalism that demands the attention of anyone interested in photographing in adverse situations, foreign cultures, and the Middle East in general. It is also to be highly commended for putting a human face and picture to the exceedingly nasty civil war that stole a generation from Algeria.<br /><br />Interestingly, von Graffenried returned to Algeria in 2002, when the country was somewhat safer and tracked down some of the people he photographed to show them the book. With him was Algerian documentary filmmaker Mohammed Soudani, who recorded the varying reactions people had to the photographs. The resulting film, Guerre Sans Image (War Without Images) is apparently quite good, though I've not seen it.. Still, it's an outstanding work of photojournalism that demands the attention of anyone interested in photographing in adverse situations, foreign cultures, and the Middle East in general. It is also to be highly commended for putting a human face and picture to the exceedingly nasty civil war that stole a generation from Algeria. <br /> <br />Interestingly, von Graffenried returned to Algeria in 2002, when the country was somewhat safer and tracked down some of the people he photographed to show them the book. With him was Algerian documentary filmmaker Mohammed Soudani, who recorded the varying reactions people had to the photographs. The resulting film, Guerre Sans Image (War Without Images) is apparently quite good, though I've not seen it.	2005-02-21
343193:US	52254603	REM0KB9B5PS93	1903391091	630555566	The Firm	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	The British Gangster As Coffee-Table Book	Like their American counterparts, British \\"gangsters\\" -- that is to say, members of organized crime -- have always contained an element of the glamorous and seductive about them. Something about the combination of secret-society, sharp dressing, and flouting both society's laws and morals has made them intriguing (if not appealing) components of popular culture. This has been especially true since the mid-'90s, as a rather large cottage industry of gangster-chic films, novels, and memoirs has been produced and eagerly consumed, with Lock, Stock, and Two Smoking Barrels obviously standing out as the exemplar.<br /><br />Here, longtime fashion photographer Hogg presents an insider's portrait of real English (and Welsh) gangsters in this gorgeous coffee-table book. The project started when he met self-promoting gonzo gangster celebrity Dave Courtney (author of the memoirs Stop the Ride, Raving Lunacy, The Ride's Back On, host of the Gangland UK and Dave Courtney's Dodgy DVDs, etc.) at a fashion event, and so managed to make his way into the contemporary inner circle of \\"The Firm.\\" As far one can tell from this book, \\"The Firm\\" is a loosely-knit alliance of interests, that is to say, everyone knows each other and talks to each other, but there's no overarching boss or hierarchy. Hogg took a few photos, showed them around, the gangsters liked them, and for about two years he was a mostly tolerated outsider. Although in one interview Hogg admitted, \\"Not everybody wanted to be photographed, and seeing me around with a camera was enough to start a quarrel\\" the general feeling was that \\"After a while everybody knew about me, but many times they weren't even aware of my discreet presence. That's how I gave my images such a intimate feeling.\\"<br /><br />Intimate is the right word for it, as Hogg's photos leap right into the dark corners with a mix of portraiture and photojournalism. From quiet closeups of old-time gangster legends (generally Kray associates) smoking in East End bars, to raunchy Mayfair party antics, to the ritual of high-profile funerals, this book covers the gamut. Hogg's fashion background shines through, as the portraits are clearly the finest work in the book, capturing every crease and scar on a face, dead eyes cloaked in shadow, half-smiles, and outsize posturing. From a photographic perspective these are great works, albeit ones that reinforce the gangster mystique and certainly celebrate them. The funeral bits are much more banal, the kind of stuff any competent newspaper staff photographer might walk away with. The candid scenes are probably the most disturbing and perhaps most revealing: one subject playfully holding two guns at his girlfriend's head as she squirms away with her child sitting in the background, Courtney's groping of models at parties, Welsh gangsters menacing a cowering deadbeat with a steering wheel club. In all, the book has about 140 beautifully reproduced black and white photos that take one into a seedy world.<br /><br />Sprinkled throughout the book are a few essays by the subjects, including a cheezy and self-justifying forward by Bruce Reynolds (mastermind of the legendary 1964 Great Train Robbery and author of the memoir Crossing the Line). Indeed, self-justification is the order of the day in the essays, from Dave Courtney's rambling \\"I'm a naughty boy\\" apologia to bare-knuckle fighter Mickey Goldtooth's woe-is-meism. The most interesting story is that of Welshman Bernie Davies. He also seeks to explain why he's a gangster, but his story is much more interesting, as it stems from the shutdown of the mines and Thatcherism. Indeed, the photos of Welsh gangsters bear little relation to those of the dapper old-time East Enders or the flash lads hanging out in Tenerife. All in all, this is an excellent work that should appeal to those in the market for interesting photography collections as well as those interested in a literal behind-the-scenes look at the modern British gangster.t End bars, to raunchy Mayfair party antics, to the ritual of high-profile funerals, this book covers the gamut. Hogg's fashion background shines through, as the portraits are clearly the finest work in the book, capturing every crease and scar on a face, dead eyes cloaked in shadow, half-smiles, and outsize posturing. From a photographic perspective these are great works, albeit ones that reinforce the gangster mystique and certainly celebrate them. The funeral bits are much more banal, the kind of stuff any competent newspaper staff photographer might walk away with. The candid scenes are probably the most disturbing and perhaps most revealing: one subject playfully holding two guns at his girlfriend's head as she squirms away with her child sitting in the background, Courtney's groping of models at parties, Welsh gangsters menacing a cowering deadbeat with a steering wheel club. In all, the book has about 140 beautifully reproduced black and white photos that take one into a seedy world. <br /> <br />Sprinkled throughout the book are a few essays by the subjects, including a cheezy and self-justifying forward by Bruce Reynolds (mastermind of the legendary 1964 Great Train Robbery and author of the memoir Crossing the Line). Indeed, self-justification is the order of the day in the essays, from Dave Courtney's rambling \\"I'm a naughty boy\\" apologia to bare-knuckle fighter Mickey Goldtooth's woe-is-meism. The most interesting story is that of Welshman Bernie Davies. He also seeks to explain why he's a gangster, but his story is much more interesting, as it stems from the shutdown of the mines and Thatcherism. Indeed, the photos of Welsh gangsters bear little relation to those of the dapper old-time East Enders or the flash lads hanging out in Tenerife. All in all, this is an excellent work that should appeal to those in the market for interesting photography collections as well as those interested in a literal behind-the-scenes look at the modern British gangster.	2005-02-20
343404:US	52254603	R2KK7URDAP9YWY	0143034901	734819982	The Shadow of the Wind	Books	2	24	35	N	N	A Bloated and Overwrought Soap-Opera of A Book	This bloated Spanish novel boasts the most overwrought prose this side of a Harlequin romance in a mix of thriller, historical fiction, tragic romance, gothic horror, and most of all, soap opera. Set sixty years ago in postwar Barcelona, the story concerns teenage Daniel, whose discovery of an obscure novel is the catalyst for this sprawling adventure. That novel is \\"The Shadow of the Wind\\" by a Julian Carax, a marginal exile writer who left Barcelona long ago to live in Paris, only to return later in life and die in murky circumstances. Daniel, the son of a widowed bookseller, becomes obsessed with the novel and its author, and so tries to track down more information about him. This leads him into the path of a mysterious disfigured man who is apparently tracking down and destroying every single copy of Carax's books. Meanwhile, there are a lot of other things going on, such as Daniel's coming of age into adulthood, his Romeo and Juliet romance, and persecution by an policeman who harbors some kind of grudge against Carax.<br /><br />This all sounds fine, but the novel so filled with problems it's hard to take seriously. First of all, the highly self-concious prose is atrocious-florid metaphor piled upon metaphor. Second, the characters are all fairly stock figures. Daniel is a plucky precocious teenager whose speech is witty and clever far beyond plausibility. His eventual mentor/sidekick Fermin is a figure of Falstaffian excess combined with encyclopedic knowledge, a heart of gold, and the wisdom of the ages. Women in the book are beauties, some virginal, some femme fatalesque, but above all, beautiful. The policeman is simply evil wrapped in a black trenchcoat. Thirdly, the atmosphere is a pretty standard film noir stuff -- people lurking in long shadows, narrow streets, curfews, the oppression of the Franco era. No true sense of Barcelona, not even for readers who've been there. Fourthly, some of the revelations that occur late in the story will hardly be as stunning as the author must have intended. In this kind of book, when there's any hint of mystery about a central character's death, they're probably not dead. Or if there's someone who wears a mask, it's a good bet that when that mask is pulled off, the most unlikely face will be revealed. Finally, the profusion of plot points make for an overcomplicated, overdetailed, and over-the-top story which rambles on for far too long.<br /><br />The author has clearly been influenced by the much better works of his countryman Arturo Perez-Revert&eacute;, but this reads like a comic book compared to Revert&eacute;'s engrossing and polished prose. Coming in at 500 pages, the book requires a significant commitment, but few will find it time well spent -- even those like me who enjoy historically-set mysteries.stunning as the author must have intended. In this kind of book, when there's any hint of mystery about a central character's death, they're probably not dead. Or if there's someone who wears a mask, it's a good bet that when that mask is pulled off, the most unlikely face will be revealed. Finally, the profusion of plot points make for an overcomplicated, overdetailed, and over-the-top story which rambles on for far too long.  <br /> <br />The author has clearly been influenced by the much better works of his countryman Arturo Perez-Revert, but this reads like a comic book compared to Revert's engrossing and polished prose. Coming in at 500 pages, the book requires a significant commitment, but few will find it time well spent -- even those like me who enjoy historically-set mysteries.	2005-02-20
343475:US	52254603	R1HV6VI2VR63MX	067974598X	560408923	Roseanna	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Solid Beginning to This Swedish Series	I've long intended to check out the 10-book Martin Beck series by Swedish husband/wife team Per Wahloo and Maj Sjowall, and the 40th anniversary of this first book in the series seems like a good excuse. For some reason, some readers seem to think the book takes place in the '70s or late '60s, but it was written in 1963-4, published in Sweden in 1965, and appeared in English in 1967. The story begins with the discovery of a woman's corpse in Lake Vattern in central Sweden, roughly equidistant from Stockholm, Copenhagen, and Oslo. The police from the nearby town of Motala start investigating and when it's established that the woman was strangled, the homicide experts from Stockholm are called in.<br /><br />Enter Martin Beck, a chain-smoking homicide detective roughly in his late 30s. Beck is a classic example of the workaholic policeman that one can find in crime fiction and film the world over. He barely speaks to his wife and children, and prefers long hard hours at the office to a home life that offers him nothing. It's such a bleak portrait that the reader is hard-pressed to imagine Beck's marriage (or lungs) surviving the series. The story is a very straightforward, and almost dry procedural account of the case. The first problem the team encounters is in identifying the victim, as she doesn't match any missing persons reports and as part of the route for touring the Gota canal system, Lake Vattern is a high-traffic tourist area, with lots of tour boats coming through. The second hurdle is that once she is identified, months have passed, and tracking down everyone who was on her tour cruise and taking statements proves very difficult. Finally, even once a suspect is identified, there's no physical evidence or eyewitness, so Beck and his laconic team must somehow force the murderer into revealing himself in another way.<br /><br />As a procedural, this is a very strong book, illustrating all the police methodology available at the time. It also does a good job of showing how important it is for the detective to form a psychological portrait of the victim, a concept that was not particularly widespread forty years ago. The combination of procedure and psychology make for a decent crime novel, although the bone dry prose isn't going to enthrall anyone. The authors famously said that their books were intended to challenge conventional Swedish morality, and without revealing anything, the murder and motive in this book are clearly built around this premise. A solid beginning to a promising series.<br /><br />This book was made into a film twice in Sweden, once in 1967, and again in 1993. Sadly neither of these appear to be available in English in any format.ob of showing how important it is for the detective to form a psychological portrait of the victim, a concept that was not particularly widespread forty years ago. The combination of procedure and psychology make for a decent crime novel, although the bone dry prose isn't going to enthrall anyone. The authors famously said that their books were intended to challenge conventional Swedish morality, and without revealing anything, the murder and motive in this book are clearly built around this premise. A solid beginning to a promising series. <br /> <br />This book was made into a film twice in Sweden, once in 1967, and again in 1993. Sadly neither of these appear to be available in English in any format.	2005-02-20
344771:US	52254603	R3PC26AEQG9FA2	0345466357	415733544	The Coyote Kings of the Space-Age Bachelor Pad	Books	3	7	8	N	N	A Cheezy Story Brought Alive with Style	This irrepressible sci-fi debut from Canadian hipster and multi-media personality Faust is awash in enthusiasm and style, but suffers from narrative excess typical of the genre. The first hundred pages are dedicated to establishing the book's hero Hamza, and his best-friend and roommate Yehat. They are a pair of twentysomething slackers living in Edmonton, where they are drifting in limbo between their brilliant intellects and lack of prospects. A dishwasher at a yuppie restaurant, Hamza had been a brilliant writer whose downfall commenced with an academic scandal and unspecified romantic shipwreck that has left him emotionally crippled and unable to write. Yehat is a typical snooty video-store clerk who is unable to work as an engineer because he can't abide working with people who aren't as smart as him, which is basically everyone. But lest anyone get the wrong idea, they are a positive, up-tempo, creative duo who run a sort of ad-hoc pay-what-you-can summer camp for neighborhood kids. They are the \\"Coyote Kings.\\"<br /><br />The plot more or less starts rolling when Hamza meets, and is smitten by Sherem, a mysterious woman who has apparently been studying archeology for the last ten years and has just returned to Edmonton. It just so happens she likes all the right comic books, can quote Star Wars, is a pop culture twin of Hamza's, and just happens to be stunningly beautiful. Meanwhile, we are also shown how Hamza and Yehat's former childhood friends (and D&D gaming buddies) now operate an upscale imported furnishings boutique (Modeous Zokolo, ha ha ha), and are both chic and wealthy. Behind the scenes, it seems the Meaneys are somehow involved with an exceedingly potent drug called \\"Creme\\". The third group to enter the story is the gang that controls the creme trade in \\"E-Town\\", a comic-bookish set of flunkies called \\"The Fanboys\\" whose boss is Dulles Allen (ha ha again) a brutal and shrewd ex-CFL player turned club owner.<br /><br />Once all the players are in place, it is revealed that the Meaneys and Allen are in a race to acquire an ancient artifact called a zodiascope, which, when used in conjunction with creme, will somehow enable the owner/user to control the world. At this point, the book starts descending into a disappointing mess of hocus-pocus involving ancient Egyptian mythology, and save-the-world tropes lifted from the most banal fantasy/sci-fi. Here, the D&D influence is regrettably in evidence, as some Norse stuff is mixed in, and Hamza and Yehat even end up in a tomb crawl. Faust spends so much time busting inside jokes for geeks and gamers, that when he tries to turn the plot in a serious direction, it doesn't work. The book unfolds in brief chapters written from the first-person perspective of various characters, many of whom have distinctive voices (Hamza's rat-a-tat freeflowing thoughts, Yehat's orderly lists and tangential asides, one of the Meaneys' superciliousness, Alpha-Cat's Caribbean patois, and so forth).<br /><br />There are elements to like, such as the constant riffing on geek pop culture, or Faust's truly remarkable wordplay. In terms of style, the inventive prose has a lot to offer, and it comes as no surprise that he's a champion slam poet. The relationship between Hamza and Yehat is very nicely handled, as Faust captures all the ups and downs of a close friendship with precision, and isn't afraid to show the love between the two young men. The constant namechecking of Afropop legends is pretty cool, and it's does give a neat portrait of multicultural Edmonton. However, the overall sloppiness of the story and shaggy-dog plot makes it less than essential reading. It's also disappointing that for all the book's posturing about treating \\"sisters\\" with respect and all, love-interest Sherem is such a geek's fantasy (Star Wars quoter plus hot bod!). It kind of comes across a a dis -- if you're a girl with geek interests you have to be hot too, otherwise there's no room for you in our story! Anyway, if you've got the time and patience to wade through 500+ pages, you'll probably find something to like amidst all the chaos.ry! Anyway, if you've got the time and patience to wade through 500+ pages, you'll probably find something to like amidst all the chaos.	2005-02-19
345925:US	52254603	RGL1HVP1LSCSH	0805075615	641939565	In the Company of Soldiers: A Chronicle of Combat	Books	3	6	11	N	N	Average (But Hardly Biased) Account of the Drive to Baghdad	Atkinson, son of an Army officer, Pulitzer-prize winning military historian, and longtime reporter and editor for the Washington Post, spent two months in early 2003 embedded with the 101st Airborne Division during its deployment to Iraq and the drive to Baghdad. This resulting book is more or less his reporter's diary of that experience (although not, as the title implies, from the perspective of the average grunt). Those expecting the historical breadth and depth of his award-winning An Army At Dawn will have to wait a few decades for the dust to settle and perspective to emerge. Those expecting to be placed in the middle of firefights and intense combat action will be disappointed (they should check out Evan Wright's excellent, though poorly titled work Generation Kill). What Atkinson provides is a workmanlike portrait of a divisional command apparatus, based on his shadowing of Major General David Petraeus and his subordinates in the 101st as they move from Kuwait to Baghdad, with battles at Najaf, Karbala, and Hilla.<br /><br />The book is being widely critiqued on two fronts. One is the limitation of its scope, or rather Atkinson's focus on the divisional leadership. The other is for Atkinson's \\"political bias\\". The first criticism is more or less on target. While it is interesting to see how the command structure works, how field officers have to deal with the layers above them, and how they grapple with the logistical complexities they are presented with, it doesn't make for very exciting reading. In many cases, the officers come across more like mid-level managers of some large corporation, with Petraeus as the COO. Most of the action the unit encounters comes to the reader through the filter of command post radios, or after-action reports. It also doesn't help that none of the officers emerge as individuals with personalities, other than Patraeus, who we are told over and over is ultra-competitive. For much of the book, Atkinson appears to be so flattered to be privy to high-command confidences that he repeats everything verbatim.<br /><br />Still, there are plenty of nuggets of interesting information. For example, Atkinson details the logistics of moving an entire division from its base in Kentucky to Kuwait and highlights the importance of this being a smooth operation. This was especially critical as the civilians at the Defense Dept. forced the Army to jettison it's carefully modeled \\"deployment matrix.\\" Similarly, for anyone interested in Apache helicopters, there's plenty to learn about their limitations in desert and urban environments. There's a section about how the rotors need to be taped or spray painted every few days which is unbelievable! For those interested in modern warfare, he explains how devastating \\"combined arms\\" tactics are and shows how complex they are to employ well. For those interested in intelligence, he shows how despite massive pre-war preparation, and a decade of close satellite surveillance, the Army still didn't have accurate maps showing urban sprawl.<br /><br />The second main critique revolves around Atkinson's personal politics and \\"bias\\" as it appears in the book. Many people seem to want to read about the Gulf War in a vacuum--that is to say, they want to read about what the troops on the ground are doing without any mention of why they are there in the first place. Atkinson dares to try and give some context for why the 101st Airborne is doing in Iraq, but many readers seem not to want to be reminded that (A) why we go to war as a nation is the most important question, and (B) the whys for going to Iraq changed a few times along the way. For the most part Atkinson's \\"leftist political remarks\\" (as one reviewer put it) consist of quoting statements by the president, vice-President, Rumsfeld, Wolfowitz, et al, and pointing out that they proved not to be true.<br /><br />The whole point of a free press in a democracy is to empower the public through the flow of information, which most definitely includes pointing out when the statements of our leaders bear no relation to reality--especially when it involves going to war, with all the attendant sacrifice that means! I will agree that at times Atkinson gets a little snippy, but he's on the ground with the troops running for his gas mask, while we are sitting safely at home, so I can cut him a little slack. The most hilarious reviewer comment has to be \\"Everyone has a right to their political opinion, but Atkinson should have kept it to himself.\\" In other words, \\"Just tell me what I want to hear, don't tell me anything that might challenge the way I think about the world.\\" It's kind of amazing that people seem to think Atkinson is some hyperventilating peacenik--the guy is enamored of the military! In the end, it's perhaps making a mountain out of molehill, 'cause this book isn't particularly essential reading about the Gulf War anyway. It's worth it if you're really into the 101st, or Apache helicopters, but for the most part, it reads like a stitched-together series of dispatches lacking the perspective of time.ion, which most definitely includes pointing out when the statements of our leaders bear no relation to reality--especially when it involves going to war, with all the attendant sacrifice that means! I will agree that at times Atkinson gets a little snippy, but he's on the ground with the troops running for his gas mask, while we are sitting safely at home, so I can cut him a little slack. The most hilarious reviewer comment has to be \\"Everyone has a right to their political opinion, but Atkinson should have kept it to himself.\\" In other words, \\"Just tell me what I want to hear, don't tell me anything that might challenge the way I think about the world.\\" It's kind of amazing that people seem to think Atkinson is some hyperventilating peacenik--the guy is enamored of the military! In the end, it's perhaps making a mountain out of molehill, 'cause this book isn't particularly essential reading about the Gulf War anyway. It's worth it if you're really into the 101st, or Apache helicopters, but for the most part, it reads like a stitched-together series of dispatches lacking the perspective of time.	2005-02-18
346673:US	52254603	R3UD4TSQ6IR9OO	0786714654	203415278	A Dead Man in Trieste	Books	1	15	24	N	N	Terrible Series Debut	The first in a series featuring Sandor Seymour, an agent of the British Special Branch with a talent for languages, this slim work leaves a great deal to be desired. Most mystery series rise and fall on their detective, unfortunately Seymour barely makes a blip on the radar in his debut outing. We are given snippets of his East End immigrant background, and we are told he's generally so hard at work that he doesn't have time for the ladies, and he's got a knack for languages. By the end of the book we learn that he's a fair man, and got a fairly sharp mind (\\"for a policeman\\"), but that's about it... He's one of the flattest, least-developed fictional detectives I've come across!<br /><br />Alas, the story that he's tossed into isn't so great either. Trieste in 1910 (it's not clear why the promo copy says 1906, it's clearly 1910) makes an excellent backdrop for fiction, one of the foremost ports in the world, it's brimming with intrigue and scoundrels from all over Europe. Pearce gives glimpses of this here and there of plazas, the canal, old coffeehouses (mostly telling, rather than showing), but it all feels as false as a painted set. There's no depth, no aura created, just a basic canvas backdrop for Seymour to operate against. His assignment is to try and find out what's happened to the British Counsel, who's gone missing. (It's not particularly convincing that some policeman would be plucked from Special Branch to investigate this just because he can get by in a few languages, the Foreign Office would have plenty of their own fluent people who would be more adept at navigating the perils of such as place.)<br /><br />In any event, Seymour shows up and starts poking around. As he discovers, the city is a hotbed of high feelings, from the officious rulers of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, to the passionate Italians who want the city back, to the various Serbs, Bosnians, and Herzegovinans who have their own agendas. The counsel's disappearance is linked to all this, and over the course of the story, Seymour pieces it altogether in plodding fashion. The prose limps along weakly without any style whatsoever, and anachronistic phrases jarringly appear in descriptions of Seymour's thoughts. This is writing at its most basic, which is a shame, 'cause the basic premise of a detective running around the major cities of pre-WWI Europe is a good one. I'm fairly big fan of historically set mysteries, so I'm hoping Pearce decides to actually give Seymour some depth for his next outing (Istanbul). in the meantime, this book is best avoided unless one has some kind of keen interest in Trieste or Futurism (see below).<br /><br />The one somewhat interesting element in the book is that Seymour becomes friends with a bunch of artists hanging about the plazas of Trieste. These include James Joyce (for some reason \\"Juice\\" in the story), Italo Svevo (who is called by his true first name: Ettore), and the founder of the Futurist movement, Filippo Tommaso Marinetti. Indeed, the climax of the novel takes place at the very first \\"Futurist Evening\\", which was a real-life event orchestrated by Marinetti. The futurists come across as a zany, madcap, fun-loving, bunch of boozehounds in the book. What readers might not know is that Futurism was hugely influential in the development of Italian fascism, and that Marinetti was a Milanese millionaire who would go on to become a supporter of the Italian invasion of Libya, an intimate of Mussolini, and Secretary of the Fascists Writers Union!his, and over the course of the story, Seymour pieces it altogether in plodding fashion. The prose limps along weakly without any style whatsoever, and anachronistic phrases jarringly appear in descriptions of Seymour's thoughts. This is writing at its most basic, which is a shame, 'cause the basic premise of a detective running around the major cities of pre-WWI Europe is a good one. I'm fairly big fan of historically set mysteries, so I'm hoping Pearce decides to actually give Seymour some depth for his next outing (Istanbul). in the meantime, this book is best avoided unless one has some kind of keen interest in Trieste or Futurism (see below). <br /> <br />The one somewhat interesting element in the book is that Seymour becomes friends with a bunch of artists hanging about the plazas of Trieste. These include James Joyce (for some reason \\"Juice\\" in the story), Italo Svevo (who is called by his true first name: Ettore), and the founder of the Futurist movement, Filippo Tommaso Marinetti. Indeed, the climax of the novel takes place at the very first \\"Futurist Evening\\", which was a real-life event orchestrated by Marinetti. The futurists come across as a zany, madcap, fun-loving, bunch of boozehounds in the book. What readers might not know is that Futurism was hugely influential in the development of Italian fascism, and that Marinetti was a Milanese millionaire who would go on to become a supporter of the Italian invasion of Libya, an intimate of Mussolini, and Secretary of the Fascists Writers Union!	2005-02-17
346679:US	52254603	R1V7IB3FL14A9Q	0571195067	770238924	It Cracks Like Breaking Skin	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Decent Debut Collection of Stories	Set in the Midlands city of Stoke-on-Trent (roughly halfway between Birmingham and Manchester), these seventeen shorts stories form a rough coming-of-age tableau when patched together. The stories are most around ten pages or so, although some are only a page or three, making for a pretty quick read overall. In many of them, one finds a character named Hewitt, whose life is shown from young childhood to being thirty and a father. Nine appear to be definitely about Hewitt, although in some cases, inferences need to be drawn based on information from other stories.<br /><br />The first story, \\"Big Wheel\\", introduces us to a young boy (presumably Hewitt) skulking around a fairground trying to avoid bullies, only to be rescued by a generous older girl. Next meet him in the title story, as a teenager working at a butcher's stall, trying to make it through the day, with a glimpse of the pretty candy-seller his only consolation. \\"Fall\\" is a fairly conventional schoolboy vignette. The very sweet and dead-on \\"The Empty Sidewalks on My Block Are Not the Same\\" takes us on Hewitt's first date and a hook-up later in life. \\"Bubble Gum\\" locates Hewitt in perhaps his early twenties, working as an underling at a restaurant, and follows as he tags along to a gay club out of curiosity. \\"Stepping Stones\\" is the longest story, and cuts between Hewitt out for a day tip on bikes with some friends, and his mother's dalliance with a insulation salesman. The part revolving around Hewitt focuses on the cruelties of adolescent boys, while his mother's portion is written in screenplay format for some incomprehensible reason.<br /><br />\\"Yeah\\" is a throwaway undeveloped bit about the birth of Hewitt's child. \\"Off the Plot\\" finds Hewitt as an adult who has quit his software job and drives a minicab. Intriguingly, he is married to \\"Mandy\\" and drives a Merc (on his first date in an earlier story he tells his date Amanda that they will get married and he'll buy a Mercedes). It's an excellent take on the overdone topic of a man abruptly leaving the proscribed \\"track\\" and rediscovering himself. In \\"Swimming\\", adult Hewitt returns to his childhood swimming facility to take photos and recall the past. The final story is \\"Some Beach,\\" where we find a man (presumably Hewitt) and his son wandering alone, their wife/mother having left. It's an enigmatic ending to Hewitt's tale.<br /><br />The non-Hewitt stories are a mixed bag. \\"Life on Earth\\" is a quick anonymous story of a trip to a football game--it's so rapid it feels more like a writing exercise than anything else. It could possibly be narrated by Hewitt, but it seems unlikely given his mild manner throughout most of the stories. \\"A Ripple In the Static\\" is another disconnected vignette, showing a mother and two daughters (one of whom was Hewitt's first date) at tea-time. \\"Sweet\\" is a slightly longer piece, illuminating a boy's relationship with his younger brother. This one could be Hewitt, but this seems unlikely as a brother is never mentioned in any other story. \\"Hello Sunshine\\" is a two-page list of twelve items relating to \\"Grandad Bill\\" (possibly Hewitt's) that doesn't add much to the proceedings. \\"Stiches\\" is a kind of maudlin piece about a schoolmate of Hewitt's. \\"Ice Cubes\\" glimpses in on a young couple with a troublesome 6-month-old baby, and the effects the baby has on the father. The father is \\"Jim\\", which could conceivably be Hewitt's first name, but it's left unclear.<br /><br />In the end, the collection can be considered fairly strong for a first book, although there are certainly some throwaway pieces. I definitely would have preferred to have the Hewitt stories all grouped and clearly labeled as such, as Foster appears to be making the reader work to figure it out for no good reason. His subsequent novel, Strides, isn't bad, but isn't notable eitherke on the overdone topic of a man abruptly leaving the proscribed \\"track\\" and rediscovering himself. In \\"Swimming\\", adult Hewitt returns to his childhood swimming facility to take photos and recall the past. The final story is \\"Some Beach,\\" where we find a man (presumably Hewitt) and his son wandering alone, their wife/mother having left. It's an enigmatic ending to Hewitt's tale.  <br /> <br />The non-Hewitt stories are a mixed bag. \\"Life on Earth\\" is a quick anonymous story of a trip to a football game--it's so rapid it feels more like a writing exercise than anything else. It could possibly be narrated by Hewitt, but it seems unlikely given his mild manner throughout most of the stories. \\"A Ripple In the Static\\" is another disconnected vignette, showing a mother and two daughters (one of whom was Hewitt's first date) at tea-time. \\"Sweet\\" is a slightly longer piece, illuminating a boy's relationship with his younger brother. This one could be Hewitt, but this seems unlikely as a brother is never mentioned in any other story. \\"Hello Sunshine\\" is a two-page list of twelve items relating to \\"Grandad Bill\\" (possibly Hewitt's) that doesn't add much to the proceedings. \\"Stiches\\" is a kind of maudlin piece about a schoolmate of Hewitt's. \\"Ice Cubes\\" glimpses in on a young couple with a troublesome 6-month-old baby, and the effects the baby has on the father. The father is \\"Jim\\", which could conceivably be Hewitt's first name, but it's left unclear.  <br /> <br />In the end, the collection can be considered fairly strong for a first book, although there are certainly some throwaway pieces. I definitely would have preferred to have the Hewitt stories all grouped and clearly labeled as such, as Foster appears to be making the reader work to figure it out for no good reason. His subsequent novel, Strides, isn't bad, but isn't notable either	2005-02-17
348795:US	52254603	R1Q3MX2IN9Z52M	0963937456	227229634	Holsinger's Charlottesville: A Collection of Photographs	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Old-Timey C-Ville	Rufus Holsinger was a traveling photographer who settled in Charlottesville in the late 1880s and spent the next forty years as the city's preeminent portrait photographer. In 1910 a fire destroyed a good portion of his original plates, and then following his death, the remainder sat unprotected in the studio basement until their rediscovery in the 1970s. The \\"Holsinger Collection\\" was then archived at the University of Virginia library, and comprises some 9,000 plates, of which about 7,500 are studio portraits. The authors have carefully selected 75 of the non-portraits and assembled them in this handsomely produced volume to try and create a sense of old Charlottesville.<br /><br />Because the original plates are huge format (8\\" x 10\\") and have been very nicely restored, the resulting prints in the book are visually stunning, with beautiful gradations, highlights, shadows, and detail. Subject matter includes a number of intersections and streets that now form major arteries in Charlottesville. Alas, many of the buildings shows have since been razed or substantially altered. Each photo has been well researched and is nicely captioned from a historical standpoint. The one weakness to the text is an overabundance of naming various eminent figures and grandees from the city's past in long lists that are unlikely to have any meaning for modern readers. There's a fair amount of attention given to the University of Virginia, though not perhaps, as much as one might expect.<br /><br />The book's one major annoyance is a lack of a map of contemporary Charlottesville indicating just where each photo is and in what direction it faces. As someone who lived in Charlottesville for two years, I had a great deal of trouble trying to figure out where each picture was sited. I had to sit down with a city map next to me as I went through the book, and it would have been so much nicer if the publishers had done this work for me. Still, it's a nice gift for someone moving to the city (which was recently ranked the top city in America for quality of living). Be sure to get the most recent edition (1995), as it corrects a few errors in fact.ity (which was recently ranked the top city in America for quality of living). Be sure to get the most recent edition (1995), as it corrects a few errors in fact.	2005-02-15
349797:US	52254603	R32C3BM0OX4BGM	1842122576	15314628	Phoenix: Saladin in His Time (Phoenix Press)	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Dry As Dust...	The most distinguished name to remain from the Muslim side of the Crusades in indisputably that of Saladin. Ethnically Kurdish, he united a good portion of the Islamic world to engage in jihad against the Frankish warriors who had from the west and carved out enclaves for themselves in the Holy Land. By all accounts, he was very different from the vast majority of princes and notables on both sides. He was incredibly devout, and yet humble--always fearful that his understanding of scripture was lacking. He was universally seen as fair and incorruptible, which to a certain extent made him nave and blind to corruption and deceit in others. For his time and place he was a humane commander, especially when it came to civilians in wartime. The crusaders tended to be highly rapacious and given to slaughter when they captured cities, whereas Saladin would issue strict orders governing the conduct of his trips. Perhaps most notably for someone of his power and station, he shunned money. In fact, he was so free with alms and gifts that his treasurers had to keep a secret reserve to ensure he didn't give his entire purse away.<br /><br />Alas, Newby's biography of Saladin is about as dry and boring as the genre gets. Other than the above broad strokes and a few others (he loved his children, he was tireless in campaign, etc.) Newby doesn't have much of interest to say about Saladin. The bulk of the work is devoted to the mind-numbing ins and outs of political intrigue. At the time, the Muslim world was segmented into regions ruled by warlords of ever-shifting allegiances. Saladin's ability to weld together a brief empire from these disjointed components was his greatest achievement, but the retelling of it makes for dull reading. There's plenty about who favored who, who tried to win the favor of the caliph, alliances revolving around blood ties, etc. All of this is doubtless fascinating to scholars of the era, but it's not at all compelling for the general reader. Nor do the toings and froings of the Third Crusade, or the various negotiations between Saladin and the Frankish invaders hold much interest in this retelling. And I say this as someone who's visited Saladin's grave and visited a number of the Crusader castles!the toings and froings of the Third Crusade, or the various negotiations between Saladin and the Frankish invaders hold much interest in this retelling. And I say this as someone who's visited Saladin's grave and visited a number of the Crusader castles!	2005-02-15
350061:US	52254603	RQQHQ4V1TG1KN	1400042240	922801275	Created in Darkness by Troubled Americans: The Best of McSweeney's, Humor Category	Books	3	15	17	N	N	20% Genius, 80% Blah	Like basically anything else in literature, humor is exceedingly subjective. Comic fiction is probably my favorite genre, and my most desperately sought-after. Alas, there's little out there that truly hits the right note for me, so while others extol the genius of Will Ferrell in \\"Old School\\" I often end up retreating to the sublime prose of P.G. Wodehouse (although that scene where they're in the van and \\"Master of Puppets\\" is blasting, is pretty sweet). I was enthused to pick up this anthology of short pieces that have appeared in the McSweeny's lit rag or on their web site over the years, as I often find McSweeny's to be good fun (when they're not lapsing into preciousness or lurching into cleverness). There are about fifty pieces in this book (plus about 25 lists), and I'm a little bummed to report that I only really loved 5 of these.<br /><br />As others have noted, J.M. Tyree's \\"On the Implausibility of the Death Star's Trash Compactor\\" is excellent stuff, relying, of course, on an appreciation for the film \\"The Empire Strikes Back.\\" In general, the longer pieces tended to much better. Indeed, the longest piece in the book (at 18 pages), is thankfully also one of the funniest, as Jeff Alexander and Tom Bissell imagine a lost DVD commentary for the first \\"Lord of the Rings\\" films, as done by Noam Chomsky and Howard Zinn. Again, this relies on an appreciation of \\"The Two Towers\\" as well as the works of Chomsky and Zinn. It's so sidesplittingly funny that I'm going to violate copyright at work tomorrow by copying it and mailing it to a bunch of friends (I know... so pre-email...). Jim Stallard's excellent 13 page \\"No Justice, No Foul\\" is based on the premise that historically, when the Supreme Court has been split, the decision is decided by a 4 on 4 basketball game. Again, the humor is heightened if you're familiar with the personalities that have sat on that august bench. John Hodgman's 10-page \\"Fire: The Next Stick\\" is a simple but clever caveman parody of a business meeting. The final piece that really made me chuckle was Keith Pille's \\"Journal of New COBRA Recruit\\", which imagines the diary of a shmuck who enters the COBRA force. The humor relies entirely on one's ability to recall '80s TV commercials for G.I. Joe toys...<br /><br />Another five or so of the shorter pieces worked pretty well, but in general, they fell a little flat. So, overall, a lot more miss than hit for me, but everything's so brief that one hasn't invested a lot in the duds. Ultimately, this is an anthology by and for white guys aged 25-45, and is thus rather limited.a business meeting. The final piece that really made me chuckle was Keith Pille's \\"Journal of New COBRA Recruit\\", which imagines the diary of a shmuck who enters the COBRA force. The humor relies entirely on one's ability to recall '80s TV commercials for G.I. Joe toys...  <br /> <br />Another five or so of the shorter pieces worked pretty well, but in general, they fell a little flat. So, overall, a lot more miss than hit for me, but everything's so brief that one hasn't invested a lot in the duds. Ultimately, this is an anthology by and for white guys aged 25-45, and is thus rather limited.	2005-02-14
350218:US	52254603	RHSVUHMTF40UR	1401200540	155543273	Sgt. Rock: Between Hell & a Hard Place	Books	2	8	28	N	N	OK Story, Weak Art...	I've never seen a \\"Sgt. Rock\\" comic previous to this, but I am a casual fan of graphic novels and have a casual interest in World War II, so I figured it was worth checking out. After spending an hour reading it cover to cover, I have to admit to a certain level of disappointment. Azarello, whose writing I've liked in the \\"100 Bullets\\" series, has come up with a generally compelling story. Sgt. Rock's \\"Easy Company\\" is in the Hurtgen Forest (near the German/Belgian border) in late 1944, where the largely routed German Army was able to mount a surprisingly stiff resistance. Down to its core membership, the company has greenhorn replacement soldiers foisted upon it, much to Rock's displeasure. The storyline involves the capture of four SS officers, three of whom are murdered while being escorted back to headquarters. This sets up some tension among the company, since it's not clear who killed them, and some of the soldiers are of the opinion it was murder (since their hands were bound), and others don't. Meanwhile, there's a town that needs taking...<br /><br />This is all well and fine, but I just didn't find Kubert's art that compelling. Since he set the standard for the \\"Sgt. Rock\\" look, he obviously answers to no one when it comes to how the story should look. However, I found both the composition and coloring very weak. I suppose his style is best described as \\"classic\\", but I find it far too simplistic and lacking in detail and texture. Everything's very flat, and the washed-out color palate doesn't help. A story set in the Hurtgen ought to be dark, gloomy, scary (the characters even talk about how dark and hard to see it is), but everything is colored in really light shades and looks like it's been lit up with spotlights. Kubert's working in a very restrained paneling system, which is fine, but it really puts the onus on the composition, and most of these are dull as ditchwater. There are probably around 750 panels in the book, and only about 15-20 really arrest one's attention.<br /><br />If this sounds a little harsh, well, it may be that the standard for depicting World War II combat has gotten very high. \\"Saving Private Ryan\\" started the ball rolling, and then there was \\"The Thin Red Line\\" and then the truly amazing \\"Band of Brothers\\" series. Each of these had their cheezy moments, but \\"Band of Brothers\\" especially showed that there was no glory to be won in war, and showed the fighting in the German forests in a much more evocative manner. Granted, it's unfair to compare different mediums, but the truth is that \\"Band of Brothers\\" hits you in the gut with its grittiness and this doesn't. Those looking for a for a very good novel on the same material should check out Twilight Zone maestro Richard Matheson's early novel, \\"The Beardless Warriors\\", which follows a raw recruit for two weeks as his unit pushes through the German woods.est one's attention. <br /> <br />If this sounds a little harsh, well, it may be that the standard for depicting World War II combat has gotten very high. \\"Saving Private Ryan\\" started the ball rolling, and then there was \\"The Thin Red Line\\" and then the truly amazing \\"Band of Brothers\\" series. Each of these had their cheezy moments, but \\"Band of Brothers\\" especially showed that there was no glory to be won in war, and showed the fighting in the German forests in a much more evocative manner. Granted, it's unfair to compare different mediums, but the truth is that \\"Band of Brothers\\" hits you in the gut with its grittiness and this doesn't. Those looking for a for a very good novel on the same material should check out Twilight Zone maestro Richard Matheson's early novel, \\"The Beardless Warriors\\", which follows a raw recruit for two weeks as his unit pushes through the German woods.	2005-02-14
350726:US	52254603	RASMN9BRX6QWY	0743410653	418692542	Booked to Die (Cliff Janeway)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Decent Series Debut	The market for crime novels has gotten so large and sophisticated that countless subgenres or niches can now be identified, from historical, to cat-lovers, cooking, and on and on. One of the shrewder of these is the book-related mystery, wherein books and/or book people (librarians, writers, etc.) take a prominent role. One book that fits into this niche is this fairly engaging series debut, which brings to life the world of used booksellers, collectors, and scroungers. Another trend these days is that almost every fictional cop or private eye has some kind of hobby or passion meant to make him or her a little quirky or unusual or just less generic. These tend to be things one doesn't usually associate with the rough and tumble work of policework-examples include being a jazz aficionado or a gourmand. In this case, the protagonist is an amateur \\"bookman\\", that is, someone with an appreciation of rare and valuable books.<br /><br />Set in Denver, the story begins with Det. Cliff Janeway in the midst of a feud with his violent and bulky nemesis, Jackie Newton. This beginning is a little choppy, and reads as if there's a chapter or even a whole book of background missing. Things soon settle down as a book scout (someone who pokes around yard sales, flea markets, thrift stores, etc. looking for gems to sell to used book dealers) is brutally murdered in a back alley. Janeway and his near-silent partner catch the case, and start looking for a way to tie Newton to it. Janeway's pursuit of Newton doesn't appear to yield anything to do with the murder, but it does land him in enough hot water to resign from the police force. He decides to start his own used book store and so establish himself as the bookseller/hero.<br /><br />This naturally leads him back to the unsolved murder of the book scout, and he starts nosing around and asking questions of the city's other dealers. It doesn't take long to figure out that the victim was involved in some kind of major score, but just what that was takes Janeway the rest of the book to unravel. There are plenty of twists and turns along the way, including a nasty murder which rather takes the wind of the reader's sails by offing two of the book's more likable characters. Which is a shame, because most of the characters are pretty one dimensional. Newton is an over-the-top bully/thug/coward. A love interest is an cool ice maiden with a mysterious past. Janeway's partner is the featureless silent detective. Janeway is a brutish cop who hates computers and modernization in general. Basically, every character is distinguished by a single trait: so-and-so is a wisecracker, someone else is a scruffy but dapper gentleman, another a standard issue goon/bodyguard, etc.<br /><br />Where the book distinguishes itself is the immersion in the world of collectible books. Dunning guides the reader through the basics of book collecting, used book dealing, scattering tons of detail, and calling out about fifty or so titles for special attention. This is all good stuff, but probably of much greater interest to those who already know a little about such things than the total novice. A decent enough debut, should be interesting to see how this series develops.ust what that was takes Janeway the rest of the book to unravel. There are plenty of twists and turns along the way, including a nasty murder which rather takes the wind of the reader's sails by offing two of the book's more likable characters. Which is a shame, because most of the characters are pretty one dimensional. Newton is an over-the-top bully/thug/coward. A love interest is an cool ice maiden with a mysterious past. Janeway's partner is the featureless silent detective. Janeway is a brutish cop who hates computers and modernization in general. Basically, every character is distinguished by a single trait: so-and-so is a wisecracker, someone else is a scruffy but dapper gentleman, another a standard issue goon/bodyguard, etc. <br /> <br />Where the book distinguishes itself is the immersion in the world of collectible books. Dunning guides the reader through the basics of book collecting, used book dealing, scattering tons of detail, and calling out about fifty or so titles for special attention. This is all good stuff, but probably of much greater interest to those who already know a little about such things than the total novice. A decent enough debut, should be interesting to see how this series develops.	2005-02-14
356425:US	52254603	R2FXME92GC1T3I	0345367650	641383212	Polar Star	Books	4	14	17	N	N	Solid Atmospheric Glasnost-Era Thriller	Set at the start of Glasnost in the late '80s, this second book in the Arkady Renko series (following Red Square) finds the gruff Soviet ex-policeman aboard a factory ship deep in the Bering Sea. Having antagonized powerful figures in that previous adventure, he's been on the run inside the Soviet Union, trying to hide in its deepest darkest corners. And it doesn't get a whole lot deeper or darker than the \\"slime line\\" on the factory ship, where he spends his long shifts gutting fish and avoiding any attention. The ship is part of a U.S. Soviet joint venture operation, and when a 40-ton fishnet disgorges the body of a female Russian crew member, someone decides it would be handy to have former cop Renko look into the matter.<br /><br />Eager to keep a low profile, Renko tires to duck out of the duty, but in the end is ordered to comply-thus setting off an a highly atmospheric and very complicated story involving a long cast of characters. Almost immediately, Renko discovers that the woman's woman's death was no accident, and that she was stabbed. However, the implications of this are politically incorrect, and the ship's slimy political officer tries to squash any investigation until to ship returns home to Vladivostok. Yet, a mysterious \\"ship electrician\\" somehow manages to ensure Renko's continued involvement, and soon Renko is consumed by the matter.<br /><br />Renko's quasi-official investigation revolves around trying to understand the dead woman, a Soviet Georgian with a yen for life on the other side of the Iron Curtain, Western consumer goods, Pink Floyd, etc. As Renko pokes around the ship and interviews everyone aboard it and the smaller fishing vessels that accompany it, the plot gets increasingly complicated. Unseen assailants try and kill Renko, Cold War espionage enters the picture, drug smuggling crops up, as do several more bodies. Indeed, the book's one flaw is that it's perhaps too complicated for its own good, with so many angles crammed in. There's even an obligatory unlikely romantic interlude that rings a very false note.<br /><br />Which is a bit of a shame, since the book is otherwise very strong in atmosphere and characters. The claustrophobic atmosphere of the Soviet ship is palpable, along with the freezing cold, the rank smells, and bitterness all around. The fishing operation and the ship itself are very well-described, making an oppressive setting that would work wonderfully on film. It's also somewhat surprising some 15-20 years later to be reminded of how Soviet people would yearn for Western goods, and how even the junkiest watch or cassette tape was like gold for them. The awkwardness with the Americans is well-handled too, with the Soviets hearty and desperate to please and appear magnanimous as the Americans smirk. The book is reminiscent of thrillers such as Smilla's Sense of Snow, where the plot pales in comparison to the atmosphere and attention to detail the author brings. Definitely worth reading for the unusual setting, cast of characters, and glimpse into the recent past.There's even an obligatory unlikely romantic interlude that rings a very false note.  <br /> <br />Which is a bit of a shame, since the book is otherwise very strong in atmosphere and characters. The claustrophobic atmosphere of the Soviet ship is palpable, along with the freezing cold, the rank smells, and bitterness all around. The fishing operation and the ship itself are very well-described, making an oppressive setting that would work wonderfully on film. It's also somewhat surprising some 15-20 years later to be reminded of how Soviet people would yearn for Western goods, and how even the junkiest watch or cassette tape was like gold for them. The awkwardness with the Americans is well-handled too, with the Soviets hearty and desperate to please and appear magnanimous as the Americans smirk. The book is reminiscent of thrillers such as Smilla's Sense of Snow, where the plot pales in comparison to the atmosphere and attention to detail the author brings. Definitely worth reading for the unusual setting, cast of characters, and glimpse into the recent past.	2005-02-08
358022:US	52254603	R166DJOUAPKBEQ	0060586168	15830272	When the Women Come Out to Dance: Stories	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Solid Leonard Sampler	This generally digestible and entertaining Leonard sampler collects two novellas and a seven short stories written over the last decade. For those who've never read any of his many many many books, it's a pretty representative introduction to his range and style. For those who are intimately familiar with his work, there are new sides of a few familiar faces. For those like me, who've read seven or eight of his novels, and found them diverting, this is more of the same, page-turning, if not particularly memorable, genre fiction. The stories can all be readily grouped into pairs.<br /><br />Both the title story and the opening story are a shade under 20 pages and feature attractive rich women who are running some kind of scam. In \\"When the Women Come Out to Dance\\", we meet an exotic dancer who married a wealthy Pakistani doctor. A year later, sitting in the lap of luxury, she professes to be worried that she will meet the gruesome fate of other wives no longer desired by their traditional Pakistani husbands-being burned to death. Her new Colomian maid might be the solution to her problem... In \\"Sparks\\", the widow of a famous record producer is grilled by an insurance company adjuster following the suspicious destruction of her house during a California brush fire. The two stories chug along through small intrigues and banter, arriving at satisfying, yet predictable conclusions.<br /><br />Two of the stories are twenty-page vignettes in the lives of characters who are features in full novels. \\"Chickasaw Charlie Hoke\\" is a humorous and colorful story about how the title character lands a job as celebrity greeter for a Vegas casino. What happens after this is detailed in Leonard's 2002 book, Tishomingo Blues, whose main protagonist Dennis Lenahan is also introduced off-stage in this story. \\"Karen Makes Out\\" is throwaway story about U.S. Marshall Karen Sisco, and a brief fling she has with a man who may or may not be a bank robber. Her character is featured in Leonard's 1996 novel Out of Sight, and the 1998 film of the same name, where Jennifer Lopez played her.<br /><br />Two more stories weighing in at slightly less than twenty pages showcase Leonard's abilities in the Western genre (in which he excelled before moving on to crime). \\"The Tonto Woman\\" is about a woman who had been kidnapped by Indians and tattooed on her face. Many years later, she makes it back home only to be shunned by her husband-until a crafty and honorable Mexican cattle rustler comes along. \\"Hurrah for Captain Early\\" shows the side of Leonard that believes in using his stories to tell a little history. It's about a black U.S. Army veteran of the Spanish-American war, and in it, Leonard pokes holes in the myth of the Rough Riders.<br /><br />The two novellas are around sixty pages and benefit from the extra space. Set in hardscrabble turf of Harlan County, Kentucky, \\"Fire in the Hole\\" is about a group of white supremacists, led by an ex-coal miner turned preacher, turned tax protestor, plotting a little domestic terrorism. Hot on their trail is U.S. Marshall Raylen Givens (the star of Leonard's 1993 book Pronto and its 1995 sequel Riding the Rap), who grew up with the leader of the gang. In \\"Tenkiller\\", a rodeo star turned Hollywood stuntman is returning to his tiny hometown in Oklahoma following the death of his wife. When he finds a family of nasty white trash thugs have conned their way onto his land and into his house, he doesn't waste any time running them off. The novellas proceed in fairly familiar fashion, with the expected violence and conventional ending. Reading them in close succesion, however, reveals a high level of similarity. The protagonists are cut of the same cloth, in the their late 30s, early 40s, with rugged, well-worn good looks. Each is returning home, where they must rid the place of an evil white-trash man of their own age, with younger and dumber sidekicks. Each will encounter a woman from high school who has been pining for him fortwenty years. This is not to say the stories aren't entertaining, but it does reveal how Leonard is able to use the same template over and over.<br /><br />The one story that doesn't really fit in anywhere is \\"Hanging Out at the Buena Vista\\", a throwaway fifteen pages about a pair of cancer patients in a hospice. In the final anlysis, if you're a Leonard fan, you'll like the stories, if you've never read him, this is a good way to dip into him to see if you do.or him for twenty years. This is not to say the stories aren't entertaining, but it does reveal how Leonard is able to use the same template over and over.  <br /> <br />The one story that doesn't really fit in anywhere is \\"Hanging Out at the Buena Vista\\", a throwaway fifteen pages about a pair of cancer patients in a hospice. In the final anlysis, if you're a Leonard fan, you'll like the stories, if you've never read him, this is a good way to dip into him to see if you do.	2005-02-07
364637:US	52254603	RYUKOXTQDK4X0	0670033391	617580609	When the Nines Roll Over: And Other Stories	Books	5	5	6	N	N	An Outstanding Collection	I first read Benioff a few years ago in \\"All-Story\\" magazine, where three of the stories in this book first appeared (they are actually available online at All Story's site for those interested in sampling his writing). I then read and loved his novel \\"The 25th Hour\\", and so am glad to get my hands on this collection of eight stories. There aren't that many young American writers whose work excites me, but Benioff is certainly one of them (Mark Jude Poirier and John McNally are two others). His prose is clear and crisp, without the affectation or self-consciousness one finds in so much coming out these days. The stories collected here show a nice range of subject matter and tone, ranging from pure realism to slight surrealism, but almost all contain threads of loss, disappointment, and forlorn hope. Perhaps the highest compliment I can pay to the stories, is that even though I didn't connect with some of them, I still loved reading them.<br /><br />The opening (and title) story, is one of these, following a record label A&R man (essentially a high-end scout) who pursues a talented punk girl and spirits her away to Los Angeles and out of the life of her drummer boyfriend. It felt a little old-fashioned in a lot of ways. Do record label execs still act like that? Are they really that interested in transforming punk chicks into superstars? But it did nicely capture that moment in relationships when one person has moved on to bigger and presumably better things, and their lover just doesn't fit in the picture any more. Another story, \\"The Garden of No\\", is very similar thematically, only here it's a waitress turned television actress, and the man is a short-order cook.<br /><br />Misfiring romance figures prominently in three other stories as well. \\"Barefoot Girl in Clover\\" tells of a 30ish man who tries to track down a girl he hung out with for a day as a teenager. \\"Neversink\\" is about a New York couple and the aftermath of their breakup. In \\"Merde For Luck\\", a gay man recounts his last relationship from beginning to grim end. What's interesting is that in all three of these stories, the narrator is either missing a crucial piece of information or operating under some major misconception. This allows Benioff to set each up for a major fall late in the story, when all is revealed. The lesson seems to be that if women don't betray you, life will find a way to.<br /><br />The three other stories are a little harder to categorize. \\"The Devil Comes to Orekhovo\\" is a great story with a very traditional feel to it. It follows three Russian soldiers on patrol in Chechnya as they scout out a house that may or may not contain Chechen separatists. Benioff brilliantly captures the unease and awkwardness of the youngest, rawest soldier, as the older men mock him and eventually put him to a nasty test. It deserves a place with Tolstoy and Lermontov's stories of the Russian experience in the Caucuses. \\"Zoanthropy\\" is a strange story about a young man whose father is called in to shoot lions when they appear in New York. It left me kind of blah, but again, I enjoyed reading it. Finally, \\"De Composition\\", is a Twilight Zone-inspired take on a man locked into a bunker with his computer following some kind of global cataclysm. Felt a little derivative, but nicely done with a clever ending.<br /><br />On the whole, this is a very strong collection of stories. Hopefully Benioff can find time away from the lucrative world of screenwriting to write another novel.man recounts his last relationship from beginning to grim end. What's interesting is that in all three of these stories, the narrator is either missing a crucial piece of information or operating under some major misconception. This allows Benioff to set each up for a major fall late in the story, when all is revealed. The lesson seems to be that if women don't betray you, life will find a way to.  <br /> <br />The three other stories are a little harder to categorize. \\"The Devil Comes to Orekhovo\\" is a great story with a very traditional feel to it. It follows three Russian soldiers on patrol in Chechnya as they scout out a house that may or may not contain Chechen separatists. Benioff brilliantly captures the unease and awkwardness of the youngest, rawest soldier, as the older men mock him and eventually put him to a nasty test. It deserves a place with Tolstoy and Lermontov's stories of the Russian experience in the Caucuses. \\"Zoanthropy\\" is a strange story about a young man whose father is called in to shoot lions when they appear in New York. It left me kind of blah, but again, I enjoyed reading it. Finally, \\"De Composition\\", is a Twilight Zone-inspired take on a man locked into a bunker with his computer following some kind of global cataclysm. Felt a little derivative, but nicely done with a clever ending. <br /> <br />On the whole, this is a very strong collection of stories. Hopefully Benioff can find time away from the lucrative world of screenwriting to write another novel.	2005-02-02
367360:US	52254603	RBJ1RI8O48G4R	043591202X	422218791	A Cowrie of Hope (African Writers Series)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Zambian Novella Provides Plenty To Talk About	This may be the perfect book for teaching teenage students about modern Africa: it's short, the prose is simple and easy to follow, and it touches upon enough themes to fuel plenty of discussion. Set in Zambia in the 1990s, the story itself is simple enough-a single mother with no living family struggles to provide for her 14-year-old daughter in a small village. The daughter has worked hard at her schooling and has qualified to continue at secondary school-if the mother can find the money to send her. The mother's life has been one long series of disappointments and hardship, and the only remaining hope in her life is her daughter (the titular \\"cowrie of hope\\"). The story follows the mother, as she visits her dead husband's family, who stole her inheritance, in an effort to get the school money. When this doesn't pan out, her last chance is to take a bag of scarce mbala beans to Lusaka, and sell them at the market there. Of course, the big city holds lots of dangers which the mother must navigate. The characters are all rather one dimensional, either warm and beneficent, or sly and bad.<br /><br />Thematically, the book is heavily focused on gender. The mother sees education as her daughter's only way to remain independent and self-reliant, hence her zeal to get the school fees. The role of family hierarchies and politics is explored, and the effects of the AIDSs explosion is touched upon. Other themes include the urban/rural schism, the fluctuation of African economies, and the problem of corruption. Corruption features prominently in the resolution of the story, and the book's one flaw is how it handles this. The moral of the story is that if you are persistent in the face of adversity, you will find good people in powerful positions who will grant justice. The problem is that in many parts of Africa, corruption is utterly endemic and starts at the top. So while the story is heart-warming hopeful one, it's best treated as a more myth than documentary.	2005-01-30
367373:US	52254603	R1LX3N6Y1SKA9	B0006BUHJM	883112530	Washington and Baltimore	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Well-Crafted Collection	Of the six stories collected here, four first appeared in The New Yorker, and one ran in the literary journal Shenandoah. Interestingly, following the publication of this book in 1968, Mazor more or less fell out of the literary scene, only to reappear in 2004 with a new collection, Friend of Mankind. Several stories in the new collection continue to flesh out the life of John Lionel, the protagonist of the four best stories here. These have the waft of autobiography about them, as John's age and upbringing appears to parallel that of the author. The first story, \\"Washington\\", is a naturalistic portrait of John's encounter with a several black people one night in D.C. It's a kind of strange encounter as he waits for a bus in a little deli while a kind of hyper ex-boxer blabbers away at him. In the end, a story of warmth and human connection. This connection is picked up in the next story, \\"Baltimore\\", as John returns to the deli for a little party. This is all an excuse for clever piece narrated by a different ex-boxer, describing a fight he was in during his Army service.<br /><br />The middle two stories stand alone, and don't work quite as well. The longest story of the collection, \\"Mary Jane\\" is about a mismatched married couple on trip to New York to try and rescue their marriage. Set during the height of the Civil Rights struggle, the titular character is a very young privileged woman from Roanoke, Virginia, married to a earnest lawyer for the Justice Department some 15 years her senior. He's kind of a classic guilty liberal type, while she's a kind of classic southern figure who recognizes that change must come, but hasn't quite figured out how to handle that. It's a brave attempt to wrestle with the issue of race, but never moves beyond the expected. \\"Jack Kelsey's All-Stars, 1941\\" is the only story not to appear elsewhere, and feels somewhat out of place. About a 14-year-old who joins a barnstorming baseball team, it never really leads anywhere interesting.<br /><br />John Lionel's story continues in the final two stories, which take place in Washington, DC. \\"Rock Creek\\" is an excellent meditative piece that takes place a few years prior to \\"Washington\\" and \\"Baltimore.\\" The story finds teenage John recuperating from a broken leg he suffered while hiking around Rock Creek Park. It follows him back to the park with the family poodle as he struggles to wrap his head around the death of his two best and oldest friends in a car accident several weeks previously. These two friends appear in the last story, \\"The Boy who Used Foul Language\\", set in 1940. There, John is a elementary school kid who has what would today be called \\"anger management issues.\\" The story finds him laid up in bed with pneumonia after getting expelled from school, where he is cruel to his family's black maid.<br /><br />The collection has been praised for it's portrayal of everyday Washington, DC. I would agree that the first story does do that well, but the others are more concerned with broader issues of race and growing up. Readers looking for the real Washington, D.C. are best advised to read Edward Jones' excellent collection Lost in the City, or George Pelecanos' genre-transcending crime novels. Still, Mazor's stories are very well crafted, and should appeal to short story fans.g. <br /> <br />John Lionel's story continues in the final two stories, which take place in Washington, DC. \\"Rock Creek\\" is an excellent meditative piece that takes place a few years prior to \\"Washington\\" and \\"Baltimore.\\" The story finds teenage John recuperating from a broken leg he suffered while hiking around Rock Creek Park. It follows him back to the park with the family poodle as he struggles to wrap his head around the death of his two best and oldest friends in a car accident several weeks previously. These two friends appear in the last story, \\"The Boy who Used Foul Language\\", set in 1940. There, John is a elementary school kid who has what would today be called \\"anger management issues.\\" The story finds him laid up in bed with pneumonia after getting expelled from school, where he is cruel to his family's black maid. <br /> <br />The collection has been praised for it's portrayal of everyday Washington, DC. I would agree that the first story does do that well, but the others are more concerned with broader issues of race and growing up. Readers looking for the real Washington, D.C. are best advised to read Edward Jones' excellent collection Lost in the City, or George Pelecanos' genre-transcending crime novels. Still, Mazor's stories are very well crafted, and should appeal to short story fans.	2005-01-30
367627:US	52254603	RLY4Z55T72VQB	0863568610	504235430	Young Turk: A Novel in 13 Fragments	Books	4	23	24	N	N	Who is A Turk?	Thirteen stories, each with their own narrator, are woven together to comprise this tapestry of life in Istanbul from the late 1930s to the mid-1950s. Although told through many mouths, the people are all somehow related, through friendship, kinship, schooling, or neighborhood. And while each story is it's own carefully crafted meditation on love, longing, friendship, sex, politics, or religion, they are bound by the common theme of what it means to be Turkish. Although the emphasis is on Turkish Jewry, narrative voices run the gamut, and include Muslim, Christian, Greek, Armenian, Donme, Gypsy, Levantine, and more, all of whom are proud Turks.<br /><br />Most of the stories are concerned with earnest teenagers attempting to discover their place in the world. A world that is increasingly precarious, as World War II sets Europe ablaze and threatens to draw Turkey into the flames. For many of the characters, there are Jewish relatives to worry about, especially those in Nazi-occupied Greece. Several stories, touch upon the plight of the historically Jewish city of Salonica, where 90% of Jews were deported to death camps. The most memorable story revolves around the plan a few of the teenage boys have to sneak across the border in order bring of the boy's relatives back to Turkey using stolen British passports. Another memorable story revolves around a punitive tax imposed on all minority groups in 1942, when Turkey flirted with aligning itself with Germany. This was designed to strip all minorities, especially Jews, of their wealth, and was repealed 18 months later. The story concerns the efforts of people to help their Jewish neighbors.<br /><br />Two figures appear throughout the stories as exemplars of what it means to be Turkish. Of course one is Ataturk, the founder of modern, secular Turkey, and his name is constantly evoked along the lines of \\"If Ataturk could see this, he wouldn't stand for it.\\" The other is the poet Nazim Hikmet, whose praises are sung throughout. The voice for both of these is a progressive professor who becomes a hero for the young Turks who narrate these stories. Despite all the different narrators, the voice of the storytelling never shifts very much. Male, female, different classes, different backgrounds all sound more or less the same. The prose is a little too lush in painting the rich picture of Istanbul of fifty years ago, and the pervasive sense of tragedy gets somewhat wearying by the end of the 400 pages. Farhi's book is, in the final distillation, a plaintive cry for pluralism, multiculturalism, tolerance, and modernity that's entirely relevant to today, as Turkey struggles with the Kurdish question, EU membership, and Islamic fundamentalists. Probably of greatest interest to those interested in the Jewish angle, but worth reading by anyone with an interest in Turkey.hroughout. The voice for both of these is a progressive professor who becomes a hero for the young Turks who narrate these stories. Despite all the different narrators, the voice of the storytelling never shifts very much. Male, female, different classes, different backgrounds all sound more or less the same. The prose is a little too lush in painting the rich picture of Istanbul of fifty years ago, and the pervasive sense of tragedy gets somewhat wearying by the end of the 400 pages. Farhi's book is, in the final distillation, a plaintive cry for pluralism, multiculturalism, tolerance, and modernity that's entirely relevant to today, as Turkey struggles with the Kurdish question, EU membership, and Islamic fundamentalists. Probably of greatest interest to those interested in the Jewish angle, but worth reading by anyone with an interest in Turkey.	2005-01-30
371767:US	52254603	R95FMRBZHZIW6	000655198X	863521900	In This Block There Lives a Slag...	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Mixed Bag o' Bradford	These twelve stories (six of which previously appeared in various literary publications) are unlikely to be featured in any tourism brochures for Yorkshire -- especially Bradford. They are universally infused with a cynical worldview, a slightly surreal bent, and repetitive series of chronically dissociated loners. Much of it feels like aimless riffing, as if you could skip a page of a story and not miss a thing, however, there are a few nuggets of gold to be found.<br /><br />Most of the stories are set amidst the dreary council estates of Bradford and the lost souls who live there. The title story is one of these, and contains a number of nice moments coalescing into a satisfyingly surreal ending. (If you're curious about the book, this story is available online at The Barcelona Review). Brimming with descriptive detail, \\"Coddock\\" is a too-short four pages about the rise and fall of a rejuvenated fish-and-chip shop and plays nicely as a succinct metaphor for urban improvement. \\"Tony Harrison\\" is another good but short (eleven pages) work, this time about the rise and fall of a junkie who moves in next door to a book-reading, classical music-listening narrator. However, the seven pages of \\"The Hands Reveal\\", flash through a teenage junkie girl's existence without making a mark. \\"Bouncing Back\\" is a broad satire of attempts by the Bradford City Council to improve the city's image by engaging in a little street marketing. I didn't find it nearly as hilarious or skewering as other reviewers did though.<br /><br />One of the best stories is \\"The Kingfishers...The Distances\\", a heartbreaker in which another loner in a bar meets and talks to a woman who haunts his memory and changes his life -- the ending is a killer. The other excellent story is \\"The Tale of the Golden Bath Taps\\", a angsty tale of the strange relationship between a musician and a bartender/stripper with severe psychological problems. There are also a several set-pieces, which aren't particularly good, such as \\"Songs That Won the War\\", a fairly disposable twelve pages about the narrator's father dying of cancer. Another is \\"Mr. Personality in the Field of Poses\\", in which a woman ruminates on her boyfriend. Then there is \\"Short Cut to the Sun\\" which recounts an evening in a jazz club with Sun Ra, and is unlikely to appeal anyone except Sun Ra fans. Then, there's the opening story, \\"Wrestling Jacob\\" takes the rural stereotype of man/sheep love and twists it into a fable about a man who wrestles with a ram and beds a series of disposable women. Of course, in the end, he loves the sheep and couldn't care less for the women.<br /><br />As is often the case with short story collections, this is a pretty mixed bag. The writing is rather too self-conscious for my taste, as Broady appears intent on cramming in as many references as possible: the Bible, Shakespeare, various poets, classic music, Elvis, and on and on and on. It doesn't help that he occasionally will repeat things from his bag of tricks, such as descriptions involving Hitler's mustache twice, and twice referring to Shakespeare's \\"Exit Left - Pursued by Bears\\" line. The collection would have been greatly strengthened by having one or two common narrators to tie it all together a bit. Because whether architect, writer, social worker, or musician, the narrators all sound and act pretty much exactly the same. It also suffers from a kind of strange quasi-elitist, \\"this is my little grimy part of the world, don't you dare try and make it better\\" attitude. On the whole, I'd be very hesitant to recommend this to anyone who doesn't have some kind of specific interest in Bradford.od, such as \\"Songs That Won the War\\", a fairly disposable twelve pages about the narrator's father dying of cancer. Another is \\"Mr. Personality in the Field of Poses\\", in which a woman ruminates on her boyfriend. Then there is \\"Short Cut to the Sun\\" which recounts an evening in a jazz club with Sun Ra, and is unlikely to appeal anyone except Sun Ra fans. Then, there's the opening story, \\"Wrestling Jacob\\" takes the rural stereotype of man/sheep love and twists it into a fable about a man who wrestles with a ram and beds a series of disposable women. Of course, in the end, he loves the sheep and couldn't care less for the women. <br /> <br />As is often the case with short story collections, this is a pretty mixed bag. The writing is rather too self-conscious for my taste, as Broady appears intent on cramming in as many references as possible: the Bible, Shakespeare, various poets, classic music, Elvis, and on and on and on. It doesn't help that he occasionally will repeat things from his bag of tricks, such as descriptions involving Hitler's mustache twice, and twice referring to Shakespeare's \\"Exit Left - Pursued by Bears\\" line. The collection would have been greatly strengthened by having one or two common narrators to tie it all together a bit. Because whether architect, writer, social worker, or musician, the narrators all sound and act pretty much exactly the same. It also suffers from a kind of strange quasi-elitist, \\"this is my little grimy part of the world, don't you dare try and make it better\\" attitude. On the whole, I'd be very hesitant to recommend this to anyone who doesn't have some kind of specific interest in Bradford.	2005-01-27
375290:US	52254603	R33805VTKHYOHR	1582432538	726716243	The Aztec Treasure House: New and Selected Essays	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Armchair Adventures in History	Connoisseurs of obscure history and fantastic legend will delight in this collection, which gathers together the contents of Connell's twenty-year-old (and long out of print) books A Long Desire and The White Lantern, and adds two more recent pieces. The twenty essays are a mostly entertaining and fascinating bunch, touching upon all manner of historical curiosities. In every case, the topic has been previously dissected with great detail by \\"professional\\" historians - witness the 300 or so books that appear in the bibliography. Yet one should be thankful that an armchair historian and accomplished writer such as Connell has distilled many thousands of pages until only the the most potent brew remains to excite the imagination.<br /><br />Ranging in length from 10-65 pages, the essays delve through the back corridors of history in wide-ranging, chatty fashion. Their topics are generally either quests of a physical or intellectual nature. The former tend to be the more engaging, as they involve feats of derring-do, greed, folly, and old-fashioned adventure. For example, in various essays Connell covers the following: hundreds of years of attempts to locate the Northwest Passage, the search for the passage to India, Norse settlement of Greenland and America, the race for the South Pole, the prodigious wanderlust of 14th-century Moroccan traveler Ibn Battutah, the mass hysteria and lunacy of the dual 13th-century Children's Crusades, the futile Spanish quest for El Dorado, the Spanish quest for the mythical Seven Cities, and Mayan gold. The intellectual quests are also generally interesting, but by their very nature more abstract. These include Atlantis, the mythical Christian King Prester John, the search for the \\"missing link\\", an overview of medieval alchemy, decoding ancient languages, interpreting the heavens, the origin of the Etruscans, the mysterious cliff dwellings at Mesa Verde in New Mexico, and finally, graffiti carved into a monolith in New Mexico. Probably my favorite piece fits into neither category, \\"Gustav's Dreadnought\\" describes a 17th-century nautical folly spawned by Sweden's King Gustav.<br /><br />Connell's relates everything with a natural storyteller's voice. The prose is always lively, however can be choppy at times due to his propensity for short paragraphs. And of course, not every essay will appeal to every readers - I personally skimmed two of the longer ones about linguistics and astrology. In general, the more specific the focus, the stronger the essay. The collection's one significant flaw is the absence of maps. On the whole though, this is a great book to dip into, say one essay a week, allowing the reader to revel in the mysteries and adventure of the past.ably my favorite piece fits into neither category, \\"Gustav's Dreadnought\\" describes a 17th-century nautical folly spawned by Sweden's King Gustav. <br /> <br />Connell's relates everything with a natural storyteller's voice. The prose is always lively, however can be choppy at times due to his propensity for short paragraphs. And of course, not every essay will appeal to every readers - I personally skimmed two of the longer ones about linguistics and astrology. In general, the more specific the focus, the stronger the essay. The collection's one significant flaw is the absence of maps. On the whole though, this is a great book to dip into, say one essay a week, allowing the reader to revel in the mysteries and adventure of the past.	2005-01-24
376248:US	52254603	RBO92GNAURI0T	1592284019	148692188	Frontiers of Heaven: A Journey to the End of China	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Chinese Cave-Dwellers, Oh My!	I picked this up after reading Stewart's excellent book on Mongolia. Originally published in England a decade ago, this account of traveling through China won the prestigious Thomas Cook Travel Book of the Year Award. Starting on the coast, he traveled westward by bus, boat and train to a point south of the Great Wall where the Silk Road emerged from the desert to enter the Celestial Kingdom. To a certain extent, his Westward-Ho! venture retraces the steps of the legendary 7th-century monk Hsuan-tsang, who left the safe confines of mother China on a solo mission to gather sacred Buddhist texts from India and bring them back so that the Chinese Buddhists could be assured that they remained on the true path. However, Stewart doesn't shackle his narrative this particular hook; at times he's examining the state of modern China, other times the psychology of traveling alone, and sometimes the notion among Chinese that the world beyond the Great Wall is a barbarian one.<br /><br />From Shanghai onward, he finds that the notion of traveling West is curious to many Chinese. In a nation where wealth is heavily concentrated on the coast, the hinterlands are still regarded as a place of exile, and he's continually having to explain why he's headed that way. In highly readable prose studded with wit and observation, he wends his merry way, drawing assistance from a network of contacts, and even manages to have a brief fling with a woman in Xian. (This is notable, as it is the first outright admission of such a thing I've come across in mainstream travelogues.) The overwhelming image he sketches of modern China is one of rapid change and an embrace of the adage \\"to become rich is glorious.\\" As one of his contacts explains the apparent dissolution of communist principles, \\"Human nature was a far more formidable opponent than international capital.\\" One of the most interesting aspects of this is his discovery that in parts of China housing shortages are such that approximately 10,000,000 people live in converted caves!<br /><br />The latter third of the book takes him to Xinjiang province, where he witnesses the depressing transformations there (the government is engaged in a dramatic effort to resettle the region with ethnic Han in order to culturally pacify the area). From there he leaves China, onward to Tibet, an encounter with Kyrgyz tribesmen, and ultimately over the passes on dubious Pakistani buses. It's not the most cohesive journey, but the account is well-written and packs a great deal into its relatively few pages.10,000,000 people live in converted caves! <br /> <br />The latter third of the book takes him to Xinjiang province, where he witnesses the depressing transformations there (the government is engaged in a dramatic effort to resettle the region with ethnic Han in order to culturally pacify the area). From there he leaves China, onward to Tibet, an encounter with Kyrgyz tribesmen, and ultimately over the passes on dubious Pakistani buses. It's not the most cohesive journey, but the account is well-written and packs a great deal into its relatively few pages.	2005-01-24
378803:US	52254603	R2JC8CK5WZNH4P	1887178287	553697788	Another Turn of the Crank	Books	2	7	13	N	N	Preaching to the Choir?	I'd never read Berry before, but as far as I can tell, this brief collection of six essays and lectures sticks to familiar territory. However, it's probably not the best entry point for people who are newcomers to his realm. There are two related problems with the book: one of presentation, and one of tone. The problem with presentation is that the pieces are so short that there's no room for specifics. So, while one might be more or less in accord with the broad strokes of Berry's vision, there's no detail to back it all up. The problem with tone is that from the very first page the reader feels like they are being lectured at. Of course, some of the pieces are lectures, but there's a certain condescension that runs throughout the book. It comes out when Berry uses certain words such as the three As of \\"appropriate\\", \\"authentic\\" and \\"adequate\\". When these are used ( as they often are), there he's obviously made some kind of value judgment, but the reader is never let in on it. The end result of the two flaws is that the reader feels like a hectoring argument is being made without any supporting logic -- which ultimately smacks of preaching to the choir.<br /><br />Which is unfortunate, since I tend to agree with Berry on a lot of things (though not his anti-abortion stance). Small farms are good, agribusiness is bad, stewardship of the land is good, extraction industries are bad, treating the body as an organic whole is good, and things of that nature. Alas, he has a tendency of making sweeping assertions and accusations that are far too simplistic and shrill to be useful. Two examples from the first 15 pages will suffice to illustrate: \\"This is a world in which the cultures that preserve nature and rural life will simply be disallowed.\\" and \\"Communists and capitalists are alike in their contempt for country people, country life, and country places.\\"<br /><br />Berry also succumbs to the trick of creating straw men to counter his theses. For example, in one essay, he claims that conservationists are people who want to simply preserve land in a pristine, untouched state, and that's all. While there are certainly some conservationists who feel that way, they are a small minority of a a much larger community who actually is in almost total accord with Berry's views on stewardship and land use. It certainly doesn't help matters that his view of small-scale farming appears to be heavily tinted with rose-colored glasses. His claims that modern agribusinesses has rendered the small farm economically unviable sounds like a reasonable proposition. However, it ignores the fact that, historically, small scale farming ran on the thinnest of margins, was subject to all kind of external instability (weather, vermin, etc.), and operated on only slightly better than a subsistence level. In farming, cash is scarce, that's why people abandoned it in droves whenever the opportunity presented itself, such as in WWII, when all those defense-industry factories were opened in California. (Of course, in Berry's vision, you don't really need cash, because you barter for everything you need from your neighbors.)<br /><br />Berry's exhortations to create small-scale communities is worthy stuff, and even in cities people are creating this. The growth of CSAs, farmers markets, and the like in the past decade is a tangible indicator of this. However, to achieve the large scale results Berry seeks requires a more rigorous roadmap than what is provided in this slim collection.say, he claims that conservationists are people who want to simply preserve land in a pristine, untouched state, and that's all. While there are certainly some conservationists who feel that way, they are a small minority of a a much larger community who actually is in almost total accord with Berry's views on stewardship and land use. It certainly doesn't help matters that his view of small-scale farming appears to be heavily tinted with rose-colored glasses. His claims that modern agribusinesses has rendered the small farm economically unviable sounds like a reasonable proposition. However, it ignores the fact that, historically, small scale farming ran on the thinnest of margins, was subject to all kind of external instability (weather, vermin, etc.), and operated on only slightly better than a subsistence level. In farming, cash is scarce, that's why people abandoned it in droves whenever the opportunity presented itself, such as in WWII, when all those defense-industry factories were opened in California. (Of course, in Berry's vision, you don't really need cash, because you barter for everything you need from your neighbors.)  <br /> <br />Berry's exhortations to create small-scale communities is worthy stuff, and even in cities people are creating this. The growth of CSAs, farmers markets, and the like in the past decade is a tangible indicator of this. However, to achieve the large scale results Berry seeks requires a more rigorous roadmap than what is provided in this slim collection.	2005-01-21
379585:US	52254603	RPOM232E5GKDJ	1932416242	282025856	The Polysyllabic Spree	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Soccer, Music, and Now Books--Hornby Completes His Hat Trick	As I wrote in my review of \\"Songbook\\", I suppose I should admit up front that I'm one of those people who would buy the phone book if Hornby wrote it. Like many guys of my generation and ilk, I consider \\"High Fidelity\\" to be close to the perfect novel. That said, I'm starting to wonder if maybe Hornby might actually be a better writer of non-fiction than fiction. His debut, Fever Pitch explains being a diehard soccer fan with more eloquence and depth than anything before or since. His second nonfiction work, Songbook, was not only some of the best music writing I've read, but perfectly captured the essence of being a pop music fan. Here, he completes the hat trick with an excellent collection about being a book fanatic.<br /><br />This handsomely produced paperback consists of fourteen articles he wrote for the uberhip lit magazine The Believer, chronicling his monthly reading habits from September 2003 to November 2004. Each essay begins with a list of books purchased and books actually read -- and as most avid readers will suspect, titles from the two rarely overlap in the same month. Interspersed are also a five excerpts from books he read (by Chekhov, Dickens, Patrick Hamilton, Tony Hoagland, and Charlotte Moore), evidently intended to break things up and get one \\"in the mood.\\" As in Fever Pitch and Songbook, one doesn't have to be in sync with Hornby's taste in order to enjoy the essays. That's because he is surprisingly erudite on whatever he's writing about, while being consistently entertaining at the same time. This is probably because he's not reading \\"for\\" anyone, he's reading for himself. And with license to read and write on whatever he wants, the result is an excellent window into the sometimes strange motives and obscure links that drive what we read. But it's not just about what he reads, but also how, and about how life intrudes on reading time (during soccer season, his reading declines).<br /><br />Which is not to say he doesn't talk about the books. For example, praising the forgotten novels of an obscure writer, or the poetry of another, or plowing through various thick biographies. If nothing else, he's probably going to make you think about picking up a Dickens book in the near future. Hornby's most impassioned and forceful writing is reserved for scoffing at the notion that reading for fun and reading for enrichment are two separate things. In other words, the divide between literature and fiction. He's a firm believer that the distinction is a false one, and fortunately the last decade has seen the world of publishing and bookselling slowly agree, as genre distinctions are no longer as rigidly enforced, and works of crime and science-fiction are sometimes permitted to leave their ghettos and be shelved with the general fiction. Another fine bit occurs in August 2004, when he stumbles across Dennis Lehane's Mystic River and is blown away by its combination of gripping plot and masterful writing (I've not read it). This leads him to wonder why so many people have been telling him to read Allan Hollinghurst's The Line of beauty (which went on to win the Booker Prize), but no one had ever pushed Lehane on him. A third bit which went down a treat is his plea for biographers to edit themselves and not include every detail in their 1,000-page definitive biographies of people who are probably only worth around 250 pages. This is just a sample of the kind of stuff dispensed in the essays.<br /><br />The one nit I have to pick with the book is that Hornby was editorially restrained from naming books that he didn't like. This is a reviewing policy I have always disliked, and is probably why I tend to prefer British reviewers, who are renown for their skewering reviews. For, while I certainly like to read about books that reviewers enjoyed, it's just as much a service to be warned away from books that are dreck. I would really like to know what the various \\"Unnamed Literary Novels\\" are that he started and didn't finish. Also, in writing in his chatty style for The Believer, Hornby probably makes a few other sweeping statements that he might have thought a little more carefully on. But these are very minor flaws in what is otherwise a fantastic book by a bookhound for fellow bookhounds. Incisive, witty, and brief, the perfect book for the person who has piles of unread books around them! One can only wonder what other obsession is left for him to write about. Fatherhood perhaps?didn't finish. Also, in writing in his chatty style for The Believer, Hornby probably makes a few other sweeping statements that he might have thought a little more carefully on. But these are very minor flaws in what is otherwise a fantastic book by a bookhound for fellow bookhounds. Incisive, witty, and brief, the perfect book for the person who has piles of unread books around them! One can only wonder what other obsession is left for him to write about. Fatherhood perhaps?	2005-01-21
380285:US	52254603	R1DJFOZG4GQ0SM	1853753602	278450304	Sardinian Brigade (Lost Treasures)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Italy's WWI	Almost a century after World War I, the indelible image that remains in Western minds is of a generation of British and French youth sent from rat-infested trenches to get mowed down by the tools of modern warfare in some French or Belgian nightmare landscape. A whole body of literature emerged from that experience, including several works that are still much-read today. However, there were many other equally brutal but far less celebrated fronts in the war, such as the Italian/Austro-Hungarian one. Hemingway set A Farewell to Arms amidst those lines, but few native depictions have made it into English. Indeed, as Lussu notes in the preface, \\"In italy no such books about the war exist as those that have been published in England, France, and Germany.\\" It is worth noting that this book only exists as a result of Lussu's forced idleness while in prison on anti-fascist charges from 1926-29. He then managed a spectacular escape to France, became a leading Resistance figure during WWII, and then returned to Italy after the war to serve in Parliament for the Socialist Party.<br /><br />His \\"novel\\", a thinly fictional account of his experiences as an junior officer with the Sassari brigade, was originally published in 1939. It really isn't a novel per se, it's more of a straightforward diary of part of his tour of duty in the Alps. In simple prose, he recounts the daily drudgery and duties of life on the front lines. As with many war books, most time is spent waiting, standing to, and then standing down. And as with many descriptions of other WWI fronts, the combat is so insane it's almost parody. Italian commanders proved to be no less tactically and strategically foolish as their counterparts elsewhere, ordering one doomed assault after another. The most interesting part appears late in the book, when parts of his brigade mutiny and refuse to fight any further. Other than that, the book is more or less a litany of fellow officers getting killed, foolish senior officers getting drunk and obstinate, bitter resignation to duty in the face of such madness, artillery delivering friendly fire, and semi-serious talk of engineering \\"accidents\\" (the kind involving stray bullets) for overzealous commanders.<br /><br />While we should be grateful for Lussu's account, it ultimately doesn't offer a great deal of new perspective on the war other than the Italian army managed to mimic the foolishness of the other great powers. Those interesting in a quite entertaining fictional account of the Austro-Hungarian front should track down John Biggins' excellent series of books about the exploits of Otto Prohaska, starting with \\"A Sailor of Austria\\".getting drunk and obstinate, bitter resignation to duty in the face of such madness, artillery delivering friendly fire, and semi-serious talk of engineering \\"accidents\\" (the kind involving stray bullets) for overzealous commanders. <br /> <br />While we should be grateful for Lussu's account, it ultimately doesn't offer a great deal of new perspective on the war other than the Italian army managed to mimic the foolishness of the other great powers. Those interesting in a quite entertaining fictional account of the Austro-Hungarian front should track down John Biggins' excellent series of books about the exploits of Otto Prohaska, starting with \\"A Sailor of Austria\\".	2005-01-20
381664:US	52254603	R18RRUI60WH50W	0140288694	147164180	The Shark Net: Memories and Murder	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Memoir with Murder Sprinkled In	I picked this up expecting an interesting true crime work, not realizing that the vast majority of the book is a pretty straightforward memoir of growing up in Australia in the '50s and '60s. The book starts very confusingly, with the author observing the court proceedings of a murder<br /><br />trial, only to flash back to his early youth. Drewe was a young child when his father was assigned to the remote Western Australian city of Perth to be a branch manager for the Dunlop rubber company. The first half of the book is about his childhood, and as far as memoirs go, it's well done. I'm not a big fan of the genre, but Drewe is nicely selective in recounting his dysfunctional home life and is very adept at retelling the awkwardness of his first crush. his childhood is not that dissimilar from that of upper middle-class American kid of the same era. His father is more or less a company drone, and Dunlop business pervades every aspect of his personality and the family life. His mother is overprotective and retreats into religion with sometimes eerie intensity. Both parents were emotionally distant and unexpressive.<br /><br />The raison d'etre for the book is that in the years Drewe moved from childhood to being an adult, a serial killer was stalking the suburbs near his home and Drewe's life intersected with the case in many ways. His father was friends with a policeman who would come over to their house and discussed the case behind closed doors. One of the murders is committed with a friend's garden axe. There's a peeping tom on the loose who may or may not be connected to the killings who late one night scares Drewe's mother by prowling out back. More ominously, one of the last victims is of one of Drewe's friends. But the coup de grace is that the killer turns out to be someone known to the family, someone Drewe even spoke to as a child. While the murders form a dark backdrop to his childhood, they are never dwelt on in any great depth, nor is Drewe particularly interested in recounting the case. That said, there are a few sections where he writes from within the killer, imagining his life. On the whole though, until the very end it's pretty thin about why someone would be killing random people on and off with knives, axes, guns, and even hit and run. It's a curious mix of a book, a very well-written memoir with slices of darkness sprinkled in.rested in recounting the case. That said, there are a few sections where he writes from within the killer, imagining his life. On the whole though, until the very end it's pretty thin about why someone would be killing random people on and off with knives, axes, guns, and even hit and run. It's a curious mix of a book, a very well-written memoir with slices of darkness sprinkled in.	2005-01-19
382639:US	52254603	R35UUA0LR0NM74	0060512202	311088267	Bandits	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Another "Issue" Book That's Not Quite Up To Par	Elmore Leonard is one of the master craftsmen of modern crime writing, and every now and then, he slips in an \\"issue\\" book. Back in 1982 it was \\"Cat Chaser\\", which wove in U.S. backing of death squads in the Dominican Republic in the '60s. In 2000, it was \\"Pagan Babies\\", which wove in the in Rwandan genocide. This book, which was originally published in 1986, weaves in U.S. support for the Contras in Nicaragua. I haven't read \\"Cat Chaser\\", but both \\"Pagan Babies\\" and \\"Bandits\\" seem to suffer in comparison with Leonard's more traditional crime capers. Certainly the elements are in place: a heist caper with a likeable ex-con, a tough pretty lady, supported by a duo of misfits (AARP-eligible ex-bank robber, moody tough-guy ex-con bartender) taking on a thoroughly evil and disgusting bad guy. And yet the pacing just isn't quite right, perhaps because the book seems to be more character-driven than plot-driven. It doesn't help that the book is set in New Orleans, an atmospheric city that never comes to life on the page.<br /><br />The gist of the plot is that ex-model, ex-con Jack is sick of working at his brother-in-law's funeral home. When the pretty nun Sister Lucy enters his life, enlisting his aid in helping a woman escape from a Nicaraguan Contra colonel, he's willing to listen when she proposes a scam. It seems the leper hospital Lucy worked at in Nicaragua was wiped out by Contra forces under the colonel's command, and she's looking for some payback. And since the colonel is on a fundraising trip through the southern U.S., he's going to be loaded... Alas, despite lots of coming and going, things proceed rather slowly. Some of the supporting characters are much flatter than one expects from Leonard, for example the enigmatic Indian Franklin de Dios, and the CIA agent. Meanwhile, other more vivid ones are entirely extraneous to the story, such as the IRA operative who walks into and out of the book within pages.<br /><br />So, while I applaud Leonard's occasional effort to bring to light some of the nasty goings on around the world, these books, while enjoyable enough, just aren't written at the same level as most of his work.<br /><br />PS. There's a cute little moment where the main character busts on the 1969 film version of Leonard's book \\"The Big Bounce\\". I hate to think what he would say about the latest version...al effort to bring to light some of the nasty goings on around the world, these books, while enjoyable enough, just aren't written at the same level as most of his work.  <br /> <br />PS. There's a cute little moment where the main character busts on the 1969 film version of Leonard's book \\"The Big Bounce\\". I hate to think what he would say about the latest version...	2005-01-18
383161:US	52254603	RB9MPJPVO49TL	1569473692	59677973	When Red is Black	Books	4	37	38	N	N	"To Get Rich Is Glorious"  --Deng Xiaoping	This third book in the \\"Inspector Chen\\" series strays even further from mystery genre conventions with its portrayal of economic and social upheaval in modern China. Set in Shanghai in what appears to be the mid-1990s (it is definitely not set in the present day, as some people seem to think), capitalism is on the rise and everyone is trying to figure out what it all means. For Inspector Chen, it means taking a week of vacation from the Special Homicide Squad to work for a wealthy businessman with triad connections. He is hired to translate a business proposal for an \\"Old Shanghai\\" themed shopping and entertainment zone into fluid English that will impress American investment bankers. Meanwhile, his deputy, the capable Detective Yu is assigned to solve the murder of a minor dissident author. Yu is a hard-working policeman, a husband and father struggling to convince himself that being a policeman is a worthwhile job in the new economy. Although Chen is busy working on the translation, he calls in for updates and does some sleuthing on the side as well.<br /><br />The mystery itself isn't particularly fascinating, but it does provide an interesting perspective on modern Chinese history for those who aren't particularly familiar with it. The murdered woman had written an autobiographical novel (\\"The Death of a Chinese Professor\\") about her forbidden love affair with an intellectual poet when they were in a reeducation camp during the Cultural Revolution. She had been a Red Guard who was then denounced, and he was an intellectual, and thus politically\\"black\\" (ie. an enemy of the working class). The Cultural Revolution looms over the proceedings, and proves to have a powerful legacy even three decades later. Detective Yu is reduced to probing the political past of the people who lived in her building in order to try and learn of the motive for her killing. These political nuances will likely be rather complex to the general reader (despite the author's best efforts to explain all), which diminishes from the story somewhat. The investigation never really gathers any momentum, and there's never much of a sense of urgency about the matter. It's also weakened by a rather belated effort to follow what most readers will perceive to be a rather promising lead.<br /><br />As in the previous books in the series, classical Chinese poetry is cited ad nauseam, and any scene involving food is lovingly lingered over and described in great detail. But perhaps the most interesting element of the book is its portrayal of the rise of capitalism in China, complete with rural to urban migration, conspicuous consumption, and overpopulation. While I was reading this, the New York Times ran a lengthy series of articles about rising class inequities in China and social and political unrest this has led to as the establishment benefits from corruption and factory and farm workers are left behind. The book does a nice job of showing the seeds of this, and how Chen and Yu struggle with the implications of this new economy. Chen is very clearly aware that he is being vastly overpaid for his translation and waits quietly to see what the quid pro quo will be. When it comes at the end, it reveals just how murky the ethical waters can be as Chen walks a fine line between grabbing a piece of the pie and falling in bed with the leaders of the new economy. So don't read this if you're looking for a gripping mystery, but do read it if you're interested in a nuanced account of the beginnings of Chinese capitalism and what life is like in a huge Chinese city populated by cast of well-realized characters.o explain all), which diminishes from the story somewhat. The investigation never really gathers any momentum, and there's never much of a sense of urgency about the matter. It's also weakened by a rather belated effort to follow what most readers will perceive to be a rather promising lead.  <br /> <br />As in the previous books in the series, classical Chinese poetry is cited ad nauseam, and any scene involving food is lovingly lingered over and described in great detail. But perhaps the most interesting element of the book is its portrayal of the rise of capitalism in China, complete with rural to urban migration, conspicuous consumption, and overpopulation. While I was reading this, the New York Times ran a lengthy series of articles about rising class inequities in China and social and political unrest this has led to as the establishment benefits from corruption and factory and farm workers are left behind. The book does a nice job of showing the seeds of this, and how Chen and Yu struggle with the implications of this new economy. Chen is very clearly aware that he is being vastly overpaid for his translation and waits quietly to see what the quid pro quo will be. When it comes at the end, it reveals just how murky the ethical waters can be as Chen walks a fine line between grabbing a piece of the pie and falling in bed with the leaders of the new economy. So don't read this if you're looking for a gripping mystery, but do read it if you're interested in a nuanced account of the beginnings of Chinese capitalism and what life is like in a huge Chinese city populated by cast of well-realized characters.	2005-01-18
385039:US	52254603	R1T5F7OSOH5LE	1841955876	532392831	Heavenly Date and Other Flirtations	Books	3	12	16	N	N	Well-Crafted Stories Cover Familiar Mating Ground	Warning! Alert! Alarm! This is most definitely NOT part of Smith's highly enjoyable No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency series. There seem to be an inordinate number of people who bought this book without noticing that rather key point, and then unfairly blasted it for not being sweet and charming. Originally published ten years ago, the nine stories here are quite different--don't expect wholesome characters, rascally scoundrels, and a generally upbeat tone (even though the jacket copy says \\"heart-warming\\"). More accurate is the blurb on the cover which compares them to the short fiction of Roald Dahl.<br /><br />Each of the stories in an examination of a male/female relationship, and the picture is often not a pretty one. The twenty page opening \\"Wonderful Date\\" is probably the most benign of the lot, a sweet story about two elderly aristocratic Swiss on a date who then break out of their formal routine by befriending a young couple. \\"Nice Little Date\\" is brief ten page encounter between an American rock star on vacation in Portugal and a young prostitute, and a rather empty meditation on the legacy of colonialism. Next is the longest story, \\"Bulawayo\\", fifty pages set in in Rhodesia in the early '60s. It's about a young couple who get married for all the wrong reasons and lead quiet lives of unfufilment. It's well written, but the story it tells about disappointment and longing is a familiar one.<br /><br />\\"Far North\\" is my own favorite of the bunch, twenty pages about a professional woman in Australia who gets stuck on a terrible date. Her resignation is familiar to anyone who's had to see a bad date through to the end, but then the story veers into dark humor and tension. \\"Intimate Accounts\\" is a rather weak and self-concious twenty pages of a psychiatric therapist recounting several unusual cases. The touching \\"Calwarra\\" is about a young woman in rural Australia who seeks to escape her circumstances and gets bogged down. \\"Fat Date\\" is a quick ten page comic sketch of a blind date between two \\"large\\" people. \\"Maternal Influence\\" is another well-written riff on a familiar theme, this time fifteen pages about a controlling mother who smothers her son--until his spine is stiffened when he meets a nice girl. The final (and title) story injects a dose of magic into the proceedings, where a young Englishwoman spending the summer in Tuscany experiences a divine conception. I didn't particularly care for it, but others might.<br /><br />The stories are almost uniformly well-written and crisp, however the meditations on dating and mating are fairly commonplace stuff. Smith does it well, but there's not a story here that's likely to linger very long in the reader's memory.tch of a blind date between two \\"large\\" people. \\"Maternal Influence\\" is another well-written riff on a familiar theme, this time fifteen pages about a controlling mother who smothers her son--until his spine is stiffened when he meets a nice girl. The final (and title) story injects a dose of magic into the proceedings, where a young Englishwoman spending the summer in Tuscany experiences a divine conception. I didn't particularly care for it, but others might. <br /> <br />The stories are almost uniformly well-written and crisp, however the meditations on dating and mating are fairly commonplace stuff. Smith does it well, but there's not a story here that's likely to linger very long in the reader's memory.	2005-01-17
385988:US	52254603	R3KPKZBDYR0ORA	1583226591	774612763	Popular Music from Vittula: A Novel	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Episodic Swedish Coming-of-Age Story	If you're looking for a funny and tender coming-of-age story set above the Arctic Circle, this is the book for you! It's set in Pajala, a small town in the remote Tornedalen region of Sweden, far north and near the Finnish border. The semi-autobiographical story is told through a series of twenty self-contained short stories that take Matti roughly from age 5-15 or so from the mid-'60s to mid-'70s. One is immediately given a taste of the book's style in the prologue, in which the adult Matti manages to freeze his tongue to a metal plaque atop a Nepalese mountain. He only manages to free himself (and live) by using his urine to break the bond, which then launches him into the story of his youth. The broad outlines of his experiences are similar to those of any other boy growing up in a remote place forty years ago. Life was boring and filled with hard work, some things were manly (hunting, work, fighting, hockey, eating, drinking, machines), and everything else is \\"women's work.\\" If you're not good at manly things, well... at a minimum you won't fit in very well.<br /><br />Of course, Matti is a little outside the mainstream, but manages to make his way with best friend Niila by his side. Where the book shines is in the the specifics of his childhood, in which wacky antics shine with humor and pathos, and magic realism rears its head every now and then. Some of the events covered include: discovering rock and roll music via the Beatles, a summer job as a mouse hunter, a raucous arm wrestling contest, an equally grueling sauna endurance contest, a sermon in Esperanto, a mind-boggling teenage drinking contest, tall tales of family prowess, a will reading degenerating into a brawl, starting a band with a cardboard guitar, the vagaries of a fundamentalist Christian sect (Laestadianism), first sexual encounters, and a BB-gun war. And let's not forget the transsexual hermit magician... All these individual parts are quite entertaining, even if they never quite add up to a complete hole. It's an amusing, and sometimes very funny look at growing up rural which would probably resonate much more with other remote cold climate dwellers than the average reader. A welcome oddball addition to the coming-of-age genre.<br /><br />Note: The book was a runaway bestseller in Sweden, selling one copy for every twelve Swedes! Naturally, the book has been adapted as a film--which was co-written and directed by an Iranian who immigrated to Sweden as a teenager!a complete hole. It's an amusing, and sometimes very funny look at growing up rural which would probably resonate much more with other remote cold climate dwellers than the average reader. A welcome oddball addition to the coming-of-age genre. <br /> <br />Note: The book was a runaway bestseller in Sweden, selling one copy for every twelve Swedes! Naturally, the book has been adapted as a film--which was co-written and directed by an Iranian who immigrated to Sweden as a teenager!	2005-01-16
404659:US	52254603	RYMYZRUSC1ZNJ	0385512163	947920742	Men and Cartoons: Stories	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Another Mixed Bag From A Fabulous Talent	Lethem's latest collects nine short stories, eight of which appeared in various publications, and five of which were previously anthologized. Like all of his work, they often display breathtaking originality and vivid style in the service of narratives that sometimes work and sometimes don't. \\"The Vision\\" is the first story and probably the best, and will appeal to fans of Lethem's latest novel, The Fortress of Solitude. It starts in Brooklyn in 1974, with two fifth-grade boys, one of whom believes he is robot-superhero The Vision from the Avengers comic book series. The two bump into each other as adults and are involved in a strange party game called \\"Mafia.\\" This later turns into a nasty adult version of truth-or-dare which gets very dark and ends on an unsettling note. \\"Planet Big Zero\\" is another strong story, also about boyhood friends who meet again as adults. As high-schoolers they were two outsiders smirking at the world, as adults, one is a cartoonist, the other a drifter. At thirty pages, \\"Super Goat Man\\" is the longest story, and again mixes Brooklyn, superheroes, and becoming an adult. As such, it also shares a lot with Fortress of Solitude, and works very well. One of the few out-and-out sci-fi stories is \\"Access Fantasy\\", which proposes a city where an underclass people live out their lives in traffic jams. Those who actually live in buildings are the privileged, and videos of their dwellings are pornography for the traffic jammers--a very sharp satirical premise, with a murder mystery to boot.<br /><br />Less successful are the other five stories. \\"The Spray\\" is built around a special elixir that reveals things that are missing, but trails off into a rather banal statement about loss. Deja vu is the premise behind \\"Vivian Relf\\" (the only story that not to appear elsewhere), in which a man and woman keep encountering each other over their lives, but aren't quite able to determine where they first met. It's one of those Lethem works that starts strongly, is well-written, and degenerates with a weak ending (again, about loss). \\"The Glasses\\" is an empty Brooklyn-set vignette about a possibly deranged man and two opticians. \\"The Dystopianist\\" is a slight work about writing that feels rather dashed off and ends of a cutesy note. One feels like Lethem could crank out works like it over and over and over. The collection ends with \\"The National Anthem\\", in the form of a letter. Once again, it is from an adult to a friend from high school he hasn't seen in a long time, and is built around a theme of loss. Sometimes the repetition of a theme can be a powerful framework for a collection, but here the continual revisiting of the connections between youth and adulthood, and loss and loneliness feel like Lethem is stuck in a rut. All in all, worthwhile if you already know and like his work, but otherwise not vital reading.ngly, is well-written, and degenerates with a weak ending (again, about loss). \\"The Glasses\\" is an empty Brooklyn-set vignette about a possibly deranged man and two opticians. \\"The Dystopianist\\" is a slight work about writing that feels rather dashed off and ends of a cutesy note. One feels like Lethem could crank out works like it over and over and over. The collection ends with \\"The National Anthem\\", in the form of a letter. Once again, it is from an adult to a friend from high school he hasn't seen in a long time, and is built around a theme of loss. Sometimes the repetition of a theme can be a powerful framework for a collection, but here the continual revisiting of the connections between youth and adulthood, and loss and loneliness feel like Lethem is stuck in a rut. All in all, worthwhile if you already know and like his work, but otherwise not vital reading.	2005-01-02
406007:US	52254603	R3H7AGZ2I3QK0Y	006076340X	92756786	The Final Solution: A Story of Detection	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Two Hours Well Spent	First published in the Paris Review in 2003, this charming and wistful little novella is Chabon's own humble contribution to the vast quantity of Sherlock Holmes pastiche that continues to be published each year. While it bears the trappings of a whodunit, the story is rather is sneakily constructed to be a meditation both on aging and the passing of an age. Set in the South Downs of Sussex in mid-1944, we meet Linus, a mute 9-year-old Jewish refugee. He's been taken in by the local vicar and his wife, who also have several other boarders, including Linus's voluble African gray parrot. And while Linus is silent, the parrot has a propensity for rattling off series of numbers in German. One evening the parrot disappears and one of the boarders is killed, and the local plods drag the vicar's no-good son off to the jail.<br /><br />However, it just so happens that an 89-year-old beekeeper of some repute lives in the environs. Somewhat overwhelmed by the murder and missing parrot, the constabulary ask \\"the old man\\" (Sherlock Holmes) for his assistance. Chabon's portrait of the famous detective as a crotchety and yet sharp old man is entirely faithful to the canon and handled with kid gloves. He uses the aging of the old man as a vehicle to explore the notion for all of us. The period manners and speech are very nicely rendered, as Holmes unravels his last mystery. While the murder is the ostensible catalyst, the true mystery is just what the parrot's number sequences are. Nazi codes? Swiss bank accounts? Are there German agents afoot, eager to retrieve--or kill--zee parrot? Of course, the reader has a pretty good idea of what the numbers are, and that's how the book is a chilling reminder of the ending of innocence. Don't expect any truly deep thoughts or a wildly complex mystery, do expect Chabon's usual masterly writing (a chapter written from the parrot's point of view is particularly wonderful) and two hours well spent.	2004-12-31
406538:US	52254603	R3S7FDOQOIQCSO	0802139779	929761417	Young Adam	Books	3	8	10	N	N	The Scottish Beatbox	The Pete Best of the Beat generation, Trocchi ran with Ginsberg, Burroughs, et al, but never achieved their lasting fame. He paid the bills by writing pornographic works, but this brief novel--while certainly sexual--is cut of a different cloth, and is invariably compared to the Camus masterpiece \\"The Stranger\\". Written fifty years ago, the simple story is told by Joe, an itinerant worker who works on a barge that hauls coal and other loads between Glasgow and Edinburgh. He lives on board with the meaty ex-sailor, his solid wife Ella, and their child. The book opens with their discovery of a woman's corpse floating in the water, a woman who is somehow linked to Joe. After reporting it to the police, they continue on their way, and over the next several days Joe discovers that he is attracted to Ella. However, after the initial excitement of their affair it doesn't take long for him to become bored with her. Indeed, that's Joe's problem in general, as he states two-thirds of the way into the book: \\"It has always been that way with me as far as I can remember. I am a rootless kind of man. Often I find myself anxious to become involved with other people, but I am no sooner involved than I wish to be free again.\\"<br /><br />Of course, what that means is that he is unable or unwilling to form emotional attachments with people, and ends up hurting them in one way or another. As his and Ella's story wends to its obvious conclusion, a man is arrested for the murder of the floating woman. The tension mounts as Joe worries whether or not his relationship to her will come to light. In the end he is presented with a very difficult ethical choice and makes the same decision most of us would in his shoes. Indeed, for all his self-professed status as an outsider, he still works when he has to, and manages to act quite in line with the established patriarchal sexual modes. In perhaps the books most memorable scene, Joe recounts how an argument with a girlfriend led to his sexual assault of her using household food products (\\"I didn't know whether she was laughing or crying\\"), only to end with \\"I felt her arms close about me and she kissed me on the lips.\\" By the end, it's a little hard to know what to make of the story, and it's not at all clear that Joe is a particularly reliable narrator. Of potential interest to those interested in expanding their knowledge of the beat writers or of modern Scottish literature, but unlikely to move others. Recently made into a film starring Ewan MacGregor that is reputed to be quite faithful to the book.assault of her using household food products (\\"I didn't know whether she was laughing or crying\\"), only to end with \\"I felt her arms close about me and she kissed me on the lips.\\" By the end, it's a little hard to know what to make of the story, and it's not at all clear that Joe is a particularly reliable narrator. Of potential interest to those interested in expanding their knowledge of the beat writers or of modern Scottish literature, but unlikely to move others. Recently made into a film starring Ewan MacGregor that is reputed to be quite faithful to the book.	2004-12-31
409032:US	52254603	R2CDYZFF8OCOAF	0312315716	860060808	Little Children: A Novel	Books	2	7	12	N	N	An Uninspired Take on a Stale Subject	Is there anything more stale at this point than a satire of suburban white<br /><br />America? I loved the two other Perrotta books I read (Bad Haircut and The Wishbones), but this one is woefully tepid and predictable. I thought the film American Beauty had put the nail in this particular coffin, but alas, Perotta painfully revisits well-mined themes in this heavy-handed attempt to skewer middle-class angst.<br /><br />Set outside Boston, the story concerns a pair of thirtyish stay-at-home parents who meet in a playground and embark on an intense affair. Todd (aka The Prom King) is a good-looking ex-quarterback who can't seem to pass the bar and enter the legal workforce. His amazingly beautiful wife is a documentary filmmaker laboring on a boring project to build her credits. Sarah is a somewhat mousy and disheveled ex-feminist studies major, ex-Starbucks barista. Her husband Richard is a workaholic brand consultant a good 15 years older than her. Todd and Sarah are adrift, wondering how they've arrived at a point where their lives are constrained by marriage and the three-year-olds they spend the entire day with.<br /><br />However, it's a little hard to care too much about the self-generated angst these two privileged people wallow in. They are the little children of the title who suddenly realize they are adults and \\"have nothing to show for it.\\" The reader is told through backstories of how Todd and Sarah, and their respective spouses arrived at this point in their lives. These are fairly well drawn segments, and illustrate how minor decisions can resonate years later, as well as the power of chance in shaping lives (Not that any of this is news to anyone with an ounce of self-reflection). Todd and Sarah's spontaneous solution to such frustration and disappointment with their lives is to have an affair (yawn).<br /><br />The banal melodrama that ensues is hardly biting satire. These are flawed characters, and their pathetic attempt to find happiness in each other is destined for tears. Perrotta's take on their affair is neither particularly insightful or funny (for a funny book about an affair, try Mill Millington's A Certain Chemistry). Hovering in the background, the other main plotline concerns a sex offender recently released from jail who moves into his mother's house in the same neighborhood. This pathetic character (convicted for exposing himself to a Girl Scout and suspected of murdering a missing girl) draws the ire of the community. Through football, Todd falls into the orbit an ex-cop who harasses the man in true vigilante style. The town's NIMBY-ire about the man appears to be satirically over the top--and yet by the end of the book, is apparently justified, leaving one confused as to the ultimate message. Either way, the subplot feels wholly artificial, as if it were grafted on from another book.<br /><br />A rather dismal outing from Perrotta, but one that he's apparently developing for the screen with writer/director Todd Field, whose last film was the highly acclaimed 2001 feature \\"In the Bedroom.\\"other is destined for tears. Perrotta's take on their affair is neither particularly insightful or funny (for a funny book about an affair, try Mill Millington's A Certain Chemistry). Hovering in the background, the other main plotline concerns a sex offender recently released from jail who moves into his mother's house in the same neighborhood. This pathetic character (convicted for exposing himself to a Girl Scout and suspected of murdering a missing girl) draws the ire of the community. Through football, Todd falls into the orbit an ex-cop who harasses the man in true vigilante style. The town's NIMBY-ire about the man appears to be satirically over the top--and yet by the end of the book, is apparently justified, leaving one confused as to the ultimate message. Either way, the subplot feels wholly artificial, as if it were grafted on from another book. <br /> <br />A rather dismal outing from Perrotta, but one that he's apparently developing for the screen with writer/director Todd Field, whose last film was the highly acclaimed 2001 feature \\"In the Bedroom.\\"	2004-12-29
409067:US	52254603	R3RHAQY9ONJ02P	0375414541	836686168	Snakepit	Books	3	4	5	N	N	A Muddled Tale of Evil	The modern history of the region now known as Uganda is utterly dominated by the bizarre and terrifying rule of that most clownish of despots, Idi Amin. In this, his second novel, Isegawa attempts to explore the notion of individual responsibility under such a regime. The main protagonist in this story is recent Cambridge graduate Bat Katanga, a math whiz who returns to his native country around 1973, just after Amin has kicked out the many Indians who lived there. Seeing opportunity in the misfortune of these others, Bat manages to land a high position in the MInistry of Power and Communication. The other primary player in the story is Bat's patron, General \\"Bazooka\\", who is cut of an altogether different cloth. One of the highly uneducated army officers from the South who stormed the palace in the 1971 Amin-led coup that removed Prime Minister Milton Obote, the General is an established member of the dictator's inner circle.<br /><br />The duo's stories, and that of many members of their two families (and not a few other people) provide plenty of material for Isegawa to paint a very grim portrait of Uganda under Amin. Arbitrary violence, Caligulan decadence, and thoroughly pervasive corruption started at the very top and filtered through the entire ruling structure. The hollowness of civic institutions and the proliferation of guns led to an utter breakdown in civil society, which in turn led to cycles of revenge. As if this wasn't enough, an increasingly cocaine-addicted Amin relied more heavily on his two strange advisors: the renown astrologer Dr. Ali ($10,000 session) and the cunning Englishman Robert Ashes (modeled after the real-life adventurer Bob Astles, who became Amin's confidante). While all this certainly makes great material for a writer, the novel suffers from several flaws.<br /><br />One of these is Isegawa's decision to blend fact and fiction to ill effect. It's not clear why he's created this character of Ashes, when the real-life Astles was such a strange story unto himself. Similarly, Idi Amin's real antics were so outlandish that there's no need for Isegawa to have invented new ones, such as the notion that Amin made several movies in Hollywood where he starred as Mussolini, or that he released a banknote showing him using Europe as a cesspit. A second, and more major flaw, is Isegawa's inability to stay in once place or with one character for very long. The book has no rhythm or pace whatsoever, lurching from scene to scene and character to character in its attempt to paint a broad picture. (A more cohesive fictional examination of Amin's rule is Giles Foden's \\"The Last King of Scotland\\".) Finally, the book is rather confusing when it comes to who has the ability to do what. For example, sometimes General Bazooka can perpetrate the most heinous outrages, and other times not. It's never clear why Ashes is considered untouchable some of the time, and not others.<br /><br />In the end, these flaws don't obscure the book's true theme, which is an exploration of how people respond to despotism and brutality. Although they are carefully constructed to come from opposite backgrounds, Isegawa seems to be saying that both the General and Bat are complicit in the evil regime. In other words, while the violent thug is easily recognizable as evil, the intellectual whose \\"victimless\\" work supports the regime is perhaps equally evil. And naturally, in the end, it is the innocent who suffer most of all.<br /><br />PS. For a \\"where are they now\\" glimpse of Amin's exile in Saudi Arabia before his death last year, see Italian journalist Ricardo Orizio's fascinating book \\"Talk of the Devil.\\"s such a strange story unto himself. Similarly, Idi Amin's real antics were so outlandish that there's no need for Isegawa to have invented new ones, such as the notion that Amin made several movies in Hollywood where he starred as Mussolini, or that he released a banknote showing him using Europe as a cesspit. A second, and more major flaw, is Isegawa's inability to stay in once place or with one character for very long. The book has no rhythm or pace whatsoever, lurching from scene to scene and character to character in its attempt to paint a broad picture. (A more cohesive fictional examination of Amin's rule is Giles Foden's \\"The Last King of Scotland\\".) Finally, the book is rather confusing when it comes to who has the ability to do what. For example, sometimes General Bazooka can perpetrate the most heinous outrages, and other times not. It's never clear why Ashes is considered untouchable some of the time, and not others.  <br /> <br />In the end, these flaws don't obscure the book's true theme, which is an exploration of how people respond to despotism and brutality. Although they are carefully constructed to come from opposite backgrounds, Isegawa seems to be saying that both the General and Bat are complicit in the evil regime. In other words, while the violent thug is easily recognizable as evil, the intellectual whose \\"victimless\\" work supports the regime is perhaps equally evil. And naturally, in the end, it is the innocent who suffer most of all.  <br /> <br />PS. For a \\"where are they now\\" glimpse of Amin's exile in Saudi Arabia before his death last year, see Italian journalist Ricardo Orizio's fascinating book \\"Talk of the Devil.\\"	2004-12-29
409444:US	52254603	RYL3KI5GSBF9R	0156001284	161127756	Biografi: A Traveler's Tale	Books	1	5	15	N	N	Suckers...	During the Cold War, Albania was one of the most closed countries in the world to the West. Under the brutal and bizarre totalitarian regime of Enver Hoxha, the population suffered unthinkable deprivations while the country's secret police compiled bizarre profiles of virtually every citizen (the biografis of the title). When the Eastern Bloc crumbled in 1991, the first thing many of the young did upon discovering newly open borders was to try and flee to Greece and Italy. This book by a writer from New Zealand purports to be the account of several trips there in the early '90s in an attempt to discover this newly free country and learn why its people were fleeing as fast as they could. This would be a hugely welcome window into Albania for readers in the West if it weren't for the the problem that the book is at least partially fiction. Even worse, it's very difficult to tell just what is true and what isn't.<br /><br />Although it looks like a non-fiction travelogue and catalogued as such by the Library of Congress, at some level the book is a hoax. Jones begins by describing how his interest in Albania was sparked by an eccentric neighbor in New Zealand. This neighbor was an amateur radio enthusiast, and became enamored of Radio Tirana, and ultimately all things Albanian. Upon the collapse of communism, the Jones read the story of a dentist who had been the dictator Hoxha's body double. Intrigued, he set out to discover Albania, and hopefully this double. It is the quest for this double that is the framework for Jones' exploration of Albania, where he finds an incredibly poor and malnourished population eager to share stories of deprivation and torture under communist rule. The only problem is that there never was any double, nor any accounts of there being one.<br /><br />Not that Jones ever tells you this. Rather, one would have to do some research outside the book to learn this. And this calls into question what parts ofthe book are real and what aren't. To be sure, the stories of suffering under Hoxha's rule sound authentic and mirror other accounts, but did Jones actually ever travel there and talk to people? There's a portion where he has tea with the former ruler's wife, and this almost certainly is a fabrication. But who can tell? Either way, the entire project is compromised and a betrayal of anyone seeking to learn more about modern Albania. Had it simply been labeled as fiction, it would be an interesting work, and perhaps one should congratulate Jones on accomplishing such a devious piece of misdirection, but it seems a betrayal of the suffering of the Albanian people to do so.To be sure, the stories of suffering under Hoxha's rule sound authentic and mirror other accounts, but did Jones actually ever travel there and talk to people? There's a portion where he has tea with the former ruler's wife, and this almost certainly is a fabrication. But who can tell? Either way, the entire project is compromised and a betrayal of anyone seeking to learn more about modern Albania. Had it simply been labeled as fiction, it would be an interesting work, and perhaps one should congratulate Jones on accomplishing such a devious piece of misdirection, but it seems a betrayal of the suffering of the Albanian people to do so.	2004-12-29
409645:US	52254603	R21X8QR83R5G1W	0865476993	335719331	Facing Athens: Encounters with the Modern City	Books	4	26	26	N	N	Unvarnished and Necessary	This slim book is most definitely not a travel guide to Athens, and anyone treating it as such is bound to be disappointed. Nor is it a comprehensive impartial journalistic assessment of the city complete with bibliography and footnotes. And unlike all too many books on European cities such as London, Paris, Prague, Venice, etc, it is not a \\"celebration\\" of Athens aimed at armchair travelers looking for insights into customs and culture. Rather, it is one man's attempt to return to the city of his not-so-distant youth and take its pulse in an attempt to understand the changes that have taken place over the last two or three decades. In that sense, it is a very reflective and personal book--more of a memoir--and yet one that will reward the reader looking for a more intimate portrait of Athens than is typically found in bookstores or travel magazines.<br /><br />Sarrinikolaou spent the first ten years of his life in Athens before his family relocated to New York. For this book, he returned to wander the streets of his birthplace, living in a rented apartment and tagging along with distant cousins and friends and friends to social events. The dominant themes are ones that are central (though hardly exclusive) to modern Greece: urban sprawl, suburban flight, immigration, and class. Some may find these themes \\"depressing\\" or \\"negative\\", however to ignore them is to ignore the primary challenges facing the city.<br /><br />Sarrinikolaou discusses how the city's wealthy have mostly migrated to suburbs where larger homes can be built, abandoning the center of the city, which is in turn repopulated with immigrants eager to take advantage of the decaying cheap housing. This runs counter to the widely popular notion that immigrants are \\"invading\\" neighborhoods and somehow pushing out longtime residents (as if they had the economic clout to do so). In one neighborhood, he encounters a small group of man apparently acting as self-appointed sentries, not allowing Albanians to pass through. Albanians are key players in the story of modern Athens, and function in much the same way as Mexicans do in the United States. After enduring the bizarre and brutal totalitarian regime of Enver Hoxha during the Cold War, large numbers fled to Greece and Italy after the collapse of communism and now form a cheap labor pool for the bottom of the service sector. (The illegal immigration pipeline from Albania is the basis of the plot in Petros Markaris's plodding crime novel Deadline in Athens.) Here, Sarrinikolaou isn't afraid to call Greece's \\"traditional xenophobia\\" what it is: racism.<br /><br />Indeed, nothing is off-limits, as he deals with the sacred cow of religion. Attending services at different Greek Orthodox churches, he notices that he is generally the youngest attendee (he's in his early 30s), and questions to what extent the services are empty recitations of comforting rituals, as opposed to true celebrations of faith. The national health care system is held to the light and found wanting when his grandfather is taken ill and doctors must be bribed to complete the life-saving operation (in theory, health-care is available to all citizens for free in Greece). Other targets include conspicuous consumption, the role of money in sexual relations, a nice little bit about soccer, and, of course, the corruption which is utterly pervasive. There's a certain element of airing dirty laundry going on, but one gets a Nixon-going-to-China sense that only a Greek could have written this book. Written in a deeply personal style, it's unlikely to have as much resonance with anyone who hasn't been to Athens, but it's required reading for anyone interested in the city that lies under the Parthenon.o pass through. Albanians are key players in the story of modern Athens, and function in much the same way as Mexicans do in the United States. After enduring the bizarre and brutal totalitarian regime of Enver Hoxha during the Cold War, large numbers fled to Greece and Italy after the collapse of communism and now form a cheap labor pool for the bottom of the service sector. (The illegal immigration pipeline from Albania is the basis of the plot in Petros Markaris's plodding crime novel Deadline in Athens.) Here, Sarrinikolaou isn't afraid to call Greece's \\"traditional xenophobia\\" what it is: racism. <br /> <br />Indeed, nothing is off-limits, as he deals with the sacred cow of religion. Attending services at different Greek Orthodox churches, he notices that he is generally the youngest attendee (he's in his early 30s), and questions to what extent the services are empty recitations of comforting rituals, as opposed to true celebrations of faith. The national health care system is held to the light and found wanting when his grandfather is taken ill and doctors must be bribed to complete the life-saving operation (in theory, health-care is available to all citizens for free in Greece). Other targets include conspicuous consumption, the role of money in sexual relations, a nice little bit about soccer, and, of course, the corruption which is utterly pervasive. There's a certain element of airing dirty laundry going on, but one gets a Nixon-going-to-China sense that only a Greek could have written this book. Written in a deeply personal style, it's unlikely to have as much resonance with anyone who hasn't been to Athens, but it's required reading for anyone interested in the city that lies under the Parthenon.	2004-12-28
410470:US	52254603	RZU3TDKNVZJXJ	1932557040	530740000	A Prayer for Dawn	Books	2	8	21	N	N	Trying Way Too Hard To Transgress	In retrospect, I'm not sure why I thought buying this novel was a good idea. On the one hand it was by an indie press (I'm a sucker for indie presses),  it had a compelling cover, and it bore the intriguing designation \\"A Thrash Novel\\" below the title. And on the other hand--and this is a hand which I should have recognized as being a massive fist, crushing all else in its meaty grasp--the author's bio on the back includes the words \\"performance artist.\\" Now, I'm not dead-set against performance art, it's just that of the performance art I've seen 75% is flat-out awful, another 20% is passable if unremarkable, and about 5% is actually interesting. The vast majority of my experience with performance art is that the artist is desperately attempting to be as provocative and rebellious as all get-out, only to end up flailing about in a clich&eacute;-ridden frenzy of half-formed ideas--which is precisely the failing of Singer's debut novel.<br /><br />The story, in as much as Singer is interested in telling a story (which isn't much), revolves around an underground artist and various figures in his life, including his daughter, his patron, his publicist, his buddy from jail, and other assorted figures. This artist's work is sooooo provocative that people actually vomit upon encountering it for the first time (a fantasy of Singer's own career?). Alas, when described, this artwork amounts to little more than hyper-violent tableaus featuring an angry and massively endowed pedophile. Of course, one of the perils of writing about art in this way is that no image you can build with words can possibly convey the intensity it's supposed to generate to the characters in the book. And in an age when the most horrorshow real-life images possible are easily discovered online, are we supposed to believe that people will be so shocked by art?<br /><br />Of course, the whole novel is an exaggerated, over-the-top kaleidoscope, not unlike the film Natural Born Killers in its approach. The multiple narrators allow Singer to show off his stylistic dexterity, echoing the voices of an underground artist (not exactly a stretch), a adolescent girl, a take-no-prisoners un-PC columnist, a freestyle rapper, a law-and-order sheriff, a gay teenager, a rich guilt-ridden publicist, and a few forgettable others. I will give Singer some credit for being able to capably mimic a variety of voices and styles on paper. However, the characters are such oversized cartoons that one is hard-pressed to care about any of them or what happens to them.<br /><br />The real failure, however, is not one of imagination, but rather of ideas. Singer's clearly got a lot of 'em, especially when it comes to censorship, the police, race politics, sexual politics, and the general oppressiveness of mainstream society. Alas, they never emerge as more than a series of increasing tedious and clich&eacute;d set-piece dud grenades lobbed at the status quo. Police beatdown of a black motorist, cocaine-fueled orgy at a mansion, police riot at a Free Mumia rally, gay teenager's finds love in the back of a van, AIM plot to blow up Mt. Rushmore, etc. None of this is particularly original material, and the only people who might get their minds blown by how transgressive and rebellious this is are high-schoolers who haven't discovered Hunter S. Thompson yet. The shame of it all is that Singer and I probably share 95% of our political and cultural values. Where we diverge is how that is expressed, and one can only hope that his work will outgrow the sophomoric stage it's at right now.ultiple narrators allow Singer to show off his stylistic dexterity, echoing the voices of an underground artist (not exactly a stretch), a adolescent girl, a take-no-prisoners un-PC columnist, a freestyle rapper, a law-and-order sheriff, a gay teenager, a rich guilt-ridden publicist, and a few forgettable others. I will give Singer some credit for being able to capably mimic a variety of voices and styles on paper. However, the characters are such oversized cartoons that one is hard-pressed to care about any of them or what happens to them. <br /> <br />The real failure, however, is not one of imagination, but rather of ideas. Singer's clearly got a lot of 'em, especially when it comes to censorship, the police, race politics, sexual politics, and the general oppressiveness of mainstream society. Alas, they never emerge as more than a series of increasing tedious and clichd set-piece dud grenades lobbed at the status quo. Police beatdown of a black motorist, cocaine-fueled orgy at a mansion, police riot at a Free Mumia rally, gay teenager's finds love in the back of a van, AIM plot to blow up Mt. Rushmore, etc. None of this is particularly original material, and the only people who might get their minds blown by how transgressive and rebellious this is are high-schoolers who haven't discovered Hunter S. Thompson yet. The shame of it all is that Singer and I probably share 95% of our political and cultural values. Where we diverge is how that is expressed, and one can only hope that his work will outgrow the sophomoric stage it's at right now.	2004-12-28
429593:US	52254603	R39HKWPUCYFHS1	0812966627	445955952	10th Grade: A Novel	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Modestly Entertaining	Written from the perspective of a 15-year-old, Weisberg's debut is the journal of a New Jersey boy as he enters and progresses through 10th grade in 1981 or thereabouts. The conceit here is that the prose is supposed to mirror the syntax, vocabulary and punctuation one might find in such a teenagers journal. So, one encounters entire pages without commas, sentences that run on and on and on, and the use of numerals such as 1, 2, 3, instead of the words one, two, three. Weisberg has exaggerated these stylistic tics for comedy sake, but the end result is that the book is a bit of a trial to read. Yes, it makes sense in context, but it's a gimmick that wears thin very early (and will doubtless insult many a 10th-grader). The diarist, Jeremy, is somewhat of an everyman. This is both a positive and negative: the easy-go-lucky good-hearted kid doesn't do anything extreme that might alienate the reader, but he's so average that the reader never gets much of a feel for him. Yes, he's likeable and inoffensive, and you root for him, but he never truly comes alive as a living, breathing character. And yet his relatively smooth journey through the ups and downs of sophomore year makes for a modestly enjoyable read.<br /><br />The bulk of the story revolves around his friendships and a secret crush on the new girl at school. At first he falls in with a circle of pseudo-outsiders: one fat girl, one hot girl (who has a 23-year-old boyfriend), one cynical guy, and a plain girl. They hang out together at lunch and in various people's rec rooms. A lot of this is pitch perfect, as the group subtly shifts to include him, and it becomes clear over time that one of the girls is interested in him. His own ambivalence to her is slightly implausible, as he's holding out for someone better looking. In 10th grade hormones are running awfully high, and it's a little hard to buy his rejection of the girl. Still, it's nice to find a teen character that doesn't instantly tear his clothes off, or isn't so eager to try pot.<br /><br />Eventually, Jeremy is accidentally absorbed into the cool jock and cheerleader crowd. This shifting of friendships between groups is done well, and Weisberg wisely avoids any of the many potential cliche pitfalls that might have been tempting. Along the way, there are lots of little pictures drawn of Spanish class, his soccer season, trips to New York to buy clothes with his father, evaluating the breasts of his classmates, and the first acquisition of porn. The book climaxes with the prom and post-prom party, where Jeremy's first sexual encounter occurs with an unexpected partner. This is not a book to read for stunning insight into a 10th grader's mind, not is it a particularly vivid slice of early '80s nostalgia (only passing references to Air Supply and Meatloaf lyrics, a Charlie's Angels poster, a player on the NY Knicks, and mentions of Izod shirts give the story any sense of time). Rather, it is a moderately humorous and wry take on what a typical white, suburban boy's 10th grade experience might be--and kind of a pain in the butt to read.r isn't so eager to try pot.  <br /> <br />Eventually, Jeremy is accidentally absorbed into the cool jock and cheerleader crowd. This shifting of friendships between groups is done well, and Weisberg wisely avoids any of the many potential cliche pitfalls that might have been tempting. Along the way, there are lots of little pictures drawn of Spanish class, his soccer season, trips to New York to buy clothes with his father, evaluating the breasts of his classmates, and the first acquisition of porn. The book climaxes with the prom and post-prom party, where Jeremy's first sexual encounter occurs with an unexpected partner. This is not a book to read for stunning insight into a 10th grader's mind, not is it a particularly vivid slice of early '80s nostalgia (only passing references to Air Supply and Meatloaf lyrics, a Charlie's Angels poster, a player on the NY Knicks, and mentions of Izod shirts give the story any sense of time). Rather, it is a moderately humorous and wry take on what a typical white, suburban boy's 10th grade experience might be--and kind of a pain in the butt to read.	2004-12-09
433015:US	52254603	R1SDJ9ULXAX1DX	0312329032	259424112	Carl Melcher Goes to Vietnam	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Serviceable Vietnam War Novel	Clayton's semi-autobiographical account of an infantryman's tour of duty in the Vietnam War is perfectly serviceable, but offers no new insights or perspectives to the already large body of fiction about that most regrettable of American military escapades. Told from the first person perspective of Philadelphia native and college dropout Carl, the story begins with his arrival in Vietnam in a 747 passenger jet. From the very beginning, Carl's tour follows predictable patterns and is peopled with thinly realized characters. He is assigned to a remote firebase where life is relatively tranquil&oacute;most of his time is spent in the camp hanging out with his squad and a conscientious objector medic who is full of Deep Thoughts.<br /><br />The bulk of the book is full of familiar incidents and stock characters. The beloved father-figure squad leader, short-timer gets killed in a senseless manner. There's racial tension as good-looking quarterback type butts heads with a strong-willing black soldier only to end up as good friends. The motormouth guy on his second tour is alternatingly annoying and engaging&oacute;he'll buy it too of course. The quiet intense guy flips out and kills himself. Most officers are avuncular, and then a martinet shows up and the easygoing atmosphere is transformed. Jungle patrols are tense and grueling. Combat is sudden and chaotic. A local French/Vietnamese girl catches Carl's eye and they have a platonic relationship. All of this is fine, but we've seen it all before, and from better writers.<br /><br />Clayton's prose is about as simple as it gets, and not in a good way. There's no eye for detail and no ability to describe a setting so that it comes alive. It just reads flat, and about 2/3 of the way through the book, you realize that almost every single character Carl comes to like will be killed. To some degree, every perspective on the Vietnam War is worthwhile, as it helps one to build a larger mental image of the war. Certainly, if you know little about the war or haven't read any other fiction about it, or seen any films, it'll be interesting. However, for those who've read other Vietnam fiction, this doesn't cover any new ground or offer a new way of looking at the war. It's not bad, just not that compelling.le about the war or haven't read any other fiction about it, or seen any films, it'll be interesting. However, for those who've read other Vietnam fiction, this doesn't cover any new ground or offer a new way of looking at the war. It's not bad, just not that compelling.	2004-12-06
439393:US	52254603	RR8UIR7Q372V	0440418321	994627826	The Golden Compass: His Dark Materials	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Solid Start to the Trilogy	I'd been hearing so many good things for so long about Pullman's \\"Dark Materials\\" trilogy that I finally managed to carve out time to read this first volume. The book is set in a world largely resembling ours, but with a few twists. Much of the story takes place in an England that is curious mix of the Victorian, Middle, and Edwardian eras, and although much is left purposefully vague, there's a distinct feudal aspect to society. However, the most important geopolitical mutation of this world is the apparent unification of Europe under the domination of a papacy that rules from Geneva. While this large scale geopolitical context proves to be rather important plotwise, the story is more concerned with one little girl living in Oxford.<br /><br />Lyra is a classic heroine of children's fantasy. Orphaned, her powerful noble uncle has placed her in the care of the scholars of the fictional Jordan College. With the run of the school, she is a wild and precocious child, leading the servants' children in wars against other tribes of ragamuffins. An inveterate tomboy, she is also stubborn, cheerful, and incredibly loyal. All of these are familiar traits of the child heroine, but Pullman balances them with a realistic naivite, stupidity, and hubris. At the start of the book, we encounter Lyra hiding in a closet, where she eavesdrops on a meeting of adults speaking of very important matters beyond her understanding but which form the central conflict of the book. It seems that mysterious charged particles have recently been discovered which interact differently with adults than with children. These manifestations, which seem to concentrate in the frozen north, are believed to be somehow linked to original sin. Soon after this meeting, Lyra is told she is too old to stay in the care of the college faculty. A beautiful and enchanting woman arrives, and Lyra is delighted to become her ward. Of course, all is not as it seems...<br /><br />A a few adventures and important discoveries later, Lyra is on a cross-country quest to the North to find her playmate (who is one of many children who have disappeared across the country), and free her uncle (who has been imprisoned by the mercenary bears who rule the North). Both of these objectives will obviously tie into the important meeting from the beginning of the book. Lyra travels with the aid of the Gyptians (a riverborne nomadic people), and their gruff and good-natured king. Of course, in any quest, additional allies must be picked up along the way, and Lyra is joined by a hot air balloon pilot from Texas, an armored bear in exile, and a tribe of witches. The witches are much more interesting than the standard issue variety, and the armored bears are a fascinating creation. Pullman has invented several other outstanding elements, most importantly the personal daemon that every person has. These are small animals that are empathically bonded to their human, and can communicate with them. If a person's daemon is killed, they either die or enter a sort of catatonic state. The link between daemons and their humans is a central symbol in the book and becomes very important to the plot once Lyra reaches the North. Another fascinating creation is the \\"alethiometer\\" which is entrusted to Lyra. The \\"golden compass\\" of the title, it's a mix of truth-telling device and predictor of the future, which Lyra instinctively knows how to use.<br /><br />By the end, I have to admit that while the excellent prose and basic trappings kept the pages turning, the plotline around the \\"dust\\" and the church's interest in it never quite held my interest. Clearly there is a deep criticism of organized religion at work, and it's equally clear that Pullman is drawing heavily on Milton's \\"Paradise Lost\\", and a whole host of other influences. Alas, the references will be rather obscure to anyone not well-versed in organized Christianity and Milton, or else all too obvious, such as the name of Lyra's uncle (Like many adults in the book, he is not what he seems, but by giving him the name of the Angel of Death, Pullman gives too much away.). As an adventure story, it generally works very well for youngsters, although I wonder whether children would find the \\"dust\\" storyline very interesting. Adults with likely find Lyra rather too perceptive and manipulative for a child of her age, not to mention conveniently prone to overhearing crucial information. However, on the whole, there's a lot to like, and while I'm not racing out to get the next book in the series, I'll definitely read it sometime.ults in the book, he is not what he seems, but by giving him the name of the Angel of Death, Pullman gives too much away.). As an adventure story, it generally works very well for youngsters, although I wonder whether children would find the \\"dust\\" storyline very interesting. Adults with likely find Lyra rather too perceptive and manipulative for a child of her age, not to mention conveniently prone to overhearing crucial information. However, on the whole, there's a lot to like, and while I'm not racing out to get the next book in the series, I'll definitely read it sometime.	2004-11-30
439803:US	52254603	R59QGGBR3ZA8V	0060566701	695590648	Sharpe's Havoc: Richard Sharpe & the Campaign in Northern Portugal, Spring 1809 (Richard Sharpe's Adventure Series #7)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Book 2.5 in the Series	After leaving the Peninsular Wars behind for the last several Sharpe books, Cornwell returns to the roots of the series with this 19th entry, which occupies part of the gap in time between the first two (Sharpe's Rifles and Sharpe's Eagle). Here we find Sharpe and his riflemen in Portugal, detached from the army which has retreated from Oporto. They've been assigned by Col. Hogan to help the mysterious Col. Christopher locate a young Englishwoman who has gone missing during the evacuation of the city. Christopher is a shifty fellow, not Army, but actually a Foreign Office envoy with a vague brief to suss out the political landscape. Early on, something smells fishy about Christopher, and when he arrogantly dismisses Sharpe, the seeds are sown for his development into a full-fledged villain.<br /><br />All the basic elements of the Sharpe adventure are present and accounted for, although there's nothing particularly novel about them. As always, Sharpe is off on his own, under his own initiative leading his men. Once dismissed from helping Christopher, Sharpe finds himself cut off behind enemy lines with the remnants of a Portuguese unit. As the small band of about a hundred men make their way cross country, they end up running into both Christopher and the missing girl. Ordered to stay put, they wind up fortifying a hilltop location and defending it against a vast French force. This small unit action is fierce and well-rendered, as always.<br /><br />Eventually, Sharpe leads his force back to friendly lines, and provides a rather crucial logistical service en route. There he is not only reunited with Col. Hogan, but with General Wellesley, the man who raised him from the ranks in India. Also present is the cruel Lord Pumphrey, who Sharpe encountered in Copenhagen. It is confirmed that Christopher has turned traitor, and Sharpe is assigned the task of killing him. And since Christopher has also absconded with the young Englishwoman, Sharpe has extra incentive to track this nasty piece of work down. The tension builds as Sharpe and a few picked men race the French Army to the border so that they can snipe at Christopher from afar. This also allows Cornwell to describe the routing of the French forces, as well as the heroism of a French Major. Although the elements are all what one expects, they are expertly woven as ever, and the book is effortlessly entertaining.track this nasty piece of work down. The tension builds as Sharpe and a few picked men race the French Army to the border so that they can snipe at Christopher from afar. This also allows Cornwell to describe the routing of the French forces, as well as the heroism of a French Major. Although the elements are all what one expects, they are expertly woven as ever, and the book is effortlessly entertaining.	2004-11-30
442081:US	52254603	R1MTRA8ZTHJDC	0297646524	540901653	Dreaming of Strangers	Books	1	0	0	N	N	Dreadful Post-High Fidelity Dreck	I'd heard lots of good things about Thorne, so when I saw this romantic comedy at a charity shop, I picked it up. Sadly, it is utter dreck: an awful stew of post-High Fidelity gimmickry (lists of boyfriends and favorite movies) and ironic '80s nostalgia masquerading as style and humor. I was a teenager who saw \\"Pretty in Pink\\" in the theater, and of the twenty or thirty films referenced in the story, I've seen all but two or three. But it doesn't matter whether you're a film buff or not, because (A) you'll spend the first third of the book trying to sort out the various media characters (and I use the term character loosely here, the people who inhabit the book are so paper thin, they barely qualify as such, instead of names, they might as well be called \\"the freelance producer\\", \\"the up and coming actress\\", \\"the struggling writer\\", \\"the reviewer\\", \\"the party girl\\"); (B) you'll spend the second third of the book waiting for something interesting or funny to happen; and (C) you'll spend the final third grimly slogging through to get to the \\"unexpected finale\\" cited on the cover--only to discover the ending is exactly what you would expect from any common-or-garden romantic comedy. There's a sentence 2/3 of the way through that sums up the book very nicely, without giving anything away: \\"He couldn't believe they'd run into each other so soon after their split. He'd assumed the next time he'd see her would be on TV, not at a restaurant with the boyfriend of a woman with whom he was having a secret affair.\\" Poorly written vapid novels have their place at the beach, but the only reason to take a novel this vapid , lazily written, and unentertaining to the beach is to hurl it in the ocean.	2004-11-28
447329:US	52254603	R4SPRSJ8VFDAP	0500974233	465956447	Cross-Cultural Design: Communicating in the Global Marketplace	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Very Mixed (and Somewhat Dated) Overview	The ten years that have passed since this book's publication has seen a marked increase in globalization and a consequent internationalization of tastes and design. And yet the need for culturally specific design is still strong, and will remain so for decades to come. This survey of some forty design houses and individual designers is intended to provide concrete examples of projects undertaken outside the designers' \\"home\\" culture, explaining the challenges and solutions that lie in such work. In the first fifty pages, American-born and Hong Kong-based designer Henry Steiner provides an overview some of the elements of cross-cultural design, drawing on examples of his own work in the areas of iconography, typography, symbolism, and so forth. The next 150 pages are examples provided by the various designers, with accompanying text. This results in a very mixed bag, some of the text is very cryptic or too brief to be of any insight. Others provide a much better insight into the creative process, the hurdles encountered, and the paths leading to solutions. Alan Taylor's fifteen pages on redesigning identities for Indian, Malaysian, Thai, and Singapore airlines are very well-written and insightful. Another excellent entry is five pages on Pentagram's overhaul of the Mandarin/Oriental Hotels identity. A few of the entries show preliminary designs and sketches leading to the ultimate solution, examples that are of great interest to working designers. Erik Spiekermann's four pages on creating a stamp series for the Dutch postal system is very nice, as is the Duffy Group's spread on a logo for a German bank, and KARO's three pages on a logo for Canadian Airlines. These tend to be the exception however, as many of the examples simply aren't discussed very well and don't have much to offer. Most disappointing are the 18 fairly useless pages on the Japanese designer Eiko, who is best known for set design. Ultimately the book is moderately interesting if you're a graphic designer, what's perhaps most interesting about it is how poorly the mid-80s to mid-90s design work has held up over time.gner, what's perhaps most interesting about it is how poorly the mid-80s to mid-90s design work has held up over time.	2004-11-23
447899:US	52254603	RFZ9D4BSRDSQ	1860460054	542961949	The Conspiracy & Other Stories	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Estonia Under the Nazi/Soviet Yoke	Kross is a well-known writer in Europe, and has been mentioned as a potential Nobel Prize winner at times. In these six stories he turns his attention to the plight of his native Estonia, during and after World War II. Throughout its history Estonia existed as a small principality passed back and forth between German and Russian hands, and the second World War proved to be an exaggerated microcosm of this fragile situation as the Germans conquered it in 1941, only to have it retaken by Soviet forces in 1944. Estonia's young men were conscripted into armies on both sides, and in one horrible instance, were forced to fight one another at the Battle of Velikiye Luki. The six stories here illustrate the complexities of trying to navigate and simply survive in such extreme times. Told with dark humor and pathos, they are gripping and tragic tales. The protagonist of each is Peeter Mirk, who ages from a young legal student to middle-aged intellectual over the course of the stories (which proceed chronologically from 1939 to the late 1950s). Mirk is a thinly veiled version of the author, with the same background and same experiences as Kross, who studied law, was imprisoned by the Germans for a time, spied on the Germans, and was then imprisoned for eight years by the Soviets in 1946.<br /><br />The first two stories (\\"The Wound\\" and \\"Lead Piping\\") outline attempts at the start of the war, when Estonia was occupied by the Soviets, to escape Germany and Finland. It was a time when a population of often very mixed lineage was forced to pick a side, and many with German backgrounds took up Hitler's invitation to emigrate, while many others sought freedom in Finland and further abroad. In both stories, Peeter encounters former classmates whom he tries to assist in getting abroad, only to see their efforts ending badly. The third story (\\"The Stahl Grammar\\") also starts with the tale of an ill-fated escape (this time Peeter's), but is more concerned with the status of imprisonment. The psychological games that are played by the German captors, and the mind's inability to stand of firm footing. The fourth and title story (\\"The Conspiracy\\") takes place entirely within a prison, this time under Soviet watch. Here, Kross describes all twenty or so cell mates and the \\"crimes\\" that got them here--a biting indictment of the Soviet era and the ideological correctness required at all times. As in the other stories, the smallest decisions or thoughtless acts end up having staggering repercussions in such times. \\"The Ashtray\\" continues the prison motif, here on a train to the gulag and a camp en route. The randomness and fickleness of fate places Peeter in the one place he might actually survive his sentence. Finally, \\"The Day His Eyes Are Opened\\" rounds things off rather weakly with an eavesdropped conversation in a train. An old woman's faith and resilience are on display as she goes to meet her husband, who is emerging from the gulag after ten years. It's presumably meant as a self-rebuke by the author, who managed to make it through those years relatively unscathed, but feels rather clumsy and forced when placed next to the ironic elegance of the other five stories.<br /><br />The prose is rather more formal and removed than many readers will be used to, and yet it's highly readable and very well translated, with explanatory notes when needed, and a fine introduction. Kross has better-known works in translation, such as The Czar's Madman, but this is an excellent introduction to Estonia's foremost modern writer as well as a nation that has seen much suffering.ment. The psychological games that are played by the German captors, and the mind's inability to stand of firm footing. The fourth and title story (\\"The Conspiracy\\") takes place entirely within a prison, this time under Soviet watch. Here, Kross describes all twenty or so cell mates and the \\"crimes\\" that got them here--a biting indictment of the Soviet era and the ideological correctness required at all times. As in the other stories, the smallest decisions or thoughtless acts end up having staggering repercussions in such times. \\"The Ashtray\\" continues the prison motif, here on a train to the gulag and a camp en route. The randomness and fickleness of fate places Peeter in the one place he might actually survive his sentence. Finally, \\"The Day His Eyes Are Opened\\" rounds things off rather weakly with an eavesdropped conversation in a train. An old woman's faith and resilience are on display as she goes to meet her husband, who is emerging from the gulag after ten years. It's presumably meant as a self-rebuke by the author, who managed to make it through those years relatively unscathed, but feels rather clumsy and forced when placed next to the ironic elegance of the other five stories.  <br /> <br />The prose is rather more formal and removed than many readers will be used to, and yet it's highly readable and very well translated, with explanatory notes when needed, and a fine introduction. Kross has better-known works in translation, such as The Czar's Madman, but this is an excellent introduction to Estonia's foremost modern writer as well as a nation that has seen much suffering.	2004-11-22
448222:US	52254603	R2VMRWIHM9EIZJ	1401300421	751773869	Modern Ranch Living: A Novel	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	Another Strong Work from Poirier	Poirier's latest book returns to the Tuscon setting of his excellent previous novel, Goats, to meander through a long, hot summer in the lives of two somewhat strange neighbors in a suburban gated community. Kendra Lumm is a fitness-obsessed teenager, spending hours every day running, swimming, weightlifting, and eating right. Aside from her body, her main concerns are her genius/nerd older brother, her anger management therapy sessions, her strange (and hilarious) verbal syntax, and the mysterious disappearance of the boy down the street who kinda-sorta-not really used to be her boyfriend. Also down the street lives Merv Hunter, a 30 year old water park manager who shares his insomniac mother's home. He's the only one of his prep school friends who never went on to college, and although he's very good at his job and likes it, feels the stigma of never having left home and gone on to bigger and better things.<br /><br />Over the course of the summer, both will meet new people, learn things about themselves, and ultimately grow and mature. There's not much of a plot, per se, rather the book drifts along like the summer, as the reader gets drawn into Kendra and Merv's routine. Hovering the background, and occasionally stepping forward, is the plotline revolving around the the missing boy. A renown huffer of magic markers, he'd last been seen hanging out with some seedy, BMX-riding tweakers (methamphetamine addicts) who also happen to hang out around Merv's water park. However, for the most part, the book just meanders through the summer. Kendra grudgingly goes to her therapy sessions, attends a summer class where she makes a good friend, ponders her brother's sexual orientation, and heaps scorn upon his loser girlfriend. Merv attends to the daily routine at the park (including helping out a rich wheelchair-bound patron who has a debilitating muscular disease), and worries about his mother. A trip up to Phoenix to hang out with his old high school buddies (now pudgy cubicle-bound ex-dot commers) leads to a woman entering his life, and the possibility of a new relationship.<br /><br />There a great deal to enjoy here, from little details about Kendra (for example, like other fitness compulsives, her first evaluation of a person is based of muscle definition and tone), to the way the desert heat comes alive. Characters are constantly in and out of pools, flipping air-conditioning on, and always in search of something to drink. The supporting cast is universally vivid, from the water park's ex-jock security squad, to Kendra's ex-punk parents turned vintage toy seller and golf pro. Interestingly, virtually every adult in the book has some kind of character flaw or problem, and there's a distinctly satirical aspect to anyone who has lots of book learning (examples include a poetry professor, and Harvard Business School grad, and Kendra's therapist). It's all part of Poirier has a skeptical take on traditional authority figures as well as the utility of dominant mass cultural trends and mores. The book's humor is a little hard to convey properly, one hesitates to use the word \\"quirky\\", because that implies a shallowness that the book is far beyond. Yes, there are some over-the-top strange events in the book, and yes, the protagonists are a little strange--but mostly Poirier's people are very human, and the way they act and react to the world around them is very real. Another strong work from one of the most talented young writers around.cubicle-bound ex-dot commers) leads to a woman entering his life, and the possibility of a new relationship. <br /> <br />There a great deal to enjoy here, from little details about Kendra (for example, like other fitness compulsives, her first evaluation of a person is based of muscle definition and tone), to the way the desert heat comes alive. Characters are constantly in and out of pools, flipping air-conditioning on, and always in search of something to drink. The supporting cast is universally vivid, from the water park's ex-jock security squad, to Kendra's ex-punk parents turned vintage toy seller and golf pro. Interestingly, virtually every adult in the book has some kind of character flaw or problem, and there's a distinctly satirical aspect to anyone who has lots of book learning (examples include a poetry professor, and Harvard Business School grad, and Kendra's therapist). It's all part of Poirier has a skeptical take on traditional authority figures as well as the utility of dominant mass cultural trends and mores. The book's humor is a little hard to convey properly, one hesitates to use the word \\"quirky\\", because that implies a shallowness that the book is far beyond. Yes, there are some over-the-top strange events in the book, and yes, the protagonists are a little strange--but mostly Poirier's people are very human, and the way they act and react to the world around them is very real. Another strong work from one of the most talented young writers around.	2004-11-22
449229:US	52254603	R2Q5W1EC9IJBRC	1585672327	797363260	Laughing Gas	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Not His Best	I'm a huge Wodehouse fan, grew up reading him, but I have to say that this particular book is more pedestrian than most of his work. The premise of two consciousness switching corporeal forms is a time-tested plot device, and here it's dressed up with the screwball antics and snappy language one expects from Wodehouse. The gist of it is that the newly minted Earl of Havershot heads off to America to rescue his alcoholic cousin Reggie from the perils of Hollywood dames and booze. Being a very traditional Wodehouse hero (average looking, kind hearted, more or less hapless, and somewhat dense), he manages to become besotted by a vapid movie starlet. Alas, soon after his arrival in Hollywood, he suffers a severe toothache and visits a dentist, resulting the application of the titular vapors.<br /><br />Whilst under the influence, his consciousness gets swapped with that of Joey Cooley, a bratty little child movie star who is having a tooth pulled in the office next door. Wacky antics ensue, as the Earl must succumb to the strict regime of the movie star under contract, including a wholly unpleasant diet, and a packed schedule of publicity appearances. As it happens, his former fiancee is on the scene as a press agent, as is his bon vivant cousin. From then on, wacky antics ensue, as the Earl learns the true colors of his movie star love, realizes the fine qualities of his ex, and of course everything ties up rather neatly at the end. Along the way, Wodehouse is given licence to draw upon his own experiences to poke very mild fun at life in Hollywood. The book feels somewhat rote, probably because it's such a familiar premise, and it reads as if someone took it and applied a Wodehouse-wash to it, and then set it out to dry. My favorite part is actually the very beginning, where the Earl sits in the Drones Club attempting to start telling his wild story. All in all, it's Wodehouse, so of course it's worth reading, but most of his output is much better.	2004-11-21
449286:US	52254603	RGLCTJY4Z4IXQ	1573222739	508656163	The Coma	Books	2	20	26	N	N	An Hour to Kill	I loved all of Garland's previous work, from \\"The Beach\\" to \\"The Tesseract\\" to his creepy story \\"R.S.S.\\" in \\"The Weekenders\\" anthology and his script for the film \\"28 Days Later\\" -- but this was a severe disappointment. The idea at work is hardly original, the execution of it is mostly tepid, and the overall effect is reminiscent of being the only sober person in basement of stoned teenagers discussing consciousness. The line between dream life and reality is a recurring theme in Garland's work -- in \\"The Beach\\" there was the dead man popping up to \\"talk\\" to the protagonist, in \\"The Tesseract\\" there was the researcher recording the dreams of two street urchins, and \\"28 Days Later\\" begins with a man waking from a coma and trying to figure out if he was actually awake and in the \\"real\\" world. In this latest work, we meet a man who tries to intervene with a group of teenagers harassing a woman on the subway, only to get his head kicked in and end up in a coma (if nothing else, reading the book will put a damper on one's instinct to stick up for the innocent).<br /><br />The primary force driving the narrative is the man's quest to unravel his own identity and wake himself up from his coma. The reader is taken down paths which, just like dreams, are somewhat askew and surreal. These are occasionally interesting, such as a bookstore in which the classics have been reduced to their single most famous line, or the record store selling albums where the lyrics are slightly wrong. However, midway through, Garland comes right out and says that it's impossible to represent the strange state of dream consciousness using the written word. That's pretty much a given, but one wishes it could have been a little more interesting. The man becomes obsessed with locating his briefcase, which he believes will contain something that will give him a hint of who is, and thereby allow him to wake himself up. At the end of the book, this finally does happen, but the result is something most readers will have guessed at -- especially if they have watched more than a few episodes of The Twilight Zone.<br /><br />Is Garland a good writer? Certainly. But here he seems to be indulging in an idea mainly of interest to him, and it never really carries much weight. It's reads as if he was striving for a Camusesque novella and falls far short. Speaking of short... this book took me just barely over an hour to read. It's copiously illustrated with evocative simple woodcuts by Garland's father, and the designer has done yeoman's work padding the leading and margins to arrive at the hugely inflated page count. There are much better (and longer) books written from within the coma patient's head, two recent ones that come to mind are Irvine Welsh's \\"Marabou Stork Nightmares\\" and the book that influenced it, Iain Banks' \\"The Bridge.\\"t readers will have guessed at -- especially if they have watched more than a few episodes of The Twilight Zone. <br /> <br />Is Garland a good writer? Certainly. But here he seems to be indulging in an idea mainly of interest to him, and it never really carries much weight. It's reads as if he was striving for a Camusesque novella and falls far short. Speaking of short... this book took me just barely over an hour to read. It's copiously illustrated with evocative simple woodcuts by Garland's father, and the designer has done yeoman's work padding the leading and margins to arrive at the hugely inflated page count. There are much better (and longer) books written from within the coma patient's head, two recent ones that come to mind are Irvine Welsh's \\"Marabou Stork Nightmares\\" and the book that influenced it, Iain Banks' \\"The Bridge.\\"	2004-11-21
449608:US	52254603	R3H1HD6QBIHH1Z	0743256123	667563989	Grosse Pointe Girl: Tales from a Suburban Adolescence	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Well-Told But Well-Worn Coming of Age Story	Thirteen brief chapters charter the coming-of-age of Emma Harris, beginning with her relocation to Detroit's upscale Grosse Point suburbs during the summer before sixth grade. Although capably written, Emma's story is a collage of familiar awkward moments and cliches seen in countless memoirs and movies about the American teenager. In a sense, this gives it a certain warmth and comfort, in a \\"we've all been there, sister\\" kind of way. On the other hand, McCandless never really gives Emma's journey any new twist or perspective, which is a little disappointing. She is immediately befriended by a nice girl next door, whom she ditches as soon as the cool girls start to be nice to her (although why they do is not apparent), and then eventually spurn her in turn. She struggles with the usual uncertainties of her first crush and first kiss, embarrassment of her first period, and disappointment of losing her virginity. In short, all the familiar touchstones of the female coming-of-age story are here, in a well-told, but ultimately well-worn tale.	2004-11-21
455171:US	52254603	R36ZC0J3O3CSDF	0452285186	993169026	The Book of Bunny Suicides: Little Fluffy Rabbits Who Just Don't Want to Live Anymore	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Gorey Meets Larson With a Little Goldberg	I rarely buy books on first sight but one glimpse into this small volume sold me. My wife and I took it home and allotted ourselves to two pages a day to make it last. Then we both took it to work and caused downturns in productivity as we showed it to all our coworkers. Now it sits on the shelf in easy reach and gets brought out whenever people come over. Why?<br /><br />Well, this is simply the funniest thing I've come across in a long time. It's a book of simple black and white cartoon line drawings of bunny rabbits either planning their own demise, or showing the result of their suicide. There is no dialogue (except one sequence involving Darth Vader), no captions, just these ridiculous little rabbits with completely deadpan faces and a sadistic self-destructive streak. The most common comparison is to Gary Larson and the talking animals of his \\"Far Side\\" panels. These are somewhat similar in that they unfold in a single panel and are sublimely ridiculous and clever, but there's also often a Rube Goldberg character to the elaborate suicide plans. In terms of tone however, I think Edward Gorey is perhaps more on the mark, in terms of depicting the darkest deadpan humor possible.<br /><br />Non-Brits should note that some of the jokes depend on being versed in British popular culture. For example, one is only funny if you're familiar with the work of Damien Hirst, another is only funny if you've seen the classic British cult film The Wicker Man, and one requires an understanding of British hand gestures (the \\"peace sign\\" being flashed by a bunny lined up with Nazi soldiers cited by one reviewer is actually something rather more rude...). But for the most part, the humor comes from the hilarious juxtaposition of the earnest bunnies and their tools of suicide, example include: windmill + pickaxe, trampoline + helicopter, stapler + angry dog.<br /><br />In any event, Riley's collection of macabre bunny death is pure brilliance, and will doubtless be popping up on t-shirts and postcards soon--in the meantime, the book makes a great gift.p on t-shirts and postcards soon--in the meantime, the book makes a great gift.	2004-11-16
455387:US	52254603	RRJCJ47FEWHIA	0893818178	658006042	Doors of the Kingdom	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Of Mixed Quality and Limited Interest	Published in conjunction with an exhibit of traditional Saudi doors, this coffee-table book shows traditional doors that are actually still in use throughout the kingdom. A brief introductory essay outlines the differences in style and materials used for construction throughout the four regions of Saudi Arabia. And then it's on to the photographs, which, is has to be said, are somewhat of a disappointment. There are several magnificent doors shown, however in many cases the photographer seems to have had real problems with the natural lighting. Many of the photos are either washed out from being overexposed, or are murky, with details lost in shadows. It's a shame that the photos aren't more consistent, because when they are good, they are very good. Unfortunately, there are also a few instances where somewhere in the book's production, the negative has been flipped. In general though, the book's production is very nice, with rich, thick paper. Interspersed with the photographs is some beautiful calligraphy by the master Mohammed Zakariya. A brief afterword says all the usual things about traditional Islamic art and architecture. All in all, of mixed quality and of limited interest.	2004-11-15
457617:US	52254603	R76R8CSUJW86R	0743451759	560025750	Gone Fishin': Featuring an Original Easy Rawlins Short Story "Smoke" (Easy Rawlins Mysteries (Paperback))	Books	3	8	10	N	N	So-So Prequel to the Easy Rawlins Series	If you've read the Easy Rawlins series, this prequel novella may come as a bit of a surprise. Set in 1939, when Easy is a naive and somewhat innocent 19, it's the story of him and Mouse taking a little road trip from Houston to the bayou country of Pariah, Texas. Mouse is planning to visit his fearsome stepfather to try and get some money out of him to finance his wedding to Etta-Mae. Easy is enlisted as driver on this enterprise, and the tone turns dark right away, when they pick up a hitchhiking young couple. The man is on the run for having possibly beaten another man to death in a bar fight, and his girl is a sexy little flirt who seems to enjoy having men argue over her. Mouse convinces them to let him help, and you know the only thing that will come of it is sex and violence. Mouse leads them all deep into the back country to stay with a strange old witch-like woman, who mixes them potions and weaves a different kind of magic on Easy. Instead of the straightforward realistic crime story readers of the series might expect, this is an atmospheric and sometimes surreal gothic tale. Even in such a brief story, Mosley manages to cram in a lot of characters with their own stories, but it all boils down to Mouse's quest for a portion of his mother's dowry. Of course, everything climaxes in violence, and this so unsettles Easy that he is spurred to leave Houston and join the Army. It's not so much a coming of age story as a loss of innocence one.	2004-11-13
457733:US	52254603	R17OIQ69ZUX9VP	1857020499	816799054	Understanding Conflict Resolution: War, Peace and the Global System	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Touch of Evil	The fictional island of Henrique, a former Portuguese colony just of the coast of Angola, is the setting for Jamba's short second novel. It's a very simple story of evil, narrated in the form of a confessional memoir by a very confused and unhappy man. Nando Luis takes the reader through the key points in his life, beginning with his upbringing in a Catholic orphanage. From his earliest years he is full of jealousy and hatred for those more talented, handsome, and charismatic than him. Two episodes from those days, one in which he destroys a boy's guitar, and another in which he allows a boy to be punished for stealing a book which Nando himself lost, foreshadow dark streak that he will only worsen as he grows older.<br /><br />We find him years later, after the Portuguese have left, working as a journalist for the state newspaper. A talented writer, he spends his days dreaming up new ways of extolling the virtues of the dictator/president and the ostensibly Marxist government. At the same time, he sees how the ruling elite has simply switched from the Portuguese to the venal members of one tribe who lord it over the populace and live in luxury. An avid social climber, he manages to find a woman of this tribe to be his girlfriend. However, after a failed revolution, she is arrested as a dissident, and he denounces her in order to be assured of his own safety. Soon after, he is plucked from his newspaper job, and assigned to be an interrogator at a prison camp for enemies of the state. There, he is given the power to truly indulge his dark side, torturing and killing those he's envied his whole life.<br /><br />Eventually he uneasily realizes that maybe one day the government will fall and he will be punished for the evil he's done. This coincides with the arrival of a Brazilian soap opera to the airwaves of the island, and soon people are naming their babies after characters on the show and even speaking in a Brazilian accent. This is a fairly amusing and interesting interlude in the book, and provides Nando the chance to travel to Brazil, where his assignment is to report on how Brazil isn't actually such a great place. Wandering the streets of Rio, he realizes that he can simply disappear and reinvent himself in this land. Fleeing to Bahia, he is able to to realize a brief time of happiness and looks like he's on the path to a new life, but of course his nature catches up with him. The story asks that age old question of whether evil is something that one is born with, and if so, can it be overcome. It would be easy to blame everything on Nando's being abandoned to the orphanage, and this giving rise to a obsessive need to be loved. However, what causes the need to be loved to mutate into envy and hatred? Jamba offers no easy answers.resting interlude in the book, and provides Nando the chance to travel to Brazil, where his assignment is to report on how Brazil isn't actually such a great place. Wandering the streets of Rio, he realizes that he can simply disappear and reinvent himself in this land. Fleeing to Bahia, he is able to to realize a brief time of happiness and looks like he's on the path to a new life, but of course his nature catches up with him. The story asks that age old question of whether evil is something that one is born with, and if so, can it be overcome. It would be easy to blame everything on Nando's being abandoned to the orphanage, and this giving rise to a obsessive need to be loved. However, what causes the need to be loved to mutate into envy and hatred? Jamba offers no easy answers.	2004-11-13
458805:US	52254603	R2158VDLAJ7I59	0446612316	859287908	Bad Boy Brawly Brown (Easy Rawlins Mysteries)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	LA in 1964	The sixth installment of Mosley's LA-set series opens a few months after the traumatic events of Little Yellow Dog (including the apparent death of his best friend, Mouse). Easy Rawlins is trying to get his life back on track as the woman he met in that last adventure, Bonnie, has moved in with him and his children, Feather and Jesus. However, his old friend John, who did him a few favors in that last book, calls upon Easy for help. John's stepson Brawly seems to have fallen in with a bad crowd of black revolutionaries and John wants Easy to extricate him before anything bad happens. There's a nice subplot about Jesus wanting to drop out of high school, and how Easy deals with that, which ties into the father/son theme that runs strongly throughout the entire series.<br /><br />But this relatively simple favor gets quickly complicated as Brawly proves hard to find and Easy stumbles across yet another dead body (it would be interesting to go through the series and tally up how many times Easy has come across a corpse). Soon he is digging into Brawly's family history, as well as attempting to meet members of the Urban Revolutionary Party. This allows Mosley to show the state of the civil rights movement, which is shown in all shades of gray--from militant, to earnest, to misguided, to naive, to indifferent, and everything in between. It also allows him to highlight the dirty tricks of the FBI and police, who had special clandestine units set up to monitor and sabotage groups like the fictional Urban Revolutionary Party. One minor flaw in the book is the generic feel of this group, they come across as a small collection of earnest, but vaguely naive and misguided people.<br /><br />As usual in the Easy Rawlins series, as he drives around town poking around, lots of characters are introduced--many of which are more interesting than the main characters. Also as usual, what should be relatively straightforward is awfully complicated, and of course the racist police are just waiting to crack some heads. Fortunately for Easy, he keeps hearing the dead Mouse's voice in his head, dispensing advice when things get tough. This device gets pretty cheesy after a while, and one keeps waiting for Mouse to arise from the dead and walk into the story at a crucial point. Another minor flaw with the book is that almost the entire book passes with little information about Brawly, there's little reason for the reader to care about whether Easy rescues him or not. Even Easy starts questioning just how deep he's going to get into the matter, and whether Brawly is worth it. The ultimate solution at the end is rather a neat one, and on the whole, the book is one of the stronger in the series.<br /><br />Note: At one point in the book, Easy makes the angry point that there are no black Ambassadors representing his country. While is is certainly true that America's diplomatic corps has been largely white until the 1970s, in point of fact, the first black Ambassador was appointed in 1948 as envoy to Liberia. His name was Edward Dudley, and his story and that of other early black diplomats is detailed in the book Black Diplomacy: African Americans and the State Department, 1945-1969.re just waiting to crack some heads. Fortunately for Easy, he keeps hearing the dead Mouse's voice in his head, dispensing advice when things get tough. This device gets pretty cheesy after a while, and one keeps waiting for Mouse to arise from the dead and walk into the story at a crucial point. Another minor flaw with the book is that almost the entire book passes with little information about Brawly, there's little reason for the reader to care about whether Easy rescues him or not. Even Easy starts questioning just how deep he's going to get into the matter, and whether Brawly is worth it. The ultimate solution at the end is rather a neat one, and on the whole, the book is one of the stronger in the series. <br /> <br />Note: At one point in the book, Easy makes the angry point that there are no black Ambassadors representing his country. While is is certainly true that America's diplomatic corps has been largely white until the 1970s, in point of fact, the first black Ambassador was appointed in 1948 as envoy to Liberia. His name was Edward Dudley, and his story and that of other early black diplomats is detailed in the book Black Diplomacy: African Americans and the State Department, 1945-1969.	2004-11-12
459652:US	52254603	R2FI4RI5DHPQD1	0060530472	776591520	Sharpe's Escape: Richard Sharpe & the Bussaco Campaign, 1810 (Richard Sharpe's Adventure Series #10)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Another Solid Sharpe Adventure	The twentieth Sharpe book contains everything fans of the series have come to expect from Cornwell. Set in 1810, the story finds the British Army executing a strategic retreat from the overconfident French forces in Spain. Lord Wellington has ordered the land stripped of all food so that the massive French army will overextend itself and face severe logistical problems when it does finally engage the British. Sharpe is by now the Captain of the South Essex's Light Company but finds his leadership being challenged by the new presence of eager-beaver Lt. Slingsby, who has been placed there by the South Essex's commander, Col. Lawford (who happens to be his brother in-law).<br /><br />Early on, Sharpe is out patrolling, and stumbles across some Portuguese and a cache of foodstuffs at a signaling tower. He destroys the supplies, per his standing orders, but not before getting into a vicious fight with the hulking Portuguese owner of the goods. This bruiser is Ferragus, an ex-pirate, ex-slaver, and all-around successful gangster whose brother happens to be a Major of Intelligence for the Portuguese Army. These two brothers fulfill the roles of Sharpe's arch-enemies for the story, while Slingsby and Col. Lawford form the usual army irritants. Following Sharpe's initial victory, Ferragus vows to get even, and finds his chance in the chaos that results when the British pull out of Coimbra just before the French get there. Sharpe, Sgt. Harper, old pal Jorge Vicente (from Sharpe's Havoc) find themselves trapped in the city, along with a beautiful English governess. The middle portion of the book is taken up with their adventures, as they evade their Portuguese foes and the French army. Lots of derring-do, trickery, and the usual bravery and close-quarters fighting. This leads to the final third of the book, in which Sharpe's little band escapes the city and races to reach the British army lines before both Ferragus and the French.<br /><br />Meanwhile, Cornwell provides small glimpses into the activities of the British Army, which entrenches itself in a 40km-long chain of forts. Called the \\"Lines of Torres Vedras\\", they were built at great expense, and yet the French are completely unaware of them. Col. Lawford rather inadvisably orders Slingsby to place the Light Company as a picket on a farm below the forts, and ultimately all forces converge there: Sharpe and company, his Portuguese nemeses, and the lead elements of Marshall Massena's army. What follows is vintage Cornwell, as he simultaneously describes the large-scale fight of the Battle of Busaco, as well as the small-scale defense of the farm by the vastly outnumbered Light Company. It's great stuff, and the only regret is that after such rousing set pieces, and the meting out of just desserts, the book ends all too quickly.small glimpses into the activities of the British Army, which entrenches itself in a 40km-long chain of forts. Called the \\"Lines of Torres Vedras\\", they were built at great expense, and yet the French are completely unaware of them. Col. Lawford rather inadvisably orders Slingsby to place the Light Company as a picket on a farm below the forts, and ultimately all forces converge there: Sharpe and company, his Portuguese nemeses, and the lead elements of Marshall Massena's army. What follows is vintage Cornwell, as he simultaneously describes the large-scale fight of the Battle of Busaco, as well as the small-scale defense of the farm by the vastly outnumbered Light Company. It's great stuff, and the only regret is that after such rousing set pieces, and the meting out of just desserts, the book ends all too quickly.	2004-11-11
460226:US	52254603	R1EFG059QOM50X	0345457714	203262778	Broken Angels (Takeshi Kovacs)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Very Very Very Good, But Not Great	The second Takeshi Kovacs book (following the outstanding Altered Carbon), is less of a character-driven crime novel and more of a sci-fi treasure hunt. Set some 30 years after the events of Altered Carbon (about 500 years ahead of our time), the story begins with Kovacs as an officer in Carrera's Wedge, the most feared mercenary company in the stars. The Wedge is currently employed by the Protectorate to suppress a nasty little insurgency on the relatively insignificant planet of Sanction IV. Kovacs is none too thrilled about his role as enforcer of the multi-planetary conglomerates in the suppression of the pseudo-Marxist rebellion, and when fate offers him the chance to cash in big if he deserts, he grabs it.<br /><br />In the Kovacs series, humans have managed to navigate the stars with the assistance of a rather incomplete understanding of Martian star charts. However, the trick of traveling faster than light hasn't been figured out, so space travel mostly consists of \\"needlecasting,\\" a process in which one's consciousness is digitized, sent, and then \\"resleeved\\" in cortical \\"stacks\\" that are implanted new bodies. The reason Kovacs deserts is that there is a rumor that an intact Martian starship buried on Sanction IV, outside a city blanketed in fallout from the ongoing war. Humanity has never seen a Martian starship, and its worth is incalculable. Kovacs and the slippery character that recruits him make their way to a government concentration camp, where they free the archeologist who had been working on the project.<br /><br />Morgan handles the next part of the story well, as the trio seek out a backer for their scheme. Admirable realism os displayed in walking through how even a band of rogues needs a backer to pay for all the specialized equipment they'll need, even if it means dealing with a corporate executive they can't be sure they can trust. There are various complications in finalizing the plans, including the assembly of a team of specialists. This is one of the most inventive sections of the book, as Kovacs visits a \\"Soul Market\\", where a voodoo figure sells the bloody stacks of war dead by the kilogram! Once finally assembled and debriefed, the team arrives at the site, where they attempt to open a \\"gate\\" to a distant star system where the Martian starship is sitting. While doing so, they must content with not one ticking clock, but two! There is the heavy fallout, which is rapidly killing them with radiation poisoning, and a frightening defensive nanoweaponry system which evolves in response to their countermeasures. And, as with so many team treasure hunts, there is mysterious sabotage, hinting at a traitor in their midst...<br /><br />Up to this point, the book is almost every bit the equal of Broken Angels, however the last quarter or so is a bit disappointing. I'm not a big fan of sci-fi or fantasy where the protagonist is at the center of events that have repercussions for all of humanity, and that's certainly where this one ends up. In both books, Kovacs spouts a lot of angst about his training as a killing machine and how empty and cold-blooded he has become. However in Altered Carbon, all the mayhem he unleashes is more or less deserved, and he does end up making sacrifices to save a person he cares for. In this outing, he kills a lot of innocent bystanders, and rather implausibly becomes emotionally entangled following an intense virtual sex encounter. All of which is to say, while Kovacs is the same character, he sure doesn't seem to act the same. The book is also slowed down a bit by a bit of backstory involving the various factions of Martian archeologists. It's still a very, very good book, and well worth reading if you liked Altered Carbon, or are simply a fan of science fiction. It's full of top-notch action, intrigue, and some of the better-written sex scenes I've encountered lately.his is one of the most inventive sections of the book, as Kovacs visits a \\"Soul Market\\", where a voodoo figure sells the bloody stacks of war dead by the kilogram! Once finally assembled and debriefed, the team arrives at the site, where they attempt to open a \\"gate\\" to a distant star system where the Martian starship is sitting. While doing so, they must content with not one ticking clock, but two! There is the heavy fallout, which is rapidly killing them with radiation poisoning, and a frightening defensive nanoweaponry system which evolves in response to their countermeasures. And, as with so many team treasure hunts, there is mysterious sabotage, hinting at a traitor in their midst... <br /> <br />Up to this point, the book is almost every bit the equal of Broken Angels, however the last quarter or so is a bit disappointing. I'm not a big fan of sci-fi or fantasy where the protagonist is at the center of events that have repercussions for all of humanity, and that's certainly where this one ends up. In both books, Kovacs spouts a lot of angst about his training as a killing machine and how empty and cold-blooded he has become. However in Altered Carbon, all the mayhem he unleashes is more or less deserved, and he does end up making sacrifices to save a person he cares for. In this outing, he kills a lot of innocent bystanders, and rather implausibly becomes emotionally entangled following an intense virtual sex encounter. All of which is to say, while Kovacs is the same character, he sure doesn't seem to act the same. The book is also slowed down a bit by a bit of backstory involving the various factions of Martian archeologists. It's still a very, very good book, and well worth reading if you liked Altered Carbon, or are simply a fan of science fiction. It's full of top-notch action, intrigue, and some of the better-written sex scenes I've encountered lately.	2004-11-11
461834:US	52254603	R1M3FSQVOWKR1W	1931484325	656674054	1: The Path : Crisis of Faith	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Derivative Storyline with Good but Murky Art	There some solid and occasionally great art in this book, but the story being told never really gets going. The narrative is so highly derivative of any number of stories and films that it's hard to get very excited about it. The setting is a land modeled on feudal-era Japan, and there we meet the Emperor's warlord. He is a stereotypically stoic and heroic warrior who is instructed to lead the country's relatively small army across the water to invade the massive power (based on China) that has been their historic foe. The predictably disastrous results lead to a literal reshuffling of heads, as well as the appearance of the warlord's brother, a monk. (There are two sidekicks who make cursory appearances, a barbarian Norseman, and an elegant female swordswoman). In any event, there are some striking panels and spreads here and there, and some interesting paneling, as well as two nicely executed stylistic shifts. However, the palette is incredibly dark and drab--this book ought to come packaged with a halogen lamp! Browns, rusts, and grays dominate the book, and sometimes you really have to peer to make out what's going on. So, a few nice moments, but not a book or series I'll return to.	2004-11-09
462283:US	52254603	RROLT5U7B2Z10	0786713593	870745052	Flesh and Blood: A Novel of Crime (Frank Elder Mysteries)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Another Winner From Harvey!	Harvey's last novel (In A True Light, his first after the ten-book Charlie Resnick series), left Nottingham for London and New York. This very good new book returns to familiar environs, with the majority of the action taking place in the Midlands, including Nottingham (Charlie Resnick even has a cameo walkon) and the Cornish coast. The protagonist is a familiar type for Harvey, Frank Elder is a retired Detective Inspector who left the police force to lead a hermit's life on the coast following the end of his marriage (the details of this are laid out in a short story called \\"Due North\\" which has appeared in several anthologies, including Crime in the City). He lives in a small cottage and is haunted by gruesome nightmares, as well as the knowledge of his wife's adultery and his lackluster performance as a father to their teenage daughter.<br /><br />Also haunting Elder is an old case from 1988, a brutal rape and murder committed by a pair of sadistic men who may have killed another teenage girl who disappeared at the same time. The parole of one of the men spurs him to leave his hermitage and start poking around the cold case of the missing Susan Blacklock. Much of the book alternates between Elder's investigation and the parolee's fractured attempt to make it on the outside. The parolee disappears at the same time another teenage girl is murdered, and Elder is brought into the investigation as a consultant. Most of the book proceeds in the typically tight and angst-ridden prose that characterized Harvey's Resnick series. The procedural angles are all covered very well, and Harvey does an excellent job of peeling away the layers to get to Elder's inner fears and disappointments. His awkward relationship with daughter is handled very well (the father/daughter relationship drives the plot of In A True Light), as his is uncertain romance with a middle-aged woman.<br /><br />There are two flaws in the book, neither major, but enough to keep the book out of the superb category. One is Harvey's succumbing to the unfortunately tendency of crime novelists to make their plots and villains intersect with the hero's friends and family. It gives nothing away to say that's what happens here, and the result cheapens the story. The other flaw is the unnecessarily pay-off of Elder's nightmares, which are revealed as being exactly prescient. This introduces an odd quasi-mystical element to an otherwise entirely gritty and realistic story, and serves no good purpose. These are minor bumps, though, and Harvey's fans and newcomers will find plenty to like about this fine crime novel. Elder returns in Harvey's next novel, Ash and Bone.<br /><br />NOTE: The American dust jacket of this and In A True Light are terrible--they are garish and completely fail to convey the tone of the novels. It's a mystery as to why they don't just go ahead and use the art from the UK editions, which is much better.perb category. One is Harvey's succumbing to the unfortunately tendency of crime novelists to make their plots and villains intersect with the hero's friends and family. It gives nothing away to say that's what happens here, and the result cheapens the story. The other flaw is the unnecessarily pay-off of Elder's nightmares, which are revealed as being exactly prescient. This introduces an odd quasi-mystical element to an otherwise entirely gritty and realistic story, and serves no good purpose. These are minor bumps, though, and Harvey's fans and newcomers will find plenty to like about this fine crime novel. Elder returns in Harvey's next novel, Ash and Bone.  <br /> <br />NOTE: The American dust jacket of this and In A True Light are terrible--they are garish and completely fail to convey the tone of the novels. It's a mystery as to why they don't just go ahead and use the art from the UK editions, which is much better.	2004-11-09
465997:US	52254603	R3GR8N1R5GQS01	0743451805	858707005	A Little Yellow Dog: Featuring an Original Easy Rawlins Short Story "Gray-Eyed Death" (Easy Rawlins Mysteries (Paperback))	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Too Convoluted & Unlikely	The fifth book in Mosley's Easy Rawlins series finds Easy in 1963, working as a maintenance supervisor for a public school in the Watts area of Los Angeles. For two years he's been living clean, having given up the \\"street life\\" and heavy drinking to work a straight job, while taking care of the two children he's taken in. Much is made of his desire to live a low-key, normal life, and yet... when a corpse turns up on the grounds of his school, he instinctively lies to the police, when telling the truth would likely have kept him out of the whole mess. Granted, it's well established in the series that the police are rarely (if ever) to be trusted, and there's always been a tension in the series about the allure of the \\"street life\\", however, when balanced against the moaning and groaning about wanting to lead a quiet life and raise his kids, it just doesn't make sense.<br /><br />Instead, Easy lies--not to protect himself--but on behalf of a beautiful teacher he has a ten minute hookup with and who happens to be the corpse's wife, and even then, there's no clear reason for the lie. Soon, a second corpse shows up, and the lead investigator intuits that Easy's hiding something. Given several chances to come clean, Easy instead opts to plunge back into the streets to try and solve the multiple murders himself, which of course only puts him in a more compromising situation. Yes, it's made abundantly clear why a black man would not want to get involved with the police no matter what in 1963 (and not much has changed in 40 years), but wouldn't the savvy Easy of the previous four books would surely recognize that in this instance, simply being truthful is more likely to placate the police than his surly evasiveness?<br /><br />From the start, the plot is wildly convoluted, and it grows ever more improbable. Almost as improbable as the transformation of his hell-raising, crazy friend Mouse, who at this point has also settled down with a wife and kid. Yes, one expects characters to transform over the course of a series, but in Mouse's case, the transformation is so utterly at odds with his stated nature that it seems entirely unreasonable. In any event, Easy runs back and forth all over LA, trying to solve the murders for the police he's trying to stay one step ahead of. The pieces of the puzzle are very complicated, and include a series of thefts from the school district, a herion smuggling operation, and of course, a few lovely ladies. The one thing that really keeps the book interesting is Mosley's vivid supporting characters, from low-lifes to bureaucrats, white, Hispanic, Asian, they all come alive on the page. Ultimately, though, one of the weaker books in the series.aracters to transform over the course of a series, but in Mouse's case, the transformation is so utterly at odds with his stated nature that it seems entirely unreasonable. In any event, Easy runs back and forth all over LA, trying to solve the murders for the police he's trying to stay one step ahead of. The pieces of the puzzle are very complicated, and include a series of thefts from the school district, a herion smuggling operation, and of course, a few lovely ladies. The one thing that really keeps the book interesting is Mosley's vivid supporting characters, from low-lifes to bureaucrats, white, Hispanic, Asian, they all come alive on the page. Ultimately, though, one of the weaker books in the series.	2004-11-05
466564:US	52254603	R36HJ3ZCAPB8GR	0704344238	882748997	Snowflakes in the Sun	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Sweet  Home Grenada	In the years after World War Two, immigration from British colonies and former colonies to the UK increased as the post-war economy slowly picked up speed. Many of these came from the Caribbean, and while Jamaica is the most prominent of these, plenty came from other islands, including Grenada. (For further fictional treatment of West Indian immigrants in London, check out Colin MacInnes' two novels \\"City of Spades\\" and \\"Absolute Beginners\\", set in the late 1950s.) With this short novel, Buffong accomplishes the neat trick of both giving the reader a very clear sense of life on Grenada, while also providing great insight into the life of an immigrant in England in the 1960s-80s. The framework for this is a narrative by Dorothy, who chronicles the tales of her 70ish Aunt Sarah and Uncle Dolphus, who returned from London several years previously to live out their days in their homeland. Most of the book is dialogue rendered in a rolling patios that takes a little getting used to, but isn't too hard to follow on the whole (a glossary might have been nice).<br /><br />Life on the island is very close to the stereotype one might have: lots of sun and heat, quiet lives of planting yams, opening up fresh coconuts, goats wandering down to the beach, tourist ships in the distance, the surrounding sea, lazy days on the veranda playing dominos, drinking rum or limeade, gossiping, dogs and children underfoot, friends, relatives, and neighbors all dropping by and sharing food. It's an idyllic depiction, one where even though no one is particularly well off, everyone shares, and everyone is happy. Buffong emigrated to the UK in 1962, and it has to be suspected that the vision of Grenada presented by the book is highly tinted by the rose-colored glasses of nostalgia and distance.<br /><br />The bulk of the book is comprised of the stories about England recounted by Dolphus and Sarah. For their family and friends, England is kind of the \\"big city\\" that fascinates and repels everyone&oacute;a bountiful, and yet frightening place. Having moved there in order to work toward a better life, many of the immigrants described in the stories found themselves trapped in dead-end menial jobs where they were paid less than white co-workers, and found little prospect for upward mobility. A common theme is of the immigrant who comes intending to stay for a few years, and ends up never going back home, having become psychologically or financially stuck in the cold new world of England. None of the stories have huge drama to them, they are mostly small tales of cultural difference, be it church services, the role of neighbors, racial attitudes, and culinary woes. Many fall along the lines of, \\"You wouldn't believe what the English are like, this one time...\\" On the whole, the book is probably more interesting for the picture of immigrant life in England than for any insights into Grenada, but these are brought out gently and judiciously, and so the book never feels as preachy as might have been.veryonea bountiful, and yet frightening place. Having moved there in order to work toward a better life, many of the immigrants described in the stories found themselves trapped in dead-end menial jobs where they were paid less than white co-workers, and found little prospect for upward mobility. A common theme is of the immigrant who comes intending to stay for a few years, and ends up never going back home, having become psychologically or financially stuck in the cold new world of England. None of the stories have huge drama to them, they are mostly small tales of cultural difference, be it church services, the role of neighbors, racial attitudes, and culinary woes. Many fall along the lines of, \\"You wouldn't believe what the English are like, this one time...\\" On the whole, the book is probably more interesting for the picture of immigrant life in England than for any insights into Grenada, but these are brought out gently and judiciously, and so the book never feels as preachy as might have been.	2004-11-05
468982:US	52254603	RDSQTE0ZP7Y6Q	0385721226	381801022	Little Boys Come from the Stars	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent Satire of African Politics	Written from the comical first-person perspective of a 14-year-old boy in an unnamed Francophone African country (presumably Congo), this is one of the freshest and funniest novels to come out of Africa in recent years. Narrator Matapari is born several days after his twin brothers in mysterious and comical circumstances in 1980, exactly twenty years after his county's independence from France. Raised by his schoolteacher father and devoutly religious mother, he proves to be a precocious and intelligent child, keenly interested in the world around him. Although the family lives in a small village away from the capital, Matapari manages to bear witness to many of his country's crucial events. Through his eyes, the reader is told of his coming of age, but more importantly, the satirical political development of postcolonial Congo.<br /><br />Matapari's entree to these events is his mother's brother, the shamelessly amoral Uncle Boula Boula, who manages to smooth-talk, fake, and bribe his way into a high echelon position in the pseudo-Marxist government (complete with a cult of personality Comrade President). Boula Boula's position leads to the village being selected as the site for the country's 30th independence celebration. Dongala unsparingly mocks the massive effort and expense laid out to build a huge stadium, an airport, luxury hotel and restaurant, solely for the three day party (predictably, a year later, all of these are crumbling and abandoned). Among the wonderful satirical episodes is one in which the children are assembled in the stadium so that the Great Leader demonstrates his power compared to that of God, and another in which a plan is announced to launch a gold-plated bust of the leader into orbit.<br /><br />Another excellent episode occurs later, after his uncle has risen to the highest echelon of power. An agricultural fair is set up in order to promote the supplementing of the national diet with canned food (past due products imported from China by the Lebanese). Matapari and his father set up a stand using insects as food, but the top prize is given to Uncle's mistress (the former clerk of the village store). Later, the uncle is accused of treason and his hilarious and yet scary show trial is broadcast on television. This eventually so ires Matapari's father that he inadvertently sparks a popular uprising leading to democracy. Of course, this just provide further material for Dongala's satire of African politics, as the wacky antics continue into the new democratic era. Mixed in with the skewering of African politics are plenty of well-rendered vignettes of growing up, such as his love for Coca-Cola, his crush on the Lebanese merchant's daughter (who is sent away), power struggles with his two brothers, wisdom dispensed by his grandfather, and his intellectual development. An excellent book for those seeking African fiction that entertains as it provides a window into unfamiliar territory.China by the Lebanese). Matapari and his father set up a stand using insects as food, but the top prize is given to Uncle's mistress (the former clerk of the village store). Later, the uncle is accused of treason and his hilarious and yet scary show trial is broadcast on television. This eventually so ires Matapari's father that he inadvertently sparks a popular uprising leading to democracy. Of course, this just provide further material for Dongala's satire of African politics, as the wacky antics continue into the new democratic era. Mixed in with the skewering of African politics are plenty of well-rendered vignettes of growing up, such as his love for Coca-Cola, his crush on the Lebanese merchant's daughter (who is sent away), power struggles with his two brothers, wisdom dispensed by his grandfather, and his intellectual development. An excellent book for those seeking African fiction that entertains as it provides a window into unfamiliar territory.	2004-11-02
469693:US	52254603	R3FH19RTNYKHEU	0802141293	66882361	Troll: A Love Story	Books	4	16	20	N	N	Strange and Captivating	This strange, captivating novel, winner of Finland's top prize for fiction, is set in a familiar world just slightly askew from our own. The basic premise is quite simple, in the book, trolls are real creatures found primarily in northern reaches of Scandinavia and Russia, and are treated as a rare species of animal. They were definitively \\"discovered\\" in 1907, but have since remained elusive to science, and little is known about them. Although they tend to keep far away from human settlements, the book opens in a city (presumably Helsinki) with a good-looking young gay photographer (Mikael) coming across a sick young troll late a night. Stumbling home drunk and depressed from a failed night of wooing, Mikael's judgment is poor and he brings the creature into his apartment.<br /><br />Rising the next day, he finds it wasn't all a hallucination, and starts trying to nurse the ill young creature back to health. Of course, the notion of keeping a troll as a pet is unthinkable (not to mention illegal), and so he must conceal his new housemate at all costs. The problem is that he doesn't know anything about trolls. Fortunately, through the power of the internet, he is able to call up all manner of fables, scientific journal articles, poems, and bits of information about them. These wholly believable extracts are interspersed throughout the book with chapters headed with the name of the person from whose perspective it's written. In addition to the photographer, narrator's include his unrequited love/creative partner (Martes), a former love and nebbish bookworm (Ecke), and a Filipino mail-order bride who lives in captivity in an apartment one floor down (Palomita). Mikael rather clumsily uses his physical charms to seduce both Ecke and another former lover into providing key bits of information about trolls. As the nursing succeeds, the troll grows healthier and stronger, and there becomes a noticeable juniper-berry odor in the apartment. This is the scent of the troll's pheromones, and Mikael becomes steadily more infatuated with the creature, who reciprocates and treats him as the Alpha-male&oacute;alas Mikael is slow to realize the consequences of this, with horrible results.<br /><br />The author does a thoroughly convincing job of portraying the troll and its behavior, as well as the narcissistic photographer and his little world. Three strong subplots&oacute;one about the mail-order bride, one about a job creating a photo for a new line of blue jeans, and one about his realization that Ecke is a good catch&oacute;all buttress the story and give it depth. The book does a nice job of using fairy tales and becoming one itself&oacute;an entertaining fable on the relationship of the natural world to man's world.'s pheromones, and Mikael becomes steadily more infatuated with the creature, who reciprocates and treats him as the Alpha-malealas Mikael is slow to realize the consequences of this, with horrible results.  <br /> <br />The author does a thoroughly convincing job of portraying the troll and its behavior, as well as the narcissistic photographer and his little world. Three strong subplotsone about the mail-order bride, one about a job creating a photo for a new line of blue jeans, and one about his realization that Ecke is a good catchall buttress the story and give it depth. The book does a nice job of using fairy tales and becoming one itselfan entertaining fable on the relationship of the natural world to man's world.	2004-11-02
481158:US	52254603	R1EEMYII3P7UK1	0743451775	632403509	White Butterfly	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Solid Continuation of the Series	The third Easy Rawlins book catches up with the proud black hero in 1956. Fairly prosperous due to his hidden real estate holdings, he's got a pretty young wife and a beautiful baby daughter added to his Los Angeles household. The tension between his shady \\"street\\" past and his attempts to domesticate himself is a running theme, as Easy struggles with what it means to be in a trusting and open relationship. One morning the police come knocking, and ask for his help regarding a series of murders. Several black \\"good time girls\\" have been killed in recent weeks, but now a white woman is dead too. The police like to use Easy as a kind of unregistered undercover agent in the black community (although given the number of times they troop in and out of his house, you would think people might start to wonder about him). There's the standard stuff about racism that one has come to expect from the series (the police never cared about the murders until a white girl was involved), which doesn't make it less true, just a little less powerful. This time, there's even a black police officer involved in the case--although by the end, he admits to Easy that the notion of working to change the system from within is a lost cause (perhaps a statement of Mosley's own sentiment on American society?). As always, the police aren't really asking for Easy's help, so much as telling him he'd better help.<br /><br />The investigation leads him back into the street life he's been trying to avoid, and inevitably, there's a bit of a fall that pushes him and his wife further apart. He's not a good communicator, and his binge drinking only causes more problems. Indeed, he drinks so much in this book that it's hard to imagine him actually being able to carry out the investigation as well as he does. The plot grows steadily more convoluted, as evidence of police conspiracy mounts, a trip to Oakland with Mouse uncovers even more murders, and Easy's personal life spirals more and more out of control. The resolution to the murders is kind of a lame letdown, but the drama of Easy's own life makes up for this somewhat. A very bitter book, but one that leaves you wanting to start the next in the series immediately to see how Easy is going to handle the changes in his life.. The resolution to the murders is kind of a lame letdown, but the drama of Easy's own life makes up for this somewhat. A very bitter book, but one that leaves you wanting to start the next in the series immediately to see how Easy is going to handle the changes in his life.	2004-10-22
482876:US	52254603	R1P1MDRJB13G4G	156656140X	880791690	The Hostage: A Novel (Emerging Voices Series)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Of Limited Interest	This novella, from Yemen's foremost author, follows a young boy semi-imprisoned in a governor's palace as a hostage in the 1940s. A vital historical preface provides the political context for this, showing how isolated Yemen was at that time, and how a hereditary line of imams exercised central control. These rulers took hostages from outlying tribes as a guarantee of their military support. The hostage of the title is the son of one such tribal leader, and after spending his initial imprisonment in a fetid fortress, he is relocated to a sumptuous palace. There, he is immediately befriended by another young boy, who is apparently beloved by all--especially the ladies of the palace. It seems that the young boys are meant to be \\"duwaydar\\", a sort of a combination of servant and courtier. These boys were theoretically \\"safe\\" around the women, since they were pre-pubescent. In practice, however, they are sought out by the women of the palace for unspecified pleasures in the dark.<br /><br />As the hostage gets resigned to his status, he falls in love with the wealthy and beautiful sister of the governor, Sharifa Hafsa. As his feelings for Sharifa develop, his friend starts succumbing to tuberculosis and the hostage starts to supplant him as favorite of the palace. This is doubtless some manner of allegory, but the meaning eludes me. There are clear parallels being drawn between the gilded cage status of the hostage and strong-willed palace women like Sharifa Hafsa. Ultimately it comes as no surprise that their solution is mutual. Dammaj leavens the oppressive story with moments of ribald comedy, such as a man who gets kicked in the head by a donkey he was attempting to have sex with. It's an interesting look at how traditional Yemeni society was, as recently as sixty years ago, and is worth reading by those with an interest in Arab culture and history, but probably of little interest to others.	2004-10-21
485549:US	52254603	R2F6O3WU9MEJLG	0061092215	68420830	Hunting the Devil: The Pursuit, Capture and Confession of the Most Savage Serial Killer in History	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Fascinating Story--Could Have Been Better Told	I'm not a big fan of the serial killer genre&oacute;be it on the thriller shelves of the bookstore, or on film (Se7en and Manhunter are the only two serial killer movies I've ever really liked). However, this story about the hunt for Soviet serial killer Andrei Chikatilo is fascinating, despite not being particularly well written. I had never heard of Chikatilo, but from the late '70s to late '80s he killed at least 53 women and children in the Rostov province of Russia. His methods and predilections were particularly gruesome, as he favored slowly stabbing or hammering his victims to death before eviscerating them, masturbating over them, and sometimes cooking and eating part of them. This is a man who left the house every day with a knapsack containing a knife, change of clothes, and small cooking pot, just in case the opportunity presented itself.<br /><br />Longtime Russian expert Lourie tells the story mostly through the eyes of Issa Kostoev, the special investigator who led the years-long quest to bring Chikatilo to justice. The investigators were hampered by the randomness of the killings, the relative lack of research into DNA in the Soviet Union, the lack of criminal psychology as a discipline, as well as the laziness and sloppiness of local police, who had botched previous efforts (at one point they had actually arrested Chikatilo, only to release him). Since Lourie relies on interviews with Kostoev, it's hard to know how accurate the picture of the investigation is, but the story he tells is compelling and will certainly appeal to those with an interest in the procedural aspects of criminology. The investigator's own life story is fascinating; an Ingush from the Caucuses, his family was deported to the Kazakh steppe during WWII by Stalin. There, he lost brothers and sisters to famine, and his thirst for justice was bred. By the book's end, he has been made a General and is being asked by his countrymen to come home and lead the political struggle for full restoration of the homeland.<br /><br />Lourie's reliance on the single source is sometimes a fault, as Kostoev's own preoccupations are given precedence. There is rather an overemphasis (and occasional repetitiveness) on the thought processes involved in the interrogation and getting a confession from Chikatilo. A writer more experienced in writing about crime would likely have cut some of the fat here. One also feels like there might have been a little more drama wrung from the hunt, not to mention a greater vividness to the details. These might be found in one of the three other books written about the case (none of which I've read): Comrade Chikatilo: The Psychopathology of Russia's Notorious Serial Killer by Mikhail Krivich, The Killer Department: Detective Viktor Burakov's Eight-Year Hunt for the Most Savage Serial Killer of Our Times by Robert Cullen, or Red Ripper: Inside the Mind of Russia's Most Brutal Serial Killer by Peter Conradi. There's also a film called Citizen X that's been made about the hunt, although it's hard to to imagine Irishman Stephen Rea passing himself off as Ingush!oration of the homeland.  <br /> <br />Lourie's reliance on the single source is sometimes a fault, as Kostoev's own preoccupations are given precedence. There is rather an overemphasis (and occasional repetitiveness) on the thought processes involved in the interrogation and getting a confession from Chikatilo. A writer more experienced in writing about crime would likely have cut some of the fat here. One also feels like there might have been a little more drama wrung from the hunt, not to mention a greater vividness to the details. These might be found in one of the three other books written about the case (none of which I've read): Comrade Chikatilo: The Psychopathology of Russia's Notorious Serial Killer by Mikhail Krivich, The Killer Department: Detective Viktor Burakov's Eight-Year Hunt for the Most Savage Serial Killer of Our Times by Robert Cullen, or Red Ripper: Inside the Mind of Russia's Most Brutal Serial Killer by Peter Conradi. There's also a film called Citizen X that's been made about the hunt, although it's hard to to imagine Irishman Stephen Rea passing himself off as Ingush!	2004-10-18
486635:US	52254603	R1IF9YCPEHM7OP	1932112189	832698767	The Wrong Doyle	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Great Read Chock Full of Outrageous Characters	This madcap and sometimes melancholy novel set in the Virginia tidewater region reads like a somewhat more literary riff on a Carl Hiassen caper, right down to the oddball gangsters and the anti-development sermonizing. The protagonist, Tim Doyle, is the latest in a long line of self-made adventurers and rogues. These ancestors are presented in vivid standalone sections prefacing each section. The first of this is a notorious pirate from the 1670s, who may or may not have buried his treasure in Virginia. Later Doyles include a hardscrabble oysterman in the 1770s who sells to George Washington, a gambler in 1850s New Orleans who becomes part of an ill-fated predecessor to the Bay of Pigs operation, a tough as nails oysterman in 1890s Virginia who battles the oyster conglomerates and their hired thugs, and an ex-Marine in post-WWII Los Angeles.<br /><br />In the present day, Tim Doyle is living in Paris, having been thrown out by his marriage and restaurant by his Spanish wife. He receives a message that his beloved uncle has died, leaving Tim the last remaining Doyle land in Virginia, complete with pirate-themed miniature golf course and roadhouse bar. He arrives to find his uncle's young mistress minding the property, and a surprisingly large offer to buy his land from a real estate development outfit fronted by his old drug-dealing pal Roach. This offer coincides with the appearance of a dissected albino possum left in one of the miniature golf dioramas as a warning, which only gets Doyle's dander up and makes him stubborn and determined not to sell. The story plays out as Doyle doggedly attempts to find out who is after his land and why, as more and more improbable forces are arrayed against him.<br /><br />As with Hiassen, every character is both improbable and completely engrossing. There's Doyle's ex-girlfriend Bracken, an old money belle who is determined to erase her entire inheritance as fast as possible. His old pal Roach, who has traded his coke dealership for a spot on the city council and lives in a lavish spread with a strange Jamaican servant/mistress. A crew of Irish hoodlums (including a dwarf), led by a ridiculously gay capo whose legitimate business is air conditioning. The gangster's pothead daughter, who is determined to bed Doyle. Not to mention the two dour Fish and Wildlife Service agents who arrive to investigate the dead albino possum...<br /><br />The plot rattles along at breakneck speed, as Doyle keeps getting attacked, seduced, and general made the target of all manner of mischief. Corrupt corporations figure, as do corrupt local governments, good ole' boy sheriffs, Chinese slave laborers, ancient pirate treasure, and a fight night. It's all over the map, incorporating elements of the thriller, the multigenerational family saga, old fashioned adventure, and sexy romp. Girardi just barely manages to keep it all together, but the sheer exuberance of it all, the oversized characters, vivid language, and fascinating backstory combine to make it a great read.ship for a spot on the city council and lives in a lavish spread with a strange Jamaican servant/mistress. A crew of Irish hoodlums (including a dwarf), led by a ridiculously gay capo whose legitimate business is air conditioning. The gangster's pothead daughter, who is determined to bed Doyle. Not to mention the two dour Fish and Wildlife Service agents who arrive to investigate the dead albino possum... <br /> <br />The plot rattles along at breakneck speed, as Doyle keeps getting attacked, seduced, and general made the target of all manner of mischief. Corrupt corporations figure, as do corrupt local governments, good ole' boy sheriffs, Chinese slave laborers, ancient pirate treasure, and a fight night. It's all over the map, incorporating elements of the thriller, the multigenerational family saga, old fashioned adventure, and sexy romp. Girardi just barely manages to keep it all together, but the sheer exuberance of it all, the oversized characters, vivid language, and fascinating backstory combine to make it a great read.	2004-10-18
486848:US	52254603	R1L9IA6AVZNVDE	0618391126	941261274	The Perfect Mile: Three Athletes, One Goal, and Less Than Four Minutes to Achieve It	Books	2	5	13	N	N	Tedious	Music and sport are two exhilarating aspects of life that often fall flat when spun out to book-length treatment. While I've read many good essays and magazine articles on both, there are few books about either that manage to capture what is is so viscerally thrilling about each. Another common pitfall of music and sports writing is the descent into minutiae that moves the topic from the realm of the general reading into the navel-gazing inner circle of the enthusiast. So, although I can read thousands of pages about my favorite band or book after book about the intersection of culture, politics, and soccer, I certainly don't expect the average person to share either enthusiasm. All of which is a roundabout preface to my reaction to this particular book, which was largely boredom.<br /><br />The quest for the four-minute mile is certainly a worthy topic for sports historians to cover, there's no doubt about that. And I'm not ill disposed to tales of running, in fact, I ran cross-country (badly) in college. When I started the book, the contrast between the three subjects, Bannister, Landy, and Santee made me hopeful. But the more I read, the more thin it all seemed--like a magazine article expanded to its limits. We get the full backgrounds of each man and the paths that took them to competitive running--montages that come across as sappy and read as if they were treatments for a TV movie. Alternating between the three men, Bascomb shows the buildup to and disaster of the '52 Helsinki Olympics, which are portrayed rather choppily. Then there is endless detail of training regimens, diets, and so forth, which gets tedious very quickly. So tedious, in fact, that after making my way through a third of the book, I returned it to the library. Ultimately, I ceased to care about the micro-details and politicking involved, and I never got a sense of the exhilaration of the actual running.	2004-10-17
486971:US	52254603	R1K53V03JC5ZAL	0316859397	761516370	Stamping Grounds: Liechtenstein's Quest for the World Cup	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Amongst the Underdogs	A quirky combination of travelogue and soccer aficionado essay, this book succeeds and fails in fits and starts. The premise is fairly straightforward, Connelly decides to investigate the state of soccer in the nation that is the laughingstock of the sport in Europe: Liechtenstein. Basically, he's interested in the process by which a country of around 30,000 people fields a team to compete against sides loaded with international superstars in the quadrennial European and World Cup qualifying rounds. Armed with little more than a 50-year-old guidebook to the country and an enthusiastic email response from the country's tourism agency (er, agent), he sallies forth and installs himself in a guesthouse in the capital.<br /><br />Naturally, Connelly provides the requisite potted history the the wee place, which is delivered in the straightforward prose seasoned with quips and asides that has become the default style for travelogues ever since Bill Bryson started making the bestseller lists. Sandwiched between Austria and Switzerland, Liechtenstein has been a sleepy collection of valleys and villages until the last thirty or so years, which has seen it emerge as a financial services powerhouse with a phenomenal standard of living. In a relatively brief amount of time, Connelly manages to make a number of contacts who are all too willing to show him the splendors of Liechtenstein. Alas for him, this often involves strenuous hikes...<br /><br />As nice as everyone is, the real focus of the book is on football, and the national side's journey through the qualifying rounds for the 2002 World Cup. Best known as a doormat for opposing sides (one win against Azerbaijan, two draws against Ireland and Hungary, 35 losses and six goals scored in international play), they showed glimmers of improvement in the Euro 2000 qualifiers two years previously. For this campaign, the team features a mere six full professionals (most of whom play in the Swiss leagues), and the remainder are semi-professionals who play in the Liechtenstein. league and hold day jobs. Given the superstardom accorded to national team members in other countries, it's rather amazing to read about the center midfielder who must choose between representing his country and pursuing his career in banking, or the sweeper who must miss a match due to his grape harvest! It makes for a very nice change of pace from the usual ego trips and gazillion dollar signing bonuses and salaries one normally associated with international soccer.<br /><br />Liechtenstein. is placed in a group with Spain, Israel, Bosnia, and Austria, and Connelly does his best to wring as much drama out of the matches as possible. Of course, the issue isn't whether they will qualify or not, but whether they will win a game! Unfortunately like many, if not all, books about soccer, the flow of a game just doesn't translated well to the page. Once he gets to the matches, one desperately wishes for videos of them to watch before turning back to the book. Because the national team is such small fry, Connolly's given all access to the players and the manager, which allows one a real insiders view. Unfortunately, they all tend to repeat the same cliches about what an honor it is to be able to represent their country, and how amazing it is to play against such superstars, and how they just want to do their best. After a while, this gets a bit tedious, but Connelly does his gamest to keep things interesting with such peripheral figures as Liechtenstein's number one sportswriter, who manages to write three pages of sports news every day! And toward the end, there's a mini-controversy revolving around the one true star, \\"Super\\" Mario Frick, a forward who manages to make it into the Italian Serie A. On the whole, it's maybe a touch overlong, but if you're looking for a book about soccer that isn't tainted by the big money that revolves around the game now, this is a good one. And I guarantee it'll make you root for all those little guys in international competition, I know I'll be looking for the Liechtenstein scores next qualifying round.hose little guys in international competition, I know I'll be looking for the Liechtenstein scores next qualifying round.	2004-10-17
487457:US	52254603	R2IAJHZ0YRRLPB	0316608971	863990662	Hard Revolution: A Novel	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Pelecanos's Best Yet	This fourth book in the Derek Strange cycle (Right as Rain, Hell to Pay, and Soul Circus precede it), finally takes longtime readers of Pelecanos to an event we've been waiting for him to deal with: Washington, D.C.'s 1968 riots. I wasn't even born until a few years after the riots, but growing up in D.C., it was hard to miss the physical and psychic scars they left on the city. Once again Pelecanos brilliantly uses the pulp crime novel as a vehicle for his sociocultural history of Washington, D.C. This is one of his best works yet, acting as a prequel to the Strange series while seamlessly taking on issues of race, what it means to be a man, duty, and the nobility of work.<br /><br />The story opens with Derek Strange passing from childhood to adolescence in 1959, running around his Northeast neighborhood where white and black kids uneasily co-exist. His best friend is a Greek boy whose father owns the diner where Derek's father sweats over the grill. These seventy pages introduce almost all the dramatis personae of the main part of the book, including Derek's family (mother, father, older brother), the no-good Martini brothers, Detective Frank Vaughn and his family, and two racist gearheads named Buzz and Stu. A final character is the city itself, which is undergoing transformation as postwar integration brings demographic changes with it. There's a little heavy handedness, when Derek gets caught shoplifting and a store owner's lecture sets him on the right path, but for the most part this part is a carefully crafted kaleidoscopic tour of the people and places that will come into play nine years later.<br /><br />Part Two takes place in the spring of 1968, during the weeks preceding the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King and into the riots that broke out in response. The intervening decade or so has seen Derek grow up to become a police officer (as has his best friend, Lydel Blue), doing his best to protect and serve while being called an Uncle Tom by a lot of his people. Meanwhile his slacker older brother Dennis has drifted in a haze of revolutionary rhetoric and heavy pot smoking. Dennis wants to better himself, but is hobbled by seeing oppression everywhere and a lack of inner strength, and gets caught up in the small-time plots of his unsavory drug friends. The Martini brothers went to Vietnam and only one came back, while Buzz and Stu are spinning their wheels in the same old places, albeit in new rides.<br /><br />As the city simmers in the summer heat and racial tensions mount, the petty half-baked schemes of Buzz and Stu and Dennis' so-called friends start to take shape. The two Strange brothers find their lives intersecting with two armed robberies just as the city explodes in a cathartic orgy of burning and looting. Meanwhile, Det. Vaughn is combing the streets for whomever killed a young black student in a hit and run. These storylines all coalesce into a bloodbath that is punctuated by the riots. The riots are ably described, although Pelecanos' prose loses its verve and lapses into clipped reportage reads like a dry newspaper account. Still, if you've never read about the riots, this will give you a sense of the chaos and senselessness of it all. (For a more complete picture, track down a copy of Ten Blocks From the White House.)<br /><br />Other subplots involve Derek's attempt to make up his mind about Carmen, his childhood sweetheart and former girlfriend, and his uneasy relationship with his liberal white partner. Of course there's all the usual Pelecanos pop-culture stuff, cars, bars, movies (The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly plays a prominent role), and especially music (there are loads of discussions of soul, R&B, Motown, Stax, Volt, as well as many props given to DC-rocker Link Wray and his Raymen). At the end of the day, this is a brilliant book, not only because of its value as a cultural portrait of the real Washington, D.C., but for its discussion of race. Derek and his partner like and respect one another, but it takes them a while to realize that even with all the best intentions, one can never know what it is to walk in another man's shoes. There's also a very strong message embedded about the dignity and value of work--in this book, doing your job well is sometimes its own reward. This is a mature novel, one that deserves to break out of the crime shelves and into general readership--great stuff.d respect one another, but it takes them a while to realize that even with all the best intentions, one can never know what it is to walk in another man's shoes. There's also a very strong message embedded about the dignity and value of work--in this book, doing your job well is sometimes its own reward. This is a mature novel, one that deserves to break out of the crime shelves and into general readership--great stuff.	2004-10-17
487978:US	52254603	R24FMR6OI71FGM	0941423654	924290845	The Ships: A Novel	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Honduran Hum-Drum	The title of this first novel from Honduran writer Quesada refers to the ships that come with empty holds ready to whisk the pineapple harvest to the four corners of the earth. Their arrival is the one beacon of hope for the poor field workers who populate this novel: \\"The ships made us all happy; we knew that when they came in we'd earn more money, and there couldn't be any more money than in those ships anywhere.... The city might be a lot of fun but when there were no ships, everything quieted down, even the music.\\" The ships represent hope and the outside world&oacute;brief flashes of happiness.<br /><br />Guillermo is a young man living in the coastal city of La Ceiba in 1979. He'd like to be attending college in the capital, studying to be a writer, but instead we find him about to start work as a pineapple picker for Standard Fruit Company. Fortunately, the other workers who show him the ropes don't hold his intellectual ambitions against him, and he's soon a part of the group. The story sort of meanders along choppily as Guillermo falls in love with a clerk at Standard Fruit and larger events drift across the background. Chief among these are a strike by the union to try and get the raise they are promised in their contract. Meanwhile, across the border in Nicaragua, the Sandinistas have given Somoza the boot, and the question is whether the winds of change are going to spill over the border.<br /><br />Guillermo is thinly portrayed, and too often feels like the author's attempt as self-portrait of the artist as a young worker. None of the supporting cast emerge in great detail either, and the book suffers as a result. The strike and the war next door give Quesada the opportunity to trot out some of the bitter leftist sentiment one might expect from a Latin American writer of the era. It doesn't help that the prose falls into some of the stylistic traps one often sees from young writers, especially Quesada's attempt to cram all manner of narrative delivery forms into the book. We get omniscient narration, interior monologues, letters, an overarching story, and a series of unfathomable sections in italics about intellectual freedom. All in all, there are moments of flash, but it's not a particularly rewarding read.s into the book. We get omniscient narration, interior monologues, letters, an overarching story, and a series of unfathomable sections in italics about intellectual freedom. All in all, there are moments of flash, but it's not a particularly rewarding read.	2004-10-16
488450:US	52254603	RE013TAQIPR8I	1400030684	993886107	Absolution: A Novel	Books	2	2	6	N	N	Death of a Misanthrope	The thin story contained in this slim novel is contained in a rather lame and unnecessary framing device. A translator is asked by a lawyer friend to skim a handwritten manuscript and tell him if it has any bearing on an estate the lawyer is executor for. The translator is soon drawn into the confessional memoir of wealthy New York businessman Peter Peterson. This could have stood on its own, and the introduction of the translator only creates clutter in getting to the meat of the matter. The memoir is the work of a dying man, wealthy in a material sense, but spiritually bereft (quite the cliche). An Icelandic emigre during World War II, he spent the following 50 or so years manipulating people, accumulating wealth, becoming a wine connoisseur, playing out a loveless marriage over three decades, fathering two children he can summon little (if any) warmth or feeling toward, and generally greeting his fellow man with a skeptical eye. This final document of his life is split between reminisces on these aspects of his life and his desire for absolution in the matter of a crime he committed as a young man during the war in Denmark.<br /><br />The gradual revelation of this crime is the main element of suspense in the book, as the events leading up to it are sparingly and exactly doled out. These also help to partially explain why he became the distasteful and misanthropic adult he describes himself as being. About halfway through, it becomes clear what the crime is, and why it causes his nightmares at the end of his life. The other element of suspense is derived from the \\"will he or won't he\\" question of whether he will reach out to and possibly reconcile with his son before dying. Peterson is not a likeable character and for much of the book it's hard to care about him or the decisions that have led to him living friendless and alone with a Cambodian housekeeper. His boyhood years in Reykjavik are idyllic enough, but his entire character is then formed out of a single betrayal in his late teens. Ultimately, one is hard-pressed to care too much about what happens to a man who has managed to inflict so much pain on those close to him over the course of his life. There is a twist ending which is reminiscent of someone like Roald Dahl, but it's not enough to save the book.e betrayal in his late teens. Ultimately, one is hard-pressed to care too much about what happens to a man who has managed to inflict so much pain on those close to him over the course of his life. There is a twist ending which is reminiscent of someone like Roald Dahl, but it's not enough to save the book.	2004-10-16
499671:US	52254603	RVFD8XLEJTHOO	0971246467	414829944	Graphic Classics Volume 6: Ambrose Bierce	Books	3	13	13	N	N	A Very Mixed Bag	I'm a big fan of graphic storytelling and a big fan of Bierce, but not a particularly big fan of this volume. This is the first of the \\"Graphic Classics\\" series I've come across, and I like the concept of harnessing a wide range of underground cartooning talent in the service of great literature of the past. This showcase for Bierce begins promisingly enough, with a well-written biographical introduction by S.T. Joshi, supported by a cartoony four pages about Bierce's legendary disappearance. This is followed by John Coulhart's lovely ten page adaptation of \\"An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge\\", a story widely read in American high schools.<br /><br />Alas, from here on, it's a much more mixed bag. A forgettably sketched five page adaptation of \\"The Race at Left Bower\\" is followed by six pages of entries from \\"The Devil's Dictionary\\" which are broken up with lame graphics from greeting card illustrator Leslie Murray. \\"An Imperfect Conflagration\\" is a great story, but Rich Geary's eleven pages of panels doesn't quite do it justice. Conversely, \\"The Stranger\\" is only a so-so story, but Mark Nelson's seven pages of stark, high-contrast art gives it some real atmosphere. Francesca Ghermandi brings a European sensibility to the grave robber story \\"One Summer Night\\", but it doesn't really work. \\"Moxon's Master\\" is the longest read, with some ten text-heavy pages with one or two inset illustrations per page. These are by Stanley Shaw, and while they're nice in a mid-'90s comic book style, there's not a whole lot in the text for him to work with.<br /><br />Next are a bunch of Bierce's \\"Fables\\"--29 spread out over 36 pages of wildly varying style and quality. These encompass artists from the US, Canada, England, France, Italy, the Netherlands, and Australia. The best of these are probably those by Skip Williamson, Simon Gane, William Brown, and Lesley Reppeteaux. Following these are four more stories, including \\"The Boarded Window\\" and \\"The Hypnotist\\", neither of which are illustrated in a style I found compelling. \\"Oil of Dog\\" is a dark, dark story, with suitably gloomy and evocative art by Annie Owens. \\"Curried Cow\\" ends things on a bad note, with goofy cartoony panels by Milton Knight.<br /><br />On the whole, if you're interested in the work of Ambrose Bierce, you're better off thumbing through a copy of The Devil's Dictionary or picking up a volume of his complete short stories. Fan's of the graphic medium will find such a variety of art that something is bound to please, even if much else isn't.re illustrated in a style I found compelling. \\"Oil of Dog\\" is a dark, dark story, with suitably gloomy and evocative art by Annie Owens. \\"Curried Cow\\" ends things on a bad note, with goofy cartoony panels by Milton Knight. <br /> <br />On the whole, if you're interested in the work of Ambrose Bierce, you're better off thumbing through a copy of The Devil's Dictionary or picking up a volume of his complete short stories. Fan's of the graphic medium will find such a variety of art that something is bound to please, even if much else isn't.	2004-10-05
502702:US	52254603	R203VIKEEW1WBM	0802117783	521797789	Deadline in Athens: An Inspector Costas Haritos Mystery (Inspector Costas Haritos Mysteries)	Books	3	32	39	N	N	Slow-Paced Greek Police Procedural	I'm a huge fan of crime novels from the other countries, so it was with great eagerness that I picked up this first book of a Greek trilogy featuring Costas Haritos, a middle-aged homicide detective. Set in Athens around 1993, the story features an incredibly complicated mystery which kicks off with the apparently motiveless murder of a young Albanian couple. There's a lot of material jammed into the plot, which touches upon the omnipresence of Albanians in Greece, the role of the investigative media, a bundle of mysterious letters, a trio of secret love affairs, a child-smuggling plot which may or may not tie into the murders, the legacy of the fascist era, a pedophile recently released from jail, the dissolution of the Soviet Bloc, and the ability of the powerful to protect one another.<br /><br />Throughout the book, Inspector Haritos is constantly being called into his superior's office in order to grovel to one bigwig after another. He's a likable character precisely because he's not very good at playing people off each other, instead he's a more traditional cranky copper with a taste for unhealthy food and a secret informant. What little glimpses are given into his personal life aren't too pleasant. He lives with his TV-addicted wife, endures her whining requests for spending money and her fake orgasms, wishing for nothing more than a little peace and quiet to retreat into dictionaries (every fictional detective has to have a little quirk). His<br /><br />investigation proceeds through all the usual pitfalls and wrong turns before arriving at a shocker of an ending.<br /><br />As a window into Greece, it has to be said that the book doesn't offer much of a new perspective. Athens is a glum and rainy place, and the traffic is horrendous (anytime Haritos goes anywhere, his exact route is tiresomely detailed and we are told how long it takes). Greek marriage is an unfulfilling, occasionally nasty enterprise sprinkled with unexpected tender moments, and the child is the main source of joy. The Greeks hate Albanians. Powerful media moguls and industrialists act swiftly and with cunning to insulate themselves from any imputation of wrongdoing (as it is everywhere). The media is a dog-eat-dog world (as it is everywhere). There are little glimpses here and there of how the fascist and communist struggles of the postwar era still resonate, but just a taste. On the whole, it's worth reading if one has a particular interest in Greece or international mysteries, but others will probably find it too convoluted and plodding for their tastes.s the main source of joy. The Greeks hate Albanians. Powerful media moguls and industrialists act swiftly and with cunning to insulate themselves from any imputation of wrongdoing (as it is everywhere). The media is a dog-eat-dog world (as it is everywhere). There are little glimpses here and there of how the fascist and communist struggles of the postwar era still resonate, but just a taste. On the whole, it's worth reading if one has a particular interest in Greece or international mysteries, but others will probably find it too convoluted and plodding for their tastes.	2004-10-02
502907:US	52254603	R1R7FCFBOBJW50	0375753826	347483630	Cold New World: Growing Up in a Harder Country (Modern Library Paperbacks)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Down and Out in the U.S.A.	This mix of sociology and journalism is a mostly gripping and always harrowing journey to the four corners of the American underclass. During the early to mid-1990s, Finnegan spent time with four young people in from very different geographic locations and of very different cultural backgrounds. Each of these are detailed in 50-100 page sections, followed by a surprisingly brief coda, in which he attempts to sum up the similarities between the four cases and draw some prescriptions from them. This is that rarest of books, an in-depth, complex examination of class in America.<br /><br />Finnegan starts in New Haven with Terry, who is practically a cliche of the ghetto youth. A black drug-dealing kid who blows his cash on flashy threads and gaudy jewelry for his girlfriends, he lives near the affluence of Yale University, and yet worlds away culturally. From East Coast to East Texas, where in a small town, Finnegan hangs out with Lanee, a young black woman whose community has just been the subject of a massive federal drug sting. Both sections illustrate just how enticing the drug trade is to the young poor. It's vastly more lucrative than any conceivable alternative, and there's no great social stigma attached to it. In each place, the percentage of the community who is using is so large that the trade assumes a huge place in the microeconomy and has a big ripple effect.<br /><br />The New Haven section is fairly cohesive, and it's somewhat refreshing to see Finnegan admit his inability to stay detached and his attempts to lend a helping hand to Terry. The East Texas section doesn't hold together quite as well. Although Finnegan is again focusing on an individual (Lanee), he is clearly more interested in the broader story of a large federal drug sting in which virtually everyone in the community has a friend or family member indicted. This ties in with the story of the longtime reign of a benign all-powerful sheriff who recently lost reelection, which also ties in with the influence of the \\"old\\" white Texan families of the town. There are a lot of interesting threads here, and it's no wonder Finnegan gets a little distracted.<br /><br />From here, the book moves west, to the Yakima Valley of central Washington state, where rural meets strip mall. There Finnegan hangs out with Juan, the eldest son of hard-working Mexican immigrant field laborers and union activists. In many ways, he's the most mainstream and self-aware kid of the book, and yet he's constantly in trouble due to a proclivity for fighting. Part of this lies within himself, and part of this stems from his need to back up his friends. Acquiring a rep for being a badass turns into a self-fulfilling trap that he has difficulty escaping. Although slacker Juan doesn't claim any of the various Latino gangs that are rampant throughout the Valley, he's perpetually caught up in various beefs that appear to be one step away from gunfire.<br /><br />Finally, Finnegan winds up in the LA exurb of Antelope Valley, where he finds a white supremacist skinhead gang at war with the changing neighborhood demographics and a band of anti-racist SHARP skins. This is one of those instant communities whose bubble burst rather quickly when defense and aerospace jobs disappeared. Living in the town became a step down for whites, but a step up for black and Latino families. Fueled by meth and dead-end prospects, white power skins harass local minorities and engage in running skirmishes with anti-racist skinheads. Finnegan does an excellent job of explaining the origins and different shades of the skinhead subculture. Perhaps most disturbing are the confused hangers-on (mostly women), who are alternately allured and disgusted by the white supremacists.<br /><br />The common theme is that these are all young people who are set on a course of backward mobility, compared to their parents and grandparents. Finnegan places them in the larger context of post-oil crisis, postindustrial America, wherea factory job is no longer a sufficient foundation for a middle class existence. Indeed, even the concept of the middle-class as an attainable destination is completely absent. Finnegan apportions blame to the economy that makes stay-at-home parenting the province of the rich, a public education system that has given up on the bottom tier, a punitive welfare system, an ill-considered government approach to the scourge of drugs, and perhaps most tellingly, \\"the fecklessness and self-absorption of my own generation.\\" This is best reflected in the stunning statistic that over the last 25 years (as of the writing), poverty among the elderly has dropped by 50%, and among children has increased by 37%. This is not an optimistic book, but it will provoke serious thought and debate--a great one for book clubs.America, where a factory job is no longer a sufficient foundation for a middle class existence. Indeed, even the concept of the middle-class as an attainable destination is completely absent. Finnegan apportions blame to the economy that makes stay-at-home parenting the province of the rich, a public education system that has given up on the bottom tier, a punitive welfare system, an ill-considered government approach to the scourge of drugs, and perhaps most tellingly, \\"the fecklessness and self-absorption of my own generation.\\" This is best reflected in the stunning statistic that over the last 25 years (as of the writing), poverty among the elderly has dropped by 50%, and among children has increased by 37%. This is not an optimistic book, but it will provoke serious thought and debate--a great one for book clubs.	2004-10-02
503825:US	52254603	R1SNH9WF0NL3HQ	0140070257	468030524	The Washington Square Ensemble (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Bell's Debut	Bell's first novel is a quasi-phantasmagorical journey with a band of weird heroin dealers in Manhattan circa 1980. The story (such as it is) is, takes place over the a weekend, and is told in alternating chapters through the voices of seven characters. Through flashback chapters, we are given the backstories of this wretched band of pushermen. Their leader is Johnny B. Goode, who survived New York's internal Mafia wars of the '60s and '70s, and now finds himself quietly building a tidy little nest egg through his gang's Washington Park concession. His right hand man is Holy Mother, and their friendship dates back to the Mafia days, when the latter was a no-questions-asked, stone-cold hitman for the mob. However, he was incarcerated and found himself caught in the middle of the famous Attica prison riot on 1971, and hasn't been the same since. Joining the two ex-Mafia in the heroin trade are two religious weirdoes. Yusuf Ali is a huge black man from the Bronx, who was orphaned and raised himself in a basement of rats before discovering Islam. Santa Barbara is a loco PR, deep into santeria and generally off in his own world. On their periphery is Porco Miserio, a down and out saxophonist who had been part of the group and is now in exile.<br /><br />The book begins with a night of dealing which ends in a bizarre encounter with Porco, who wields a strange stone of seemingly magical power. After a heart-warming scene in a diner where the dealers wind up the night and divvy up the proceeds, they split up. The book then takes on the tone of a dark comedy flirting with absurdism. Weird stuff happens. Strange conversations take place. Scripture is recited. A cop is told about their dealing. Someone ODs. A saxophone is played. Part two of the book occupied the final third of the book and takes place the next morning, and revolves around the policeman's attempt to take the gang down. The climax involves an epic battle pitting nunchucks against a group of Rasta soccer players in the middle of the park.<br /><br />This probably makes the book sound pretty wacky and out there. In one sense it is, but without the vivid sense of discovery one hopes for in such works. The NYC scene is kind of interesting, but the ramblings of Santa Barbara and Yusuf Ali bring things to a dead halt whenever they appear. And the mystery of the stone ends up being a touch too cryptic. Ironically, the most gripping part of the book is also the most straightforward, and that's a twenty page chapter in which Holy Mother recounts his Attica experience. That's something that's been more or less forgotten some three decades later, and the fictional retelling is fascinating. Would that the rest of the book were equally so. Bell does some nice things with wordplay and language, but on the whole, it's skipable unless one had a particular interest in fiction about New York.ers in the middle of the park.  <br /> <br />This probably makes the book sound pretty wacky and out there. In one sense it is, but without the vivid sense of discovery one hopes for in such works. The NYC scene is kind of interesting, but the ramblings of Santa Barbara and Yusuf Ali bring things to a dead halt whenever they appear. And the mystery of the stone ends up being a touch too cryptic. Ironically, the most gripping part of the book is also the most straightforward, and that's a twenty page chapter in which Holy Mother recounts his Attica experience. That's something that's been more or less forgotten some three decades later, and the fictional retelling is fascinating. Would that the rest of the book were equally so. Bell does some nice things with wordplay and language, but on the whole, it's skipable unless one had a particular interest in fiction about New York.	2004-10-01
514579:US	52254603	R3TBNPDWYGMSS7	0330487418	674205562	Superjack	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Street Level	The third of Baron's dark, London-set, Billy Rucker series forgoes the missing children that ex-police detective Rucker specializes in tracking down. Instead, the two plotlines emerge from his best friend Nicky, an ex-drug dealer turned pub owner Bengali semi-wideboy.<br /><br />As if Nicky wasn't exotic enough, his best friend from childhood happens to be \\"Super\\" Jack Draper, a 32-year-old striker finally getting his big chance with 1st Division side Leyton Orient. He's scoring goals in droves, and is just playing out the season before some Premiership team picks him up. His problem is that someone has nailed a cat to his door and has been threatening his family. Not wanting to involve the police, he gets sent to Rucker by Nicky. At first Rucker doesn't want to help him, but when he changes his mind, it's a little too late, as the mutilated body of Draper's mistress is discovered and he goes into hiding. Rucker is then hired by Draper's wife to uncover the truth, although the police seem pretty sure \\"Superjack\\" did it. Meanwhile, Nicky has been acting strangely, and it transpires that he's been doing a little money laundering for the Maltese underworld. Alas, someone's made off with the money he's supposed to lauder, and if he doesn't pay up soon, he'll be killed.<br /><br />As both storylines unfold around Rucker's energetic efforts to try and figure out both if Draper was set up (and if so, by who) and who made off with Nicky's 45,000, he's juggling his repressed feeling for his ex and his ambivalent feelings for his current bedmate, Nicky's sister. Baron does a nice job of handling this and showing Rucker as a flawed person with plenty of issues of his own. As in the other two I've read in the series, the ending has a huge \\"shocker\\" twist, but while the other two were pretty obvious way in advance, this one isn't. And in some ways, it's a much more over-the-top twist, despite the careful foundation Baron lays. It's still a good, gritty read, and well worth it if you like your crime based in London and close to the streets.it if you like your crime based in London and close to the streets.	2004-09-21
514758:US	52254603	R2Q74H5K27ED64	0312311788	374091782	The Death You Deserve: A Novel	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Lame Farce	I'm always on the lookout for crime stories with a twist, and I'm always keen on those set outside London (such as John Williams' Cardiff books or John Harvey's Nottingham series). Alas, this Manchester-set mobster farce proved to be far too heavy-handed and baroque to be enjoyable. The story kicks off when little-read horror novelist Billy Dye (the last name is just a taste of the mostly lame humor) is granted an interview with gangster #1 Malcom Priest (again, har har on the name) for a glossy lad mag. Dye somewhat rashly (or perhaps as part of a subconscious death wish), writes the truth about the nasty gangster in his profile. Thankfully, his editor rewrites it into a fawning puff piece, temporarily keeping Billy alive (although it's no great save, since the only four people Billy seems to know are his hapless agent, his ineffectual publisher, an estranged girlfriend, and his drug connection). This leads to Priest asking Dye to ghostwrite his autobiography, and thus Billy gains access to the inner sanctum.<br /><br />Bowker attempts to milk humor from the gang's silly nicknames, such as Chef, Dogman, Beast, Heidi, Doll, etc. Quirky gangster nicknames have been a source of mirth in film and prose for quite a while, and Bowker doesn't take it anywhere new. It's all very serviceable, but no one's going to dislocate a jaw laughing at the stuff. After all this setup, the story is unleashed when Priest decides Dye is annoying and orders him killed. This seems to come out of nowhere, and it's a little strange that there's no particular inciting event that leads to this. Alas, the story relies on a huge contrivance to keep the annoying Dye alive&oacute;it just so happens that the Priest's executioner extraordinaire (\\"Rawhead\\") was Dye's best chum from childhood.<br /><br />From there, things just keep getting worse. Rawhead puts Dye into a safe house and starts unleashing revenge on his behalf, leading to some fairly nasty scenes of carnage. And for the rest of the book, it's hard to know who does more stupid stuff: Dye or the gangsters. Granted, it's all a farce, but Dye is truly unlikable, and as it becomes clearer that Rawhead is a psychopath, it's hard to root for him as well. As the book progresses, the only question is how fast all these people are going to die (not fast enough). It should be noted that there's a whole gothic texture the book. Dye and Rawhead bonded as youths over classic gothic lit, and these old ghost tales crop up throughout the second half of the story. It all ends up feeling rather gimmicky, and basically I couldn't read this book fast enough to be done with it. Plenty of people apparently like it though, cause there's a sequel out called \\"I Love My Smith and Wesson.\\"it's hard to know who does more stupid stuff: Dye or the gangsters. Granted, it's all a farce, but Dye is truly unlikable, and as it becomes clearer that Rawhead is a psychopath, it's hard to root for him as well. As the book progresses, the only question is how fast all these people are going to die (not fast enough). It should be noted that there's a whole gothic texture the book. Dye and Rawhead bonded as youths over classic gothic lit, and these old ghost tales crop up throughout the second half of the story. It all ends up feeling rather gimmicky, and basically I couldn't read this book fast enough to be done with it. Plenty of people apparently like it though, cause there's a sequel out called \\"I Love My Smith and Wesson.\\"	2004-09-21
519507:US	52254603	R3N5R915YT8QD8	1569473617	938637947	The House Sitter (A Detective Peter Diamond Mystery)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	The Serial Killer Blues	I've long fondled Lovesey's books at the library, but this eighth in his Peter Diamond series is the first I've actually read. It starts with a family on an outing to the beach near Sussex. The all-too-typical day on the beach suddenly becomes creepy when the couple's young daughter goes missing. At the end of a frantic search, a more troubling discovery is made&oacute;the body of a dead woman. It's a nice little trick to draw the reader in, using one situation as the warm up to the main course.<br /><br />The dead woman is soon determined to have been strangled while lying on the beach in plain view. This is a sort of reversal of the traditional locked-room mystery, with the added complications of the tide having washed away all forensic evidence, and no clue as to the victim's identity. Tough, cigarillo-smoking D.I. Hen Mallin is assigned to the case, and the difficulties just keep on multiplying even once the victim is identified as a psychologist from Bath who consulted with the police as a criminal profiler. The Bath connection brings with it the involvement of the acerbic Peter Diamond, and the two strong personalities must figure out a way to work with each other.<br /><br />When they discover that the woman had been working on a hush-hush serial killer case, Diamond subtlety hijacks that case as well. This strand of the book gets a little baroque, as the serial killer invokes \\"The Rime of the Ancient Mariner\\" in a quest to kill Britain's leading film director, a professional golf phenom, and a libidinous ex-pop star turned industrialist. Whether this fantastical case is related to the profiler's death is a key question, and one that isn't answered until the climax.<br /><br />The investigation is fairly interesting, as encrypted files on the psychologist's computer are decoded, two key witnesses to the beach affair go missing, and all manner of complications are strewn in Diamond and Hen's path. And while this procedural stuff is good, the larger matter of the serial killer left me rather cold. The serial killer is an overused character in fiction, and I tend to find plots revolving around them rather boring. The twisted madness to their methods always come across as over-the-top, and motivations always seem disproportionately thin. This book is no exception, which is too bad, because otherwise, it's quite a good read and the characters draw one in. I will definitely seek out others in the series.r cold. The serial killer is an overused character in fiction, and I tend to find plots revolving around them rather boring. The twisted madness to their methods always come across as over-the-top, and motivations always seem disproportionately thin. This book is no exception, which is too bad, because otherwise, it's quite a good read and the characters draw one in. I will definitely seek out others in the series.	2004-09-16
527669:US	52254603	R3IBOQCLUSWY3H	0399151931	752362767	Generation Kill: Devil Dogs, Iceman, Captain America and The New Face of American War	Books	5	126	139	N	N	Must Reading For Both Sides of the Political Spectrum	Whether you were for or against Gulf War II, this is essential reading about it. Rolling Stone writer Wright was embedded with an elite U.S. Marine reconnaissance unit that was often at the \\"tip of the point of the spear\\" during the invasion of Iraq. He spent approximately two months with them, riding shotgun in a Humvee as they were used as ambush-bait in the push north. The result is brilliant front-lines reportage that's at turns harrowing, hilarious, shocking, and chaotic&oacute;reflecting the reality of combat at its most basic level. The book's title is provocative, designed to sell rather than describe the contents. And yet, Wright does have something to say about the new generation of American soldiers sent to fight in Iraq: \\"These young men represent what is more or less America's first generation of disposable children. More than half of the guys in the platoon come from broken homes and were raised by absentee, single, working parents. Many are on more intimate terms with video games, reality TV shows and Internet porn than they are with their own parents.\\"<br /><br />Based on that excerpt, one might expect Wright to go on to provide a litany of the unit's worst excesses and examples of Marine Corps machismo and arrogance. Thankfully, he instead is interested in the men and not stereotypes, and manages to gain acceptance among them. Some have critiqued the book for this&oacute;essentially saying that because Wright became tight with these Marines, he couldn't be objective about their actions. While it would be absurd to suggest that Wright operated under total objectivity, as a critique, it doesn't hold up. Most of the book is Wright just writing about what he sees happen and recounts the feelings the men share with him about their experiences. And it's not as if he sugarcoats his two months with them&oacute;plenty of screwups and bad mojo make their way into the pages.<br /><br />Those with illusions about high tech modern warfare will read in astonishment as duststorms blind all electronic reconnaissance, guns break down for lack of lubricant, thermal imagers aren't available due to battery shortages, and radios from different units can't communicate due to incompatible encryption keys. Alas, the bad news doesn't end there, the unit Wright rides with is sent into tactical situations they're unprepared for, in vehicles they have little experience in, replying on some weapons they've hardly ever trained on, and later on, supported by a reservist unit of DEA and LAPD officers who are total cowboys.<br /><br />On the plus side, Wright is scrupulous in detailing how attentive the soldiers are to the rules of engagement, and goes to great lengths to explain how the fog of war operates and can lead to civilian casualties. And when civilians are killed due to lapses of discipline, Wright doesn't have to point it out, the Marines he's rides with do it for him. What's perhaps the most surprising thing about the book is how upset some of the Marines get by the scenes they witness. And then again, he does recount the excitement some of the soldiers felt at unleashing spectacular acts of destruction. Another criticism of the book is that he vilifies \\"all\\" the officers, usually by recounting the griping of the men under them. The truth is that there are two officers in particular (\\"Captain America\\" and \\"Encino Man\\") who do come across as dangerously incompetent, and Wright's account makes it very clear why the enlisted men lost all confidence in their leadership. Indeed if one reads between the lines, there's a critique of how the military lets middle-grade officers sit behind desks for ten years and then expects them to perform on the battlefield when they have morphed into mangers.<br /><br />One could go on and on about the other aspects of the war Wright writes about with clarity: how the chain of command works (or doesn't), the addictive adrenaline rush of being shot at, how the soldiers kept themselves hepped up on ephedra, the deep cynicism many Marines have for the war, and how ultimately, \\"The invasion all comes down to a bunch of extremely tense young men in their late teens and twenties with their finders on the triggers of rifles and machine guns.\\" Perhaps the most telling thing about the book is that the soldiers he was embedded with have stood by his warts and all account as being truthful&oacute;at least one has even posted his support on Amazon. Wright recounts how one Marine writes constantly to his wife, saying\\"If something happens to me, I want my wife to know the truth. If they say we fought valiantly here, I want her to know we fought retarded.\\" For those who don't have relatives at the front lines, Wright's book is the first-hand account we should be reading in order to get a true picture of the cost and consequences of going to war.ep cynicism many Marines have for the war, and how ultimately, \\"The invasion all comes down to a bunch of extremely tense young men in their late teens and twenties with their finders on the triggers of rifles and machine guns.\\" Perhaps the most telling thing about the book is that the soldiers he was embedded with have stood by his warts and all account as being truthfulat least one has even posted his support on Amazon. Wright recounts how one Marine writes constantly to his wife, saying\\"If something happens to me, I want my wife to know the truth. If they say we fought valiantly here, I want her to know we fought retarded.\\" For those who don't have relatives at the front lines, Wright's book is the first-hand account we should be reading in order to get a true picture of the cost and consequences of going to war.	2004-09-09
527736:US	52254603	R3KAREXQAA5ZGU	1574882864	329455826	The Forgotten Soldier	Books	4	82	99	N	N	Vivid (And Longwinded) Account of the Eastern Front Collapse	One of the essential preparations for modern warfare is to deny the humanity of one's enemy. This makes it much easier in psychological terms to both kill, and then to live with the knowledge that one has killed. And in the years following the end of WWII, the disclosure of the full extent of the Holocaust has done this in reverse. It's hard to imagine regular people committing such acts, and shades of gray are tossed out the window, so that the entire German military is equated with the Nazi party, and thus evil. For younger Americans, Nazis are cartoon villains invoked whenever a villain of unquestionable evil is required. And German soldiers in field gray are usually faceless automatons (see, for example, Saving Private Ryan, the Band of Brothers series, the Medal of Honor video game).<br /><br />For anyone seeking an alternate perspective of the common German soldier, this book is an invaluable (if overlong) work. Sajer was a half-German, half-French teenager of conflicted identity who enlisted in the Wehrmacht in order to be part of something glorious (although he never really seems clear what that is). Like so many naive young men seduced by the idea of war and being a soldier, it doesn't take long for reality to intrude. Following a vigorous training, he becomes part of the Rollbahn supply corps. Hundreds of pages of sheer terror follow, as he and his friends are thrown into the maw of the Eastern front.<br /><br />Most people have more than a passing knowledge of WWII know that the Eastern front was a big mistake on the part of the Germans. Between the insane winters, the overstretched supply lines, constant partisan harassment, and ultimately, the sheet number of Red Army troops, the Germans never had a chance. Knowing that on a strategic level is one thing, but hearing about what this meant to the average soldier on the ground is something else. And hearing it from someone who was there is even more compelling. You've never read about being cold like this. Cold that cracked the hands and caused sores so that men would urinate on each other's hands in order to provide brief relief. Hunger was the other major issue, and it's impossible to conceive of men living in such conditions surviving on the meager portions available.<br /><br />Terror and misery is the major theme of the book, as the front collapses and Sajer spends most of the war retreating. He and his friends volunteer for the Gross Deutschland, a renown SS division, which doesn't appreciably improve their plight. Although they were previously running supplies to front line positions, they now find themselves manning positions in rearguard actions, constantly being strafed by Russian airplanes who began to control the sky, and often on the verge of being overrun by Russian tanks or infantry. As Sajer's unit falls back through the Ukraine and over the Baltic coast and into Prussia, the chaos is palpable and it seems remarkable that the German army managed to remain any semblance of order. And ultimately, it simply becomes a matter of racing to find some British or American troops to surrender to before the Russians catch up.<br /><br />That's one of the several minor flaws of the book, the Russians are entirely portrayed as barely human savage hordes who would mindlessly throw themselves into battle, complete with war cries. Granted, the German soldier was probably indoctrinated to think of them that way, but Sajer only occasionally displays any empathy for them as fellow soldiers. Another minor problem is that the book is awfully long-winded. There's a lot of interesting detail, but the problem is that you have to sometimes slog through uninteresting detail to find it. There's also a saccharine love story that seems very hokey.<br /><br />It should be noted that there have been claims made that the book is a fake, and that Sajer made the whole thing up. These claims focus on particular details and have been fairly convincingly rebutted in a vigorous debate that took place in publications like Army Journal, (copies of these exchanges can be found online fairly easily). It's worth noting that since the book's original French publication in 1967, no one has disputed its description of life for the German soldier on the Eastern front. Others have criticized the book on the grounds that it attempts to engender sympathy for an army that destroyed Europe and made the Holocaust possible, and that, essentially, \\"they got what they deserved.\\" To a certain extent this is valid, since Sajer has said repeatedly that the book is a tribute to his fellow soldiers and to their bravery and suffering. But if one does feel sympathy for Sajer and his fellow soldiers, it at least means that the reader has a true sense of the horror of war and will keep this knowledge in mind when the next time their own country rushes to battle.s debate that took place in publications like Army Journal, (copies of these exchanges can be found online fairly easily). It's worth noting that since the book's original French publication in 1967, no one has disputed its description of life for the German soldier on the Eastern front. Others have criticized the book on the grounds that it attempts to engender sympathy for an army that destroyed Europe and made the Holocaust possible, and that, essentially, \\"they got what they deserved.\\" To a certain extent this is valid, since Sajer has said repeatedly that the book is a tribute to his fellow soldiers and to their bravery and suffering. But if one does feel sympathy for Sajer and his fellow soldiers, it at least means that the reader has a true sense of the horror of war and will keep this knowledge in mind when the next time their own country rushes to battle.	2004-09-09
536694:US	52254603	R1YAWD5MU2TZS6	1590710207	309083352	Eagle in the Snow	Books	4	30	39	N	N	Decent Historical Epic	Originally published almost 35 years ago, this lengthy novel about a Roman officer in the early 5th century AD was allegedly the inspiration for the opening sequence of the film Gladiator. Alas, for the most part it's much more tedious than that sword and sandal epic, although perhaps equally grim in tone. Amid the tedium, however, is a pretty decent portrayal of an empire crumbling&oacute;a view of the Roman Empire not generally seen. We first meet Maximus as a junior officer manning Hadrian's Wall, holding back the Picts, Saxons, and Scotty barbarians. This initial section is very plodding, and contains a rather silly subplot concerning his cousin and brother officer who is part of a failed coup attempt and flees to live among the barbarians. Meanwhile, Maximus marries, dreams of seeing Rome, and becomes best friends with a nearby cavalry officer. An old-fashioned man, he stands for everything the Empire used to, duty, honor, the old gods, and so forth. Unfortunately for him, Christianity is taking over, and the Empire is a failing institution, rotting from the core.<br /><br />After being stuck in this backwater for most of his prime years, enduring personal tragedy, and seeing all his best efforts go to waste, he is unexpectedly asked by General Stilicho to raise and train a legion. Bringing his best friend with him to be head of cavalry, Maximus manages to rise to the task and go on to fight for several years in Italia. Most of this happens \\"off camera\\", and the book really kicks into gear in the second part, when Maximus' legion is sent to the empire's northern frontier to hold the Rhine against the Germanic tribes trying to push into Gaul. The Huns have come from the East and are driving the Vandals, Goths and other tribes out of their traditional lands and toward Roman turf. Maximus is given scant resources, almost no political support, and vague promises of reinforcements to supplement his mere 6,000 men.<br /><br />At this point, the book does get pretty interesting, as Maximus tries to build alliances with friendly tribes, bluffs the Germanic kings into thinking he's got a stronger force than he does, browbeats the locals into providing more men, horses, and food to his army, all the while trying to set up a network of outposts, forts, and even a small river fleet. All of this is an attempt to stall until reinforcements arrive the next year, but the prologue reveals that there will be a battle, and that Maximus will lose. When the fighting does start, the book kicks into high gear, as strategic and tactical efforts are detailed, and Maximus uses every trick in the book to offset his foe's huge numerical superiority. Not only are the battle scenes great, but great deal of emphasis is given the logistics, communications, and supply issues involved, and how critical all of these are. The final third of the book is crucial reading for anyone interested in the Roman Empire's military.<br /><br />On the whole, it's worth reading for anyone really into fiction about the Roman Empire, however there's a lot of clunky plotting and fat that could be trimmed. The whole subplot about Maximus' cousin, who reemerges later, is silly and unnecessary. As is a cheesy betrayal that's not nearly the surprise to the reader that the author must have intended. And all the stuff about duty, honor, and Empire wears thin fairly quickly. Of course, Breem was an officer in the old Indian Army, and served just after WWII, as the British Empire was crumbling, so it's not hard to see the book as a little bit of projection. Bearing in mind that it was written in the late-1960s, one could also easily read this as a Cold War allegory, with Maximus standing for valiant Western military who are being betrayed by lilly-livered politicians and a soft public into not standing against the faceless hordes of Germanic barbarians, who stand for godless communists (be they Russian, Chinese, or North Vietnamese). Still, it's fine old-fashioned romantic epic about one man battling the odds and trying to live by his own code.t one man battling the odds and trying to live by his own code.	2004-08-31
536844:US	52254603	R3JPEKLQIODK6H	0812575164	121293618	On Treacherous Ground: Secret Stories of the West	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Passable Collection of Stories About the Old and New West	Best known for his work in the Western genre, Murray here collects ten stories spanning the old and new Western states. They are unified by a sense of right and wrong and who the villains are, very simple prose, somewhat heavy-handed plotting, and a love of the West. Three of the stories are set in the old West of wagon trains and gunfighters. In \\"Untold Glory\\", an army Lieutenant leads a wagon train near the Rockies. It's a pretty basic story of the trail, with a showdown with a Sioux band as climax. \\"A Stranger in Madio's\\" is about a hired \\"regulator\\" in Texas who gets caught up in an altercation at a bar poker game. The key to the story lies in the identity of the stranger of the title, which is rather predictable. Set in the gold towns on the Sierra Nevadas, \\"Hangtown\\" follows a priest seeking a famous bandido, again for a rather predictable reason.<br /><br />The seven modern stories have somewhat more interesting premises, however, the execution isn't the greatest. These tend to highlight the destruction of cultural and/or natural treasures by big business. \\"High on Windy Water\\" celebrates untamed land, as an old-timer shows a trio of rich city men around a large property they hope to use for high-end tourism. There's kind of a interesting dark tone, as they make a disconcerting discovery. In \\"Sacred Stone\\" an Indian woman tries to derail the plans of a mining company to destroy a sacred tribal site. The story also gives a taste of the alcoholism and other ills of modern reservation life. \\"Gulls in the Snow\\" is another piece about an old-timer who loves the West and the corporate interests arrayed against him.<br /><br />\\"Aftermath\\" is a semi-ripped story from the headlines story about two boys engaged in a Columbine-style plot driven by their neo-Nazi beliefs. Little about it rings true however, and it comes across as contrived and cheesy&oacute;a much better fictional take on the Columbine phenomenon is Jim Shepard's novel Project X. The militant separatists of \\"On Treacherous Ground\\" aren't neo-Nazis, but rather of the \\"here come the black helicopters\\" brigade. The story is about Sam Grant, an upstanding citizen trying to be recruited by the militia. The most over-the-top story (and my own favorite), is \\"The Red Skull Room\\" in which a club of wealthy men compete every year to acquire the most extravagant objects in a contest for$5 million in diamonds. It's straight out of the pulps, with sacred artifacts, the FBI, and Native American avengers all in the mix.f \\"On Treacherous Ground\\" aren't neo-Nazis, but rather of the \\"here come the black helicopters\\" brigade. The story is about Sam Grant, an upstanding citizen trying to be recruited by the militia. The most over-the-top story (and my own favorite), is \\"The Red Skull Room\\" in which a club of wealthy men compete every year to acquire the most extravagant objects in a contest for$5 million in diamonds. It's straight out of the pulps, with sacred artifacts, the FBI, and Native American avengers all in the mix.	2004-08-31
537547:US	52254603	RBX70JL805IKA	0374204802	38667826	The Maze	Books	3	2	4	N	N	So-So Debut Novel	I read this for my book group, and like the other seven members who read it, found it to be a floridly written and somewhat interesting work that never seems to go anywhere. Part One of the book finds a Greek army unit wandering lost in the Anatolian desert at the tail end of the Greco-Turkish war of 1919-22. (One of the book's minor flaws is that other than a three sentence prologue, it doesn't give the reader any context for what the Greek army is doing in Turkey.) In any event, we meet only a few members of this dispirited unit, who are wandering in circles in the desert in their attempt to evade the Turkish army and make it to the sea, where they will be evacuated. At the head of this ship of fools is Brigadier Nestor, who hides from the world in his books of ancient mythology and vials of morphine. Meanwhile, Major Porfirio, the number two in command, wages a secret Communist propaganda campaign to little effect. Then there is the priest, who left his small parish to pursue his vision of being Apostle to the Anatolians, and is slowly going mad. The bulk of the wandering is shown through their eyes, although a Corporal, the Medic, and a downed pilot also play minor roles. For these first 140 pages, not a lot happens. The unit wanders a few miles a day, they start running low on food and water, and that's about it.<br /><br />Part Two begins in a local village, and introduces its cast of stock characters. There's the buffoonish mayor who's literally gotten fat off his office. His fiancee, the sophisticated foreign courtesan stuck in this dreary backwater. The schoolmaster, and the shopkeeper, neither of whom make much of an impression, an alcoholic newspaper correspondent, and finally a maidservant and a gardener who emerge as the only two people to really find happiness. The Greek soldiers manage to make it our of the desert and arrive at this town, shaking up the established order. Which makes it sound more exciting than it actually is&oacute;make no mistake, this is a slow novel. Events do build up to a fairly tragic climax which never feels fully paid off or legitimate, or even climactic, and the brief epilogue ends things on much more of a whimper than a bang. The overall effect one walks away with is that Karnezis has stiched together a series of unsubtle character studies revolving around the frailty and pitfalls of belief and what it takes to be happy in life.<br /><br />The writing is a bit of a mixed bag, which at times is very atmospheric, and at times too baroque and overdone. In the same vein, some of the similes are quite nice, but they frequently misfire and occur far too often. Although, it has to be acknowledged that it's quite impressive writing for someone who is writing in their second language. Characters rarely feel alive, and few have distinct voices. There are some nice moments of humor mixed in, gentle comic touches that provide a welcome change from the general defeated tone. Also scattered in are references to Greek mythology, which are footnoted and laboriously explained. There are no doubt, a number of biblical references mixed in as well, but as someone who never read the Bible, they passed me by. On the whole, it's not bad, just not that great, and I would hesitate to recommend it to others.s a slow novel. Events do build up to a fairly tragic climax which never feels fully paid off or legitimate, or even climactic, and the brief epilogue ends things on much more of a whimper than a bang. The overall effect one walks away with is that Karnezis has stiched together a series of unsubtle character studies revolving around the frailty and pitfalls of belief and what it takes to be happy in life.  <br /> <br />The writing is a bit of a mixed bag, which at times is very atmospheric, and at times too baroque and overdone. In the same vein, some of the similes are quite nice, but they frequently misfire and occur far too often. Although, it has to be acknowledged that it's quite impressive writing for someone who is writing in their second language. Characters rarely feel alive, and few have distinct voices. There are some nice moments of humor mixed in, gentle comic touches that provide a welcome change from the general defeated tone. Also scattered in are references to Greek mythology, which are footnoted and laboriously explained. There are no doubt, a number of biblical references mixed in as well, but as someone who never read the Bible, they passed me by. On the whole, it's not bad, just not that great, and I would hesitate to recommend it to others.	2004-08-31
537835:US	52254603	R3GKC18FV7LUSV	0679767819	664674670	The Demolished Man	Books	3	5	11	N	N	Hugely Influential, But Flawed	Winner of the inaugural Hugo Award in 1953, this sci-fi/murder mystery is currently in development in Hollywood under the auspices of Australian director Andrew Dominik. A groundbreaking and hugely influential book in many ways, it's aged quite well, with only a few hints here and there showing its age. That said, the story's got enough flaws to make it disappointing to those expecting a masterpiece. The premise is that in the future, a small part of humanity has developed telepathic abilities. These \\"Espers\\" (after ESP) or \\"peepers\\" have self-organized into a Guild (highly unlikely in an of itself) which controls most aspects of their lives. One of the consequences of this is that premeditated crime has mostly vanished due to these telepaths being able to sniff out plans before they ever happen, or else are able to solve crimes after the fact using their abilities to probe the minds of anyone involved. The upshot is that while there is the occasional murder, no one has successfully evaded capture in over seventy years.<br /><br />Set mainly in New York, the plot concerns mega-industrialist Ben Reich, who decides he must murder his arch-rival in business in order to not be swallowed by his competitor. He's a bit of a megalomaniac, but figures that if he can corrupt a peeper to help mask his thoughts, he can get away with it if he's audacious enough. It seems unlikely that it would have taken seventy years for someone to try this out, but the Esper Guild penalty for aiding and abetting lawbreakers is ostracization. Despite the supposedly unbearable psychological effects of this, it seems like a rather flimsy excuse for a deterrent. Basically, wouldn't the \\"criminal\\" peepers just band together and form their own outlaw Esper Mafia? Another aspect of the peepers that is entirely glossed over is the high levels of resentment that would likely exist among \\"normals\\" whose most intimate thoughts and dreams would be available to any peeper walking down the street.<br /><br />Anyway, the story proceeds with the details of the murder&oacute;which in the best pulp fashion is witnessed by a beautiful girl who goes missing (how she turns up where she does is a mystery not answered). From there on it's a clever cat and mouse game, as the top peeper cop does his best to unravel Reich's careful subterfuge and pin the murder on him. Then the book takes a bit of a wacky turn for the worse, as Reich is revealed to be not just a murderer, but \\"the type of man\\" who only comes every few centuries or so, who can \\"bend society to his own reality\\". This is a crucial twist that is never well-explained and this vagueness really hurts the book. Bester does heavily rely on Freudian concepts of id, ego, and superego that were in major vogue at the time, and seems intent on making the point that one man really can create a new reality for the world. My own interpretation&oacute;and I'm surprised not to have run across it elsewhere&oacute;is that Bester was making a very unsubtle comment on Nazism and Hitler (who was only a few years removed from power when Bester wrote this). One only has to look at the name of the nightmare plagued, obsessive man at the heart of the story who dreams of a galaxy-spanning empire, &oacute;Reich.<br /><br />In any event, the book is notable for its innovative use of typography, no doubt a result of Bester's career in comics. This is crucial in portraying the telepathic communication used by the peepers, and works very well. The characters themselves are not at all well drawn, and the book suffers as a result. In addition to the plot, the dialogue also rings of the pulps, with snappy repartee and some nice slang thrown in. All in all, it's a pretty readable piece of sci-fi history, although not the amazing wonder that some make it out to be.> <br />Anyway, the story proceeds with the details of the murderwhich in the best pulp fashion is witnessed by a beautiful girl who goes missing (how she turns up where she does is a mystery not answered). From there on it's a clever cat and mouse game, as the top peeper cop does his best to unravel Reich's careful subterfuge and pin the murder on him. Then the book takes a bit of a wacky turn for the worse, as Reich is revealed to be not just a murderer, but \\"the type of man\\" who only comes every few centuries or so, who can \\"bend society to his own reality\\". This is a crucial twist that is never well-explained and this vagueness really hurts the book. Bester does heavily rely on Freudian concepts of id, ego, and superego that were in major vogue at the time, and seems intent on making the point that one man really can create a new reality for the world. My own interpretationand I'm surprised not to have run across it elsewhereis that Bester was making a very unsubtle comment on Nazism and Hitler (who was only a few years removed from power when Bester wrote this). One only has to look at the name of the nightmare plagued, obsessive man at the heart of the story who dreams of a galaxy-spanning empire, Reich.  <br /> <br />In any event, the book is notable for its innovative use of typography, no doubt a result of Bester's career in comics. This is crucial in portraying the telepathic communication used by the peepers, and works very well. The characters themselves are not at all well drawn, and the book suffers as a result. In addition to the plot, the dialogue also rings of the pulps, with snappy repartee and some nice slang thrown in. All in all, it's a pretty readable piece of sci-fi history, although not the amazing wonder that some make it out to be.	2004-08-31
551748:US	52254603	R1NC1N6T5BBGKF	0553276735	458595325	No Comebacks	Books	4	25	26	N	N	Ten Entertainments	Forsyth is best known for his taut thrillers, especially The Day of Jackal, but this collection of short stories reveals him a very competent crafter of clever short stories. Originally written in the early to late '70s (and three of which appeared in Playboy), each of the ten tales is a mini-morality tale, with a lighthearted tone and a twist of some sort. Their unifying theme is revenge/comeuppance&oacute;each story is about someone getting their just desserts one way or another. The exception to this is \\"Duty\\", which is not light at all and quite different in theme and perspective, and for those reasons, feels wholly out of place.<br /><br />Two of the stories feature wealthy protagonists, including the title story, which tells of a handsome, successful English businessman who can have anything he wants from life and yet is still bored. It's the old \\"money can't buy you happiness\\" story, until one day he falls for a married woman. She admits the mutual attraction but won't leave her husband, and so the tycoon decides to send a hitman to solve the problem. The mechanics of the hitman's assignment are very compelling, and it all leads to an obvious twist that reaffirms the moral. \\"A Careful Man\\" is another rich man tale, but in this case, the wealthy coin dealer is dying of cancer and has no one he wants to leave his fortune to&oacute;least of all his detestable sister and her family. His solution is fairly clever and the fun is in watching the odious family catch up with what the reader already knows.<br /><br />Another set of stories feature unassuming hard-working middle-aged men who have yet to reap many fruits from their labors, and are generally married to unpleasant frigid nags. In \\"The Emperor\\", a bank manager vacations with his wife on a tropical island for the first (and probably last) time. It's basically the best experience of his life, and on the last day he quite daringly sneaks out for some sport fishing. This is transformative in a fairly predictable way, but satisfying nonetheless. In \\"Money With Menaces\\", an unassuming man comes across a \\"swingers\\" magazine on the train, and is intrigued by the idea of meeting a woman for sex. He falls right into an obvious blackmail scheme, but for once Forsyth hides the twist until the end, providing perhaps the best resolution of all the stories. \\"Privilege\\" starts with a small businessman who has been libeled in the newspaper and seeks redress. His lawyer dissuades him from suing, pointing out that winners of such suits usually incur huge financial costs that aren't worth the satisfaction of winning. Studying the libel statutes for a few days, he spots a possible form of redress. This story seems a little strange, as Britain has some of the harshest libel penalties in the Western world. \\"Used in Evidence\\" is about an old man who may or may not have killed his wife thirty years previously.<br /><br />Three of the stories are set in Ireland, a place Forsyth had a great personal interest in. \\"There Are No Snakes In Ireland\\" is a straight-out revenge tale, pitting a hard-working Indian student against his persecutor, a racist UVF thug. \\"There Are Some Days&Ouml;\\" is a comedy of errors about the heist of a truck of French brandy which goes completely pear-shaped. As in other stories, the reader knows more than the characters, and the pleasure comes in watching it all unfold. \\"Sharp Practice\\" takes place on a train, where a judge, priest, and humble worker pass the time with a friendly game of poker. Anyone who's knows a bit about con artistry will see the setup and likely result a mile away, but it's still good fun.<br /><br />All in all this is a very solid, if not spectacular set of stories. No doubt due to his journalistic background, Forsyth is great with the details of the stories, especially how people go about their work. His characters tend to be types rather than individuals, but for the kind of stories he tells, that's all you really need. As morality tales they areall set up and executed quite cleverly. And yet for all that, there's a kind of disposable element to them; none will make you sit up and say \\"wow\\".t up and executed quite cleverly. And yet for all that, there's a kind of disposable element to them; none will make you sit up and say \\"wow\\".	2004-08-18
552149:US	52254603	RZYJCROCKIPML	0060920084	754387444	The Lost Continent: Travels in Small-Town America	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Bryson's Awkward Early Effort	That old saw, \\"you can never go home\\" has rarely been more in evidence than in this book by then-expatriate Bryson. Having lived England for over a decade, he decides to return to his native Iowa and embark on a hazily conceived cross-country road trip. The \\"road trip\\" is a distinctly American invention, born of the combination of affluence, the interstate highway system, and the size of America. It's usually invoked as a framework on which to build a tale of discovery, and here Bryson intends to rediscover and ostensibly celebrate small-town America. Touching base in Des Moines to see his mother, he sets out to locate a real-life version of the perfect movie-set small towns of his childhood films.<br /><br />He begins the trip with frequent stories about his now-dead father, who would drag the family on horrendous family vacations each summer. Unfortunately, his father merely comes across as a cliche bumbling father, always getting lost, too proud to ask for directions, stingy, and choleric toward the equally cliche kids in the back seat. Thankfully as Bryson moves outside of the zone of his childhood vacations, stories of his father disappear. This allows the meat of the book to emerge&oacute;small town America. And in Bryson's eyes, it's not a pretty scene. It doesn't take long for him to realize that chain stores have spread their tentacles across the land and places that might have once have character are now becoming anonymous assemblages of strip malls and parking lots. Because Bryson's been overseas, he assumes a stunned \\"what happened!?\\" attitude to this transformation. What happened is the inexorable intersection of a capitalist economy with a consumer society, where chain operations enjoy the economies scale that allow them to offer the cheapest prices to the consumer, who naturally responds. Bryson (rightfully) rails against the loss of character and individuality this engenders in communities across the country. Of course, this is a trend that has only increased in the fifteen years since the book first appeared, and there's little end in sight.<br /><br />To be sure, Bryson's account is not meant to be a fair-minded, clinical observation. Clearly intended for a British audience, Bryson is always keen to make a broad generalization, cheap joke, snide jibe, or catty comment about what and who he encounters. While this is sometimes entertaining, it often crosses into sheer mean-spiritedness. A particular target of his is the overweight, which he seems to believe is a uniquely American phenomenon&oacute;rich, when you see statistics suggesting that the British are on their way to passing Americans in the obesity stakes. In any event, there's lots of haranguing about fast food, bad food, scummy hotels, lame tourist traps, and the interchangeability of so many small towns. Eventually, he realizes that the perfect town doesn't exist (although there are three or four he ends up really liking), and he'll have to piece it together in his head from the standout parts of different places.<br /><br />The 14,000 mile, 38 state (he doesn't get to the deep south, the Pacific Northwest, or the upper northeast) trip isn't very useful per se. Anyone who knows nothing about the backroads of America is going to be horrified, anyone who has a bad opinion about the backroads of America will find plenty of confirmation, and anyone who likes the backroads of America (or lives there) will probably be infuriated. Ultimately, much of the book has a kind of distasteful elitist tone to it, when Bryson does stumble across something he likes, it's treated as an unexpected boon that's all the more shocking for being in the hinterland. I've read almost every one of his other books, and for the most part, greatly enjoyed them, but this isn't of nearly the same quality.ased in the fifteen years since the book first appeared, and there's little end in sight.  <br /> <br />To be sure, Bryson's account is not meant to be a fair-minded, clinical observation. Clearly intended for a British audience, Bryson is always keen to make a broad generalization, cheap joke, snide jibe, or catty comment about what and who he encounters. While this is sometimes entertaining, it often crosses into sheer mean-spiritedness. A particular target of his is the overweight, which he seems to believe is a uniquely American phenomenonrich, when you see statistics suggesting that the British are on their way to passing Americans in the obesity stakes. In any event, there's lots of haranguing about fast food, bad food, scummy hotels, lame tourist traps, and the interchangeability of so many small towns. Eventually, he realizes that the perfect town doesn't exist (although there are three or four he ends up really liking), and he'll have to piece it together in his head from the standout parts of different places. <br /> <br />The 14,000 mile, 38 state (he doesn't get to the deep south, the Pacific Northwest, or the upper northeast) trip isn't very useful per se. Anyone who knows nothing about the backroads of America is going to be horrified, anyone who has a bad opinion about the backroads of America will find plenty of confirmation, and anyone who likes the backroads of America (or lives there) will probably be infuriated. Ultimately, much of the book has a kind of distasteful elitist tone to it, when Bryson does stumble across something he likes, it's treated as an unexpected boon that's all the more shocking for being in the hinterland. I've read almost every one of his other books, and for the most part, greatly enjoyed them, but this isn't of nearly the same quality.	2004-08-18
557196:US	52254603	R27EVKG53GGHOB	0972555307	578209842	The Interman	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Mediocre Solo Debut	Comics vet Parker makes his personal indie debut with this mediocre adventure. The hero is the offspring of a top-secret Western attempt in the 1960s to create a super-soldier to fight the Soviets during the Cold War. When the Pentagon shut down the program in the Vietnam era due to worries about public opinion should word leak out (since the PR implications of genetic fiddling would have been pretty bad no matter what else was going on, this doesn't seem like a particularly plausible reason to shut down such a project), they never bothered to keep track of the one \\"interman\\" produced (an even more unlikely scenario!). Now, the awkwardly named Van Meach roams the world as a kind of adventuring problem-solver. He's good at this because he's the ultimate adapter: throw him in water and he grows gills and cartilage shifts to help swimming, put him in hot sun or driving snow and his internal temperature doesn't change, plus he's got a heightened danger sense. On the other hand, he's handicapped by a somewhat amusing naivet&Egrave;.<br /><br />Anyway... the CIA unearths the Interman project archives and for some reason totally panics. Worried that this ultra-adapter is operating as some kind of ultra-dangerous rouge agent, they scramble top hitmen from across the world to kill him. You would think they'd try and find out if he actually WAS an ultra-dangerous rouge agent first, but since the plot demands that they don't, the hitmen are scrambled. Oddly enough, our hero seems to have no clue as to why random people are trying to kill him. Hmmm... maybe it's because a you're a MUTANT?!?! Finally, it occurs to him to check out his origins (wouldn't he have done this a long time ago?) in order to figure out who's behind the hitmen.<br /><br />The book then turns into a globe-trotting quest for who he is, with intermittent hitman dodging. Despite the total derivativeness of this framework, the hitmen characters are actually pretty interesting. There's a old-fashioned romantic with a sassy mustache, a female martial artist with an interesting personal code, a nifty gang of four, and an enigmatic German who keeps showing up and not killing the hero! And finally, emerging from the mists is Van's secret sister! Who is... wait for it....evil! Because... wait for it... the KGB raised her! Anyway, virtually none of this is particularly original material, and it leads to a predictable ending.<br /><br />Artistically, the best thing is the cover. The style is pretty clunky and there's not nearly enough detail to bring the characters to life in the way they deserve. The book is word-heavy, which tends to create very cluttered panels. And it doesn't help the lettering is extremely murky&oacute;this is one of hardest to read graphic novels I've come across. The concept of the adaptive hero is interesting, but if Parker is continue this series, let's hope he can at least come up with a more original storyline and some cleaner lettering.th a sassy mustache, a female martial artist with an interesting personal code, a nifty gang of four, and an enigmatic German who keeps showing up and not killing the hero! And finally, emerging from the mists is Van's secret sister! Who is... wait for it....evil! Because... wait for it... the KGB raised her! Anyway, virtually none of this is particularly original material, and it leads to a predictable ending.  <br /> <br />Artistically, the best thing is the cover. The style is pretty clunky and there's not nearly enough detail to bring the characters to life in the way they deserve. The book is word-heavy, which tends to create very cluttered panels. And it doesn't help the lettering is extremely murkythis is one of hardest to read graphic novels I've come across. The concept of the adaptive hero is interesting, but if Parker is continue this series, let's hope he can at least come up with a more original storyline and some cleaner lettering.	2004-08-13
557411:US	52254603	R35IZ1BYY75O09	0446400904	878546069	A Time Without Shadows	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Solid Espionage Novel	Split between World War II and the late '80s, this semi-thriller begins with the announcement of the death of at least one of its heroes. At the end of a tedious session of Parliament, a relatively obscure member asks a question about a betrayed Special Operations Executive resistance operation in occupied France in 1943. An intelligence officer named Chapman is assigned the task of looking into the matter and the book turns back in time to 1940. There, the reader meets Philip Maclean, a young painter living in France when the Germans invade. He escapes to England, but decides to return as a spy in order to be closer to his love, a stereotypically beautiful girl next door. At the same time, a Frenchman named Masson is also introduced. A combination of con-artist, salesman, and Walter Mitty, he's a slimy character whose priority is looking out for number one. He too escapes to England, and is installed as an important cog in supplying Maclean's network. Allbeury does an excellent job quietly showing how Maclean develops relationships with resistance members in a village an hour outside Paris, and slowly are carefully builds his network. When the network goes active, it's quickly rounded up and Maclean is sent with others to Auschwitz, where he dies, as foreshadowed in the prologue.<br /><br />Back in the present day, Chapman starts digging into what happened to the old network, and spends time talking to Maclean's widowed love, and various other survivors. As he shuttles around Europe, it quickly becomes clear that Masson is at the center of the mystery of what happened. It's somewhat of a \\"Third Man\\" situation&oacute;Masson is reported dead, but is he? Masson was maybe a collaborator with the Germans, or was he? The twist is that it starts to seem as if the betrayal of the network came not just from within, but from above... The description of Maclean's establishing and running his network is fascinating, but ultimately, much of the intrigue gets bogged down in interdepartmental rivalries. Fortunately, both the wartime and contemporary sections are full of characters he reader cares about (although a subplot about Chapman's domestic situation feels very forced and tacked on). A solid, temperate espionage novel for those who like such things.rtmental rivalries. Fortunately, both the wartime and contemporary sections are full of characters he reader cares about (although a subplot about Chapman's domestic situation feels very forced and tacked on). A solid, temperate espionage novel for those who like such things.	2004-08-13
557654:US	52254603	R3JP66A3RSVQ7B	0871131439	208273111	Riotous Assembly	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Keystone Kops Kapers in the RSA	If you're ever in the mood for a hugely over-the-top farce about apartheid-era South Africa, well, this is the book for you. Sharpe spent a decade there before being deported as a subversive, and after reading this unrestrained comic pummeling of the RSA, one can only wonder why it took the authorities so long to give him the boot. Indeed authority is target number one in this fast-paced story set in the small city of Piemburg. It all starts when an elderly semi-aristocratic Englishwoman calls the police to report that she's shot her Zulu cook. Refusing police Kommandant van Heerden's best attempts to cover up the matter, she reveals that the cook was also her lover, which so appalls him that he immediately declares a state of emergency and mobilizes the entire police force. And so begins a massive comedy of errors, in which a \\"Kaffir-Killer\\" Konstabel Els plays a large role, as does the slimy Luitenant Veerkamp, and matters take a turn for the utterly bizarre, as rubber fetishes, bondage, a drunken bishop, porno films, cross dressing, and penile novocain injections are all introduced to the plot. As one might surmise from such a litany, the plot spins ever more wildly out of control until events come to a head at--appropriately enough--the insane asylum. All the antics are intermittently funny, and it's somewhat refreshing to see the horrors of apartheid treated with rather less than the usual gravitas. Worth a read if you've got a special interest in South Africa or a soft spot for broad farce, otherwise not all that noteworthy	2004-08-13
573477:US	52254603	R32RZCXDL33VI2	1569473439	971786897	Law of Return	Books	3	7	9	N	N	So-So Sophmore Effort	This second book in Pawel's series relocates newly promoted Gaurdia Civil officer Carlos Tejada from Madrid to the northern university city of Salamanca in 1940. As Hitler's armies cruise through Europe in the background, things are quieter in Spain following the end of the Spanish Civil War. Although Salamanca wasn't a hotbed of insurgency, there are still ex-Reds and other troublemakers to monitor. One of Tejada's new duties meeting with everyone on a list of questionable people, required to check in with the Guardia on a weekly basis. Coincidentally, one of these is the father of Elena, the Socialist woman Tejada encountered in &quot;Death of a Nationalist.&quot; An eminent classicist, he had signed a protest against the firing of a former university rector who had spoken out against Franco. As it so happens, one of his other co-signatories disappears in the first week of Tejada's new assignment. As Tejada painstakingly hunts for clues to the man's disappearance, which may have coincided with the moving of a lot of cash from his estate, the classics professor and his family are faced with a request for succor from a Jewish colleague fleeing Germany.<br /><br /> The proceedings are rather more conventional than the previous book, and the novelty of having a right-wing protagonist has worn off (in interviews Pawel has been careful to call him an anti-hero). Throughout his investigation, Tejada must tread cautiously due to a choleric superior and the influence of Slamancan grandees who are related to the missing man. Elena and her family must tread carefully due to both the precariousness of their situation (limited food rations and income) and the illegality of aiding someone trying to escape the Germans. These two threads gradually bring Tejada and Elena closer together, despite their being on opposite sides of the political spectrum. While the story is rich in period detail and atmosphere, neither plotline is particularly compelling (although a cross-border foray to Biarritz in occupied France adds some much needed spice). It's not a bad read, just not a gripping one, and nowhere near the quality of Death of a Nationalist.oray to Biarritz in occupied France adds some much needed spice). It's not a bad read, just not a gripping one, and nowhere near the quality of Death of a Nationalist.	2004-07-28
573523:US	52254603	R3U04WMB4GJZAZ	0312979533	52317828	A Place of Execution	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Clunky and Infuriating, But Good Style and Atmosphere	Partly a police procedural, partly a psychological study, partly a study in gothic atmosphere, and partly a glimpse back into the '60s, this long crime novel by veteran writer McDermid takes the traditional &quot;village cozy&quot; mystery and injects it with all of the above. The framework is a little clunky however-the novel is written as a faux work of &quot;true crime&quot; journalism in which contemporary sections bookend the main section, which is set in 1963. In the first section, the reader is prepared for some controversy regarding the entire work, a controversy that is played out in the third part. In the middle, the basic story is deceptively simple: 13-year-old Alison Carter goes missing from a tiny, isolated village in England's northern Peaks District, and the case is given to George Bennett, young detective inspector on his first assignment.<br /><br /> From the very start, the missing persons case takes on a gothic atmosphere. The village is a spooky place and the inhabitants aren't very keen to assist the police- it's not for nothing the '70s cult film &quot;The Wicker Man&quot; is invoked partway through. What seems like a pretty straightforward case rapidly grows complicated as the days pass and evidence of foul play mounts, but no body is found. It doesn't help that there have been two other missing children in the area in the previous half year, and it's not clear if Alison's disappearance is related. And of course, there's a provocative and nosy newspaperman sticking his oar in.<br /><br /> The procedural elements are all very strong, as Bennett orchestrates the investigation with the assistance of his rough-edged sergeant and other aides, while remaining in close contact with Alison's mother and stepfather. Bennett is a likeable character, a striving university graduate who is eager to prove his worth to his less educated colleagues. The early '60s setting is vividly brought to life, especially the cultural gulf between the small feudal village, where &quot;the squire&quot; owns everything, and the comparatively bustling towns that lie nearby. Despite a few red herrings, one obvious suspect is in evidence from the very beginning. Eventually, this person is charged and a the book descends into a very long-winded and redundant trial sequence that simply restates and rehashes the investigation so ably detailed previously, with the result that the book almost grinds to a total halt.<br /><br /> Following the court case, the third section brings the reader back to the present, where it is explained who has written this &quot;true crime&quot; book and how it all came about. Here, one must allow for a remarkably unlikely coincidence, one so forced and preposterous that some readers will likely heave the book across the room once they realize what has happened. All of which gets to the heart of the controversy alluded to the first section, and then a final huge plot twist, which most readers will have spotted several hundred pages previously. And yet McDermid's command style and atmosphere makes it just worthwhile-despite the ire-inducing &quot;gotcha&quot; ending, the weak trial sequence, and the hefty coincidence.l village, where &quot;the squire&quot; owns everything, and the comparatively bustling towns that lie nearby. Despite a few red herrings, one obvious suspect is in evidence from the very beginning. Eventually, this person is charged and a the book descends into a very long-winded and redundant trial sequence that simply restates and rehashes the investigation so ably detailed previously, with the result that the book almost grinds to a total halt. <br />  <br /> Following the court case, the third section brings the reader back to the present, where it is explained who has written this &quot;true crime&quot; book and how it all came about. Here, one must allow for a remarkably unlikely coincidence, one so forced and preposterous that some readers will likely heave the book across the room once they realize what has happened. All of which gets to the heart of the controversy alluded to the first section, and then a final huge plot twist, which most readers will have spotted several hundred pages previously. And yet McDermid's command style and atmosphere makes it just worthwhile-despite the ire-inducing &quot;gotcha&quot; ending, the weak trial sequence, and the hefty coincidence.	2004-07-28
573860:US	52254603	R3ANNZGN03AORA	140004071X	141181154	Project X (Alex Awards (Awards))	Books	5	26	29	N	N	What Went Wrong?	In the few years since the Columbine massacre, there have been a slew of novels (including the 2003 Booker Prize winner, Vernon God Little) attempting to understand what triggers such horrifying acts. Shepard's is the first of these I've read, and it's hard to imagine a superior version existing. This story of two boys plotting revenge on a school that has shunned them is a nuanced and subtle work that perfectly captures the speech and emotions of its protagonists while shying away from offering easy answers. Edwin and his only friend, Flake, are not metal/goth listening, animal torturing, trench coat-wearing, video-game junkie, grumpy teens. Teetering between adolescence and teenagerdom, they are the perpetual targets, not ultra geeky or ultra feeble or ultra nerdy, just enough of each to make them a pair of misfits worth picking on.<br /><br />Told from Edwin's perspective, the novel depicts junior high as an endless series of insults and defeats, sometimes culminating in a bloody beating. Adding insult to injury, teachers never give Edwin the benefit of the doubt. This has led many reviews to write that the teachers pick on him or dislike him, which is actually not true. It would be very easy to portray the teachers as monsters from Edwin's viewpoint, but in fact, the teachers are often shown reaching out and making at least clumsy attempts to try and understand what his problems are. But because he is sometimes in the wrong, and can often be sarcastic or disrespectful, it's also easy to see why he is sometimes unjustly punished. And this is part of the complexity of the novel that makes it work-the teachers' actions do contribute to Edwin's misery, but not by design.<br /><br />Similarly, Edwin's home life is hardly the dysfunctional den of horrors one might expect. His father is around, if distracted much of the time, but his mother is very aware that he is troubled, and frets about it a great deal. And there's Gus, his four-year-old brother, whom he clearly loves a great deal. Edwin's parents make repeated attempts to try and get him to open up and talk about what's bothering him, but he just can't get out of his shell. His mother manages to empathize with his emotional pain, mouthing the perfect words, but all her best efforts just never quite penetrate. Again, the complexity lies in the reality that the family is very typical, the parents don't do anything wrong, and yet Edwin sees shooting his classmates as a viable action. Interestingly, Shepard shows Edwin as suffering from sever reoccurring headaches and severe insomnia, which may speak to a physical or chemical disorder that might explain much else. Of course, these may also be stress or anxiety induced, but either explanation goes a long way toward explaining why he seems to sleepwalk through life.<br /><br />As the book progresses, Edwin and Flake wallow deeper in their misery, humiliation, and ambivalent hatred, while remaining relatively sympathetic and amusing characters. As a counterpoint, their social prospects actually seem to improve slightly even as X-Day approaches. One sees rays of hope as a girl flirts with Edwin and his art project is enthusiastically lauded. Their plans for revenge are so desultory that one prays that they'll be abandoned as too much trouble, but in the end, Edwin's actions are precisely what we expect them to be. So what is the ultimate message? Shepard's novel seems to be delivering the disheartening message that even essentially good kids can be turned into powder kegs, and given the ease of access to guns in this country, we shouldn't be surprised when tragedies such as Columbine occur.rly loves a great deal. Edwin's parents make repeated attempts to try and get him to open up and talk about what's bothering him, but he just can't get out of his shell. His mother manages to empathize with his emotional pain, mouthing the perfect words, but all her best efforts just never quite penetrate. Again, the complexity lies in the reality that the family is very typical, the parents don't do anything wrong, and yet Edwin sees shooting his classmates as a viable action. Interestingly, Shepard shows Edwin as suffering from sever reoccurring headaches and severe insomnia, which may speak to a physical or chemical disorder that might explain much else. Of course, these may also be stress or anxiety induced, but either explanation goes a long way toward explaining why he seems to sleepwalk through life.  <br /> <br />As the book progresses, Edwin and Flake wallow deeper in their misery, humiliation, and ambivalent hatred, while remaining relatively sympathetic and amusing characters. As a counterpoint, their social prospects actually seem to improve slightly even as X-Day approaches. One sees rays of hope as a girl flirts with Edwin and his art project is enthusiastically lauded. Their plans for revenge are so desultory that one prays that they'll be abandoned as too much trouble, but in the end, Edwin's actions are precisely what we expect them to be. So what is the ultimate message? Shepard's novel seems to be delivering the disheartening message that even essentially good kids can be turned into powder kegs, and given the ease of access to guns in this country, we shouldn't be surprised when tragedies such as Columbine occur. <br />	2004-07-28
589075:US	52254603	R3AYWSVRQI05K8	0812966988	60432491	BUtterfield 8 (Modern Library Classics)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Surpirsingly Fresh After 70 Years	Sparked by the mysterious real life drowning in 1931 of a young New York woman who was later revealed to be a bit of a good time girl as well as victim of childhood sexual abuse, O'Hara's second novel remains remarkably fresh and readable, with surprising sensibilities for the time toward topics such as pedophilia and alcoholism. Of course, alcoholism is something O'Hara had first-hand experience with. A contemporary of Fitzgerald and Hemingway, and an intimate of Dorothy Parker, he was a renown nasty drunk, with a penchant for three day benders. This experience serves him well in this study of Gloria Wandrous, a pretty, promiscuous woman who spends a good part of her young life trying to drink her demons away in Manhattan's Prohibition-era speakeasies. Her demons stem from being sexually abused as a child, a trauma that led to her sexual promiscuity when she is more mature (interestingly, recent studies have revealed a significant correlation between sexual abuse as a child and promiscuity later in life).<br />Gloria is what used to be called &quot;damaged goods&quot;&oacute;underneath her brittle shell and drunken pain, she is smart, kind and caring. Despite these fine qualities, she's emotionally unequipped to deal with true love and tries to run away from it, as she does from everything else. On the first page we learn that she will meet an unhappy ending, and then the story begins with Gloria waking in the apartment of her latest one-night stand and walking out with the man's wife's fur coat. This spur of the moment decision has a series of repercussions, which play out over the next few days as a whole slew of characters intersect and the threads of the simple plot are brought together. The book's main flaw is that there are far to many of these characters coming and going throughout the pages, and one needs a scorecard to keep track. This may have been a result of his playing to his strengths, which were a keen eye and the ability to quickly capture a person in a few lines. Much of this skill is directed in a strident satire of the upper classes (which he had a strange envy/hate relationship). A good deal of effort is expended in portraying their lives as either endlessly trivial or monstrously prurient. And it is significant that it is eminently respectable men who abuse Gloria in her youth.<br />This is not a cautionary tale of a young woman corrupted by the big city, but a lament for the effects of a monstrous crime perpetrated against a child. The style is very simple and direct, which is perhaps why it remains fresh and contemporary. It is remarkably frank about sexual matters considering it was written seventy years ago by a mainstream popular writer&oacute;beyond the simple promiscuity, group and public sex acts are described. It's not the most fascinating book, but it can definitely be recommended to those with an interest in New York City, Prohibition, or sexual abuse. There is a fair amount of ambiguity in some of the episodes, and most especially in the ending, so those who need clean resolutions are hereby warned.few lines. Much of this skill is directed in a strident satire of the upper classes (which he had a strange envy/hate relationship). A good deal of effort is expended in portraying their lives as either endlessly trivial or monstrously prurient. And it is significant that it is eminently respectable men who abuse Gloria in her youth. <br />This is not a cautionary tale of a young woman corrupted by the big city, but a lament for the effects of a monstrous crime perpetrated against a child. The style is very simple and direct, which is perhaps why it remains fresh and contemporary. It is remarkably frank about sexual matters considering it was written seventy years ago by a mainstream popular writerbeyond the simple promiscuity, group and public sex acts are described. It's not the most fascinating book, but it can definitely be recommended to those with an interest in New York City, Prohibition, or sexual abuse. There is a fair amount of ambiguity in some of the episodes, and most especially in the ending, so those who need clean resolutions are hereby warned.	2004-07-15
597085:US	52254603	R3H7OOGDC5214I	0743255550	724248507	The Book of Ralph: A Novel	Books	5	17	17	N	N	A Brilliant Book	Several years ago I came across McNally's short-story collection Troublemakers, and enjoyed it immensely. Three of the stories from that collection (The Vomitorium, Smoke, The Grand Illusion) reappear here in slightly different form as chapters, and almost every other chapter has appeared in various lit journals or alternative media. Indeed the book is really an anthology of related stories about one character which share a tone that mixes humor, pathos, and keen observation. Those looking for a strong narrative framework may be disappointed, but this free-form approach allows McNally to create a series of extremely strong stories that form a very compelling coming of age story.<br />The book is about Hank, a 13-year-old kid growing up in southwest Chicago in the late '70s, and develops his friendship with Ralph, who is two years older. Hank is a prototypical lower-middle class white kid, average grades, unremarkable looks, dead center in the pecking order, and nothing to distinguish himself except being friends with Ralph. Ralph, on the other hand, is known throughout the junior high and neighborhood as someone to avoid at all costs. Without firm parental authority at home, he's turned into a bit of a bully and small-time juvenile delinquent, but is also wildly imaginative, and constantly dreaming up bizarre schemes to raise money and extract revenge on the world. Their friendship is unlikely, and Hank ascribes it to an innate politeness. From their first encounter, Hank has always been too polite to reject Ralph, and so he becomes a kind of default sidekick. This creates a tension that runs throughout the first section: will Hank ever be able to break free of Ralph, or will he get caught up in and dragged down by the effects of the older boy's wildness?<br />The book's style is very direct and full of satirical and deadpan humor. Hank and Ralph are vivid fictional versions of instantly recognizable types that will be familiar to anyone who's spent their early teen years in America. Beyond Hank and Ralph, most of the supporting characters are equally vivid. Hank's father is a factory worker at the 3M plant who's always drinking and thinking about how the world is trying to screw him over. Hank's sister Kelly is a sardonic mystery who can't wait to grow up and move on to her real life. Ralph's 20ish cousin Norm and his best-friend Kenny are the quintessential Midwestern metalhead hoodlums who hang out with younger kids and inexplicably involve them in their own bizarre schemes.<br />The first thirteen chapters (over half the book), are set in that late '70s period, and are only connected in time and place, with little if any linkage between stories. Topics include a scheme to sell a trunk full of stolen Tootsie Rolls, Hank's kleptomaniac grandmother, a creepy ex-hippie record store owner, Hank's father's attempt to win a neighborhood Christmas decoration contest using salvaged junk, a trip to the shopping center, a trip to the drive-in, a trip across town to spy on an alleged fellatrix, a day dressed up as Big Bird to promote a new auto dealership, dressing up for Halloween as Gene Simmons, trailing a nerdy collector of Star Wars cards to bite his ear off, falling in love with CB radio, and other random encounters with life. Although set in the past and ripe with period details about clothing, pop culture (Styx, Kiss, etc), and cars, this isn't particularly a nostalgia-driven story. Rather, it shares a deft sense of discovery tinged with loss of innocence, in the vein of books like Tom Perrota's \\"Bad Haircut\\" and Chris Fuhrman's \\"The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys.\\" At the end of the first section, the relationship between the two boys comes to its natural conclusion, and the curtain is drawn.<br />The book then flashes back to a brief interlude in 1975, where Hank encounters Ralph for the first time. What at first seems like an odd choice (why wouldn't this come first?), the story would lack meaning without the reader knowingthe friendship that would later develop between the two boys. A final 75 pages picks up the story of Hank and Ralph in 2001, when they bump into each other on the street. This reacquaintence comes at a particularly low point for Hank, and he is rapidly drawn back into Ralph's world &oacute; which hasn't changed much. Living at home and subsisting on income derived from selling fake \\"Made in Occupied Japan\\" items on eBay, and a job cleaning up crime scenes, Ralph is same as he ever was. Soon, Hank is living a strange life as sidekick again, and is slowly trying to rebuild his life. This section is rather more madcap and improbable than the rest of the book, but it makes a hilarious and kind of sweet sense as McNally ends things on just the right note. Full of compassion and sharp-eyed wit, this work confirms the promise of McNally's first collection and leaves one anxious for more.the friendship that would later develop between the two boys. A final 75 pages picks up the story of Hank and Ralph in 2001, when they bump into each other on the street. This reacquaintence comes at a particularly low point for Hank, and he is rapidly drawn back into Ralph's world  which hasn't changed much. Living at home and subsisting on income derived from selling fake \\"Made in Occupied Japan\\" items on eBay, and a job cleaning up crime scenes, Ralph is same as he ever was. Soon, Hank is living a strange life as sidekick again, and is slowly trying to rebuild his life. This section is rather more madcap and improbable than the rest of the book, but it makes a hilarious and kind of sweet sense as McNally ends things on just the right note. Full of compassion and sharp-eyed wit, this work confirms the promise of McNally's first collection and leaves one anxious for more.	2004-07-09
598116:US	52254603	R1QFPDY9W6T996	037570387X	923633349	The Autograph Man	Books	1	63	70	N	N	Shockingly Poor	Many reviewers have written about Zadie Smith's second novel in relation to White Teeth, and seem to come at it with a lot of baggage as a result. Let me just state for the record that I don't have a horse running in the Zadie Smith stakes. I've never read or heard an interview with her, and don't really know anything about her. I read \\"White Teeth\\" and mostly enjoyed it, but didn't think it was as brilliant as many others did. I approached this book as a blank slate, without knowing anything about it.<br />It's not good. In fact, it's pretty bad. If you wanted a textbook example of the literary sophomore slump, here it is. The story concerns Alex-Li Tandem, a half-Chinese, half-Jewish (Tandem... get it?) dealer in autographs. The main plotline concerns his obsession with the fictitious old film star Kitty Alexander and with obtaining one of her ultra-rare autographs. The central theme, however, concerns Alex's inability to ever deal with the sudden death of his father. This death occurs in the excellent prologue, which forms the first tenth of the book and is really the only part worth reading. Covering Alex's childhood visit to a wrestling match at Albert Hall, complete with interesting digression into the venue's history, this section would have made an excellent standalone short story.<br />Alas, it is followed by 300+ pages of muddled prose populated by characters that are dreadfully flat and uninteresting. Alex is whiny loser, who is unable to connect with the people around him, seeking solace in the bottle, or in his obsession for autographs. He's not particularly likeable (not that this is a prerequisite of good fiction), but no matter how awfully he acts toward them, his friends and acquaintances (everyone he meets in the book, really), are incredibly (in the strictest sense of the word) tolerant and forgiving of him. The reader is given no glimpse whatsoever of what might make Alex worth having as a friend, much less the long-term boyfriend of one gorgeous woman and the occasional lover of another gorgeous woman. None of the supporting cast is written with any distinction, although there are momentary flashes of interest to be had from the legendary prostitute Honey Richardson, fellow autograph men Lovelear and Dove, and most of all, the thug turned milkman.<br />The story mostly follows Alex's attempt to locate Kitty Alexander, while a parallel story concerns the plans for some kind of Jewish mourning rite for his father. The first offers Smith the chance to try to make some points about celebrity. But this is never explored with any depth or from a new angle, and there are already scores of books which have done this much much better. The second plotline allows Smith to try and say something about religion, or more specifically Judaism. Again, she never commits to this thematic line with any seriousness, and the result is a mish-mash of Kabbalah, confusion over cultural identity, and semi-comic rabbis. Novels about Judaism are a dime a dozen, as are novels about the search for faith, and Smith has added nothing of interest to either realm. The result is a book that's shockingly dull, and written in an embarrassing self-consciously clever style which is rarely (if ever) as witty as Smith so painfully obviously intends it to be. This is an unfortunate work that reads as if Smith was locked in a windowless room, handed the merest shred of a premise, and then told she couldn't leave until she'd written 400 pages. As Alex-Li would say, \\"Ugh.\\"s woman and the occasional lover of another gorgeous woman. None of the supporting cast is written with any distinction, although there are momentary flashes of interest to be had from the legendary prostitute Honey Richardson, fellow autograph men Lovelear and Dove, and most of all, the thug turned milkman. <br />The story mostly follows Alex's attempt to locate Kitty Alexander, while a parallel story concerns the plans for some kind of Jewish mourning rite for his father. The first offers Smith the chance to try to make some points about celebrity. But this is never explored with any depth or from a new angle, and there are already scores of books which have done this much much better. The second plotline allows Smith to try and say something about religion, or more specifically Judaism. Again, she never commits to this thematic line with any seriousness, and the result is a mish-mash of Kabbalah, confusion over cultural identity, and semi-comic rabbis. Novels about Judaism are a dime a dozen, as are novels about the search for faith, and Smith has added nothing of interest to either realm. The result is a book that's shockingly dull, and written in an embarrassing self-consciously clever style which is rarely (if ever) as witty as Smith so painfully obviously intends it to be. This is an unfortunate work that reads as if Smith was locked in a windowless room, handed the merest shred of a premise, and then told she couldn't leave until she'd written 400 pages. As Alex-Li would say, \\"Ugh.\\"	2004-07-08
603691:US	52254603	R1SX8V7H2ZALEP	0553562738	466136665	Doomsday Book	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Enjoyable, If Not Brilliant	Time-travel fiction is its own subgenre of science fiction, and pretty much anyone who reads sci-fi has their own take on it. Willis adopts an unusual and refreshingly simple approach to time-travel in her lengthy award-winner. Instead of the usual questions about paradoxes or nefarious schemes to profit from time-travel, she sets it up as a smart system that protects itself from any paradox and abuse. Simply put, nothing that will cause a paradox or severely influence events can travel through &quot;the net&quot;, as the system simply doesn't allow it in either direction. And since one can only go back in time, and one can't bring stuff back from the past, there's not much utility to it other than for scholarly research. Some reviewers have complained that &quot;the net&quot; would never be put to such a routine purpose as observing daily life in the Dark Ages, but they forget that the system basically doesn't allow one to travel back to critical events or to meet major historical figures. Fortunately, Willis doesn't waste much time trying to cobble together a technical or philosophical basis for any of this, it's just the way it works, and that's all one needs to get along with the story. Of course, readers who prefer more science in their science-fiction are likely to be a bit disappointed.<br />The story is set in Oxford around Christmastime in 2054, and it's a future that's awfully&oacute;indeed implausibly&oacute;similar to our present. Even though mobile phones were in existence at the time of the book's writing, they don't exist in Willis' 2054 (much less pagers, PDAs, or any other wireless communication), which is either strangely short-sighted, or a very weak contrivance. A great deal of the story is propelled and/or prolonged by the inability of characters to communicate in a timely manner, and had the protagonist had a simple cell phone at hand, many problems would have been averted. Indeed, much of the plot has a kind of &quot;comedy of errors&quot; aspect to it that the reader will either go along with or be driven crazy by. It more or less works in the context of Willis' whole approach, which is a kind of affectionate mimicry of an old-fashioned British formalism.<br />The gist of the story is pretty simple, since time travel is basically so useless, it's become a sort of historical archeological tool. The acting head of history at Oxford has decided to use the absence of the dean to launch a female graduate student back to pre-plague 14th-century England. Her advisor is all against this, but she proceeds, and lo and behold, something goes awry and she is stuck there. Not only is she stuck in the past, she's stuck in the wrong past! A technician error has dropped her into the middle of the Black Death! But it's even worse than that, 'cause the technician falls ill with a mysterious virus before he can tell anyone what has happened! The book is a compendium of missed connections, misinformation, and general confusion, which can get a bit tiresome.<br />The book then unfolds over several hundred pages to tell parallel stories. One is about the grad student stuck in the midst of the plague, and how she handles life in the 14th-century amongst a small village of &quot;contemps&quot;. Meanwhile, in Oxford, the mysterious virus is striking down people left and right, impeding the advisor's attempt to figure out what went wrong and how to get the student back. The 14th-century story is clearly more compelling, as Willis uses it to dispense five years of her research into life during Medieval times. The social life, customs, costumes, and details are remarkable, as we see the plague devastate a small community. It's not a pretty sight, and gets rather grim at times. The story at the other end of time is quite different in tone, attempting to even the tone with a more comic approach. I use the word &quot;comic&quot; very loosely here, since much of Willis' attempt to lighten the proceedings are lame. For example, the nagging Mrs. Gadson, or the nasty Mr. Gilchrist, or the sly stud William.<br />The book is strong is showing the effects of an epidemic, both historical, and in a semi-contemporary setting. Willis is clearly trying to say a little something about human nature, and how we act in such crises and breakdowns of social order, but it's nothing particularly striking (This topic has been perhaps most ably handled by Nobel-winner Jos&Egrave; Saramago in his brilliant work Blindness). Similarly, there is a none-to-subtle critique of organized religion at work, again, both in the past and the present. The book isn't helped by occasionally placid pacing, and a whimper of an ending which leaves at least two major plot points unresolved and fails to provide the satisfying denouement such a lengthy work deserves. And yet despite these various weaknesses, the book is a mostly enjoyable page-turner as long as one isn't searching for epic quests or adventuresome escapades.Gadson, or the nasty Mr. Gilchrist, or the sly stud William. <br />The book is strong is showing the effects of an epidemic, both historical, and in a semi-contemporary setting. Willis is clearly trying to say a little something about human nature, and how we act in such crises and breakdowns of social order, but it's nothing particularly striking (This topic has been perhaps most ably handled by Nobel-winner Jos Saramago in his brilliant work Blindness). Similarly, there is a none-to-subtle critique of organized religion at work, again, both in the past and the present. The book isn't helped by occasionally placid pacing, and a whimper of an ending which leaves at least two major plot points unresolved and fails to provide the satisfying denouement such a lengthy work deserves. And yet despite these various weaknesses, the book is a mostly enjoyable page-turner as long as one isn't searching for epic quests or adventuresome escapades.	2004-07-04
603845:US	52254603	R1AKEPQ0E0WSVA	0812966678	637661695	A Certain Chemistry: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Mil Strikes Again!	llington's debut, Things My Girlfriend and I Argue About, is one of the funniest books I've ever read, so it was with some trepidation that I picked up his followup. I'm pleased to report that although it's not quite as genius as his debut, it is still exceedingly funny, and has a bit more depth to it. Tom is a slacker in his late 20s, living in Edinburgh with his long time girlfriend, and working as a freelance writer and sometime ghostwriter. When he is given the opportunity to handle the autobiography of a hugely famous soap opera star, his world is turned head over heels as he falls deeply into the cliche of the writer falling for the star.<br />We've all read book and seen films about a nobody and a superstar engaging in a furtive affair, what's amazing is that Millington manages to keep it fresh and lively. Tom is appropriately insufferable as he cheats on the woman he loves to indulge in fantastic, room-destroying sex with the appropriately charismatic and alluring star. All of which raises the uncomfortable question of how any person might react if a charming, interesting, and beautiful star made a pass at them? Of course Millington's got a trick up his sleeve, and that trick is a running commentary between chapters by God. Yes, God with a capital G. And the news God has to deliver has to do with the chemistry of the title. These often-hilarious narrative monologues by God are where Millington explains how chemistry works in relation to love and sex. This is fascinating stuff, and the one weakness is that it's delivered in such a hilarious way that the serious implications can be overlooked. Indeed, I'm going to go back and read just those sections in order to understand them better, because they clearly have major implications on how one views relationships, fidelity, love and passion.<br />Almost lost amidst all the hilarity is a rather good satire of the publishing industry, as agents, publishers, and publicity heads are all skewered mercilessly as the ghostwritten celeb book is nursed to completion and launched. Some of the supporting cast are perhaps a little over the top (the hypochondriac editor, the ice queen publicity superstar, the boozy agent), but it is a comic novel, so some licence must be given. Of course, not lost in all this, is the fact that Tom is trying to have his cake and eat it to. And there's little doubt that he will get his just desserts&oacute;for his excellent girlfriend is no fool, and he's too much of an idiot to sustain any kind of elaborate deception. The template for these types of comic stories are that after much trial and tribulation, a chagrinned sinner will eventually win back the hand of his true love. I won't reveal what happens here, but I will say that it is exceedingly satisfying and strikes just the right note. A wonderful second novel that definitely demonstrates that Millington is no one-hit wonder.ghostwritten celeb book is nursed to completion and launched. Some of the supporting cast are perhaps a little over the top (the hypochondriac editor, the ice queen publicity superstar, the boozy agent), but it is a comic novel, so some licence must be given. Of course, not lost in all this, is the fact that Tom is trying to have his cake and eat it to. And there's little doubt that he will get his just dessertsfor his excellent girlfriend is no fool, and he's too much of an idiot to sustain any kind of elaborate deception. The template for these types of comic stories are that after much trial and tribulation, a chagrinned sinner will eventually win back the hand of his true love. I won't reveal what happens here, but I will say that it is exceedingly satisfying and strikes just the right note. A wonderful second novel that definitely demonstrates that Millington is no one-hit wonder.	2004-07-04
604346:US	52254603	R18NA200FMMDYB	0312878311	268070899	The Beardless Warriors: A Novel of World War II	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Newsflash: War is Hell	Before Matheson became a prolific writer of science fiction stories, novels, Twilight Zone episodes, and films, he served as a replacement infantryman in World War II. Some fifteen years later, he set down his experiences as a novel about a teenager sent to the front lines for the Allied advance into Germany. The story covers the first two weeks of Private Everett Hackermeyer's war, as he joins an understrength squad under the leadership of a grizzled Sergeant who acts as a father figure. But having been abandoned by his drunk father to be raised by his nasty uncle, Hackermeyer has no conception of what a father figure is, or really of what it means when people are nice to him. The result is that when thrown into the tight camaraderie of small unit combat, Hackermeyer is often confused, and retreats into his head to analyze the meaning behind every gesture and phrase directed at him.<br />He survives his initial baptism by fire, and accidentally discovers that he has an actual talent for killing the enemy. The question becomes, will he be able to operate as a good soldier, or will his inner demons lead him into increasingly risky and bloodthirsty acts? He's a bit of a stock character, the poor kid raised by wolves and never given a chance, who blossoms under a firm and wise guiding hand. But his mental issues keep him from becoming the kind of everyman hero common to World War II stories. His fellow privates are also somewhat stock figures: the sardonic joker/college boy from California, the bumbling idiot, the religious nut, and so on. The Sergeant is an incredibly cliche figure, who even offers Hackermeyer a job on his ranch, should they ever make it back home. These character deficiencies aside, the book is notable for its ability to put the reader in the middle of the terror and tedium that was World War II. The descriptions of shelling are truly horrific, and the chaos of small scale combat really comes to life. Matheson clearly pulls no punches in his description of what it meant to be on the front line, and the fear that inspired.<br />I read this at the same time as watching the &quot;Band of Brothers&quot; miniseries, and found it very complementary. Both do an excellent job at showing the mix of boredom and horror that infantrymen faced, however this book emphasizes how utterly alone each man is on the battlefield, while the miniseries (per its title), emphasizes the camaraderie. Ultimately the book is somewhat cliche across the board, but still well worth reading if you're interested in World War II.tion of what it meant to be on the front line, and the fear that inspired. <br />I read this at the same time as watching the &quot;Band of Brothers&quot; miniseries, and found it very complementary. Both do an excellent job at showing the mix of boredom and horror that infantrymen faced, however this book emphasizes how utterly alone each man is on the battlefield, while the miniseries (per its title), emphasizes the camaraderie. Ultimately the book is somewhat cliche across the board, but still well worth reading if you're interested in World War II.	2004-07-04
607193:US	52254603	RYXWQXWZ60Z5F	1566564751	812447604	Just Like a River (Interlink World Fiction)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Another Lost Generation?	Originally published some twenty years ago, this touchstone of modern Syrian literature became popular for its articulation of frustrations in Syrian society. The author is a member of the so-called &quot;Sixties Generation&quot;, whose attitudes were formed during the rise of Arab nationalism and socialism, and twenty years later found most of their heady idealism unrealized. The novella's themes are applicable to many Third World countries where traditional values are in transition, and the optimism of the post-colonial era has given way to resignation to the stifling rule of military autocrats. Migration is one such theme, as those of the '60s generation moved from the village to the city in search of opportunity. This echoed more problematically in the '80s, as the next generation looks to move overseas for opportunity. This is linked to another theme, the increase in education coupled with the lack of opportunities for the newly educated.<br />Set in the early 1980s&oacute;when threat of war with Israel loomed large in day-to-day life&oacute;the story is told in a social-realist style, in which a different character is followed in each chapter. The core of the book is Chief Sergeant Yunis, a father of four whose family becomes emblematic of Syrian society. His career in the army has created a fairly comfortable middle-class life for his children. The eldest son has been studying medicine in Russia for years, and Yunis longs for him to return to the family's bosom. As in many traditional societies, the parents' most fervent hopes are lodged in the eldest son, who is expected to provide comfort and support in the parents' old age. But since this son is absent, Yunis projects some of these hopes onto his daughter Dallal and the dream of living as a large family back in his ancestral village. However, Dallal has been raised to be a modern, progressive, college-educated woman, and is struggling with what that means in terms of sexuality and personal freedom. She is at college, and is ostensibly being raised as a progressive woman, and yet when push comes to shove, her parents revert to traditional paradigms of the role of a daughter. The middle son is an aimless youth who dropped out of school and joined the army, and the youngest is still a child.<br />Next to Yunis, the most important character is Yusef, a respectable teacher in a small town who is courting Dallal. He is who visits Damascus frequently and stays with his friend Zuhayr, an activist turned journalist. The two of them are well-educated semi-intellectuals who feel trapped in the provincialism of life in Asad's Syria. Their caf&Egrave; conversations and late-night ambling around to movie houses and bookstores reflect this alienation while bringing the city to life. Yusef's ambivalence with life is reflected in his awkward courtship of Dallal, which lurches fitfully along to its inevitable end. These are modern people, but they're not sure how to become modern lovers. Ultimately, the book is about them, and seems to be foretell another lost generation.and is ostensibly being raised as a progressive woman, and yet when push comes to shove, her parents revert to traditional paradigms of the role of a daughter. The middle son is an aimless youth who dropped out of school and joined the army, and the youngest is still a child. <br />Next to Yunis, the most important character is Yusef, a respectable teacher in a small town who is courting Dallal. He is who visits Damascus frequently and stays with his friend Zuhayr, an activist turned journalist. The two of them are well-educated semi-intellectuals who feel trapped in the provincialism of life in Asad's Syria. Their caf conversations and late-night ambling around to movie houses and bookstores reflect this alienation while bringing the city to life. Yusef's ambivalence with life is reflected in his awkward courtship of Dallal, which lurches fitfully along to its inevitable end. These are modern people, but they're not sure how to become modern lovers. Ultimately, the book is about them, and seems to be foretell another lost generation.	2004-07-01
610574:US	52254603	R364ZJM0I4BCVR	0972869220	943076521	Sarajevo Marlboro	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Sarajevo Calling	This debut collection of stories from journalist Jergovic was first published a decade ago in his native Croatia (he has since written nine more books). Then in his mid-20s, he lived in besieged Sarajevo for the bulk of the war, reporting and chronicling the human suffering he witnessed. These twenty-nine stories are drawn from his experiences, and yet are not the standard-issue thinly veiled reportage than so much wartime fiction ends up as. Rather, these are brief character studies and snapshots into daily life, lives where the war has changed everything, and yet must continue. Each is only a few pages, moving quickly to the point, and then ending. Fatalism runs heavily throughout the book, as do the obvious themes of displacement, confusion, anxiety, and occasional absurdity. Although each is distinct and precise, these brief snapshots do tend to blur together into a larger picture when read as an ensemble. The collection is probably best approached as something to dip into once a week, and then contemplate. Otherwise, the stories of suffering and surviving tend to cancel each other out and their impact is greatly diminished.<br />The strident introduction by Ammiel Alcalay rather oddly asserts that translated works such as this can provide only an out of context and fragmentary taste of a culture and place, and that to really &quot;get&quot; a book like this, you need to posses all kinds of background context such as the social and political history of Yugoslavia as well as an understanding of the relationship between performance spaces, art galleries, visual artist, musicians, and filmmakers, and so forth. It's a bizarre way to introduce a book&oacute;by stating that the reader has no hope of empathy. And this is after bemoaning how books that do get translated in the West are those that reinforce prevailing Western prejudices about a culture! It is true that the reader without any knowledge whatsoever of the war in Bosnia will read the stories differently than an expert in Yugoslav history and all the cultures thereof. But I'm not sure that the &quot;naive&quot; reader won't actually get more out of the stories and be affected more significantly.xpert in Yugoslav history and all the cultures thereof. But I'm not sure that the &quot;naive&quot; reader won't actually get more out of the stories and be affected more significantly.	2004-06-29
616611:US	52254603	R17UHHZMLL8F0O	0192801449	212134967	Russian Literature: A Very Short Introduction	Books	3	27	28	N	N	Not for Novices	If you're looking for a basic introduction to Russian literature, this is probably not a very good place to start. Now, I know the title has the words &quot;Russian Literature&quot; and &quot;Introduction&quot; in it&oacute;but don't let that mislead you. Kelly has purposely set out to avoid the &quot;standard&quot; approach to the topic, which she says tends to take one of three forms: a chronological canon of writers and their works, a chronological trip through literary movements and cultural topics of relevance, or a more personal essay of appreciation. In retrospect, I now recognize that, not having read a great deal of Russian literature, I was looking for a mix of the canon and the literary movements. Instead, what I found in Kelly's work was a confusing attempt to attack the material by using the &quot;Russian Shakespeare&quot; (Aleksander Pushkin) as a framing device.<br />Through the seven essayish chapters, Pushkin is used as a starting point for the discussion, and then various other writers and themes are introduced in relation to his work or attitudes. As one jacket blurb puts it, this is &quot;an unexpected approach to the subject&quot;. And as another blurb puts it, &quot;you may love it, perhaps loathe it, or feel perplexed, but not remain indifferent.&quot; Well, mark me down for perplexed. I'm not at all opposed to this approach to the topic, it just doesn't seem particularly well suited as an introduction. It's hard to imagine anyone without a solid grounding in the major Russian writers being able to summon up love or hate for this brief work. It simply assumes too much familiarity on behalf of the reader to be of any utility to the newcomer to Russian literature. So, perhaps I'll return to it in 15 years, after I've had a chance to read some of the vital works, but in the meantime, I'm still trying to learn what those might be.	2004-06-24
616622:US	52254603	RILJWLED4MLS	0618395571	140569213	The Matter of Desire: A Novel	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Same Old Themes in a New Package	There has long been a dearth of fiction from Bolivia available in English, so this recent translation from one of Bolivia's foremost contemporary writers is very welcome. The translation is very smooth and readable , which even attempts at times to recreate &quot;Spanglish&quot; dialogue where sentences start in English and switch to Spanish halfway through (and vice versa). Soldan is part of the &quot;McOndo&quot; literary movement, which seeks to move Latin American fiction away from magical realism and into a reality where North American pop culture reigns. Indeed, one of the book's themes is the extent to which American pop culture has become the lingua franca of Latin America, and how although the intelligentsia moves easily between the North and the South, this comes at the steep price of a confused identity.<br />The narrator is emblematic of this, and interestingly bears several similarities with the author (they are about the same age and both are professors at liberal arts colleges in upstate New York). The story is told by the professor taking a leave of absence from his school and returning to Bolivia to live with his uncle in a fictional city (the setting of other works by Soldan). His ostensible aim is to do research for a book about his father&oacute;a famous militant insurgent killed by the army in the '70s&oacute;however he is also running away from a torrid affair with a student who is affianced. These two threads form the main plotlines that drive the narrative, which are underpinned by repeated references to puzzles (the narrator's uncle is a popular crossword creator) and hidden messages.<br />On the one hand, the book is highly accessible for Western readers, with a great deal of flashbacking to life in a thinly veiled Ithaca, and a life in Bolivia that revolves around trips to shopping malls, trendy nightclubs, the internet, iBooks, and music. On the other hand, the narrator's dilemmas are pretty old hat. The professor who finds himself obsessed with a beautiful student. The educated third-worlder torn between the comforts of life in the North and the nostalgia of life in the South. The young man seeking to understand his dead father and discover the &quot;truth&quot; about him. The academic who's lost the drive to play the tenure game. We've seen all this before, and Soldan doesn't add anything particularly new to the mix. Sure, there's some decent writing about a sex (always a tough nut to crack), and there are a few twists and turns&oacute;but even these are pretty well telegraphed. It's not a bad book, just not particularly compelling or original or insightful. The people who will get the most out of it are probably those for whom the notion that there are people outside the West who like to download music and carry their iPods everywhere is a stunning revelation.eautiful student. The educated third-worlder torn between the comforts of life in the North and the nostalgia of life in the South. The young man seeking to understand his dead father and discover the &quot;truth&quot; about him. The academic who's lost the drive to play the tenure game. We've seen all this before, and Soldan doesn't add anything particularly new to the mix. Sure, there's some decent writing about a sex (always a tough nut to crack), and there are a few twists and turnsbut even these are pretty well telegraphed. It's not a bad book, just not particularly compelling or original or insightful. The people who will get the most out of it are probably those for whom the notion that there are people outside the West who like to download music and carry their iPods everywhere is a stunning revelation.	2004-06-24
624317:US	52254603	R2AWKCW5G54FOT	0312303327	394449017	Warning of War: A Novel of the North China Marines	Books	2	5	7	N	N	Great Idea Poorly Executed	The premise for this WWII novel is excellent, however the execution is awful. This is just about the worst written historical novel I've ever read, and I've read a bunch. The story is based on a Marine Corps myth, which the author notes there is absolutely no record of, or any of the participants, in any USMC records. A number of readers seem to have totally missed this distinction, and think it really happened! Oh well... the story starts by establishing wartime Shanghai, the far eastern city of spies, where American soldiers mix with British administrators, exiled White Russians, and diplomats of all shades and stripes. When a warning of imminent war with Japan is sent out to all American forces in the weeks prior to Pearl Harbor, it becomes clear that the American units will need to retreat from China, which is largely under Japanese occupation. Although most of these troops are concentrated in various bases, there are a few isolated outposts. This is where Cpt. Billy Port, USMC comes in.<br />The younger son of a prominent and somewhat notorious Boston family, Port is highly regarded in the Marine Corps for his works with Gen. &quot;Chesty&quot; Puller in Central America. The first part of the book establishes the lush life of Shanghai and his comfortable living, including an &quot;arrangement&quot; with a beautiful young White Russian exile woman, and weekly tennis matches with an American-born, UCLA educated, Japanese officer. No points for guessing that the latter part of the book will pit friend against friend... When the warning of war comes, Port is tasked with traveling across China to gather up the far-flung American units, and lead them to safety. To do so, he handpicks a small unit and sets up a convoy of four trucks and his Bentley convertible for the mission.<br />The unit he assembles is part central casting, part improbable fancy. There's a Mexican sergeant who's gimmick is that he served with Pershing against Pancho Villa and talks about it incessently. Somehow this manages to be as equally irritating to the reader (because it's not funny), as it's meant to be to the other characters. There's &quot;Sparky&quot; the radio guy, the grease-monkey/mechanic, a big brave lummox carrying the heavy gun, a bunch of anonymous BAR grunts, a college-boy Naval reserve lieutenant, and (I'm not making this up!), his Chinese butler, a world-famous French race-car driver, and a White Russian alternately referred to as &quot;General&quot;, &quot;Count&quot;, and &quot;Prince&quot; Yusopov. Along the way, they pick up a female Chinese doctor, and a British Catholic priest/paleontologist. Now, an able writer (such as George MacDonald Fraser) could have had a lot of fun with this wild and wacky cast, but Brady just isn't up to it. These characters either seem to serve no discernable purpose (such as the Naval officer), or are very convenient devices (the Russian teaches the Marines how to make a Molotov cocktail and just happens to have a brother at a monastery where sanctuary is available at a critical time, the English priest just happens to know the whole country like the back of his hand and speaks the dialects, etc.).<br />The bulk of the book is one extended chase scene, as this motley band of brothers makes its way across the Chinese country, skirmishing with bandits, ducking Japanese Zeros, suffering in the elements, and ultimately, racing for the Soviet border. The action sequences are far and away the strongest parts, from ambushing a pursing patrol, to facing down huge bandit hordes, it's good stuff (if somewhat predictable). Alas, the bulk of the book is riddled with cliche, repetition (for example, the term &quot;top sergeant&quot; is explained several times), and awkwardness (for example, every time Port meets with his &quot;staff&quot;, Brady feels compelled to run through the roll call of who is present). It's the kind of story that might work better as a film, where one is a little more forgiving of hokiness andthe dialogue would be much tighter. In any event, Port's race across China is a promising idea for a story, but this book just doesn't deliver the goods.d the dialogue would be much tighter. In any event, Port's race across China is a promising idea for a story, but this book just doesn't deliver the goods.	2004-06-18
624734:US	52254603	R21UJ6PVBAI41U	0811215660	584883702	The Good Cripple	Books	3	3	4	N	N	But What Does It Mean?	This sparsely written novella appears to be fairly straightforward on the surface. The indolent 20ish son of a wealthy Guatemalan is kidnapped and held ransom by a criminal gang. When his father doesn't pay up after they send a toe, they cut the son's foot off and send it to his girlfriend. The father pays up, but the gang's plan doesn't totally work out... The son is eventually released and spends the next decade moving around the world with his wife, seeking happiness. Then, one day, he sees one of his kidnapper/mutilators. Will he seek revenge or won't he?<br />Rosa attempts to liven up this simple tale by tweaking the structure. The book begins with a 15 page &quot;Part One &quot; which itself starts with one of the kidnappers having just met with his victim some eleven years after the event. Chronologically, this should come at the end, and I'm not sure why Rosa swapped this around, other than to try and inject a little more tension into the narrative. Part Two starts with the kidnapping and proceeds from there to catch up to Part One. Which is not to say Rosa explains everything. A few important items go unexplained, for example, who is the lawyer in Part One? And did the father receive the toe or not?<br />More importantly, what does it all mean? Is the victim's decision regarding revenge meant to have some larger meaning in the context of Guatemalan or Central American politics or society? If so, what is that meaning? Or perhaps his actions (or lack thereof) are in some way meant to be emblematic of Central American elites in general? The publishers imply a deep allegory at work in the book, but I'm still waiting to discover what it is. I should mention that I have little background knowledge of Guatemala or the region, which may explain my not getting it. Or maybe there's nothing to get... In any event, the writing is simple, sparse (or as the publisher would have it, &quot;muscular&quot;), and quite readable.	2004-06-18
624888:US	52254603	RZMD9OVTF66BO	0375415491	920494045	The Light of Day	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Fate Rules, OK?	For some reason, a number of reviewers use the term &quot;hard boiled&quot; in their description of this deeply psychological novel. Presumably this is because the protagonist is an ex-policeman who was kicked off the force for &quot;corruption&quot; and is now doing seedy &quot;matrimonial&quot; detective work. And other familiar &quot;hard boiled&quot; types on hand as well: the efficient secretary who pines for the PI, the femme fatale client, a cheating husband, and the PI's long-gone ex-wife. While these are certainly well-established hard-boiled types, Swift is much more interested in noir than hard-boiled. Now &quot;noir&quot; is itself a very tricksy word in film and litcrit circles, with many and varied meanings. However, noir's main recurring theme is that of fate, and fate is what Swift is really interested in investigating in this novel. Another of noir's key themes is the individual's inability to escape the past, and this too, plays a major role.<br />The story takes place over the course of a day in the head of middle-aged George Webb, the aforementioned ex-cop turned private investigator. His interior monologue takes quite a while to get used to, lurching around in fits and starts, back and forth in time, with little glimpses here and there. This is a canny writing job of capturing the fractured nature of thought, which is rarely so kind as to adhere to complete direct syntax&oacute;but it also makes for jarring reading. The style only really works because it's a special day for Webb: the anniversary of the day a client killed her husband. Not just any client, but the client he's become completely obsessed with and visits every two weeks in jail.<br />Over the course of this emotionally distressing day, Webb's thoughts gradually reveal not only the story of his client's crime, but the story of his dismissal from the police, as well as his childhood, and his relationship with his daughter. Swift is careful to release only micrograms of information at a time, so that the complete portrait of Webb's life accumulates in fragments, like a pointillist painting gradually coming alive as the dots mount up. But for all this coyness, there's no real suspense in the narrative, events proceed along an inevitable track dictated by fate. It's heavily suggested early on that Webb was unjustly dismissed from the police, and it turns out he was. Webb's career in &quot;matrimonial &quot; detective work turns out to be linked to his childhood. Webb's obsession with his murderess client is based on... well... nothing really, it just inexplicably exists (as in a film noir). Ditto with any explanation for the client's crime&oacute;it's just what fate had in store, and that's all there is to it. Ultimately, all of this is rather unsatisfying, if stylistically well-written. I've long wanted to read one of Swift's books, but this doesn't seem to be a good one to start with.me, so that the complete portrait of Webb's life accumulates in fragments, like a pointillist painting gradually coming alive as the dots mount up. But for all this coyness, there's no real suspense in the narrative, events proceed along an inevitable track dictated by fate. It's heavily suggested early on that Webb was unjustly dismissed from the police, and it turns out he was. Webb's career in &quot;matrimonial &quot; detective work turns out to be linked to his childhood. Webb's obsession with his murderess client is based on... well... nothing really, it just inexplicably exists (as in a film noir). Ditto with any explanation for the client's crimeit's just what fate had in store, and that's all there is to it. Ultimately, all of this is rather unsatisfying, if stylistically well-written. I've long wanted to read one of Swift's books, but this doesn't seem to be a good one to start with.	2004-06-18
624927:US	52254603	R28EZQMSEWM92A	0140184929	851296858	Brighton Rock (Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	2	6	12	N	N	Madness &amp; Guilt at The Beach	Having worked my way through about a third of Greene's output, I was quite looking forward to this entertainment about a teenage gangster in 1930s Brighton. At first, the atmosphere met my expectations, with the seedy underbelly of the holiday getaway exposed, with shabby bars, and razor gangs fighting for their slice of the protection rackets. However, the story's themes left me largely unsatisfied, as cardboard characters go through the motions of embodying larger ideas and forces. The book starts with the murder of a corrupt London newspaperman, who is killed by a minor Brighton gang. This gang is led by Pinkie, a 17-year-old sociopath who has filled the void left by the death of the previous leader. Although the newpaperman's murder goes off without a hitch, and the gang appears to be in the clear, problems starts when a hooker with a heart of gold starts poking her nose into the affair. With little to motivate her other than a fleeting connection to the dead man and an awfully stubborn notion of justice, Ida sets out to unmask the truth. Meanwhile, Pinkie's not totally convinced that the gang's tracks are covered and does a little checking around himself. Both PInkie and Ida realize that there is an unwitting witness who, a 16-year-old waitress, named Rose. The story then boils down to a tug-of-war between Pinky and Ida for Rose's loyalty.<br />Pinkie is a misanthropic pessimist, who looks to violence as the solution to most problems, and is profoundly mentally disturbed, especially when it comes to sex, which a repressive Catholic upbringing has sullied. Ida is his opposite, a fun-loving, happy-go-lucky (and disproportionately represented) type, the hooker who enjoys her work. Pinkie is a brooding thug, with little motivation other than to be on top of the world, preferably with his boot at its neck. Ida is all about carpe diem, living in the moment, and not worrying too much about what tomorrow will bring. Rose sits between them as a naive blank slate, with nothing driving her beyond senseless schoolgirl infatuation. Watching these characters circle each other with scheme and counter-scheme never gets very interesting. They are much much too broad to be believed in, and as vessels of larger themes they never measure up. Nor are the supporting characters of any help, each one more thinly sketched than the one before. It's all very melodramatic, and ends in the only way possible. In interviews, Greene admits his own dissatisfaction with this book. He started it as a straight detective story, and then reconfigured it, which is why the tone veers so strangely partway through.othing driving her beyond senseless schoolgirl infatuation. Watching these characters circle each other with scheme and counter-scheme never gets very interesting. They are much much too broad to be believed in, and as vessels of larger themes they never measure up. Nor are the supporting characters of any help, each one more thinly sketched than the one before. It's all very melodramatic, and ends in the only way possible. In interviews, Greene admits his own dissatisfaction with this book. He started it as a straight detective story, and then reconfigured it, which is why the tone veers so strangely partway through.	2004-06-18
626579:US	52254603	RS1KDUJ098PAV	006051079X	975217396	Honor's Kingdom (Abel Jones Mysteries)	Books	2	7	9	N	N	Someone Save This Series!	This fourth in Parry's very uneven Civil War mystery series finds Major Abel Jones in England, attempting to suss out why two Union agents have turned up dead. I loved the first book in the series (Faded Coat of Blue), was rather disappointed with the second (Shadows of Glory), regained the faith with the third (Call Each River Jordan), and have almost completely lost faith with this entry. I'm no great Civil War buff, but it seems like there would be plenty of material for Parry's fictional spy there, instead of removing the hero from the maelstrom and plopping him down in Dickensian London and Glasgow. The brilliance of the first book was that it showed an unseen side of Washington, D.C., and the strength of the third book is that it provides an interesting look at the wartime south. Here, the setting is well-trodden material&oacute;if one wanted to discover Dickensian London, one could read, well... Dickens.<br />But even if the setting were more interesting, the story doesn't deliver the goods. Jones (and the reader) is wound into knots by an unnecessarily complicated plot that proves quite hard to follow at stretches. The basics are that the Union is terrified of an alliance between the South and Britain, or at least Britain's providing the South with formidable warships. As such, there are Union agents operating in England, and when one turns up dead in a basket of eels, Jones is sent for. About halfway through, one ceases to care who the mastermind is&oacute;although I should note that despite the convoluted plot, it's painfully obvious who the villain is! There are a few minor subplots, including one involving a waif, who's resolution is again, easily guessed the moment we meet her.<br />Matters are hardly helped by Parry's insistence on cramming in as many cameos as possible. In the first book, it seemed somewhat plausible he would meet Lincoln, since he's established as a special agent there. In the second book Jones rather gratuitously runs into Frederick Douglas and Susan B. Anthony during his mission in upstate New York. In the third book he again more plausibly interacts with three famous Civil War generals. Here, all the stops get pulled out. His liaison in London is Charles Adams (John Adams' grandson), and he has to deal with Benjamin Disraeli in his business. Other random (and purposeless) cameos are made by the writer Trollope, the painter Whistler, the father of communism Karl Marx, and the fellow who founded the Salvation Army (which it turns out is directly the result of Jones' influence). One or two of these historical figures would have been fine, but six? At a certain point, they simply seem like cheap tricks inserted into the proceedings to liven things up. This is a shame, because there aren't any interesting supporting characters to create interest (such as Barnaby Barnaby from Call Each River Jordan), and all Jones' interesting allies from the earlier books (such as the Irish doctor and the rascally Malloy) are sitting across the ocean!<br />Alas, even Jones' voice as narrator's isn't as sparkling as in the previous books. Readers of those earlier books will be entirely familiar with the Welsh idioms that are trotted out, and the phrases &quot;Listen you&quot; and &quot;But let that bide&quot; employed far far too frequently. Ultimately, there's really nothing compelling about this entry in the Abel Jones story, worse it's done quite a bit to disenchant me with the series as a whole.nd Susan B. Anthony during his mission in upstate New York. In the third book he again more plausibly interacts with three famous Civil War generals. Here, all the stops get pulled out. His liaison in London is Charles Adams (John Adams' grandson), and he has to deal with Benjamin Disraeli in his business. Other random (and purposeless) cameos are made by the writer Trollope, the painter Whistler, the father of communism Karl Marx, and the fellow who founded the Salvation Army (which it turns out is directly the result of Jones' influence). One or two of these historical figures would have been fine, but six? At a certain point, they simply seem like cheap tricks inserted into the proceedings to liven things up. This is a shame, because there aren't any interesting supporting characters to create interest (such as Barnaby Barnaby from Call Each River Jordan), and all Jones' interesting allies from the earlier books (such as the Irish doctor and the rascally Malloy) are sitting across the ocean!<br />Alas, even Jones' voice as narrator's isn't as sparkling as in the previous books. Readers of those earlier books will be entirely familiar with the Welsh idioms that are trotted out, and the phrases &quot;Listen you&quot; and &quot;But let that bide&quot; employed far far too frequently. Ultimately, there's really nothing compelling about this entry in the Abel Jones story, worse it's done quite a bit to disenchant me with the series as a whole.	2004-06-16
627369:US	52254603	R1O22YSWNOJVF3	0393051811	642759426	Madame Bovary, C'est Moi: The Great Characters of Literature and Where They Came From	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Bathroom Reading for The Literati	This pleasant little book is perhaps best described as bathroom reading for the literati. When your copy of The New Yorker isn't at hand, this is just the ticket for little 5 or 10 minute snippets of reading. Benard has done pleasing spadework in excavating the origins of about 75 famous literary characters: sometimes it's just the name, sometimes the look of a character, and sometimes their entire personality. The entries make for light fluffy reading, broken up by quotes from famous writers on the creation and nature of characters, cutesy line art, and sidebars like &quot;Characters with One Name&quot; or &quot;Some Orphaned Characters.&quot; My favorite entry were the ones on Dantes from the Count of Monte Cristo, and my favorite rechristening was that of Bingo Bolger-Baggins to Bilbo Baggins. All in all, this is a nice little book to give as a gift, or to place in a guest bathroom.	2004-06-16
627709:US	52254603	R3CDSIEF8OXNOB	0813342104	731738302	Running With Reindeer: Encounters In Russian Lapland	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Into Europe's &quot;Last True Wilderness&quot;	Touted as Europe's &quot;last true wilderness&quot;, Russian Lapland (which goes by a number of names, including the Kola Peninsula and Murmansk Region) lies mostly north of the Arctic Circle and is generally unknown to the West. This combination of undeveloped wilderness and mystery proved to be an irresistible destination for British art historian and fisherman Took, who made a number of trips there during the early to late 1990s. This book is the result of these trips he took to the region as well as a capable synthesis of the literature available on its inhabitants. It follows no distinct narrative pattern, hopscotching around in time and subject matter, as Took weaves his own travel narrative in with the history of the place.<br />Although a glance at a map might lead one to think otherwise, this is no arctic tale. Due to a surprisingly beneficent gulf stream, the climate is much more temperate than one might expect. Which is why a great deal of Took's travel involved backpacks, camping, and industrious plodding through wilderness&oacute;not to mention decrepit planes, trains, and automobiles, and the odd helicopter or ex-Army tracked vehicle. Indeed, despite the title, he actually spends very little time with reindeer herders, as most of his visits involve trekking to remote villages and hanging out with the locals. As Took recounts, the traditional nomadic reindeer herding culture underwent profound system shocks under Soviet rule, when the Saami (the correct term for Laps) were forced to settle and their herds were collectivized. The parallels to the American conquest of Native American tribes all too striking, right down to the forced education of Saami children at boarding schools where they would be beaten if they used their native tongue. And just as in many Native American communities, modern Saami settlements have extremely high rates of alcoholism. His encounters and friendships with these native fishermen and foresters is engrossing, especially when he delves into the issue of fishing rights, which are tightly regulated. There's a very illuminating chapter on the establishment of luxury fishing camps for wealthy Westerners.<br />Took's presentation of the area's history is quite fascinating as well, and he tries as much as possible to link it to people living there today. The region first came to prominent attention in the West in the 16th century, when trade routes were established, primarily seeking furs. Just after the turn of the century, an amazing wealth of minerals were discovered there, and mining became a large concern. Still, like Alaska, the area mostly remained a hinterland &oacute; although it was a popular locale for gulag work camps. World War II saw the establishment of a front against German and Finnish troops, and the enlistment of thousands of native Saami to the Soviet Army ranks. Following the war, it acquired strategic significance with the advent of the Cold War, and much of it was militarized and placed off limits as numerous naval bases were built, and much of the Soviet nuclear submarine fleet was housed here.<br />Which brings me to the book's one problematic area. In his zeal to explore every square mile of the peninsula, Took continually butts up against restricted military zones. Now, these areas are generally little more than crumbling decommissioned bases, many housing nuclear submarines that area literally falling apart into the sea. Still, they are patrolled by special services, and they are explicitly no-go areas. Took repeatedly scoffs at the notion that these areas are still off-limits, and finally deliberately crosses into one for a period, going so far as to get close enough to a base to observe its workings. This strikes me as the height of Western arrogance as well as the height of stupidity. First of all, he's lucky not to have gotten shot by some nervous conscript, or trigger-happy patrol. Second, his actions immediately endanger everyone who assisted him on his various trips, placing them under suspicion. Thirdly, I wonder what he would make of a Russian adventurer who decided to poke his nose around some military zones in the UK? Yes, the rules about these areas may appear stupid and arbitrary, but it incumbent on all who travel to respect the laws of the country we are traveling in. Otherwise, we not only endanger ourselves, but those travelers who come after us. This is the one aspect of the book that really upset me.<br />By the end, Took has done much to dispelling the mystery of the region with his exhaustive travels and research. Ironically then, it is the sudden appearance of wealth in the go-go days of the late '90s that confounds him. In less than a decade, the Murmansk he first came to, with virtually no consumer culture or tourist infrastructure, is transformed into a fashion-concious city with boutiques aplenty, and heartbreaking child prostitutes. And upon reflection, this bleak end to the book is fitting for a region which, despite it's natural beauty, has seen a great deal of human and environmental catastrophe over the last century.lacing them under suspicion. Thirdly, I wonder what he would make of a Russian adventurer who decided to poke his nose around some military zones in the UK? Yes, the rules about these areas may appear stupid and arbitrary, but it incumbent on all who travel to respect the laws of the country we are traveling in. Otherwise, we not only endanger ourselves, but those travelers who come after us. This is the one aspect of the book that really upset me.<br />By the end, Took has done much to dispelling the mystery of the region with his exhaustive travels and research. Ironically then, it is the sudden appearance of wealth in the go-go days of the late '90s that confounds him. In less than a decade, the Murmansk he first came to, with virtually no consumer culture or tourist infrastructure, is transformed into a fashion-concious city with boutiques aplenty, and heartbreaking child prostitutes. And upon reflection, this bleak end to the book is fitting for a region which, despite it's natural beauty, has seen a great deal of human and environmental catastrophe over the last century.	2004-06-16
669380:US	52254603	R3KG5E9WYKIG4F	0060009225	795309718	Call Each River Jordan (Abel Jones Mysteries)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Series is Back on Track	I loved the first Abel Jones Civil War mystery (Faded Coat of Blue), but was sorely disappointed by the second (Shadows of Glory), so it with great relief that I can report that this third in the series displays much (if not quite all) the skill Parry brought to Faded Coat of Blue. The story kicks off with a serious bang, as the first thirty pages or so throw Major Abel Jones into the messy battle at Shiloh in early April 1862. From the very first sentence (&quot;I remember the smell of men burning&quot;), the reader is immersed in the chaos and confusion that is war, and it's hard to imagine any work of nonfiction\ able to compete with the &quot;you are there&quot; sensation these pages impart. In this in initial bloody action, the ever-stern Jones rounds up as many of those fleeing the battle as possible, and rallies them into a little unit, fighting through the day.<br />It's only after the battle that we finally learn the purpose of his foray into the front lines. As outlined in the previous books, the Welsh immigrant and former soldier Jones has been transformed from an army clerk into a special agent of President Lincoln's. Here, he sent is to investigate the massacre of forty runaway slaves, an atrocity discovered by advancing Union troops in Tennessee. Jones meets with Generals Grant and Sherman (and his friend Dr. Mick Tyrone), and is escorted to the Confederate side as an emissary to General Beauregard to discuss this heinous crime. Of course, this isn't as simple as it sounds, and Jones goes through a few adventures before he's able to team up with an young aristocratic (and Harvard educated) Southern officer to unmask the killers.<br />Actually, the book's one significant weakness is that there is a great deal of buildup to the mystery, but once the investigation is underway, the killers are identified with very rapidly (not to mention that the answer seems obvious the moment the villain is first seen). As in Shadows of glory, the emphasis is much more on mood and atmosphere than actual suspense. Much of the story seems designed to have Jones come to the realization that slaves are humans too, and perhaps are worth fighting a war over. To that end, a number of the supporting characters aren't nearly as well realized as they are in either of the two earlier books. Jones' Confederate liaison is a textbook golden-haired young Southern gentleman, and there are a smattering of basic rednecks and slave types as well. One notable exception is the Barnaby B. Barnaby, the Cockney gentleman's gentleman to Jones' liaison, who provides comic relief and a vivid voice. Of course, the strongest voice is Jones' own as narrator, and his telling is robust with the Welsh idiom, cadence, and priggish prejudice of the earlier books. Phrases like &quot;he was as full of tricks as an Irish barrister&quot; abound, and add much to the story.<br />All in all, the book is satisfying reading, if not as outstanding as Faded Coat of Blue, which just had everything going for it. The series continues with , Honor's Kingdom and Bold Sons of Erin which I will definitely be seeking out.on mood and atmosphere than actual suspense. Much of the story seems designed to have Jones come to the realization that slaves are humans too, and perhaps are worth fighting a war over. To that end, a number of the supporting characters aren't nearly as well realized as they are in either of the two earlier books. Jones' Confederate liaison is a textbook golden-haired young Southern gentleman, and there are a smattering of basic rednecks and slave types as well. One notable exception is the Barnaby B. Barnaby, the Cockney gentleman's gentleman to Jones' liaison, who provides comic relief and a vivid voice. Of course, the strongest voice is Jones' own as narrator, and his telling is robust with the Welsh idiom, cadence, and priggish prejudice of the earlier books. Phrases like &quot;he was as full of tricks as an Irish barrister&quot; abound, and add much to the story. <br />All in all, the book is satisfying reading, if not as outstanding as Faded Coat of Blue, which just had everything going for it. The series continues with , Honor's Kingdom and Bold Sons of Erin which I will definitely be seeking out.	2004-05-13
673476:US	52254603	R15MI4KG4V7WI	0812968778	568965033	The Winter Queen: A Novel (An Erast Fandorin Mystery)	Books	2	5	11	N	N	Russian &quot;Penny Dreadful&quot;	Akunin's historical mystery series is hugely popular in his native Russia and spans about ten books, the first of which is this one. Set in Moscow and London in the 1870s, the hero is Erast Fandorin, a young clerk for the Moscow police who gets caught up in an international conspiracy. If the words &quot;international conspiracy&quot; sets your warning bells ringing, it's with good reason in this case. The book starts promisingly enough, with the bizarre suicide of a young gentleman in an upscale public park. This piques the interest of Fandorin's superior, and the eager-beaver clerk is let loose to check it out. This leads to the salon of a beautiful tease who has whole passel of men wrapped around her finger. And this leads too... well, a whole bunch of other stuff that gets progressively sillier and sillier.<br />In the old days, this is what was called a &quot;penny dreadful&quot;, and it's hard to understand what reviewers are finding so great about it. Yes, the Russian angle is kind of interesting&oacute;for about forty pages, then one starts to realize that Moscow in the 1870s doesn't feel particularly different from Paris or London of the same time with a bit of a stricter social rank system. The hero is also initially interesting, with his energetic idealism and naivite&Egrave;, but after a while he starts to grate. Many seem to want to compare him to Sherlock Holmes, but that's a very poor analogy. Fandorin (unlike Holmes), seems to find no clue to obvious to overlook, is repeatedly tricked and manipulated by his enemies, and is impulsive rather than deliberative. A much better fictional model is James Bond (as presented in the books, not in film). Fleming's Bond is remarkably foolish and tends to blunder around until the villains tell him their plot, only escaping death through some desperate act of bravado&oacute;all of which fits Fandorin pretty well. The parallels truly come together in the ending, which is lifted straight from one of the Bond books (I won't name which one).<br />The writing and translation are fine; everything is rendered in a kind of mock period style that works fine in the context of the book. In the end, I'm rather baffled by how well-received the book is. It's a workmanlike period piece that veers into the lamest kind of excess, the kind of thing that would work better (or at least be more fun) visually, either as a movie or comic book series. It seems the series is destined to be published in its entirety in English, the next two books (Leviathan and The Turkish Gambit) are out this year, with The Death of Achilles and no doubt the rest to follow them.one).<br />The writing and translation are fine; everything is rendered in a kind of mock period style that works fine in the context of the book. In the end, I'm rather baffled by how well-received the book is. It's a workmanlike period piece that veers into the lamest kind of excess, the kind of thing that would work better (or at least be more fun) visually, either as a movie or comic book series. It seems the series is destined to be published in its entirety in English, the next two books (Leviathan and The Turkish Gambit) are out this year, with The Death of Achilles and no doubt the rest to follow them.	2004-05-10
677078:US	52254603	R21KM94RMNS1F1	0330501038	91492263	Brodie's Notes on Keith Waterhouse's "Billy Liar"	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Boy Hiding in Disguises	Still fresh after 45 years, Waterhouse's novel about a compulsive liar who can't handle reality is funny, sweet, and heartbreakingly sad. Set at the tail end of 1950s, the story is told by Billy Fisher, who lives with his parents in the fictional Yorkshire town of Stradhoughton. Billy can't cope with his tedious clerking job at a local funeral parlor, living at home, or really anything about his life, and so, spends a great deal of time escaping into fantasy world in his head called Ambrosia. When he's not imagining life as prime minister of his make-believe country, he's spinning mostly purposeless lies to almost everyone he meets. Sometimes he's lying to cover up real misdeeds, such as his smalltime embezzling, other times, his lies are completely pointless, such as telling a friend's mother about his fictional sister.<br />At first, his carefree, devil-may-care insouciance is amusing and the reader is drawn into Billy's bizarre self-vision as lively raconteur and comic wit. However, as the story progresses, he becomes a more troublesome figure. He's engaged to two different girls, and apparently in love with a third. More problematically, he has no emotional connection to reality&oacute;every episode in his life takes on the aspect of a sketch or scene in which he struggles to determine what role to play, what accent to adopt, or what pose to strike. It becomes heartbreaking to witness Billy's belief that he's smarter than everyone around him and destined for great things, when everyone else can see right through his poses and tired routines. (It'd be interesting to know what a psychiatrist's diagnosis of Billy would be.) As the lies pile up, Billy finds himself painted into a corner from which only drastic action will free him. His only avenue of escape is to actually pursue his longstanding claim of a job offer in London writing scripts for a standup comic. The reader is torn between wanting Billy to stay and face up to his misdeeds, and wanting him to get on that train to the Big Smoke and realize his dreams. Of course, the outcome is inevitable.<br />Waterhouse grew up in Leeds, and like Billy, worked as a clerk in an undertakers. The prose is liberally sprinkled with Yorkshire dialect, and does a brilliant job of capturing the small town atmosphere, from the grubby disco, to the local cafe, and claustrophobic house. The book was turned into a play the year after publication and into an excellent film several years later, a TV miniseries in the early 1970s, and an insipid American TV series called Billy. A sequel called Billy Liar on The Moon appeared in 1977, and more recently there are allegedly plans for an American feature film remake, although I'm not sure who thought that would be a good idea..ain to the Big Smoke and realize his dreams. Of course, the outcome is inevitable. <br />Waterhouse grew up in Leeds, and like Billy, worked as a clerk in an undertakers. The prose is liberally sprinkled with Yorkshire dialect, and does a brilliant job of capturing the small town atmosphere, from the grubby disco, to the local cafe, and claustrophobic house. The book was turned into a play the year after publication and into an excellent film several years later, a TV miniseries in the early 1970s, and an insipid American TV series called Billy. A sequel called Billy Liar on The Moon appeared in 1977, and more recently there are allegedly plans for an American feature film remake, although I'm not sure who thought that would be a good idea..	2004-05-07
680694:US	52254603	ROK02TN6DP2OT	0140180923	115107087	Lord Jim (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	9	15	N	N	&quot;a shred of meaningless honor&quot;	There is no doubt that Conrad is one of the master writers of the previous century, however I tend to find him rather a chore to read. Not that reading is supposed to be &quot;easy&quot; of course, but that's just by way of a warning. In this novel, he not only embarks on epic page-long sentences, but engages in a whole range of innovative (for the time) techniques for telling the tragic tale of Tuan/Lord Jim. These techniques include abrupt shifts and jumps in time, and a great deal story within a story constructions. The bulk of the story is recounted by a seaman named Marlow (who also was narrator for Heart of Darkness), who is often retelling what he heard from another source, or even third-hand. Some may find this a little confusing at first, but it shouldn't be a surprising device for the modern reader. Technique aside, this is an exceedingly dense work, rich in lengthy descriptions, and requiring the reader's utmost attention.<br />Jim is a well-bred young Englishman who takes to the sea, envisioning a series of adventures in which he will prove his mettle and emerge as a well-regarded man. Alas, when a ship carrying a load of Malay pilgrims to Mecca strikes something and seems destined to sink, and his senior officers all abandon ship without rousing the passengers, he experiences fear and abandons ship as well. But when the ship doesn't sink, Jim is the only crewman to step forward and present himself to the maritime court of inquiry, which strips him of his sailing papers. Thereafter, Jim knocks around the South Seas, working as a water clerk in various ports, and departing whenever someone recognizes him. Finally, the narrator Marlow arranges for Jim to be installed as manager of a remote Malaysian trading post. There, he becomes the ruler and protector of the native people.<br />The story is not really of importance though; really, we are meant to be taking a long and careful look at the character of Jim. Some may find him to be a tragic and romantic figure, however I view him as the embodiment of self-absorption and pride. Jim's vision of himself as a brave and true fellow is so key to his ego that he literally can't face his own past actions, even though they are utterly understandable and human. And far from seeking to prove or redeem himself, he seeks to remove himself from the sight of anyone who might recognize him. His self-imposed exile among the Malays allows him to fulfill his dream of being an respected leader, and allows him to avoid introspection. Indeed, had he been even slightly introspective, he might have eventually recognized that his overwhelming adherence to a code of honor has not served him particularly well. Ironically (or maybe predictably), at the end of it all, his misguided sense of honor brings death to him, and destruction to his people. It's not too hard to figure out what Conrad, who spend several decades on the high seas, thought of this ideal of honor. One character gives voice to Conrad's views, by saying that Jim died for &quot;a shred of meaningless honor&quot;.gure, however I view him as the embodiment of self-absorption and pride. Jim's vision of himself as a brave and true fellow is so key to his ego that he literally can't face his own past actions, even though they are utterly understandable and human. And far from seeking to prove or redeem himself, he seeks to remove himself from the sight of anyone who might recognize him. His self-imposed exile among the Malays allows him to fulfill his dream of being an respected leader, and allows him to avoid introspection. Indeed, had he been even slightly introspective, he might have eventually recognized that his overwhelming adherence to a code of honor has not served him particularly well. Ironically (or maybe predictably), at the end of it all, his misguided sense of honor brings death to him, and destruction to his people. It's not too hard to figure out what Conrad, who spend several decades on the high seas, thought of this ideal of honor. One character gives voice to Conrad's views, by saying that Jim died for &quot;a shred of meaningless honor&quot;.	2004-05-04
683217:US	52254603	RW6HNBZ2W8YCS	0810119188	320378530	His Current Woman (Hydra Books)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Unsure of What It Is	I have to confess that this much-acclaimed novella, published in Poland in 1995, really didn't come together in any meaningful way for me. The story follows Pawel Kohoutek, a middle-aged veterinarian in the Cieszyn region who is notable for his infidelity to his wife. The book starts with his looking out the window of his house&oacute;where he lives with wife, daughter, and a whole host of extended family and hangers-on&oacute;to see the titular character striding across the lawn with all her worldly possessions. The remainder of the book concerns his efforts to hide this mistress in a crumbling slaughterhouse adjacent to the house, and conceal her existence from his family. Mixed in with these farcical, Fawlty Towersesque escapades (would that they were that funny) are assorted recollections and partial glimpses into what makes him tick. As even he admits he is a boring, totally run-of-the-mill philanderer, there's not a whole lot to take away from these examinations. There is a certain wit and playfulness to it all, but one could imagine it working better as a film than it reads on the page. Ultimately, it's hard to know what to make of the book. Is it a whimsical look at a funny little fellow and his predicament? Is it a telling commentary on the Cieszyn region of Poland (many allusions are made to the Lutheranism found there, but I have no idea what to make of it). Or perhaps, since it is set in 1990, it's some kind of allegory about the Iron Curtain? It's neither witty enough to hold up as a comic novel, nor opaque enough to stand out on any other terms. One wonders whether reviewers are perhaps giving it &quot;bonus points&quot; for being Polish?	2004-05-03
683617:US	52254603	R3I2MS4WHGP8ZL	1590170628	814642165	Equal Danger (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Ponderous Parable	This slender novella is more of a parable about government power than it is a traditional mystery or thriller (in an afterword, Sciascia himself describes it as a &igrave;fable about power anywhere in the world). Written in 1971, the story follows a policeman in charge of investigating the murders of two judges. The setting is a unnamed country where the government and the supposed opposition are merely two sides of the same coin, and is clearly based on the author's native Sicily. Inspector Rogas's investigations rapidly lead him into areas his superiors would rather he left alone, and he is repeatedly told to focus on pinning the blame on &quot;revolutionaries&quot;. As more and more judges and prosecutors gets killed, it becomes clearer and clearer that Rogas is being diverted for political motives. This surface story is merely a vehicle, however, for Sciascia's views on the limits of justice and reason. The Inspector is alone as a man of principles, and the unmistakable message is that only in the movies are principles and reason enough to carry the day. It's not the most gripping story, but for those of a metaphysical bent, it is full of intellectual diversions such as the question as to whether there can be such a thing as a judicial error, and discussions of Voltaire, Pascal, and others. The translation is crisp and lively, but the overall tone is so ponderous that it's not exactly the most engaging work.	2004-05-02
686495:US	52254603	R2TKQCNIM6MRH	0142002070	215240726	From Russia with Love	Books	4	23	27	N	N	Probably the Best Bond Book	The fifth Bond book is far and away the best I've read of the series. Much of its strength comes from an excellent beginning&oacute;almost a quarter of the book passes before Bond appears. The story starts in Moscow, where the Soviet intelligence community has decided it needs to pull off a major coup in order to maintain its prestige. The SMERSH division (for those who are new to the series, or for whom it's motto of &quot;Death To Spies&quot; isn't clear enough, SMERSH is in charge of eliminating internal and external spies) is tasked with killing that perpetual thorn in the side of international communism, James Bond. All the major villains are introduced in this early section, from the psychotic ace hit man (alas, his full-moon madness is an unnecessary and silly element), to the deviant older woman who runs the operation, to the chess mastermind who plans it, and finally, the beautiful and more or less innocent honey pot who will be set in front of Bond as bait. Two of these scenes are mini-masterpieces, the very first, where the naked hit man lies by his pool and gets his massage, and then later, when the planner is met in the middle of the Moscow city championship match.<br />Only after all the pieces are in place, does Fleming finally pull away the curtain to reveal the object of all this attention, 007. This is a brilliant technique for heightening interest in a character and building suspense (Hitchcock was the master of it), and it sets the stage beautifully. We find Bond more or less indolent, having recently broken up with Tiffany Case (his girl from Diamonds Are Forever), and growing surly with inaction. The Soviet plot lures him to Istanbul, where he is met by another vivid character, Darko Karim, who is head of British intelligence in Turkey. After minor adventures there&oacute;notable is a lurid gypsy catfight&oacute;they make contact with the female lure, and the trio steal away on the Orient Express. The rest of the story takes place on the train, as it makes the four day trip through Europe, across Greece, and through places like Llubljana, Belgrade, Trieste, Venice, and on to Paris. It's an extended cat and mouse game, as the reader waits for the Russians to spring their trap.<br />The one complaint I would have with this otherwise gripping book is that, as in many of the Bond series, the super spy is a bumbling idiot who manages to escape death only through the most unlikely actions of his foes. As in earlier and later books, he manages to miss rather obvious clues and lets others do the heavy lifting for him, only to walk into a rather simple trap. In this instance, Fleming makes an attempt to account for this by continually noting that Bond's senses are dulled from inactivity and that he's not sharp, and so forth. This grumble aside, its a very entertaining work,and definitely the best Bond I've read. Oh yes, Fleming does commit one gaffe with Bond's history that seems a little strange. At one point, it is mentioned that Bond has never killed in cold blood; which makes no sense, because it is explicitly stated in the very first book (Casino Royale) that he did! His shooting of a Japanese spy in New York, and knifing of a Dutch double-agent are what earned him his 00 (&quot;Licensed to Kill&quot;) designation, so it's strange that here Fleming would suggest otherwise. In any event, if you only read one Bond book, make it this one.four day trip through Europe, across Greece, and through places like Llubljana, Belgrade, Trieste, Venice, and on to Paris. It's an extended cat and mouse game, as the reader waits for the Russians to spring their trap. <br />The one complaint I would have with this otherwise gripping book is that, as in many of the Bond series, the super spy is a bumbling idiot who manages to escape death only through the most unlikely actions of his foes. As in earlier and later books, he manages to miss rather obvious clues and lets others do the heavy lifting for him, only to walk into a rather simple trap. In this instance, Fleming makes an attempt to account for this by continually noting that Bond's senses are dulled from inactivity and that he's not sharp, and so forth. This grumble aside, its a very entertaining work,and definitely the best Bond I've read. Oh yes, Fleming does commit one gaffe with Bond's history that seems a little strange. At one point, it is mentioned that Bond has never killed in cold blood; which makes no sense, because it is explicitly stated in the very first book (Casino Royale) that he did! His shooting of a Japanese spy in New York, and knifing of a Dutch double-agent are what earned him his 00 (&quot;Licensed to Kill&quot;) designation, so it's strange that here Fleming would suggest otherwise. In any event, if you only read one Bond book, make it this one.	2004-04-30
694577:US	52254603	R2FAFMQ5L88E47	0060534621	330114902	The Movies of My Life	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Coming of Age in Chile	Fuget's second novel to appear in translation (following Bad Vibes), features a gimmicky framework that actually works well and transcends merely being cute. A somewhat clunky first section introduces the reader to Beltran, a Chilean seismologist traveling from Santiago to Japan, via LA, for a conference. A conversation with a woman on the plane, a snippet of a radio interview heard in a taxi, and the news that his grandfather has died are the catalysts for his holing up in an LA hotel and feverishly writing a memoir of sorts (which forms the bulk of the book). While it is a traditional memoir in that it proceeds chronologically&oacute;from Beltran's birth in 1964 and his life in Los Angeles (Inglewood and later Encino) until 1974, when vacation in post-Allende Chile turns into a permanent stay&oacute;his recollections are arranged in a series of fifty brief sections, each corresponding to a movie.<br />In each case, the movie serves as a launching point for exploring an event from his past and reconsidering it. What rapidly emerges is a picture of a man scarred by both the dysfunction and displacement of his upbringing. While in the LA, his life is relatively normal, and he grows up as a regular American boy, although as he looks back at that time, he recognizes the fragility of his parents' marriage and his father's distinct discomfort at being a father. However, the real damage comes at age 10, when this fully functional pop-culture saturated American boy moves back to Chile, where has a difficult time adjusting to the different language, social rules, and culture. Ultimately, this is a bittersweet and poignant coming-of-age story, as Beltran's friendless adolescence morphs into semi-acceptance as a teenager, and of course, his sexual awakening.<br />What is clear early on is the connection between his uncertain and capricious childhood and his adult fascination with earthquakes (events that shatter any illusion of stability, get it?). This is a bit of a heavy-handed maneuver, although the presence of a seismologist grandfather makes it all coalesce more than it might have. Throughout, moderately interesting issues of class and culture are raised, amidst this backdrop of films and growing pains. Fuget is the foremost of a loose band of younger Latin American writers who have rejected magical realism, and are attempting to forge a more real, modernist approach to literature. If this book is anything to judge by, it's a welcome change of pace.r, although the presence of a seismologist grandfather makes it all coalesce more than it might have. Throughout, moderately interesting issues of class and culture are raised, amidst this backdrop of films and growing pains. Fuget is the foremost of a loose band of younger Latin American writers who have rejected magical realism, and are attempting to forge a more real, modernist approach to literature. If this book is anything to judge by, it's a welcome change of pace.	2004-04-23
695295:US	52254603	R1BPNC630Q44CF	1566564174	873384249	The Bleeding of the Stone (Interlink World Fiction)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Magical Realism from Libya	Set in southwestern Libya, in what appears to be sometime in the 1960s, this quasi-mythical tale concerns Asouf, a bedouin hermit goatherd. Through leaps of time and flashbacks, we learn of his upbringing by a father who believed men to be corrupt and evil, and thus took his family to the edges of civilization to live. Unfortunately, Asouf's isolation leaves him ill-equipped when the wicked hunter Cain and his sidekick (both fellow Libyans) show up and demand to be guided to the lair of the moufflon (a wild sheep said to be extinct). The novel depicts a kind of backwoods type of Islam, in which God resides everywhere, spirits are to be placated, and charms are bartered from African magicians to protect oneself. It's an interesting view of a part of the Arab world not commonly seen, however the dive into magical realism gets far too magical for my own tastes. There is a great deal of symbolism and Biblical allusion that goes right over my head (not having read the Bible), but the central metaphor of Cain destroying his own land (with the assistance of an American military man) is clear enough, as is the Christ imagery at the end, with its apparent message of redemption. Ultimately, neither the style nor story ever really grabbed me, but perhaps those with a firmer sense of the spiritual may derive great sustenance from this tale.	2004-04-23
697082:US	52254603	RDBA3QGRLRJHB	081011657X	897786767	Skinswaps (Writings from an Unbound Europe)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good Stuff, Let's See Some More!	A year ago, I found myself rather unexpectedly in Slovenia, and passed a very enjoyable few days in Llubljana. So, when I stumbled across this slim collection of sixteen short stories (originally published in 1990) by a Slovene, I let serendipity guide me again, and took it home. Most of the stories are quite short (one is a mere sentence), lasting only a few pages, and five of them appeared previously in the anthology The Day Tito Died. Although one expects writing from Central Europe to be at least somewhat political (especially when published as part of a series called &quot;Writings From An Unbound Europe&quot;), these stories are Carveresque pieces about people and relationships. In that sense, they are truly international, telling the reader next to nothing about Slovenia or the the nature of its national character.<br />The shorter stories are quick sketches, showing a band the moment before it starts playing, a child who's fright at a horror movie itself turns into a horror movie, a Jew attempting to escape a Nazi cattle car, and a number of conversations and interactions between lovers. Some of these are excellent, others easily forgotten&oacute;and the brevity is reminicient of one of the modern. More interesting are the three longer pieces. &quot;Kyoto&quot; tells of a group of Americans in Kyoto at a school to learn how to drink tea, and of what happens when one of them challenges the validity of the teacher's methods. &quot;The Taste of Blood&quot; finds a young woman watching when a body is pulled from the river, and turns very creepy as a policeman takes her home to seduce her. &quot;Scratches on the Back&quot; is the story of a self-absorbed architect who finds the wife of a former colleague on his doorstep one day, and of what happens when she moves in. The writing (and translation) is nicely honed throughout, and the style displays promising talent. It would be nice to see if Blatnik could sustain it over a whole novel, and introduce a little more narrative structure, but none of his novels has been translated into English yet.tive structure, but none of his novels has been translated into English yet.	2004-04-21
697620:US	52254603	R25VGFD09GFG56	1592640354	631738946	Morituri (Toby Crime)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Arab Crime Fiction a la Pulp	I've long been looking for an Arab crime novel, and so it was with glee that I found this one (especially as I lived in Algiers for five years, where the book is set). Khadra (a psuedonym for a former Algerian army officer), has written three Superintendent Llob books, but I'm not sure where this one fits into the trilogy. Set in the mid to late-1990s, at the height of Algeria's Civil War (in which several hundred thousand people have died), when the police were targets for Islamic insurgents, the story has a viceral edge, as the hero takes his life in his hand every day when he leaves his apartment.<br />Both the story and the style owe more than a little to Raymond Chandler, as the disenchanted hero is tasked with tracking down the missing daughter of a powerful mover and shaker. The muscular prose tracks Llob and his sidekick as they trawl through the dregs of the city and the corrupt upper echeleons in their attempt to stay alive and find the missing girl. The story is full of twists and turns, as they deal with pimps, pushers, and perverts in order to find the truth. All against a backdrop where certain neighborhoods are off-limits to police, every rich person is slimy, and any package could be a bomb. It's a quick read, and over the top in kind of a pulpy way, but well worth it if you're interested in having your stereotypes of the Arab world shattered. This is apparently being made into a film&oacute;here's hoping the other Llob books appear in English soon.<br />Note: The excerpt posted on Amazon is not the final translation, and is much more fractured than what is in the book.	2004-04-21
706804:US	52254603	R19OXL1LMB1DM8	0151004145	289512427	The Cave	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Solid, but not Brilliant	Nobel Prize meets The Matrix in Saramago's parable of modern capitalism, which urges the reader to reject the materialist worldview increasingly embraced around the world and forge their own path. The only other book of his I've read is Blindness (which is an outstanding work), and this novel shares that one's setting of an unnamed country in the near future. Outside an unnamed city, an old man makes pottery, which he brings into town to tell at &quot;The Center&quot;&oacute;a kind of megalith mall which is slowly enveloping the city around it. A combination Walmart and Mall of the Americas, The Center sells everything one needs (one of their creepy slogans is &quot;We Have What You Need, But We Prefer You Need What We Have), and houses apartments, amusements, and everything one needs to enjoy life, including simulated snow storms. Almost everyone aspires to live in the Center, so as to be closer to all these attract/distractions.<br />The framework of the sparse story is that The Center cancels their standing order with the potter, forcing him to confront his dying trade. Without any other market to sell to, he and his daughter try to convince The Center to buy ceramic dolls instead. When they agree and order 1,200 dolls, the duo must race to mass produce this new item in their old-fashioned workshop. An additional tension is added by the daughter's husband, who wants them all to move to The Center, where he works as a security guard. Other subplots include the appearance of a stray dog and a local widow's interest in the potter. The story is a something restrained critique of consumerist culture, with sharp digs and jabs here and there, and an overarching reference to Plato's Cave (if you don't know what that is, you'll want to read up on it online), but Saramago seems somewhat more interested in the small family and how they interact. It's a warm portrait of a group of people struggling to keep their heads above water in a mildly dystopian future. Especially endearing are the passages written from the dog's perspective.<br />The satire of The Center is pretty straightforward, with its control of what gets bought and sold, creepily cheery slogans, and officials who are masters of doublespeak (one line from a buyer goes something like &quot;There is no secret of the bee, but we know what it is.&quot;). What is somewhat interesting (as Saramago is well known Communist) is that the same satirical points can (and have) been made against planned economies such as that of the former Soviet Union. The ending is appropriately ambiguous, leaving open the question as to whether or not there is any future in such a world.<br />It should be noted that the writing style is very distinctive, with little punctuation, no quote marks to delineate speech versus thought, no breaks to indicate who the speaker is, and paragraphs that run for pages and pages. You're either going to love it or hate it in that it'll either make for labored reading or complete immersion reading (our book group split right down the middle on this). Altogether, it's a solid bit of craft, it's not as brilliant as Blindness.are the passages written from the dog's perspective. <br />The satire of The Center is pretty straightforward, with its control of what gets bought and sold, creepily cheery slogans, and officials who are masters of doublespeak (one line from a buyer goes something like &quot;There is no secret of the bee, but we know what it is.&quot;). What is somewhat interesting (as Saramago is well known Communist) is that the same satirical points can (and have) been made against planned economies such as that of the former Soviet Union. The ending is appropriately ambiguous, leaving open the question as to whether or not there is any future in such a world.<br />It should be noted that the writing style is very distinctive, with little punctuation, no quote marks to delineate speech versus thought, no breaks to indicate who the speaker is, and paragraphs that run for pages and pages. You're either going to love it or hate it in that it'll either make for labored reading or complete immersion reading (our book group split right down the middle on this). Altogether, it's a solid bit of craft, it's not as brilliant as Blindness.	2004-04-14
707499:US	52254603	RNT6TNR5KWYZU	0743249399	763001622	The Cyclist: A Novel	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Style over Substance	This absurdist debut is notable for its distinctive prose style, a highly manufactured cadence that sometimes sparkles with playfulness, and other times is cheezy and labored. The story&oacute;what little there is of it&oacute;concerns a would-be terrorist whose mission is to deliver a bomb by bicycle to a luxury Beirut hotel in time for a major conference. Most of the book finds the roly-poly cyclist in intensive care in a hospital, recovering from a training accident. He lies there reminiscing over the events that took him to this place, and the people in his life, all of whom come to visit. The final part describes the actual day of the plot and the decision facing the cyclist when he instructed to graduate from delivery boy to suicide bomber.<br />If this sounds like a thriller, it isn't&oacute;there no dramatic tension, and there really isn't supposed to be. Instead, there is a series of loosely arranged vignettes, which serve to instill impressions rather than a concrete sense of the people or story. The terrorist in training belongs to a fringe group called &quot;The Academy&quot;, whose views are ever-shifting but are apparently (per page 85) some kind of Israeli-sponsored &quot;destabilizing&quot; commando unit. The cyclist is given some motivation (a marketplace bombing in his village as a youth), but his group and his mission are so absurd (he's supposed to enter a cycling race in order to &quot;blend in&quot;?) that his situation can't be taken seriously as an insight to terrorist thought. What's more interesting is that he's an Israeli of mixed Druze/Jewish parentage, a choice Berberian makes for a reason, but it's not clear what that reason is. This is a point several reviewers have gotten completely wrong, calling him Lebanese (When he refers to fighter jets over Beirut&oacute;only Israeli jets fly over Beirut&oacute;he calls them &quot;ours&quot;, and at one point he is brought a package of Bamba snacks&oacute;an Israeli product&oacute;to &quot;remind him of home&quot;). Other characters are ciphers: the flamboyant leader of his group, the loyal lover/childhood friend, the wizened grandfather, etc.<br />However, sights, sounds, and especially smells are quite vividly conveyed, especially when it comes to food, which is the central concern for the narrator. Indeed, foodies will revel in the lush descriptions of a wide variety of Middle Eastern dishes which Berberian writes about with a deft touch. Less deft is his use of simile: consider groan-inducing phrases such as &quot;my dimensions were as big as a de Kooning canvas&quot; or others like it. The prose is liberally dosed with rhyming couplets which can be fun to hunt for (they're not set off), but are at times too labored and coy. A neat trick, but in the service of what? Altogether, it's far too self-concious for its own good, and reads like a writing class project rather than a finished work.ciphers: the flamboyant leader of his group, the loyal lover/childhood friend, the wizened grandfather, etc. <br />However, sights, sounds, and especially smells are quite vividly conveyed, especially when it comes to food, which is the central concern for the narrator. Indeed, foodies will revel in the lush descriptions of a wide variety of Middle Eastern dishes which Berberian writes about with a deft touch. Less deft is his use of simile: consider groan-inducing phrases such as &quot;my dimensions were as big as a de Kooning canvas&quot; or others like it. The prose is liberally dosed with rhyming couplets which can be fun to hunt for (they're not set off), but are at times too labored and coy. A neat trick, but in the service of what? Altogether, it's far too self-concious for its own good, and reads like a writing class project rather than a finished work.	2004-04-14
709790:US	52254603	R3PH4ATP1TTCXA	1559706775	592088791	Trail of Feathers: In Search of the Birdmen of Peru	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Another Intrepid Adventure from Shah	I first encountered Shah via, Sorcerer's Apprentice, his wonderful book detailing his search for magic in modern day India, and subsequently read his most recent book about searching for King Solomon's Mines in Ethiopia (which is also excellent). This middle book, about his search for for a tribe of flying men in the Amazonian jungles of Peru isn't quite as captivating as those two, but still makes for excellent armchair travel. The adventure begins with a scene somewhere between Indiana Jones and Tintin, as Shah attends an underground auction of shrunken heads in London. There, a mysterious stranger delivers a cryptic remark about the &quot;birdmen of Peru&quot;, and a few weeks later, Shah arrives in Lima with far too much baggage and an intrepidness not often encountered in contemporary travel narratives.<br />Once in country, he bounces around the place, sniffing at the legend and trail of the birdmen, who are plentifully depicted on Incan textiles and are well-known in local lore. His travels take him to the overrun tourist mecca of Machu Picchu, an island on Lake Titicaca, into the Atacama Desert to see the spectacular Nazca Lines from the air, into the big city of Lima, the wild frontier town of Iquitos, and finally, upriver into the Amazon. Along the way, he meets an astonishing array of characters, from llama drivers, snake handlers, shamans, and grave robbers, to mad professors, European vagabonds seeking spiritual enlightenment, a lovestruck waitress, and finally, his guide, a grizzled Vietnam vet.<br />Early on it seems evident that the flying is metaphorical, and is accomplished by ingesting some industrial-grade hallucinogens distilled from tropical plants, but Shah manages to keep the quest interesting nonetheless. He manages to combine wide-eyed enthusiasm, curiosity and eagerness, with scholarly research and a brusque wariness. He's also quite self-deprecating and knows just when a touch of humor is needed to liven up the narrative&oacute;which often involves his meals. As in his other books, his trip is an engrossing one, and he ends abruptly upon reaching his goal.olves his meals. As in his other books, his trip is an engrossing one, and he ends abruptly upon reaching his goal.	2004-04-12
711468:US	52254603	R2JLOWAO4JOC37	1852423846	488413366	Savage Life	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Servicable Broad Satire	Set in the long hot summer of 1990, this broad satire of the Thatcher era is populated with oversaturated characters grinding out meaningless existences in a crumbling West London neighborhood and the posh outer suburbs. The full spectrum of class is represented, from inept teenage burglar Gaz Hoskins (son of a semi-whore, brother to a porn performer), to middle-class insurance salesman Colin Nutter (plus wife and two sprogs), and finally, disagreeable rich guy Dorian Savage. Gaz's life consists of staying out of the way of his sister's mean boyfriend, while scheming to acquire 200 Japanese sneakers and all the junk food he can cram into his pimply face. Colin's busy trying to keep up with the Joneses, or more precisely, his boss, while ignoring his alcoholism and nagging wife. And Savage is simply intent on enjoying the perks of wealth, and the services of two sisters.<br />The semi-madcap story finds these three lives intersecting and interweaving in preposterous, but amusing ways. Characters act stupidly, and then bad things happen. A botched burglary leads to a dead dog. Another botched breaking and entering leads to a spontaneous murder. And a drunken misunderstanding leads to a contract killing by a delusional loner. Actually, pretty much everyone in the book is a loner. No one has any friends to speak of, and women exist in their lives almost exclusively as sex objects. There is absolutely nothing redeeming to hold onto in the book, everything is gross and tawdry, everyone is out for themselves, and no one has any illusions about anything. Of course, this is a dark comedy, so that's more or less fine. The story jolts along at an appropriate pace, and there are enough comic beats to keep one reading, but it lacks the subtlety or style to really distinguish itself.	2004-04-11
711854:US	52254603	R1S7NPB2KMMKX9	0312278551	326641259	Leaving Disneyland: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Solid Prison Novel	In his first book, Parsons tells the classic story of a long-incarcerated criminal who wins parole, only to find life as a &quot;square john&quot; has just as many pitfalls as a day negotiating prison. The first half of the book finds 50-something &quot;Doc&quot; Kane counting the weeks until his next parole hearing at Tyburn Pen in the Nevada desert. Tyburn is a fictional creation (Nevada does have a prison dating back to the Civil War, but it's not out in the desert, it's just outside Carson City), but the prose is so evocative that you can almost taste the grit of the sandstorms, feel the rumbling of the unstable desert, and smell the fetid stink of the creaky sewer system. It's about 1990 or so (based on a brief exchange about the Washington Redskins, and the general boom in crack trade), and Doc is on year 16 of a 20 year stretch for blowing away his son-in-law with a shotgun, after discovering his abuse of Doc's daughter. Although he's in prison for a quasi-noble act, he's no angel, having dealt heroin for many years on the mean streets of D.C. (Parsons explains that Kane is incarcerated way out West because D.C. doesn't have a Federal prison large enough to hold the requisite inmates, and they are dispersed throughout the Federal system&oacute;a practice that makes family visits highly burdensome and could be construed as cruel and unusual).<br />Doc is one of those old-time heads, with a system for doing his time, protection from his fellow DC Black gang members, and wisdom for the youths. But when he gets a young new cellmate, things get tricky, since the cellmate killed a member of Doc's gang on the outside, and the victim's brother just happens to be one of Doc's crew. Doc is understandably torn between wanting to keep a low profile to make parole, and needing to respect the code of eye for an eye. (Here it appears Parsons may have taken a small liberty. As far as I understand, DC Blacks is solely a prison gang, and has no operations on the streets of DC or elsewhere.) The tension between parole and retribution is menacing, as Doc counts the days until his hearing. Once he makes it back to DC, he finds that the prison code of respect remains the defining force in Doc's life, as he ekes out a solitary existence, working at a McDonald's and reporting home every night for electronic monitoring. It's not hard to guess how his struggle to make it is going to turn out, as Parsons goes for realism over &quot;Shawshank Redemption&quot; style crowd-pleasing. Crack-era DC is somewhat generically portrayed, although a few scenes (at Dupont Circle and on U St.) capture the setting nicely.<br />For the most part, the book is excellent and Doc is a riveting character. His relationships with his fellow cons are quietly realistic, and his tentative attempts to relate to his McDonald's coworkers and his alcoholic landlady are heartbreaking. At times, Parsons gets a little too cute, such as having Doc be literally haunted by his past via &quot;Dead Earl&quot;, a former associate or working in a glimpse of wild camels in the desert (another Civil War era legacy), or bones in the prison basement. It's a very strong portrait of the prison system and life in and out of it, but its a familiar one without any new insights.ewhere.) The tension between parole and retribution is menacing, as Doc counts the days until his hearing. Once he makes it back to DC, he finds that the prison code of respect remains the defining force in Doc's life, as he ekes out a solitary existence, working at a McDonald's and reporting home every night for electronic monitoring. It's not hard to guess how his struggle to make it is going to turn out, as Parsons goes for realism over &quot;Shawshank Redemption&quot; style crowd-pleasing. Crack-era DC is somewhat generically portrayed, although a few scenes (at Dupont Circle and on U St.) capture the setting nicely. <br />For the most part, the book is excellent and Doc is a riveting character. His relationships with his fellow cons are quietly realistic, and his tentative attempts to relate to his McDonald's coworkers and his alcoholic landlady are heartbreaking. At times, Parsons gets a little too cute, such as having Doc be literally haunted by his past via &quot;Dead Earl&quot;, a former associate or working in a glimpse of wild camels in the desert (another Civil War era legacy), or bones in the prison basement. It's a very strong portrait of the prison system and life in and out of it, but its a familiar one without any new insights.	2004-04-11
712744:US	52254603	R18NRZLW6RZDHB	0375704019	749604254	A Long Finish	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Didn't Grab Me	Didbin's series about Italian police detective Aurelio Zen has been popular for a number of years, but this sixth entry is the first I've read. At its start, we gather that Zen has been through quite a bit in his last adventure, and as a reward, is to be posted to the dangerous Mafia enclave of Sicily (Which, by the way, is the setting for Andrea Camilleri's fun Inspector Montalbano series). Zen is not at all pleased by the prospect, and is thus pleased when a prominent film director pulls some strings to have him assigned to a case in the wine making area of the Piedmont.<br />There, the son of a prominent vintner sits in jail, chief suspect in the gruesome murder of his father. The director is emphatic that the son must be cleared so that a favorable vintage may be harvested and bottled. Under these rather ludicrous marching orders, Zen heads north to Asti, where truffles known as &quot;white diamonds&quot; and wine are the all-consuming topics of local interest and key to the vintner's murder and the intrigue surrounding it. Not surprisingly, there's a deeply tangled web of connections and interests in this insular community dating back to World War II, and Zen struggles to unravel the threads of the past. Not that he's super-motivated&oacute;upon his arrival, he's crippled by a nasty illness and a bout of mysterious sleepwalking. He tends to mostly exhibit a detached vibe to the whole proceedings until it starts to turn into an intellectual puzzle for him.<br />Zen seems like an interesting character, but I was never really drawn into this story. Perhaps the setup was just too contrived, or the whole puzzle just too Byzantine, or my lack of knowledge of or interest in wine making undermined the premise, or perhaps it was a lack of interesting characters. The only really vibrant supporting character was a rich local doctor with an arid sense of humor and utter disregard for propriety. Otherwise, the locals tended to blend together into a lumpy mass of suspicion and crustiness. Things aren't improved by an awkward subplot involving a woman who claims to be Zen's daughter. On the whole, it wasn't enough to drive me to the rest of the series, although I can see how others with different taste might be enchanted.ustiness. Things aren't improved by an awkward subplot involving a woman who claims to be Zen's daughter. On the whole, it wasn't enough to drive me to the rest of the series, although I can see how others with different taste might be enchanted.	2004-04-10
712981:US	52254603	R71IFP16YG8N	037541472X	223782356	The Small Boat of Great Sorrows	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Sequel is Solid, if Somewhat Less Distinctive	This sequel to Fesperman's excellent award-winning debut (Lie in the Dark) picks up Vlado Petric's story five years later, in 1998. We find the former Bosnian policeman in Berlin, where he was reunited with his wife and daughter, and has been working menial construction jobs. In a somewhat heavy-handed prologue, Vlado and his Polish construction mate unearth an old Nazi bunker while digging a trench. This serves notice to the reader that even as the foundation for a new Europe is being laid, the ugly past is always lurking just below the surface. Get it? In a more affecting early part of the story, we learn that Vlado's reuniting with his family (following the events of Lie in the Dark) was not quite the stuff of fairy tales. This ties in to a subplot in which he becomes entangled with a pair of fellow countrymen who swear to have seen a war criminal nearby. This leads him down an unlikely and unnecessary subplot, which links all too conveniently to the main story.<br />Things really gets going when an American lawyer working for the International War Crimes Tribunal offers Vlado a job as part of a team trying to capture a Croatian war criminal from World War II. This is all part of another unlikely and overly complicated scheme to swap him to the French if they arrest a Serbian war criminal from the more recent fighting. The carrot of a visit home and a possible job are dangled in front of him, and of course he accepts. The trip to Bosnia becomes wildly complicated and dangerous, unfortunately, the pitfalls are obvious to the reader well ahead of Vlado and his handler. The story continues in Rome, and veers into even more wild territory, as dark secrets from WWII hold the power to do significant harm even now. Fesperman's plotting draws upon various real events (the theft of gold from the Croatian treasury, the involvement of Catholic priests in helping war criminals gain new identities, etc.), but it rarely feels plausible.<br />Fesperman's strength lies in depicting modern Bosnia and the effects of the war upon its people. The book is at its most effective when focusing on Vlado and his family's life as refugees in Germany, or in showing Sarajevo recovering from the war. Unfortunately, most of the book deals in the past and ends up feeling like a Ken Follett or Robert Ludlum thriller. It's not bad, just not as distinctive as Lie in the Dark, but I'll definitely read the next installment in Vlado's story.cting modern Bosnia and the effects of the war upon its people. The book is at its most effective when focusing on Vlado and his family's life as refugees in Germany, or in showing Sarajevo recovering from the war. Unfortunately, most of the book deals in the past and ends up feeling like a Ken Follett or Robert Ludlum thriller. It's not bad, just not as distinctive as Lie in the Dark, but I'll definitely read the next installment in Vlado's story.	2004-04-10
727317:US	52254603	R12ILGLB3PFZC	1557046271	341746327	Schindler's List: Images of the Steven Spielberg Film	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Nicely Produced Gift Book	If you're a big fan of the Speilberg film, this is a nice, pocket-sized, hardcover gift book. Measuring about 5&quot; x 7.5&quot;, the 80 pages are mostly devoted to David James' excellent black and white still photos taken during production. A suitably earnest three page introduction by Speilberg seeks to remind us of the continuing relevance of the Holocaust and Schindler's story. Tacked on the end are five pages of production notes (these are &quot;story&quot; of the production, and are issued as part of the general press kit when a film is released). Released to coincide with the ten-year anniversary of the film's release, James' photos are very good, and quite evocative (even though it's only a movie!).	2004-03-29
736004:US	52254603	R165XH6MGI5U84	0195168445	166721594	The Mayor of Casterbridge (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Tragedy? More Like Melodrama!	When it comes to &quot;classics&quot; of Victorian literature, this is certainly much more readable than most, and while it presents some memorable characters, and plenty of themes worthy of high-school English essays, it's hard to take it very seriously in many ways. Like many novels of the era, Hardy's was first published in a serial format in an illustrated magazine (The Graphic), and then collected as a book. This, no doubt, accounts for why so many chapters end with a spectacular revelation or plot twist. It also explains why it often comes across as little more than a literate soap opera, chock to the brim with misunderstandings, coincidences, and the mighty hand of fate. Indeed, while many seem content to classify it as a tear-inducing tragedy, I found it to be far too calculated and melodramatic to truly qualify as tragedy.<br />There is no doubt that the prologue chapter is a masterpiece: a poor family traveling through rural Wessex stops for dinner at a small hamlet. There, young husband and father Michael Henchard gets drunk on rum and grows belligerent, eventually going so far as to sell his wife and child to a passing sailor. The next chapter leaps ahead almost twenty years, where we find that Henchard has pulled himself together to become a repentant and prosperous hay merchant and mayor. He hires a passing Scotsman to become his right-hand man-just the first of several characters that will come to the small town of Casterbridge and bring change. Soon, as in a good film noir, Henchard's past misdeeds come back to disrupt his position.<br />Henchard is certainly one of the great flawed characters of literature, given to fiery bursts of temper and bullheadedness, but also surprising moments of compassion, and a running penchant for being his own harshest critic. He does much throughout the story that is is to be condemned, and yet he remains a sympathetic and pathetic characters, one never able to escape his nature. Some have compared his relationship to the Scotsman as that of Saul to David, but this is a facile parallel that only works in the broadest sense. It's more satisfying to view Henchard as representing the early Romantic era of Victorianism, with the emphasis on brute force, emotion, and becoming self-made through hard work-in contrast to the Scotsman, who represents the coming Industrial era, with the emphasis on intellect and ingenuity.<br />So, there's clearly plenty food for thought in the book, but that doesn't change the fact that it's built on the wildest coincidences, contrivances, and misunderstandings. The other major flaw in the book is the women, who are passive tokens with zero depth. They exist in the book as objects whose possession represents triumph or failure, but rarely engineer their own fate. While this is certainly in keeping with the position of women at the time, it gets old quick when read from the mode. All in all, it sounds like the most accessible of Hardy's work, and even the most impatient reader is unlikely to get bogged down. For those who still can't be bothered, there was a nice adaptation for British TV that came out in 2003 and a silent version that was done back in 1922.the Scotsman as that of Saul to David, but this is a facile parallel that only works in the broadest sense. It's more satisfying to view Henchard as representing the early Romantic era of Victorianism, with the emphasis on brute force, emotion, and becoming self-made through hard work-in contrast to the Scotsman, who represents the coming Industrial era, with the emphasis on intellect and ingenuity. <br />So, there's clearly plenty food for thought in the book, but that doesn't change the fact that it's built on the wildest coincidences, contrivances, and misunderstandings. The other major flaw in the book is the women, who are passive tokens with zero depth. They exist in the book as objects whose possession represents triumph or failure, but rarely engineer their own fate. While this is certainly in keeping with the position of women at the time, it gets old quick when read from the mode. All in all, it sounds like the most accessible of Hardy's work, and even the most impatient reader is unlikely to get bogged down. For those who still can't be bothered, there was a nice adaptation for British TV that came out in 2003 and a silent version that was done back in 1922.	2004-03-22
736790:US	52254603	RG13FBRST1P75	0060510862	223407615	Forever War, The	Books	4	15	18	N	N	A Solid Product of its Time	This slim military sci-fi novel won both a Hugo and Nebula awards following its publication in 1975, but readers today probably need a little context to understand why it was so well-received at the time. First and foremost, it was written as a direct response to the Vietnam War by Haldeman, who served a tour of duty there as a combat engineer and was severely wounded (he's also written several Vietnam-specific novels, including War Year and 1968). In the book, a young physics student named Mandella is drafted for a war against a mysterious alien race. We follow him through complicated and dangerous training, several violent battles, and his return home. Not surprisingly, Haldeman's portrayal of war is a brutal and messy picture, where long periods of boredom are followed by intense battles, death is arbitrary, and heroism nonexistent. Also not surprisingly, the war is revealed to be a misguided endeavor brought on by hawkish political leaders who lie to the public about the war. Needless to say, the public climate of the time was very receptive to such sentiments.<br />The other main noteworthy element of the book is the treatment of interstellar travel, and the distortion of time that results. After his first battle, Mandella returns to Earth to find his loved ones aged 27 years and society largely antiseptic. Just as many Vietnam vets had a difficult time returning home, he and many of his cohort can't handle life of Earth, and re-enlist. The book continues with Mandella shuttling from battle to battle, rising rapidly in seniority as hundreds of subjective years pass to his own few. Haldeman is a physicist, and there's a lot of scientific jargon about relativity theory to explain everything, and for the time, it was pretty exciting stuff for sci-fi readers. However, I found those passages nearly incomprehensible and the need to explain things definitely bogs down the narrative at times. These leaps through time allow Haldeman to do some interesting speculation about the evolution of humanity, as he touches upon cloning, sexuality, and genetics. The emphasis, though, is on Mandella and his personal quest to just survive. This is solid work, with generally good pacing, and a very overt antiwar message that is the product of its times.out the evolution of humanity, as he touches upon cloning, sexuality, and genetics. The emphasis, though, is on Mandella and his personal quest to just survive. This is solid work, with generally good pacing, and a very overt antiwar message that is the product of its times.	2004-03-22
739253:US	52254603	R3T78G99ICMP61	1568582064	431043839	Sad Bastard	Books	2	0	1	N	N	Nowhere Man	This book picks up the story of middle-aged Dublin policeman Pay Coyne, who was introduced in Hamilton's book Headbanger. In that earlier tale, Coyne turned from a misunderstood family man into a one man crimebuster, a la Dirty Harry. This book finds him separated from his new-age healer wife, and living in a dingy apartment, wrestling with depression and what sounds like post-traumatic stress following his disability after a quixotic attempt to rescue someone from a fire. Much of his time is spent staring into beers down at a dockside pub, one of the few places he can stand to be around other people. That's where a meager plot develops, revolving around a local thug's scheme of smuggling Eastern Europeans into the country illegally in a fishing vessel. This leads to a murder, a bag of missing cash, and trouble for Cone's wild teenage son. Meanwhile, as in Headbanger, he discovers a young woman who needs protecting-here an inept Romanian shoplifter. None of this is particularly gripping, however. It feels somewhat forced, as if Hamilton knew he needed to have some kind of story to keep readers interested. 'Cause the emphasis seems to be on Coyne's disgust with modern Ireland, as he rants over and over about how awful it all is. He takes on somewhat of the air of a mad prophet in all this, lurching around town, pining for his wife and family. While it's not your average picture of Dublin, it's not a very compelling read either.	2004-03-19
742009:US	52254603	R3MNVBGJ3YNS8G	185242608X	111784503	Hero of the Underworld	Books	3	1	1	N	N	So-So Surreal Debut	This surreal novel marks the fiction debut of Boyle, a former Glasgow gangster who served 15 years for murder, and has since reinvented himself as a successful sculptor and prisoner's rights activist. The author of two well-received memoirs of prison life (A Sense of Freedom and The Pain of Confinement), here tells the story of Hero, an inmate at &quot;The Institution&quot;. Following his mother's suicide and his father's imprisonment, Hero is sent to a series of ever-rougher borstals, where he is abused. This abuse gets even worse at &quot;The Institution&quot;, a kind of &quot;One Flew Over the Cukoo's Nest&quot; type place, where he ends up in solitary confinement for eleven years.<br />Inexplicably released, he finds himself on parole in a confusing new world, trapped in a job and living situation set up as a condition of release. In interview, Boyle has explained that he wrote the novel after witnessing how ex-cons are systematically exploited upon their release by those with the power to revoke their parole. Hero's shares a job in an abattoir and apartment in a slum with another ex-inmate, Bonecrusher, who was given a lobotomy. They are eventually joined by another ex-inmate, Sligo, and makes friend with the beautiful prostitute who lives upstairs. As they all get more accustomed to life on the outside, they start to chafe at the situation their trapped in, leading them to strike small blows for freedom. This segues into a heist plan that will not only allow them to escape their situation, but wreak revenge on their main tormentors.<br />This all happens in a kind of surreal unnamed setting-it could be a real city and real people, but anyone who reads it as that is likely to find it ridiculous and/or disappointing. It's more of a stylized arena, in which the ex-inmates are pitted against their evil oppressors and police who couldn't care less. This is one the weaknesses of the book, the characters are all rather thinly drawn, and in pure black and white tones. People are either good or bad, which sort of works within this bizarre setting, but doesn't make for particularly deep reading. Hero and his pals have either been wronged or misunderstood, and everyone's out to keep them down. I guess it's worth a look if you're really into black humor, but there's not a whole lot of meat on the bones in the end. The book concludes with a particularly preachy episode, in which the book's &quot;break the cycle of violence&quot; message is literally spelled out for the reader: &quot;In the end, we decided no to behave like our tornmentors.... the ultimate revenge lies in making the positive decision.&quot;. People are either good or bad, which sort of works within this bizarre setting, but doesn't make for particularly deep reading. Hero and his pals have either been wronged or misunderstood, and everyone's out to keep them down. I guess it's worth a look if you're really into black humor, but there's not a whole lot of meat on the bones in the end. The book concludes with a particularly preachy episode, in which the book's &quot;break the cycle of violence&quot; message is literally spelled out for the reader: &quot;In the end, we decided no to behave like our tornmentors.... the ultimate revenge lies in making the positive decision.&quot;	2004-03-17
742991:US	52254603	R3AOG78NV7VL33	0345457684	556713066	Altered Carbon (Takeshi Kovacs)	Books	5	176	183	N	N	Excellent Cyber Pulp Debut	Ever since I saw Blade Runner as a kid, I've been in love with the idea of blending science-fiction with crime, and this is a totally compelling mix of the two. Set about 500 years in the future, the story follows Takeshi Kovacs, a former space marine who has been &quot;resleeved&quot; to investigate a suicide on Earth. You see, in the future, one's mind or consciousness can be digitized and stored in &quot;stacks&quot; implanted in the base of your skull. If you commit a crime, your stack is removed and placed in storage for the duration of your sentence (usually decades or centuries), and then you are &quot;resleeved&quot; in a new body. Of course, resleeving costs, and for many people, a new body is like a new car or new house, with monthly payments to keep up lest your body get repossessed...<br />The flip side of this is that dying is only a temporary thing-unless your stack has been somehow destroyed and there's no backup, then you're subject to &quot;RD&quot; (real death). And if you've got enough money to get into cloning and data storage, one can live a virtually endless and seamless life. It's one of these &quot;Meths&quot; (after Methuselah, just one example of the excellent creation of slang in the book), who has Takeshi remanded and &quot;needlecast&quot; (digitally freighted) from offworld to investigate his alleged suicide in Bay City (aka San Francisco). Takeshi had been in prison, having been captured as a mercenary in a vibrantly kinetic prologue.<br />The meth, Bancroft, is one of the future elite, weaving elaborate corporate and political webs with others of his kind. Apparently he committed suicide a few weeks ago, but he's convinced it was murder. He's paid heftily to have Kovacs released and resleeved to investigate his death and what happened in the 48 hours leading up to it-48 hours that elapsed between his last stack backup and his temporary death. This is a great setup, as we have a reluctant protagonist grudgingly working on a case for a sinister Bancroft, quickly getting caught up with Bay City PD, Bancroft's hyper-sexy wife, and all kinds of foes.<br />It's an extremely convoluted tale, with lots of double-crossing, plot twists, hidden agendas, sexual tension (and outright graphic sex), dry tough guy humor, and excellent action sequences. It's so jam-packed it almost gets overwhelming at times, and one wishes Morgan had been able to trim just a little bit here and there. However, he's built a very intriguing and nasty future earth, where-as one might well imagine-a lot of the technology gets channeled into the sex trade. This is great pulp fiction, with great characters, including my favorite: the AI Hendrix Hotel. It's a hotel that runs itself using artificial intelligence, making for a hilarious, yet plausible, character. This is a great genre-blending debut, let's hope the sequel (Broken Angels) is as good.sinister Bancroft, quickly getting caught up with Bay City PD, Bancroft's hyper-sexy wife, and all kinds of foes.<br />It's an extremely convoluted tale, with lots of double-crossing, plot twists, hidden agendas, sexual tension (and outright graphic sex), dry tough guy humor, and excellent action sequences. It's so jam-packed it almost gets overwhelming at times, and one wishes Morgan had been able to trim just a little bit here and there. However, he's built a very intriguing and nasty future earth, where-as one might well imagine-a lot of the technology gets channeled into the sex trade. This is great pulp fiction, with great characters, including my favorite: the AI Hendrix Hotel. It's a hotel that runs itself using artificial intelligence, making for a hilarious, yet plausible, character. This is a great genre-blending debut, let's hope the sequel (Broken Angels) is as good.	2004-03-17
743039:US	52254603	R3QBYM17DJA4EU	0452283949	363957495	Lucky Wander Boy	Books	3	9	14	N	N	Riffing on the Meaning of Life--Gen X Style	This occasionally clever debut is yet another riff on familiar material: Gen-X angst, the go-go years of the dot.economy, and the Search For Meaning-with the hook of &quot;classic&quot; arcade games to give it a little zest. The protagonist is Adam Pennyman, a cynically intelligent, average looking, slackeresque, 20-something guy, who we first meet in Poland, where he works for an American video production company. A coworker there introduces him to the MAME (Multiple Arcade Machine Emulator) program, which allows him to rediscover and play all the classic video games of his youth for free. Soon thereafter, he returns from Poland with a stunning girlfriend and sets up in LA as a lowly copywriter for a production company touting their synergies as a lure for venture capital money.<br />As he settles into this vapid job, Pennyman's obsession with the arcade games of his youth grows, leading him to start writing a book called &quot;The Catalogue of Obsolete Entertainments&quot;. Sections from it are the most entertaining portions of the book, as Weiss skillfully creates psuedo-intellectual analyses and decodings of &quot;meaning&quot; hidden in these old games. Pennyman's entries show that he views these old games, such as Pac-Man and Frogger, as emblematic of a purer, more innocent time. While the classic games represented an abstract philosophical world, contemporary video games strive for realism, leaving nothing to the imagination. All of this is emblematic to Pennyman of the ugliness of the cultural landscape at the end of the millennium.<br />For the first half of the book, Pennyman is a reasonably sympathetic schmuck. But over time, his tendency to whine and rail against authority, combined with laziness, selfishness, judging, and dogmatism grows increasingly unpleasant. Paralleling this, his obsession starts focusing more and more on an obscure game called Lucky Wander Boy, which he played briefly as a youth before it disappeared. The descriptions of the game are awfully fascinating, as it features an incredibly simple first level, an incredibly surreal second level with seemingly no purpose or end, and a third level which no one ever seems to have reached. It quickly becomes apparent that the novel is more or less structured as the game is, growing more and more abstract, and in part/level three, the ending presents itself in four iterations, all named &quot;Replay&quot;. On the whole, the book is more entertaining for style than substance. Weiss's writing is sharp and snappy, but he doesn't have a whole lot new to say about disaffected obsessives, and dotcom's have already been satirized to death much more effectively than here. The video game hook is the one thing it's got going for it, but honestly, unless you also grew up in arcades and trying to master the Intellevision disc controllers, it's unlikely to resonate very deeply at all.re awfully fascinating, as it features an incredibly simple first level, an incredibly surreal second level with seemingly no purpose or end, and a third level which no one ever seems to have reached. It quickly becomes apparent that the novel is more or less structured as the game is, growing more and more abstract, and in part/level three, the ending presents itself in four iterations, all named &quot;Replay&quot;. On the whole, the book is more entertaining for style than substance. Weiss's writing is sharp and snappy, but he doesn't have a whole lot new to say about disaffected obsessives, and dotcom's have already been satirized to death much more effectively than here. The video game hook is the one thing it's got going for it, but honestly, unless you also grew up in arcades and trying to master the Intellevision disc controllers, it's unlikely to resonate very deeply at all.	2004-03-17
749073:US	52254603	RYER5QOPTCKNT	1559706414	833056764	In Search of King Solomon's Mines	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Romantic Explorers Still Exist	Although Shah starts his book in old Jerusalem, where he purchases a dubious treasure map off the wall of an even more dubious shop named Ali Baba's Bazaar, this is actually an excellent travel book about modern Ethiopia. Apparently Shah's grandfather and father both harbored obsessions about locating the source of the gold King Solomon used for his great temple in Jerusalem. This obsession was passed down to the intrepid Tahir, who embarks on his own quest to find the ancient gold mines. Shah is not hoping to cash in (he swears an oath not to harvest gold), rather, the trip is another of his retro-adventures (cf. The Sorcerer's Apprentice and Trail of Feathers) in the style of Victorian-era explorer/romantic adventurers like Richard Burton.<br />According to the ancient sources, Solomon's gold was brought to him by the Queen of Sheba from the land of Ophir. Shah briefly outlines a geographical and etymological case for Ophir being located in present day Ethiopia, and organizes himself to visit this country largely known in the West for its poverty and famines. Armed with a trunk of books and articles (and far too much equipment), he arrives and promptly hires his taxi driver Samson to be interpreter, guide, and all around fixer. Samson is an extremely devout Christian and a reluctant guide throughout the trip, but the money is a boon to his precarious existence. Together, they set out by train and bus to visit a a series of potential locations Tahir has marked out. After a great deal of hardship in getting to the first site, they return to Addis Ababa and hire a driver-even though Ethiopian roads sound as bad as any I've read about. This is Bahra, a qat-addicted Somali cardsharp who likes to break up the tedium with deliberate roadkill. One of my favorite moments in the book is when, near the end of the journey, he simply stops in the middle of nowhere and declares that his luck has run out and he won't drive any more.<br />What emerges from Shah's trip is a land far more naturally varied and lush than the typical perception of Ethiopia-though desperately poor. Although there are numerous places where gold is so near the surface that impromptu (and illegal) mining communities spring up to pan for gold and dig tiny tunnels to extract it, the avenues for selling it are such that wealth-as in much of the third world-is highly concentrated at the top. The depiction of one such camp, where even the suspicion that one has found a nugget of gold and swallowed can result in your throat getting slit and your entrails opened up for inspection, is terrifying. Of course, the only thing more desirable than gold is getting to America, and at one point Shah is called upon to give a seminar to several hundred miners on the best way to cross the American border.<br />Although the focus is obviously on the gold, Shah always has his eyes open for a good story. He visits ancient churches hewn from the rock, hangs out with a &quot;hyena&quot; man whose designated task is to feed hyenas at night so they don't steal children from the town (hyenas are said to be the guardians of Solomon's secret mines), consults with the guru of a Rastafarian sect, travels across desert with a salt caravan, debunks a traveling miracle worker, and sit in many a seedy roadside bar with the ubiquitous prostitutes. Shah details everything with crisp writing and many a well-turned phrase (one of my favorites is &quot;To most Ethiopians, the idea of a hotel without prostitutes is a bad joke.&quot;) that act as nice counterpoints to the hardship and struggle he witnesses. The book is bound together with a spirit of adventure rare in modern travel books, and despite a rather rushed and unsatisfactory end, is valuable reading for anyone interested in modern Africa.ar more naturally varied and lush than the typical perception of Ethiopia-though desperately poor. Although there are numerous places where gold is so near the surface that impromptu (and illegal) mining communities spring up to pan for gold and dig tiny tunnels to extract it, the avenues for selling it are such that wealth-as in much of the third world-is highly concentrated at the top. The depiction of one such camp, where even the suspicion that one has found a nugget of gold and swallowed can result in your throat getting slit and your entrails opened up for inspection, is terrifying. Of course, the only thing more desirable than gold is getting to America, and at one point Shah is called upon to give a seminar to several hundred miners on the best way to cross the American border. <br />Although the focus is obviously on the gold, Shah always has his eyes open for a good story. He visits ancient churches hewn from the rock, hangs out with a &quot;hyena&quot; man whose designated task is to feed hyenas at night so they don't steal children from the town (hyenas are said to be the guardians of Solomon's secret mines), consults with the guru of a Rastafarian sect, travels across desert with a salt caravan, debunks a traveling miracle worker, and sit in many a seedy roadside bar with the ubiquitous prostitutes. Shah details everything with crisp writing and many a well-turned phrase (one of my favorites is &quot;To most Ethiopians, the idea of a hotel without prostitutes is a bad joke.&quot;) that act as nice counterpoints to the hardship and struggle he witnesses. The book is bound together with a spirit of adventure rare in modern travel books, and despite a rather rushed and unsatisfactory end, is valuable reading for anyone interested in modern Africa.	2004-03-12
749143:US	52254603	R2865UCI90G504	1843430444	475576302	He Who Fears the Wolf	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Too Much Coincidence, Not Enough Sejer	The latest Inspector Sejer novel to appear in English is just as suspenseful and moody as Don't Look Back, and yet isn't as strong. One reason for this is the relative absence of Det. Inspector Sejer and his junior partner, Skarre. The other reason is the the story is built upon the concordance of three disturbed minds and series of coincidences. It's a testament to Fossum's skill as a writer (not to mention Felicity David's translation) that the book is as gripping as it is.<br />The story starts off with the escape from an psychiatric asylum of Errki, a strange young man haunted by inner demons. He disappears into sparsely populated woods and is next seen at an old widow's farmstead, around the time of her murder. The woman's body and Errki's presence at the scene is reported to the local police by Kannick, a fat youth on walkabout from a nearby home for troublesome boys, who was also there. Since Errki has a history of being at the scenes of fatal accidents, he is the primary suspect for the killing. The following morning, a bank is robbed in town, and the robber and hostage disappear.<br />Much of the book is spent on the strange relationship between the robber and his hostage, who coincidentally turns out to be Errki (this is revealed right away to the reader). The gunman is kind of dim, and a bit of an amateur, and as they hike through the woods to escape the police dragnet, he grows increasingly pathetic. Meanwhile, Sejer and Skarre are running down leads on the widow's killing and working the bank robbery case, but they don't get nearly as many pages as might be desired-and are relegated to supporting cast status. When they are around, they're great, as Sejer struggles with his own widower status and a potential romantic interest emerges.<br />It's a little hard to critique the book further without revealing some of the further coincidences and how vital they are to the plot, so I'll leave it by noting that while Don't Look Back always felt real, this book requires much more suspension of disbelief. It's shame that Fossum decided to dovetail all the plotlines, although it's too her credit that it works as well as it does. I'll look forward to the next two Sejer books: When The Devil Holds the Candle, and Beloved Poona.equires much more suspension of disbelief. It's shame that Fossum decided to dovetail all the plotlines, although it's too her credit that it works as well as it does. I'll look forward to the next two Sejer books: When The Devil Holds the Candle, and Beloved Poona.	2004-03-12
766181:US	52254603	R3QO4AW3XS8RFV	0743211979	905959978	Lost White Tribes: The End of Privilege and the Last Colonials in Sri Lanka, Jamaica, Brazil, Haiti, Namibia, and Guadeloupe	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Lost Corners of History	The misleading subtitle of this book is a bit of a shame, and it's hard to imagine Italian journalist Orizio being very pleased with it. By positioning the contents in relation to colonialism, the subtitle overlooks the fact that at least three (more depending on interpretation) of the &quot;lost white tribes&quot; visited in the book have nothing to do with colonialism as the word is commonly used-in the imperial context. Unlike the bulk of books about colonialism, which tend to focus on history, politics, and economics, Orizio's six chapters are largely unrelated essays that merge travelogue with anthropology. His style-as in his previous book of essays on ex-dictators, Talk of the Devil-is to start the story by detailing his search for his subject matter. This may put off those looking for straight history, but the stories of traveling down dusty backroads to reach these &quot;lost white tribes&quot; set exactly the right context for their stories.<br />And once he finds his subjects, their stories are fascinating. Americans will probably find the chapter on Confederates in Brazil the most interesting. This tells of the thousands who fled the South after the Civil War, rejecting Reconstruction in favor of a new life in Brazil. Their stubborn &quot;rebel&quot; identity and annual carnival in full Confederate costume is rather bizarre. My own favorite chapter is about small pockets of Polish genes in Haiti. These are the descendants of soldiers sent by Napoleon to assist in quelling the rebellion of 1803. When the rebels led by Toussaint Louverture won, the remaining French were systematically killed but the Poles were spared, as their country was also under Napoleon's boot. Orizio also tracks down pockets of inbred French in Guadeloupe whose reasons for settling in remote parts of the island in the late 1700s are lost to history, the remnants of indentured German laborers imported to Jamaica in the 1830s, Boers who left South Africa and mixed with a local Namibian tribe to become the Basters in the late 1860s, and the remnants of Dutch colonial rule over Sri Lanka/Ceylon.<br />The communities share some characteristics: most are, if not desperately poor, living on an economic razor's edge. Almost all retain some disturbing notions about race and the superiority of their own genes compared to others in their country. The past is clung to in bizarre and fantastic ways, such as the French on Guadeloupe insisting on their connection to French royal blood, and the Haitian Poles waiting in vain for their Polish Pope to help them. They're pathetic figures in many cases, as they seem unable to break free of their tight communities in order to assimilate to any degree that may bring a better life. Of course, Orizio's journeys are to find those stuck in their ways, and it emerges in many cases that the best and brightest youths often don't stick around. His style is fairly conversational and choppy, and each chapter stands alone as its own essay since Orizio never attempts to make connections between any of the groups' experiences. This may be off-putting to some, but it never bothered me-just think of it as a series of related long magazine essays. An excellent glimpse into some of history's lost corners, and sure to be of interest to amateur anthropologists (a bibliography on each &quot;tribe&quot; would have been nice or those of us interested in further reading).n tribe to become the Basters in the late 1860s, and the remnants of Dutch colonial rule over Sri Lanka/Ceylon.<br />The communities share some characteristics: most are, if not desperately poor, living on an economic razor's edge. Almost all retain some disturbing notions about race and the superiority of their own genes compared to others in their country. The past is clung to in bizarre and fantastic ways, such as the French on Guadeloupe insisting on their connection to French royal blood, and the Haitian Poles waiting in vain for their Polish Pope to help them. They're pathetic figures in many cases, as they seem unable to break free of their tight communities in order to assimilate to any degree that may bring a better life. Of course, Orizio's journeys are to find those stuck in their ways, and it emerges in many cases that the best and brightest youths often don't stick around. His style is fairly conversational and choppy, and each chapter stands alone as its own essay since Orizio never attempts to make connections between any of the groups' experiences. This may be off-putting to some, but it never bothered me-just think of it as a series of related long magazine essays. An excellent glimpse into some of history's lost corners, and sure to be of interest to amateur anthropologists (a bibliography on each &quot;tribe&quot; would have been nice or those of us interested in further reading).	2004-02-28
768894:US	52254603	R2XCPJRDYQ7ZWG	0970355505	949477756	Electric Girl, Vol. 1	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Less Electric Girl, More Blammo!	This collection of the first four issues of the indie comic, Electric Girl, didn't do a whole lot for me. The premise is that there's a human girl born with a serious amount of electricity in her body, thanks to the wacky hi-jinks of a band of invisible gremlins. The first story shows her origins, and the rest show her as a teenager finishing high school and entering college. As she grows older, she seems to acquire a measure of control over her &quot;ability&quot; to zap things, but she still discharges spontaneously whenever she gets agitated. In any event, not a whole lot happens. She gets into random adventures and scrapes, and uses her power to try and fix things here and there. Her guardian gremlin Oogleeoog sometimes plays little pranks on her, and her dog Blammo is another catalyst for stories. Actually Blamo is the most engaging aspect of the whole series-while Brennan's rough drawing style crudely captures the humans and gremlins, when applied to Blammo's blocky canine form, the result is oddly compelling and engaging. Personally, I'd like to see Blammo ditch the twitchy girl and get his own book of adventures!	2004-02-26
769618:US	52254603	R1P9ECWZTQBIEC	0375703861	363806782	White Teeth: A Novel	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Grudging Respect	This massive first novel is both wildly ambitious and desperately in need of the hand of an assured editor. Smith certainly isn't afraid to stir such minor topics as race, colonialism, class, gender, culture, religion, fate, sexuality, history and science into her melting pot examination of identity, and as such, it's one of those books whose plot cannot be succinctly outlined. In the broadest possible terms, the book revolves around Archie and Samad, an Englishman and Bangladeshi respectively, who are in the same tank unit in World War II. After spending a goodly chunk of time on their wartime experience, the book covers both the next 45 years of their lives (lengthy stops are made in the late '60s, '70s, and '80s), and with the past (flashbacks are made to mid-19th century India and Jamaica). The true protagonists are Archie's daughter Irie, and Samad's twin sons, Millat and Majid. And the central theme of the book is their struggle for identity, which is sometimes unconscious and sometimes very purposeful.<br />One of the book's main flaws is that in addition to these five major characters, there are the mothers of each, and a veritable wagonload of important supporting characters, including a third family that appears well into the book. There's a lot of coming and going and coming, and on and on as characters assume central importance for ten pages, only to disappear for two-hundred. Smith is trying to weave a very complicated web (many critics call this aspect of the book &quot;Dickensian&quot;), but in doing so, the transitions become awfully jarring, and very often, annoying. A second major issue is that the characters are all types of one sort or another. Smith sets them in motion in order to comment on her grab-bag of issues, but never quite gives them enough individuality or humanity. The good thing is that she does manage to create a unique voice for each . Like Martin Amis, she's has an excellent ear for the rhythms of conversation and the specific vernaculars of both time and group. Similarly, she likes to play with language in a way that is both refreshing and assured.<br />On the whole, I liked this book-albeit grudgingly. Smith has taken a kind of &quot;throw everything except the kitchen sink at the wall and see what sticks&quot; approach, leaving no major issue unturned in her attempt to leave her mark on the reader. This means that a lot of the threads never lead anywhere, and thus the overall effect is not as strong as she might have intended. A good editor might have been able to pare some elements back a bit, allowing others to blossom more. Similarly, an editor ought to have helped with some of the many inaccuracies that crop up (two random examples: some of the portrayal of the Jehovah's Witnesses is factually incorrect, as are some of the details of Ryan's scooter). Still, as a portrait of multicultural London over the years and how the concept of &quot;being British&quot; has evolved in that time, it works quite well. And its questions about identity and belonging are applicable to immigrants coming to any Western country. The book was made into a 4-hour BBC miniseries, which has still never been released on video.aculars of both time and group. Similarly, she likes to play with language in a way that is both refreshing and assured.<br />On the whole, I liked this book-albeit grudgingly. Smith has taken a kind of &quot;throw everything except the kitchen sink at the wall and see what sticks&quot; approach, leaving no major issue unturned in her attempt to leave her mark on the reader. This means that a lot of the threads never lead anywhere, and thus the overall effect is not as strong as she might have intended. A good editor might have been able to pare some elements back a bit, allowing others to blossom more. Similarly, an editor ought to have helped with some of the many inaccuracies that crop up (two random examples: some of the portrayal of the Jehovah's Witnesses is factually incorrect, as are some of the details of Ryan's scooter). Still, as a portrait of multicultural London over the years and how the concept of &quot;being British&quot; has evolved in that time, it works quite well. And its questions about identity and belonging are applicable to immigrants coming to any Western country. The book was made into a 4-hour BBC miniseries, which has still never been released on video.	2004-02-26
772295:US	52254603	R2CF8U7KURSPUA	038572179X	977000479	Atonement: A Novel	Books	2	106	134	N	N	Apparently I Read this the &quot;Wrong&quot; Way...	This is yet another one of those prize-winning novels selected for discussion by my book group that I probably wouldn't have read on my own (cf. Soul Mountain, Possession, et al). And once again, I fail to be entranced by what seems to drive everyone else bonkers with reading delight. The caveat to this is that it turns out that I read the book with a very different perspective from my fellow book group members. You see, there's a bit of authorial slight of hand at work, and if you notice what's going on, everything in the book takes on a different shade altogether. Now, I wasn't actively looking for any such thing, but I picked up on a few clues (maybe 'cause I read a lot of detective stories?) and made a few assumptions, which ended up being correct in the end. This is in contrast to the seven other people I discussed the book with, who were floored (and delighted) by a revelation made about 2/3 of the way into it.<br />In any event, the story starts in mid-1930s England in the home of a wealthy landed family. The first third slowly sets up a scenario of the prodigal son returning for the weekend. This is a very controlled and precisely structured bit of very old-fashioned writing which feels highly artificial until the weekend starts to unravel when a crude love note gets into the wrong hands. Emotions start to run high and then a terrible crime is committed, creating a moral ambiguity that the rest of the novel revolves around. In the next section we meet one of the characters in the fields of France several years later, as he struggles with two other soldiers to make it to Dunkirk for the great evacuation. This slender section is quite evocative and quite different from those bookending it. The third section takes the reader back across the channel to Blitz-era London, where several other characters from the country weekend train to be nurses. However, amidst all the action (such as it is), the characters all exist in the shadow of that awful weekend, and operate in service of the much larger theme named by the title.<br />This central question is posed by one the characters: &quot;How can a novelist achieve atonement when, with her absolute power of deciding outcomes, she is also God?&quot; Well, this is the point at which you will either laud McEwan for cleverness and precision of plotting that reveal layers within the story, or you will sigh at McEwan for playing too many games with his work in an attempt to present Deep Thoughts. While I can admire McEwan's precise control of style and voice, which he maintains throughout, and the elaborate construction of layers to the book, I certainly wasn't entranced by the central theme or how it propelled the interaction between characters. Perhaps had I read the story without &quot;getting&quot; what McEwan was up to from the start, I would have enjoyed it more, but I didn't. It doesn't help matters that the characters mostly remain period ciphers of the repressed variety, the kind that the comedian Eddie Izzard is so good at spoofing. Finally, the pace... is... glacial-one of the slowest books to unravel I've ever read. All in all, not a book I'd recommend to friends.te in service of the much larger theme named by the title.<br />This central question is posed by one the characters: &quot;How can a novelist achieve atonement when, with her absolute power of deciding outcomes, she is also God?&quot; Well, this is the point at which you will either laud McEwan for cleverness and precision of plotting that reveal layers within the story, or you will sigh at McEwan for playing too many games with his work in an attempt to present Deep Thoughts. While I can admire McEwan's precise control of style and voice, which he maintains throughout, and the elaborate construction of layers to the book, I certainly wasn't entranced by the central theme or how it propelled the interaction between characters. Perhaps had I read the story without &quot;getting&quot; what McEwan was up to from the start, I would have enjoyed it more, but I didn't. It doesn't help matters that the characters mostly remain period ciphers of the repressed variety, the kind that the comedian Eddie Izzard is so good at spoofing. Finally, the pace... is... glacial-one of the slowest books to unravel I've ever read. All in all, not a book I'd recommend to friends.	2004-02-24
772791:US	52254603	RN49AZVQ8N3QP	189934473X	679616105	Split (A Simon Abelard Mystery)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Ho Hum Spy Novel	Post cold-war spy novels have all been grappling with the fundamental &quot;what now?&quot; question that arose following the collapse of the Soviet Union. This first of a new series is very much part of that stocktaking, as a British intelligence agent is sent to track down a former colleague who's gone rogue. Simon Abelard is a mixed-race Welshman from Cardiff's mean Tiger Bay streets, and the token darkie in his section. His colleague Julian has been putting his covert skills to work for drug dealers, and has gone missing after diverting around $9 million into a Swiss bank account. James uses this plot to make heavy weather of how in the post-Cold War era, spies have nothing worthwhile to do and are thus more susceptible to the lures of the almighty dollar.<br />This is a somewhat shaky setup-spies have always been tempted by fiduciary inducements, and have always been liable to run their own games on the side. James doesn't present any new twists on this theme and without any new ideas to propel the narrative, it simply becomes a very elaborate game of who's conning who, as a bevy of Simon's higher-ups get involved in the case. Indeed, the majority of the suspense comes not from the chase for Julian, but from Simon's uncertainty as to who in the large cast of bizarre secret service muckity-mucks is corrupt and who the nasty men also after Julian are. Eventually, of course, a woman gets involved, only heightening the conventionality of the proceedings. Everyone speaks in code, doublespeak, and innuendo (except for Simon's delightfully straight-talking mother), but it rarely feels real or even probable. Fortunately, everything is laid out in a visceral style that really captures the grimy side-street hotels and cold-hearted sides of London and Paris. It's the kind of book that lets itself be read, but by the end one is left with a bit of a &quot;so what&quot; feeling. I'm very unlikely to read the sequel, A Man's Enemies.	2004-02-24
784484:US	52254603	R2PKE96GIW6IJ9	0224062255	567349690	Freshers	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Way it Was	After covering football hooligans (Awaydays), pop music (Powder), package tours (Leisure) and Liverpool criminals (Outlaws and Clubland) in previous books, Sampson turns his attention to the terrifying time of life known in the UK as &quot;Freshers Fortnight.&quot; In the US, this is called &quot;First Year Orientation&quot;-but whatever the name, it's a time of mighty highs and lows as hordes of teenagers leave home for their first year of college. The novel does a nice job of portraying the haphazard struggle to make friendships, forge identities, and survive homesickness that characterizes those first few months.<br />Set in Sheffield, the story is told through Kit Hannah, a cooler-than thou indie music maven who, behind a thin veil of cynicism and misanthropy, is not as different from his classmates as he thinks. He's quite the teen Holden Caufield, finding everyone phony, and distrusting friendliness. But it doesn't take much convincing for him to be sucked into the vortex of pubs, clubbing, dorm room spliffs, and deep meaningful talks that are the staple of college life everywhere. Soon, he's amassed a little circle of friends that will sustain and define his first year. The people that make up this supporting cast are all quite easy to imagine (the public school athletic type, the sexy older woman student, the sassy but undesirable galpal, the poseur tall-tale teller, the American uberfeminist, etc.), but a touch too melodramatic. Each one has some kind of hidden secret or quality that defines them, and eventually each will be revealed to Kit and the reader. Of course Kit has his own deep dark secret, and it's a pretty startling one that explains much of his problem with people.<br />The story is set entirely outside the classroom, taking place mostly after hours, as Kit struggles to make sense of his new life and what all these new people mean to him. As the story cascades through pubs, parties, restaurants, and dorm rooms, it's studded with plenty of comic moments, along with a number of those wince-inducing embarrassing scenes that are the staple of that first year of college. It's a never-pretentious, but occasionally soap-operaish trip back to that time when we all struggled desperately to stay true to ourselves and fit in enough to make friends and live happily. Admittedly, it very nearly goes over the top at times, but the incisive dissection of Kit's insecurities make it a memorable read.moments, along with a number of those wince-inducing embarrassing scenes that are the staple of that first year of college. It's a never-pretentious, but occasionally soap-operaish trip back to that time when we all struggled desperately to stay true to ourselves and fit in enough to make friends and live happily. Admittedly, it very nearly goes over the top at times, but the incisive dissection of Kit's insecurities make it a memorable read.	2004-02-15
784583:US	52254603	R17G68NQ4Q5WVB	0436206080	368403623	Berlin Blues	Books	2	5	14	N	N	Lost in Berlin	This strange little window into late '80s Berlin does its best to capture the mood of the times, but fails to deliver any kind of compelling narrative. The protagonist is Herr Lehmann, a nondescript guy turning 30 who has spent the last decade in Berlin's Kreuzberg district, after growing up in Bremen. He's pretty much a blank slate, all he does is work as a bartender and hang out with his best friend Karl. When other people ascribe hidden depths to him-most notably, a pretty chef who he starts dating-he's puzzled by this (as is the reader). Not much happens in the book: he gets into a fight with a drunk, his parents come for a weekend visit, his relationship with the chef runs its course, he keeps running into a strange dog, his friend Karl loses his marbles, and the Berlin Wall comes down. It may well be that there's symbolism in each of these events (especially the recurring dog) that would be apparent to someone more versed in German culture and history, but I certainly couldn't find any.<br />The style is fairly deadpan, with the story being told from within Herr Lehmann's head most of the time. The comedy and &quot;classic of modern day decadence&quot; advertised on the cover copy never materializes except in the thinnest form. The whole book is pervaded by a general sense of aimlessness and ennui that renders it rather listless. Maybe that's the whole point of it, but if so, it doesn't make for memorable reading. On the other hand, it was popular enough to have been made into a film in Germany, so there you are. First time novelist Regener is best known as the lead singer for the German rock band, Element of Crime, which has been around since the mid-'80s. That, in and of itself, might be some kind of indicator as to what to expect from the book, since anyone who names their band after a Lars von Trier film is probably not very interested in traditional narrative. Strictly for Berlinophiles.	2004-02-15
788005:US	52254603	R23QPH4EIADM79	0345462742	44171075	The Cutting Room	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Breezy Fun	This breezy thriller has all the ingredients to be a surefire success: a Hitchcockian everyman thrust into the role of detective, a beautiful foreign lass, a host of colorful supporting characters, a rapid-fire globetrotting pace that moves between New York, Hollywood, and Barcelona, and, of course, the MacGuffin. Which is not to suggest that this is a wonderful book. Rather, it is a good beach or airplane book, the perfect witty read for movie buffs who want to sit back and be entertained in print. Set in the world of film trivia mavens, the story concerns the search for a legendary unseen complete print of Orson Welles' film The Magnificent Ambersons. Roy is a movie nerd in his later 30s who is caught up in some very deadly business, as the story wends its way from the computer strewn bedroom of am internet rumormonger (a thinly veiled Harry Knowles of Ain't It Cool News fame) to the Hollywood Hills trysting pad of an action movie star (a thinly veiled Bruce Willis clone), and into the beds of several women. It's all put together in a very snappy, pulpy style, right down to the socks in the jaw, and the double-crossing dames. Just like a decent movie, the book will keep you cheerfully diverted for two hours and then fade quickly from memory.	2004-02-12
790285:US	52254603	R1RH1ZO2DD7V8C	1841952974	324088565	I'm Not Scared	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Adolescent Terror	Ammaniti's first book to appear in the U.S. takes the reader back 25 years to the summer of 1978, when a brutal heatwave swept Italy. Somewhere in the south, in the tiny village of Aqua Traverse, the handful of local children play soccer, set each other dares, and explore the surrounding fields and hills on their bikes. These latter two events lead nine-year-old Michele to creep though a scary abandoned house way up in the hills. There he makes a terrifying discovery that he will keep secret and will change his life. Not to spoil the surprise, but anyone familiar with the Italian political landscape of the late '70s will probably instantly work out what's going on. Michele, however, remains in the dark as he tries to figure out what the best course of action is. For the first part of the book, adults are largely absent-they &quot;stayed shut up indoors, like toads waiting for the heat to die down.&quot; Then, Michele's truck-driver father returns, and a sinister stranger with some kind of hold over the other men of the town comes to stay. The heavy atmosphere grows darker as the adults quarrel violently among themselves. Unlike the reader, Michele doesn't fully understand what the arguing is about, but his innocence is gradually stripped away as he visited by betrayal and moral dilemma.<br />The strongest element of the novel is Ammaniti's success at capturing the oppressiveness of the scorching summer, as well as the claustrophobic nature of the tiny town and all the pettiness it breeds. The life of an adolescent and Michele's confusion at how to deal with adults is also rendered fairly well. However, on the whole, the story feels very familiar. Similar themes are treated with greater skill and interest in works like Michael Frayn's novel Spies, Stephen King's short story &quot;The Body&quot; (filmed as Stand By Me), and Robert Louis Stevenson's classic Treasure Island. Here, everything ends in a melodramatic climax that is jarring and rather preposterious. The novel was recently made into a well received film in Italy called &quot;Lo No Ho Paura&quot;.el was recently made into a well received film in Italy called &quot;Lo No Ho Paura&quot;.	2004-02-11
790983:US	52254603	R3B1QK08M6BF2Q	155783508X	864452839	Schmucks with Underwoods: Conversations with America's Classic Screenwriters	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Tales of Yore...	Back in 1974, Wilk started work on this book, interviewing some of the big names in screenwriting from roughly the `30s-'50s while they were still alive. He talked to writers like Sidney Buchman, Edward Chodorov, R.C. Sherriff, Benn Levy, John Collier, Billy Wilder, Donald Ogden Sewart, Albert and Frances Hackett, Harold Bloom, and profiled others like Arthur Caesar, Ben Hecht, Preston Sturges, and Harry Kurnitz. These gathered dust on his shelves for over 25 years until he revisited them, added interviews with Edmund Hartmann and Evan Hunter, and tied them all together in this attempt to document screenwriting life under the studio system.<br />The results are a bit of a jumble, but well worth reading to gain a perspective on the history of the craft. For example, Chapter 2 provides an excellent overview of how, in the silent era, title writers could make or break a movie. Not only did they have to convey the action, setting, dialogue, and tone of a film, but they sometimes had to do so after the fact, making sure their lines would match the lip movements of the filmed characters! The examples Wilk gives of title-writer ingenuity are breathtaking, and one of the most desired was Ralph Spence, who, in 1925, could command $10,000 per film.<br />As sound came into the industry, writers faced even more bizarre challenges. For example it wasn't unusual for a writer be given a script full of description, including camera shots, with big blank spaces for him to simply \\"fill in\\" the dialogue. This evolved into a practice of pairing writers into teams, where one would be responsible for plotting and action, and the other for dialogue. Sometimes, writing teams produced brilliant work even though the partners couldn't stand each other. One such team was William Lipmann and Horace McCoy, who couldn't get a day's work individually, but were in heavy demand as a team. However their animosity grew to the point where one would work from 9am-5pm and leave, then the other would come in and pick up the script from there and work from 9pm-5am!<br />Just in case you think Hollywood is strange now, back then, the studio system produced a plethora of writing assignments that are difficult to imagine today. For example, sometimes a writer would be told to have a script ready in three weeks for particular group of three stars and a director. No plot, no idea, often not even a genre. Or even worse, just two stars and a title conjured up by a studio head. 1-2-3... write! Of course, many things are just as they always were. Consider the following from Benn Levy speaking of writing in the `30s, \\"Most scripts were written with fear and trepidation... Every line, every page, scrutinized... Every motivation questioned. All those arbitrary rules...\\"<br />This is a fine book to dip into, littered with anecdotes (like how Ben Hecht wrote Scarface in nine days for $1,000 a day), behind-the-scenes gossip (like how the Epstein brothers were discovered ghostwriting Living on Velvet for Jerry Wald and were hired by the studio), and advice from those who came (and excelled) before.<br />(This review originally appeared in Creative Screenwriting magazine)in and pick up the script from there and work from 9pm-5am!<BR>Just in case you think Hollywood is strange now, back then, the studio system produced a plethora of writing assignments that are difficult to imagine today. For example, sometimes a writer would be told to have a script ready in three weeks for particular group of three stars and a director. No plot, no idea, often not even a genre. Or even worse, just two stars and a title conjured up by a studio head. 1-2-3... write! Of course, many things are just as they always were. Consider the following from Benn Levy speaking of writing in the `30s, \\"Most scripts were written with fear and trepidation... Every line, every page, scrutinized... Every motivation questioned. All those arbitrary rules...\\"<br />This is a fine book to dip into, littered with anecdotes (like how Ben Hecht wrote Scarface in nine days for $1,000 a day), behind-the-scenes gossip (like how the Epstein brothers were discovered ghostwriting Living on Velvet for Jerry Wald and were hired by the studio), and advice from those who came (and excelled) before. <br />(This review originally appeared in Creative Screenwriting magazine)	2004-02-10
793159:US	52254603	R1MXVY0OE70G1K	0670032530	371149983	Siegfried	Books	2	7	9	N	N	Thin Gruel	Well regarded Dutch author Mulisch tosses his hat into the crowded ring of Hitler fiction with this brief novel pondering the notion of Hitler having sired a child by Eva Braun. The book's protagonist is Rudolf Herter, a renown Dutch author in Vienna for a reading at a prestigious cultural center (and, one suspects, a fictional stand-on for Mulisch himself). On this tour for his epic reinvention of Tristan and Isolde, Herter remarks on TV that the only way to truly understand Hitler would be to place him in some kind of fictional situation that would allow one to really get inside his head. Obviously this is a rather shaky premise, but without it there is no story.<br />It's already a third of the way into the book when an elderly couple approach Herter and claim to have been Hitler's personal servants at the Wolf's Lair. When he visits them the next day, they tell him an incredible story of how they came to be his servants and what befell them in their course of service. This middle third of the book is actually quite fascinating, painting a portrait of Hitler's mountain hideaway and inner circle that's quite personal and intriguing. Their story unfolds with great tension until it is revealed that they were enlisted to act our a role as<br />parents of the son born to Eva Braun on Kristallnacht.<br />After this stunning revelation (and one or two more besides), the author retreats to his hotel where he falls into a frenzy of philosophizing. At this point, the story comes off the rails, as Herter goes wild linking Hegel, Kierkegaard, Heidegger, Sartre, St. Augustine, Thomas Aquinas, St. Anselm, Wittgenstein, Plato, Kant, Schopenhauer, Pythagoras, the composer Wagner, and Nietzsche in numbing attempt to prove that Hitler was the &quot;incarnation of Nothingness, a zero; just as zero multiplied by any number is zero, [he] consumed and destroyed whatever he touched.&quot; All of which leads in turn to a bizarre linkage of the madness of Nietzsche coinciding with the birth of Hitler in some form of transfer of spirit. This hyper-intellectualism crossed with ghost story betrays the first two-thirds of the book and comes across as a bad highbrow stab at Stephen King. Altogether, a bit of a disappointment.h of Hitler in some form of transfer of spirit. This hyper-intellectualism crossed with ghost story betrays the first two-thirds of the book and comes across as a bad highbrow stab at Stephen King. Altogether, a bit of a disappointment.	2004-02-09
802683:US	52254603	R20Y83R6PU3BBU	0743406567	588083863	Fargo Rock City: A Heavy Metal Odyssey in Rural North Dakota	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Remember the '80s?	At the very end of his Midwestern memoir/history of hair metal Klosterman writes: &quot;Very often, I inexplicably embrace the same ideas I just finished railing against: Part of me wants to insist that heavy metal really _is_ stupid. I make fun of the same people who loved the bands I loved (and still do). Social pressure has made me cannibalize my own adolescent experience.&quot; This serves as a remarkably self-perceptive summation of the book, and highlights its main weakness. The book veers wildly from hyper-erudite wink-wink, nudge-nudge mockery of hair metal (Motley Crue, Def Leppard, Van Halen, Guns N' Roses, et al), to heartfelt declarations of its centrality of meaning to Klosterman during his teen years. The same tension pervades his next book (Sex, Drugs, and Cocoa Puffs), and it's a shame that just when it seems he's ready to fully commit to an idea, he spends the next several pages tearing it apart. This makes for often hilarious reading, but is also in a sense cowardly.<br />That said, it's a remarkably entertaining read, even for non-metal fans like me. It does help, however, to have grown up at the same time as him (graduating high school at the end of the '80s), and my reading was enhanced by memories of one of my closest friends having rather inexplicably been a hair metal fan at the time, right down to the Lita Ford and Skid Row albums. Right from the start, Klosterman links his heavy metal fandom to the utter boredom of his small-town surroundings (despite the book's title, Klosterman grew up in Wyndmere, ND and Fargo has pretty much nothing to do with the story). The fantasy lifestyles of hair metal bands were so far removed from rural life, and so predictably offensive to adult authority figures that there was a natural synergy with bored small town kids. This is hardly earth-shattering analysis, but Klosterman is presenting it from such a direct personal experience that it really resonates far more than any work of musicology or teen sociology could.<br />The book unravels chronologically, presenting a sort of haphazard history of '80s hair metal. All the bases are covered (from roots influences like Sabbath, Kiss, et al), to hilarious analyses of album covers, videos, and especially lyrics. There's a lot of time devoted to explaining why some bands were considered metal and some weren't (such as the whole question of whether keyboards are an acceptable instrument for a metal band), and why some were classified into subgenres, and what constituted authenticity-all highly reminiscent of my teenage years in the hardcore scene. There's the required list of favorite albums, presented with the twist of listing how many dollars one would have to pay Klosterman to never be able to listen to the album again. Naturally, he addresses the charges of Satanism and suicide advocacy that the mainstream leveled against heavy metal and-as many before him have-utterly demolishes the notion. His take of heavy metal's sexism is that to criticize it is to miss the whole point: it's supposed to be outrageously sexist and offensive. While that may be true, it's also a clever way of sidestepping the issue altogether.<br />One thing Klosterman does an excellent job of is reminding us (a scant 10-15 years later) how big metal was in the '80s, how bands like Def Leppard, Bon Jovi, and especially Guns N' Roses dominated the charts. He blames the genre's decline on the rise of the &quot;Seattle Sound&quot; and Kurt Cobain's appearance on Headbanger's Ball in particular. Intriguingly, he points out that Axl Rose loved Nirvana and wanted them to open on the Guns 'N Roses / Metallica tour. Throughout the book, the prose is liberally scattered with the pop culture references Klosterman is known for. The danger in this is that he occasionally misses something you would think he'd know (for example, I'm surprised that in his mention of Junkyard he didn't note that their guitarist was in the wildly influential DC hardcore group Minor Threat), and occasionally errs (his definition of straight-edge is inaccurate, which is disappointing from someone who makes a living showing off his pop culture chops). I'm sure metal fans could do a good job tearing the book to shreds, but for the rest of us, Klosterman's done a very credible job of showing why metal was such a big deal to so many people back in the '80s. For all the book's flaws, it's hard to imagine a more readable account of heavy metal.eat), and occasionally errs (his definition of straight-edge is inaccurate, which is disappointing from someone who makes a living showing off his pop culture chops). I'm sure metal fans could do a good job tearing the book to shreds, but for the rest of us, Klosterman's done a very credible job of showing why metal was such a big deal to so many people back in the '80s. For all the book's flaws, it's hard to imagine a more readable account of heavy metal.	2004-02-01
803568:US	52254603	R3E142G4NFELD2	0465016154	406165084	The Mystery of Capital: Why Capitalism Triumphs in the West and Fails Everywhere Else	Books	5	130	134	N	N	This Ain't Your Father's Economics!	In the past five years I've read a shade under a thousand books, and this is easily the most important of them. In it, Peruvian economist de Soto sets out to do nothing less than explain why capitalism has worked in the West and been more or less a total disaster in the Third World and former Communist states. This has long been a pivotal question for anyone interested in the world beyond their own back yard, and there have been plenty of attempts to explain it before (often in terms of history, geography, culture, race, etc.). However, de Soto's is the most compelling and logically argued answer I've come across. But it's not just me. I don't generally quote other reviews, but my general reaction echoes the most respected policy journals, newspapers, and magazines, who tend to repeat the same words in their reviews:&quot;revolutionary&quot;, &quot;provocative&quot;, &quot;extraordinary&quot;, &quot;convincing&quot;, &quot;stunning&quot;, &quot;powerful&quot;, &quot;thoughtful&quot;. Perhaps my favorite line comes from the Toronto Globe and Mail: &quot;De Soto demolishes the entire edifice of postwar development economics, and replaces it with the answers bright young people everywhere have been demanding.&quot; Of course readers (especially those on the left) will have to swallow a few basic premises from the very beginning, such as &quot;Capitalism stands alone as the only feasible way to rationally organize a modern economy&quot; and &quot;As all plausible alternatives to capitalism have now evaporated, we are finally in a position to study capital dispassionately and carefully.&quot; And most importantly, &quot;Capital is the force that raises the productivity of labor and creates the wealth of nations.... it is the one thing that the poor countries of the world cannot seem to produce for themselves no matter how eagerly their people engage in all the other activities that characterize a capitalist economy.&quot; No matter how badly some of us may want to hold on to cherished ideals of collectivist economies, the reality is that at present these are only viable on a micro scale. For the moment, capitalism has won, and the only question is how to make it work to improve the lives of the bulk of the world. De Soto writes: &quot;I do not view capitalism as a credo. Much more important to me are freedom, compassion for the poor, respect for the social contract, and equal opportunity. But for the moment, to achieve those goals, capitalism is the only game in town. It is the only system we know that provides us with the tools required to create massive surplus value.&quot;<br />According to De Soto, the problem outside the West is that while the poor have plenty of assets (land, homes, businesses), these assets lie overwhelmingly in the extralegal, informal realm. De Soto's on the ground research reveals that this is the result of an accelerated process of urbanization and population growth, coupled with the inability of legal systems to adapt to the reality of how people live. What has happened is that throughout the Third World, the costs of making assets legal (obtaining proper title to a house, registering a business, etc.), are so prohibitive both in terms of time and money, that the assets end up being what de Soto calls&quot;dead capital.&quot; In the West, a web of financial and legal networks enable people to use their assets to create further wealth, through such tools as mortgages, publicly traded stocks, and the like. Outside the West, most people live and work outside the kind of invisible asset management infrastructure that we take for granted, and thus are unable to use their assets for the &quot;representational purposes&quot; we are able to. Thus the full set of capitalist tools are not available to them and it becomes incredibly hard to realize any kind of upward mobility.<br />One of the key sections of the book is &quot;The Missing Lessons of U.S. History&quot;, in which de Soto demonstrates how the US facedthe exact same challenge several hundred years ago. The difference is that the legal system was flexible enough over a century and a half to realign itself with the reality being created on the ground by an energetic citizenry. However, it occurred over the long-term and long ago, and has thus been forgotten by history. What de Soto says needs to be understood is that the less developed nations of today are trying to accomplish the same thing over a much shorter time and with much greater populations, and without a clear understanding of how the West managed to do it. The ultimate challenge is raising the social awareness and political backing necessary to implement major legal change in the face of resistance from an entrenched bureaucracy and elites who benefit from the status quo. This is a daunting and provocative challenge-but not impossible.<br />Of course, all of the above is greatly simplified, so anyone interested in the state of the world should read it for themselves. De Soto's writing is remarkably clear (especially for an economist), and no background in economics or law is needed to follow his argument. There is a little repetition here and there, but always in the service of making sure the reader doesn't miss the big picture. In the end, whether you agree with his thesis or not, I guarantee it'll challenge your preconceived notions about global capitalism.the exact same challenge several hundred years ago. The difference is that the legal system was flexible enough over a century and a half to realign itself with the reality being created on the ground by an energetic citizenry. However, it occurred over the long-term and long ago, and has thus been forgotten by history. What de Soto says needs to be understood is that the less developed nations of today are trying to accomplish the same thing over a much shorter time and with much greater populations, and without a clear understanding of how the West managed to do it. The ultimate challenge is raising the social awareness and political backing necessary to implement major legal change in the face of resistance from an entrenched bureaucracy and elites who benefit from the status quo. This is a daunting and provocative challenge-but not impossible.<br />Of course, all of the above is greatly simplified, so anyone interested in the state of the world should read it for themselves. De Soto's writing is remarkably clear (especially for an economist), and no background in economics or law is needed to follow his argument. There is a little repetition here and there, but always in the service of making sure the reader doesn't miss the big picture. In the end, whether you agree with his thesis or not, I guarantee it'll challenge your preconceived notions about global capitalism.	2004-01-31
810706:US	52254603	R1GIB4MN9J220C	158574719X	309675906	Dynamo: Triumph and Tragedy in Nazi-Occupied Kiev	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Servicable Correction of the Myth	British journalist Dougan's subject is probably better suited to a lengthy magazine essay, but has been inflated into this short book. In it, he examines the legend legendary &quot;Death Match&quot; between a squad of Ukrainian footballers and their German occupiers in Kiev during World War II. It's a legend that the former USSR was keen to propagate, and has remained largely intact through retellings in books such as Soccer In Sun and Shadow and Football Against the Enemy-until now. Although Dougan's book is about FC Start and their role as rallying point for the terrorized citizens of Kiev, the bulk of it really concerns the brutal Nazi occupation of the Ukraine. Indeed, there can be no better measure for it than to acknowledge that the horror comes through loud and clear despite Dougan's barely adequate prose. The book starts badly, with a wildly irrelevant and off-putting prologue wedding scene just prior to the Nazi invasion in 1941. Then the reader get various chunks of information: the history of football in the Ukraine, the history of the Dynamo Kiev team, a few profiles of key figures, a condensed version of Ukrainian history, and then the story of the siege of Kiev. All of which is welded together in prose that can only be described as serviceable.<br />Fortunately, Dougan's story of the '42 summer season (which the Germans allowed in order to demonstrate that life under their rule wasn't too bad, even as they were systematically murdering most of the population though death camps and slave labor), is told a little more ably. The tension builds as FC Start destroys all the competition in a league comprised of a teams ranging from a collaborationist Ukrainian nationalist side, to Romanian and Hungarian occupying army troops, and finally to German army and Luftwaffe teams. FC Start becomes a beacon of pride for the occupied city, and when they defy Aryan supremacy by defeating a handpicked German team, the result is inevitable-though not as dramatically tragic as the legend would have it. None of the players so lushly praised by Dougan ever comes to life, which is hardly surprising since he's coming at them from almost six decades in the future. And reliance on a Ukrainian researcher to feed him all the translated testimony and accounts can only have added to the distance. Still, he's done a service to football history by digging for the truth, and a service to history by reminding readers of the terrors of war for the civilians.ic as the legend would have it. None of the players so lushly praised by Dougan ever comes to life, which is hardly surprising since he's coming at them from almost six decades in the future. And reliance on a Ukrainian researcher to feed him all the translated testimony and accounts can only have added to the distance. Still, he's done a service to football history by digging for the truth, and a service to history by reminding readers of the terrors of war for the civilians.	2004-01-26
811262:US	52254603	RP6KROHJAS8E5	0446679062	573991046	Ode to a Banker (A Marcus Didius Falco Mystery)	Books	2	4	5	N	N	This Series is Seriously Slipping	When the Marcus Didius Falco series began, over a decade and eleven books ago, I was immediately hooked. The combination of detail about the Roman Empire, combined with the wisecracks of the much put upon informer (detective) hero enthralled me-for a while. After five or six books I discovered Steven Saylor's Roman mystery series, and the charm of Davis's potboiler plots and tongue-in-cheek jokes wore thin. I thought I'd pick this latest offering up to see if my taste for them had changed, and the unequivocal answer is no.<br />Falco is much the same as I last saw him, still married to the luminous and whip smart Helena, still bedeviled by an outrageous extended family, still cronies with his old army buddy Petronious, and still warily jousting with the imperial spymaster Anacrities. For the plot Davis relies upon that most tired of devices, a story linked to the world of publishing-complete with anachronistic satirization of subsidy publishing, ghostwriting, and the like. Ah yes, the publishing insider jokes just keep coming when Greek publisher and banker Aurelius Chrysippus is murdered and Petronious enlists Falco to unmask the killer.<br />The story is much more constrained than most of the series, with Davis creating an atmosphere that's part a game of Clue and part Ms. Marple cozy. The action never leaves Rome, and kicks off with Chrysippus found dead in the library with a scroll shoved up his nose (no sign of Col. Mustard though). As with any good little village or country house murder tale, there are a bevy of suspects for Falco to work though: new young wife, ex-wife, son, various writers, bank customers-each with their own possible reason for disliking the dead man. It's a very rote affair, with Falco plodding after each lead, checking each alibi, etc.<br />Oh wait, no he doesn't... A fact that leaps out at even the most casual reader, virtually placing a neon sign over the killer's head. Yes, Falco's got a lot of personal issues on his plate, but then again, he always does, so that hardly seems like a good reason for him to botch the basics of Detecting 101. So, while Falco creates the classic scene of bringing all the suspects together for a grand denouement, calling in surprise witnesses, and employing trickery to force a wholly unlikely confession, it all seems kind of pointless to the reader who saw the writing on the wall halfway through. The book has a few good scenes here and there (including one very good fight scene), but there's certainly not a lot of creativity in evidence, and the attempts at satire fall flat. It pains me to say so, but like so many series that start strong, Davis seems to be floundering and may need to think about starting something new.gain, he always does, so that hardly seems like a good reason for him to botch the basics of Detecting 101. So, while Falco creates the classic scene of bringing all the suspects together for a grand denouement, calling in surprise witnesses, and employing trickery to force a wholly unlikely confession, it all seems kind of pointless to the reader who saw the writing on the wall halfway through. The book has a few good scenes here and there (including one very good fight scene), but there's certainly not a lot of creativity in evidence, and the attempts at satire fall flat. It pains me to say so, but like so many series that start strong, Davis seems to be floundering and may need to think about starting something new.	2004-01-26
813935:US	52254603	RYFJNCNY8G9NX	0743236009	422115356	Sex, Drugs, and Cocoa Puffs: A Low Culture Manifesto	Books	4	5	7	N	Y	Frequently Hilarious Essays on Pop Culture	In the footsteps of Klosterman's Midwestern memoir/history of hair metal (Fargo Rock City) comes this collection of eighteen essays bearing the asterixed subtitle &quot;A Low Culture Manifesto&quot;. The subtitle itself speaks volumes about the author's general style:a hyper-ironically witty phrase that displays a certain level of erudition along with a wink-wink, nudge-nudge. Klosterman is almost exactly my age, which means that our broad exposure pop culture exposure has been nearly identical, and while I greatly enjoyed the majority of the essays, there's a tension in his writing between wanting to make fun of low culture, and wanting to treat it seriously. It's the same tension (and flaw) of Fargo Rock City-he's writing about his guilty pleasures, but can't quite commit to the guilt or the pleasure. All that aside, I've probably recommended this book to more friends of mine than any other in recent months.<br />If you browse it in the store be aware that the first essay (about how John Cusak, and emo songsmiths like Coldplay have made the concept of love very tricky for Gen Xers-or at least middle-class white ones), is far and away the best in the book. Which is not to say there isn't a lot of other great stuff. The second essay, about the computer game The Sims, is hugely funny (if only slightly insightful) and the fifth (which first ran in The New York Times Magazine) is an engaging account of a weekend spent on the road with a Guns N' Roses cover band. The sixth is also quite strong, being a comparison of Pamela Anderson with Marilyn Monroe that seeks to explain how the role of celebrity has changed over the half-century between them. His essay on internet porn is brief, funny, and moderately thoughtful. Essay ten, on children's breakfast cereals is almost entirely tongue in cheek, and is hilarious. His thirteenth essay wins the prize for best title (&quot;The Awe-Inspired Beauty of Tom Cruise's Shattered, Troll-like Face&quot;), and is a mostly enjoyable muddle of thoughts about contemporary film. After this is a rather wandering (but good) piece on the popularity of country music. Essays sixteen and seventeen are all about the media. The first is a sort of general purpose &quot;here's the truth about the media from an insider&quot; piece, and the second is a very keen report on music critic's conference. Closing things out is a critique of the wildly popular &quot;Left Behind&quot; series. I would recommend all of these to various of my friends.<br />However, a third of the book isn't so good.. The third essay is about MTV's The Real World series, and fails to make any original points about the reality genre. The fourth is a tortured attempt to explain why Billy Joel is cool, and fails on all levels. The seventh entry is a really weak anti-soccer piece that is a total failure except for a portion where he details his job as a youth baseball coach and subsequent firing. The next essay, about the Lakers/Celtics rivalry of the '80s is equally muddled, and incoherent (probably way more so to those who weren't paying attention to the NBA in the '80s). Essay eleven is about the seminal TV show Saved By the Bell, which I've never watched, so that one went right over my head. This is followed by a rather weak essay attempting to tie Gen X malaise to The Empire Strikes Back.<br />Klosterman's writing style is kind of love it or hate it (I love it). He's too clever and sarcastic by half, and doesn't mind showing it off, which can be kind of refreshing. He's also one of the best writers I've encountered when it comes to profanity-he uses it a lot and quite naturally, which helps to draw you into his bizarre little world. He's also a hilarious footnoter, for example, his essay on Internet porn starts: &quot;When exactly did every housewife in America become a whore?&quot; with the footnote reading &quot;Except of course, my mom.&quot; He's also a very prolific digressor, which may infuriate those who want writers to adhere to their one main point, but I rather enjoy the little side trips. I found the 2/3 of the essays that I liked so engaging that I'm willing to let the other 1/3 slide-this time.ir one main point, but I rather enjoy the little side trips. I found the 2/3 of the essays that I liked so engaging that I'm willing to let the other 1/3 slide-this time.	2004-01-23
814155:US	52254603	R1BUH543TNAEOE	0380820870	596006403	Shadows of Glory	Books	3	4	5	N	N	So-So Sophmore Story	Parry's Civil War mystery series continues with this second volume (after Faded Coat of Blue), which once again has Union Army officer Abel Jones investigating murder most foul. The Welshman is a meticulously honest and scrupulous officer (bordering on the priggish), who has been enlisted in the Union's secret service. Here he is sent by Secretary of State William Seward to the far north of New York's Finger Lakes district to find out who killed a Union spy there, and if there's an Irish rebellion brewing. Soon he finds himself highly distracted by an Irish &quot;spiritualist&quot; woman who claims to see spirits hovering around Jones. I'm not a huge fan of this kind of supernaturalism, and it detracts from the gritty authenticity Parry labors so hard to construct in other ways.<br />Similarly, although he again does a nice job of creating some well-developed supporting characters, such as a local sheriff, a jittery preacher, and a very smart black coachman, Parry also falls into that most regrettable trap of the historical novelist-unnecessarily turning real life historical personages into supporting players in his tale. The military and political figures who pop up in the first book are all there in service of the story, but here we meet Frederick Douglas and Susan B. Anthony. Douglas plays a particularly large role, and there's no real need for him to be so involved in the plot, as opposed to a more anonymous character. Another ill-advised device is the use of letters from Jones' friend Mick Tyrone, who is assigned to Gen. Grant's medical corps. Through these, Parry tries to hammer home the point that while Jones rides around the winter wonderland of New York, there is a gruesome, horrific war on elsewhere. Tyrone's letters are full of all the gory details-lest Jones forget why he's spying.<br />I loved the first book in this series, but I'm afraid I didn't care that much for this one. Aside from the three flaws above (and I do recognize that others may not consider them flaws), this book had very little suspense or pace compared to Faded Coat of Blue. It's altogether much more concerned with moodiness and inner turmoil than it is with the actual mystery. Things play out achingly slowly until the very end, when a very intriguing plot is finally revealed. Told from Jones' perspective, the language is once again rich and full of the Welshman's idiom, cadence, and prejudices. His story continues in Call Each River Jordan, Honor's Kingdom, Bold Sons of Erin and further to come).ider them flaws), this book had very little suspense or pace compared to Faded Coat of Blue. It's altogether much more concerned with moodiness and inner turmoil than it is with the actual mystery. Things play out achingly slowly until the very end, when a very intriguing plot is finally revealed. Told from Jones' perspective, the language is once again rich and full of the Welshman's idiom, cadence, and prejudices. His story continues in Call Each River Jordan, Honor's Kingdom, Bold Sons of Erin and further to come).	2004-01-23
853774:US	52254603	R3BZK617LGM7H5	0375705031	950669624	The New Confessions	Books	5	7	9	N	N	An Outstanding Fictional Memoir	This fictional memoir displays Boyd's consummate skill and style to full effect, ranging across time an place to create a vivid tale. Jean Jacques Rousseau's Confessions is (perhaps arguably) first tell-all memoir, and here Boyd updates it through the reminisces of James Todd. The story unfolds chronologically from his birth in 1899 and upbringing in Edinburgh to the 1970s, when he sits incognito on a quiet island writing his memoirs. The years between are a picaresque journey through the first half of the last century and one man's attempt to create meaning in his life.<br />The early years in his domineering father's household document an unhappy child yearning for love and approval. His father's quest to perfect and patent medicines provides an uncommonly interesting background for this. When a family friend introduces him to photography, the die is cast. As a teenager, like so many British men of his age, he is swallowed by the first World War, where he is wounded at Ypres. Here, Boyd's descriptions manage to breath fresh life into carnage whose horror has been well-documented. Fortuitously, he is then transferred to a propaganda unit, where his talent in photography is applied to the new realm of film. Captured by the Germans, he languishes in prison, where a guard befriends him and gives him a copy of Rousseau's Confessions to pass the time. The work insinuates itself into him, and it percolates in him in the postwar years as he works in the London silent film industry. Despite marrying and fathering several children, his ambitions remain thwarted and he moves to Berlin to pursue his pet project of making an epic version of Rousseau's book.<br />In Weimar Berlin he embraces the vibrant (if pfenningless) art community and reconnects with his former guard, who is now an actor. Working together, and with Armenian producers, their careers start to take off and Todd becomes embroiled in a lifelong love affair with an actress. Boyd's description of the inter-war Berlin film scene is so vivid, and the discussion of Todd's career so convincing that one is tempted to put the book down and rush to the video store to see his films. With the juice to get his pet Rousseau project made, Todd throws himself full-tilt into the project, only to see the emergence of &quot;talkies&quot; scuttle it. This propels him to Hollywood, where makes some quiet B-Westerns embedded with subtle social messages until t he next war finds him scrambling around as a war correspondent for third-tier U.S. newspapers.<br />Following WWII, he falls afoul of the McCarthy witch hunts for communist in the entertainment industry and appears before HUAC. Here, is perhaps the book's one flaw. The HUAC hearings provide Todd with an opportunity to both stay afloat by naming names (some of whom have already named him), and exact revenge on his longtime archnemesis-but he doesn't take it. Although he's presented as variously idealistic and honorable, it's the one time in the book where the character doesn't hold true. And from here, the book bogs down a little, as Todd's current situation as apparent exile starts to loom over the proceedings. Despite a somewhat unsatisiying ending, the story's overall quality is head and shoulders above the pack. Once again Boyd has researched a plethora of subjects and places, and recreates them perfectly. At the same time he occasionally deploys a light comic touch to lighten this story of the search for meaning and the role of chance in life.rlin film scene is so vivid, and the discussion of Todd's career so convincing that one is tempted to put the book down and rush to the video store to see his films. With the juice to get his pet Rousseau project made, Todd throws himself full-tilt into the project, only to see the emergence of &quot;talkies&quot; scuttle it. This propels him to Hollywood, where makes some quiet B-Westerns embedded with subtle social messages until t he next war finds him scrambling around as a war correspondent for third-tier U.S. newspapers.<br />Following WWII, he falls afoul of the McCarthy witch hunts for communist in the entertainment industry and appears before HUAC. Here, is perhaps the book's one flaw. The HUAC hearings provide Todd with an opportunity to both stay afloat by naming names (some of whom have already named him), and exact revenge on his longtime archnemesis-but he doesn't take it. Although he's presented as variously idealistic and honorable, it's the one time in the book where the character doesn't hold true. And from here, the book bogs down a little, as Todd's current situation as apparent exile starts to loom over the proceedings. Despite a somewhat unsatisiying ending, the story's overall quality is head and shoulders above the pack. Once again Boyd has researched a plethora of subjects and places, and recreates them perfectly. At the same time he occasionally deploys a light comic touch to lighten this story of the search for meaning and the role of chance in life.	2003-12-25
854334:US	52254603	R1751QO2KLQBXP	033048446X	677614060	Dead Men's Wages	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Plastic Gangster	My interest in both con artistry and the postwar British crime scene led me to think I would rise above my general dislike of biographies to enjoy this history of one London underworld figure from the past century. Regrettably, although Pizzichini's retracing of her grandfather's criminal enterprises is thorough and at times engaging, it failed to captivate me. Part of the fault for this lies in her style, which at times is overly florid and part of the fault lies in the fact that for all her research and recreation, her grandfather Charlie never really comes to life as anything more than a cipher. From a poor background, he rises in life thanks largely to a series of postwar insurance and building trade scams. And although he moved with the big name gangsters (Billy Hill and The Krays appear frequently in the narrative), he's strictly a middleman spiv with a love for the racket, not the money or power. Actually, what he really loves is the ladies-as he had affairs of various lengths with a wide array of women. But other than that, and a penchant for having fingers in many greasy pies, there doesn't seem to be a whole lot to him.<br />To keep things interesting, Pizzichini makes sure to mention every last famous or semi-famous person who moved in the same circles, including the famous fascist Oswald Mosley, the alleged spy and JFK boinker Mariella Novotny, Rod Stewart and Eric Clapton, and a variety of politicians, lords and ladies. At times, this gets rather overwhelming, and even within the family, relationships can be hard to keep straight. It would have helped a great deal to include photos and a family tree to keep track of the four generations covered. The final part of the story is notable for its illuminating portrayal of the widespread extent of police corruption. The ultimate irony is not that her grandfather's downfall is engineered by that most clich&eacute; of agents (betrayal by his right-hand man), but that the crime he was prosecuted for was a frame-up job for which he was posthumously acquitted.for which he was posthumously acquitted.	2003-12-24
855197:US	52254603	R7FLXYVEC9W4J	0224061682	726003800	The Lottery	Books	3	0	1	N	N	A Disappointing Misstep	Winning the lottery isn't exactly the freshest or strongest premise for a novel. The main problem is that it's a very predictable scenario-someone wins a ton of cash and their life is changed. The core themes invariably explore how people respond to such windfalls and change. It's such a flimsy narrative framework that it should be no surprise that writers usually apply it to conventional genres like the comic crime caper (Mrs. Million by Pete Hautman and Lucky You by Carl Hiassen), international thriller (The Winner by David Baldacci), mystery (The Rich Detective by HRF Keating and Sub Rosa by Ralph McInerny), and romance (Make Believe Matrimony by Kathern Shaw and Pot of Gold by Judith Michael). Writers willing to employ the premise in a serious work of fiction are rare, and until now only Jim Kokoris (The Rich Part of Life) had taken the challenge.<br />Tulloch's two previous books (The Season Ticket and The Bonny Lad) were extremely good pieces of fiction set in the Gatehead district of Newcastle, and this book continues his chronicling of that ghetto, with several characters reappearing. The central characters are Audrey (a 50ish grandmother and cleaning lady at a local mall), and her husband Ronny (a mild-mannered dreamer and cowboy builder). Like everyone else in their tower block, they struggle to make ends meet and put food on the table for their grandchildren and other neglected local kids. Audrey is a tough matriarch with heart of gold type, and Ronny is as softhearted as they come. This setup is all good and fine, but when they hit it big and win a 3 million jackpot in the lottery, the book starts a long and disappointing slope toward clich&eacute;.<br />With the burgeoning of local and national lotteries in the last two decades, the profile of the average hardworking person winning the lottery has become a newspaper staple. Similarly, the tale of the lottery winner whose win ironically brings misery has clearly entered the collective unconscious. So when Audrey and Ronny's win gradually turns sour as weaknesses come to light, jealousies spring to life, and family starts to disintegrate, one keeps waiting for a new twist on the theme, and is disappointed when it never comes. Which is not to say that Tulloch's descriptive powers are any weaker, or that he doesn't tackle it all with his blend of tenderness and poignant humor-but rather to lament his having fallen into the lottery winner story's familiar pattern. Hopefully his next book will see him return to the form of his first two.drey and Ronny's win gradually turns sour as weaknesses come to light, jealousies spring to life, and family starts to disintegrate, one keeps waiting for a new twist on the theme, and is disappointed when it never comes. Which is not to say that Tulloch's descriptive powers are any weaker, or that he doesn't tackle it all with his blend of tenderness and poignant humor-but rather to lament his having fallen into the lottery winner story's familiar pattern. Hopefully his next book will see him return to the form of his first two.	2003-12-24
855732:US	52254603	R183SKILJE5MSV	061823649X	865354621	Spoken Here: Travels Among Threatened Languages	Books	4	11	12	N	N	The English Virus	The viral-like spread of English as the lingua franca of the modern world has had many disturbing effects, not the least of which is its corrosive effect on hundreds of languages spoken by comparatively small populations. Canadian journalist Abley isn't so interested in detailing how this has happened (it's pretty obvious that the proliferation of satellite television and the Internet over the last decade, coupled with American hegemony is largely to blame), but rather seeks to visit these communities to see what efforts are being made to preserve native tongues. Long chapters on specific regions (Northern Australia, Oklahoma, The Isle of Man, Provence, Quebec, Wales) are separated by briefer interludes on various related themes. This is a fascinating topic, and one I somehow expected to find more interesting than Abley makes it.<br />It's hard to put a finger on why the book was a bit of a letdown. Abley is scrupulously fair-minded in his reportage, and has clearly done a great deal of research. He's careful not to blindly place language preservationists on a pedestal, and asks some genuinely hard questions. Although here's clearly a champion of these disappearing languages and draws a distinct parallel between biodiversity and linguistic diversity, he doesn't shy from shining the light on the failings or more objectionable sides of preservationists. That said, there are a few shortcomings. One of these is that he never really discusses how this whole issue worked in the past. When the Roman Empire ran amok, did Latin replace indigenous speech? More problematic is his focus on languages developed nations. For example, the spread of Spanish in South America, and English and French in Africa have had profound influences, but ABley sticks to North America, Western Europe, and Australia. Finally, the prose-despite noble efforts to inject humor at times-remains rather dry throughout. Some of the chapters run on and on, and would have benefited from judicious editing.<br />Still, it's hard to fault a book on such an important topic, and the mix of sociology, travelogue, linguistics, and history is probably the best approach to the topic. Recommended for those with a deep interest in the whole wide world and/or language, others may find it slow going./>Still, it's hard to fault a book on such an important topic, and the mix of sociology, travelogue, linguistics, and history is probably the best approach to the topic. Recommended for those with a deep interest in the whole wide world and/or language, others may find it slow going.	2003-12-23
856306:US	52254603	R24PJ84YBG1KD1	0441066283	49795340	Black Knight in Red Square: a Chief Inspector Porfiry Rostnikov Mystery	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Back in the USSR	Kaminsky is an incredibly prolific writer, but I'd never read anything by him until now. This second book in his long running series starring Russian police inspector Porfiry Rostnikov blurs the line between detective fiction and international spy thriller. What begins as a poisoning case linked to the prestigious Moscow International Film Festival soon ties in to a terrorist plot to set off remote control bombs at Soviet landmarks in Moscow. The result is a book that's partly excellent and partly silly. The silly part is this idea of a fictional international terror cell seeking to destabilize both the U.S. and U.S.S.R. It may be the distance of some twenty years since the book was written, but the whole presentation of their aims is laughable.<br />However, when Kaminsky sticks to his hero detective and his capable underlings (especially Ivan the Vampire), the book is outstanding. It's a common enough trait of police procedural series that one of the key obstacles the detective faces is his own bureaucracy. This is certainly the case for Rostnikov, however the novelty of the Soviet system keeps the book interesting. Not only the political machinations, but the day to day corruption and seedy underbelly of the socialist capital make the book well worth reading. There's just enough of the private lives of the Soviet cops to round things out nicely. On the whole, an intriguing book despite the laughable villains, and one that'll have me seeking out others in the series.	2003-12-23
859019:US	52254603	RBRKBLZ4DQYRZ	0385498209	953677392	John Henry Days	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Great Writing but Scattered Narrative	I loved Whitehead's debut, The Intuitionist, but for some reason it took me a few years to get to this second novel. This sprawling work shows that while his sheer talent and style are once again on display, his ability to sustain a narrative is not. Set in 1996, the book is loosely organized around the titular weekend festivala grand celebration in a small West Virginia town to commemorate the release of a John Henry postage stamp. This is a center which only barely manages to hold on to the multiple storylines, vignettes, flashbacks, ghost stories and Great American themes that Whitehead spins from it.<br />A good portion of the story follows hack-for-hire J. Sutter, a freelance &quot;journalist&quot; who &quot;covers&quot; whatever product/personality/story pays for his airfare, hotel, and bar bills. A once-promising writer, he's since sold his soul for whatever freebies, access, and perks he can wrangle in exchange for a decent write-up. He's currently embarked on a junketeering streak, having attended press events every day for weeks on end. Clearly, the reader is supposed to draw some kind of parallel between his struggle to take on the corporate publicity machine and the struggle of steel-drivin' John Henry taking on the corporate steam-drill machine. Each is beat down by a grinding life, but John Henry literally dies, while J. Sutter is only spiritually dead. It's no accident that the story takes place at the start of the Internet boom, just as John Henry's legend takes place at the start of the industrial era. It's kind of an interesting gambit by Whitehead, but never really coalesces into a cohesive idea.<br />Meanwhile, there are a ton of other ingredients tossed in the pot. There's a section on competing academics in the 1920s attempting to determine the truth of the John Henry legend. An extremely lengthy digressive story told about the Rolling Stones concert at Altamont. The story of a mild-mannered collector of railroad stamps. A nice part about the early days of recording popular songs and the scams used to increase sales. Another piece tells the story of young girl from Striver's Row buying sheet music to &quot;The Ballad of John Henry&quot;. The tale of a Chicago bluesman making a John Henry record. Paul Robeson's ill-fated attempt to do a play based on John Henry's life. And probably a few others I forgot. One very much gets the impression that Whitehead did a ton of research on the John Henry myth in America and fell in love with all these story ideas. Each is very well-written and imagined on its own, but the presence of so many tangential parts only acts to distract from the central story, and they kind of strobe in and out, sometimes overwhelming the main plotline by being far more interesting.<br />There's plenty to like here-tons and tons of great writing, brilliant sentences, and vivid scenes. However, the book is so crammed with fragmentary ideas and themes of race, class, capitalism, memory, and so on, that none is allowed to emerge as central. So it's one of those rare books that is well wroth reading, and yet is kind of disappointing on the whole.early days of recording popular songs and the scams used to increase sales. Another piece tells the story of young girl from Striver's Row buying sheet music to &quot;The Ballad of John Henry&quot;. The tale of a Chicago bluesman making a John Henry record. Paul Robeson's ill-fated attempt to do a play based on John Henry's life. And probably a few others I forgot. One very much gets the impression that Whitehead did a ton of research on the John Henry myth in America and fell in love with all these story ideas. Each is very well-written and imagined on its own, but the presence of so many tangential parts only acts to distract from the central story, and they kind of strobe in and out, sometimes overwhelming the main plotline by being far more interesting.<br />There's plenty to like here-tons and tons of great writing, brilliant sentences, and vivid scenes. However, the book is so crammed with fragmentary ideas and themes of race, class, capitalism, memory, and so on, that none is allowed to emerge as central. So it's one of those rare books that is well wroth reading, and yet is kind of disappointing on the whole.	2003-12-20
859112:US	52254603	R1YP1ELA8NMQYV	1400047838	140421558	Fugitives and Refugees: A Walk in Portland, Oregon (Crown Journeys)	Books	4	40	45	N	N	Northwest Passages	Let me start by saying that I didn't pick this book up 'cause I'm a huge Chuck P fan. I liked the film of his book Fight Club, but the only novel of his I've read is Choke, and I found it to be muddled and rather weak. However, I did live in Portland for four years in the early '90s, when I was going to college there, so this seemed like a cool book to check out. Palahniuk's vibe is clearly aimed at the 15-50 quirkster/hipster demographic, and he hits on all cylinders with his portrait of the city nicknamed &quot;Little Beirut&quot; by Ronald Reagan and George Bush the Elder.<br />The book is broken up into twelve chapters. &quot;Talk the Talk&quot; presents the key bits of PDX slang you'll need to sound like a local (most of which were unknown to me). &quot;Quests&quot; lists fourteen different &quot;adventures&quot; or things to do in and around the city. Samples include visiting the famous self-cleaning house, or spending an afternoon in eviction court. &quot;Chow&quot; is on food, of course, and is probably the most disappointing chapter. &quot;Haunts&quot; lists sixteen places to commune with ghosts and spirits in places like haunted hotels and bathrooms. &quot;Souvenirs&quot; is a throwaway two-page chapter listing five offbeat places to buy stuff. &quot;Unholy Relics&quot; is a list of nine offbeat museums, like the Vacuum Cleaner Museum.<br />&quot;Getting Off&quot; is the longest chapter, and as one might guess, it's all about the city's sex scene, from strip bars to swinger clubs. Notable is the annual &quot;I-Tit-A-Rod&quot; race, in which the goal is to visit as many strip clubs in twelve hours as possible (no one has come close to making all fifty). A more genteel chapter follows this, highlighting the city's more interesting gardens and parks. &quot;Getting Around&quot; is a relatively tame hodgepodge of transportation related sights, including a decommissioned nuclear submarine. &quot;Animal Acts&quot; is almost entirely about the Portland Zoo, with small sections about the feral cats of Portland Stadium, and a few pug-related items. &quot;The Shanghai Tunnels&quot; is about Portland's legendary tunnel system and the<br />variety of tours one can take through them.<br />Palahniuk moved to Portland after graduating high school in 1981, and separating each chapter are &quot;postcards&quot; of his time in the city. These are brief stories and escapades that chart a chronological course of his becoming more and more involved in Portland. Particularly hilarious are his tales of the annual &quot;Santa Rampage&quot; (imagine several hundred Santas battling riot police), and an end of the millennium party at the old Baghdad Theater. As a whole, the book is not one likely to be endorsed by the Portland Visitors Bureau, which is kind of the whole point of it. Like any city, Portland's civic leaders would like to present a shiny, happy facade of bland progress. Fortunately, we now have Palahniuk's valuable unsugarcoated portrait, one which only someone who truly loves the city could have penned.small sections about the feral cats of Portland Stadium, and a few pug-related items. &quot;The Shanghai Tunnels&quot; is about Portland's legendary tunnel system and the<BR>variety of tours one can take through them.<br />Palahniuk moved to Portland after graduating high school in 1981, and separating each chapter are &quot;postcards&quot; of his time in the city. These are brief stories and escapades that chart a chronological course of his becoming more and more involved in Portland. Particularly hilarious are his tales of the annual &quot;Santa Rampage&quot; (imagine several hundred Santas battling riot police), and an end of the millennium party at the old Baghdad Theater. As a whole, the book is not one likely to be endorsed by the Portland Visitors Bureau, which is kind of the whole point of it. Like any city, Portland's civic leaders would like to present a shiny, happy facade of bland progress. Fortunately, we now have Palahniuk's valuable unsugarcoated portrait, one which only someone who truly loves the city could have penned.	2003-12-20
887022:US	52254603	R1KJ2WGW0RI3MH	038549744X	710198060	English Passengers: A Novel	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Genius	Comedy, tragedy, adventure, history, religion, and ideas collide in this astounding and wonderful work of historical fiction. Told via the diary-like entries of some twenty or so different narrators, the first two-thirds of the book alternates between two separate tales, which then converge in the final third. The first storyline is set in the 1850s, and initially appears to be about Captain Illium Quillian Kewley, who wishes to do nothing more than a little harmless smuggling of brandy, tobacco, and French pornography. Through a series of comic misadventures, he and his crew of Manxmen (men from the Isle of Man) find themselves en route to the other side of the world with the English passengers of the title.<br />This trio of Englishmen are a squabbling group of explorers seeking the Biblical Garden of Eden, which they believe to be in Tasmania. This psuedo-scientific notion sprang from the wholly delusional backwater vicar/amateur geologist who leads the expedition. The picture of Victorian self-righteousness and hubris, he irritates everyone he comes in contact with his smug piety. The other two members are a sinister doctor with definite ideas about racial superiority, and a feckless, young London botanist. Each embodies one of the worst traits of the Victorian era: the vicar is a model of religious and moral bigotry, the doctor is a zealot whose belief in quack science is dangerous to all, and the botanist is a dissolute and limpid soul.<br />The other storyline takes place some thirty years earlier, in the late 1820s, and provides a depressing social history of Tasmania. The colonization and transformation of the island into a penal colony by Victorian administrators comes alive through the narration of half-caste Peavay and various English convicts and colonizers (including landowners, schoolmasters, governors, prison superintendents, and their wives). Kneale has taken a little-known topic and brought it to vivid (if sordid) life, as he details the genocide of the Tasmanian aborigines at the hands of brutal British colonists. It's as brilliant an indictment of the \\"white man's mission\\" as any work of history could hope to be.<br />Structurally, the travails of the Manxmen and their grumbling passengers are juxtaposed with the tragedy of the colonization of Tasmania. Either one on its own would have grown stale--the first too picaresque, the latter too grim--but by switching back and forth, Kneale is able to present both and maintain the page-turning pace. The third section of the novel tells of the English passengers arrival in Tasmania and their quest for the Garden of Eden. This all dovetails with the aboriginal attempt to survive, and climaxes in a thrilling wilderness chase. The action doesn't stop there however, as there's the trip all the way back to England, which is its own adventure.<br />Yet, for such an elaborate and sprawling narrative, Kneale does a wonderful job of maintaining a page-turning pace by creating distinctive voices for each character. From Captain Kewley's straightforward narration (peppered with Manx idiom and dialect), to Dr. Potter's hilariously quirky shorthand, to half-caste Peavay's indignant aboriginal cadence (which grows more and more sophisticated as he grows older and more learned), Kneale has complete command and artistry. The historic detail is wonderful, and the entire book is one that begs to be reread every few years. Simply stunning.f the Tasmanian aborigines at the hands of brutal British colonists. It's as brilliant an indictment of the \\"white man's mission\\" as any work of history could hope to be.<br />Structurally, the travails of the Manxmen and their grumbling passengers are juxtaposed with the tragedy of the colonization of Tasmania. Either one on its own would have grown stale--the first too picaresque, the latter too grim--but by switching back and forth, Kneale is able to present both and maintain the page-turning pace. The third section of the novel tells of the English passengers arrival in Tasmania and their quest for the Garden of Eden. This all dovetails with the aboriginal attempt to survive, and climaxes in a thrilling wilderness chase. The action doesn't stop there however, as there's the trip all the way back to England, which is its own adventure.<br />Yet, for such an elaborate and sprawling narrative, Kneale does a wonderful job of maintaining a page-turning pace by creating distinctive voices for each character. From Captain Kewley's straightforward narration (peppered with Manx idiom and dialect), to Dr. Potter's hilariously quirky shorthand, to half-caste Peavay's indignant aboriginal cadence (which grows more and more sophisticated as he grows older and more learned), Kneale has complete command and artistry. The historic detail is wonderful, and the entire book is one that begs to be reread every few years. Simply stunning.	2003-11-26
887295:US	52254603	R36BCT28VHXMDC	1930846193	173086956	Budayeen Nights	Books	2	26	36	N	N	Only Two or Three Stories Are Worth Reading	This posthumous collection of short stories are all linked to Effinger's remarkable late '80s cyberpunk trilogy, set in an unnamed Arab city in the 22nd century. When Gravity Fails (1987), A Fire in the Sun (1989), and The Exile Kiss (1991) were a remarkable set of books which combined pulp crime with cerebral implants in an Islamic setting. Most of the action in those books took place in the Budayeen, a red-light district heavily modeled on New Orleans' French Quarter. The hodgepodge collected here by Effinger's ex-wife (the author Barbara Hambly) is, regrettably, a far cry from those fine works, and will be more of interest to the completist than the average reader.<br />Things kick off with Effinger's most famous work, the Hugo, Nebula, and Sturgeon Award-winning short story &quot;Schrodinger's Kitten&quot;. I personally didn't care for the story, which centers on quantum mechanics. Next is &quot;Marid Changes His Mind&quot;, a story first published in Asimov's, and actually comprises the first two chapters of A Fire in the Sun. It's fine, but I'm not really sure what the point of including it is. This is followed by &quot;Slow, Slow Burn&quot;, a story about Honey Pilar, who is mentioned several times in the trilogy as the world's premier virtual reality porn star. Originally published in Playboy, it's OK, but doesn't really have anything to do with the Budayeen.<br />&quot;Marid and the Trail of Blood&quot; was specially written for a vampire anthology, and feels like a bit of a throwaway story. It's got Marid and the Budayeen, and implants, but doesn't have a whole lot of vigor or imagination behind it. Next is &quot;King of the Cyber Rifles&quot;, which is probably the best of the stories. While set the same world as the trilogy, that's it's only connection. A lone sentry mans a pillbox on the Persian frontier, operating a web of sophisticated weaponry against border-crossing guerilla insurgents. It's a very good story that stands out from the rest of the book. What comes after is an annoyingly tantalizing thirty page entry. It's the first two chapters of what would have been the follow-up to The Exile Kiss. Titled, &quot;Marid Throws A Party&quot;, it's quite nice, but obviously will never be completed. Again, why include this?<br />&quot;The World As We Know It&quot; is the other strong story of the collection, and first appeared in the Futurecrime anthology. It's intriguing, because it's set well after the trilogies, and Marid is a rather down at his heels outcast detective. The story concerns people living in &quot;Consensual Realities&quot;, sort of like living in a giant Star Trek holosuite. Unfortunately, after this is &quot;The City in the Sand&quot;, an atrocious story published thirty years ago. It's apparently the first Budayeen-set story, but the city is very different from what emerged in the trilogy. This doesn't matter so much as the sheer awfulness and pointlessness of the story, which is about a dissolute expatriate who sits at one of the cafes all day in a Proustian stupor. Last and least is a seven page story fragment called &quot;The Plastic Pasha&quot;. Apparently the last thing Effinger worked on before his death, it concerns Marid's younger brother-again, why is this here?<br />In the end, while I quite enjoy Effinger's Budayeen trilogy, I have to question why this collection exists in the form that it does. I suppose it's nice to have all these fragments in one place, but I really question the value (and ethics) and including unfinished work taken off a dead author's computer. It's not the best introduction to his work, and doesn't do him a great service.k. What comes after is an annoyingly tantalizing thirty page entry. It's the first two chapters of what would have been the follow-up to The Exile Kiss. Titled, &quot;Marid Throws A Party&quot;, it's quite nice, but obviously will never be completed. Again, why include this?<br />&quot;The World As We Know It&quot; is the other strong story of the collection, and first appeared in the Futurecrime anthology. It's intriguing, because it's set well after the trilogies, and Marid is a rather down at his heels outcast detective. The story concerns people living in &quot;Consensual Realities&quot;, sort of like living in a giant Star Trek holosuite. Unfortunately, after this is &quot;The City in the Sand&quot;, an atrocious story published thirty years ago. It's apparently the first Budayeen-set story, but the city is very different from what emerged in the trilogy. This doesn't matter so much as the sheer awfulness and pointlessness of the story, which is about a dissolute expatriate who sits at one of the cafes all day in a Proustian stupor. Last and least is a seven page story fragment called &quot;The Plastic Pasha&quot;. Apparently the last thing Effinger worked on before his death, it concerns Marid's younger brother-again, why is this here?<br />In the end, while I quite enjoy Effinger's Budayeen trilogy, I have to question why this collection exists in the form that it does. I suppose it's nice to have all these fragments in one place, but I really question the value (and ethics) and including unfinished work taken off a dead author's computer. It's not the best introduction to his work, and doesn't do him a great service.	2003-11-26
887578:US	52254603	R1ZO9XQVBCUFPC	0618263276	441637057	Special: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Not That Special	The back of this book promises &quot;a fierce, subversive, darkly probing exploration of female adolescence&quot;, and while it might be considered fierce, only the very naive reader is going to find it subversive or darkly probing. Instead, this story of a two week school trip by a group of 13-year-old English schoolgirls, is more of a catalogue of female teen issues, such as anorexia, cutting, drinking, date rape, divorced parents, absent parents, running away, anger, sexual identity confusion, and so on. The core protagonists of the book are all set up as types: Caz is the beautiful alpha female, Jules is her jealous and caustic sidekick, Hen is the Scottish outsider trying to join the A-list, Ali is the quiet wallflower , Izzy is the gross fat and annoying hypochondriac, Mel and Vicky hang out in the background, Ms. Naylor is the sadistic spinster school marm, and Jaws is the understanding younger teacher.<br />Unless one believes that girls heading into teenagerdom are sweet little angels, there's little new here: They are cruel to each other-some more than others. They are jealous of each other-some more than others. They are terrified of being cast out-some more than others. And so on. Although Bathurst does a decent job of bringing the characters to life, none ever really rises above the level of clich&eacute;. More problematically, they often display levels of introspection and sophistication beyond their years. I had to keep reminding myself that these girls were supposed to be thirteen and not sixteen or seventeen. Some have likened it to Lord of the Flies, which is a rather lazy analysis, since the only theme the two books share is the ability of children to be cruel to one another. But while Lord of the Flies was making a much larger point above the nature of man, Bathurst's book is about the banal horror of everyday life as a teenage girl with no strong role models or support systems. In short, nothing special.	2003-11-26
891600:US	52254603	R3J8DR5UEG9Z5O	0399149988	16258476	Honey Don't	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Fine For What It Is (Beach Reading)	Never heard of Sandlin before this, but I&quot;m a sucker for books set in DC, so I picked this up. What I discovered is a light, fluffy farce-perfect is you're in the mood for something requiring little concentration, but possibly disappointing if you like your stories to have a little meat on their bones. The style and tone is not unlike someone like Carl Hiaasen, plenty of snappy chatter, pop culture references, and comedic murders. The story starts by introducing RC Nash, a 40ish journalist in decline, and Jimmy Sebastiano, a smalltime mafia bagman. The story is set in motion when Jimmy's catches his delectable girlfriend Honey in a comprising position with the President and the president accidentally dies in the struggle that follows.<br />Fleeing the scene with the dead president's body, Honey and Jimmy embroil Honey's old friend Farlow (a gay professional football player) in their problems. Soon, through a variety of contrivances (you just have to roll with them), RC shows up and joins them on the lam. Meanwhile, the White House-spearheaded by a nasty chief of staff and the astute and efficient first lady-is quietly trying to locate the missing president. However, the foursome (five if you count the prez), is also being pursued by Mafia don Gino Olivetti, who is after the $650,000 Jimmy was supposed to deliver to him. Lots of running around, shoot-outs, machinations, sexual tension, and light satire ensue. Populated with nothing but a series of cardboard characters (the nasty scheming editor, the airhead vice-president, the crazy homeless guy, and so on), each with a signature tic or phrase, the novel is well-suited to Hollywood or a lazy summer day by the pool.	2003-11-22
892695:US	52254603	R3SF3GGCQ3LGQV	1852426934	774023679	Deadwater	Books	2	0	1	N	N	Empty Behind All The Atmosphere	Cardiff's rough and a tumble docksides have been the setting for some excellent crime fiction by John Williams (the author of Cardiff Dead and Five Pubs, Two Bars, and a Nightclub-to whom the book is dedicated), and Bill James (Middleman). Butetown appears again as the background for this dark book set in 1989. Mostly told through the eyes of a weary Irish-Catholic alcoholic pharmacist, the story follows the aftermath of the gruesome murder of a local prostitute. Jack wakes up the next morning in a haze, his clothes covered in blood and with no recollection of the previous night. Fortunately for him, local gangster brothers Carl and Tony Baja are soon arrested for the killing. Unfortunately for him, their arrest is more a matter of wishful thinking than evidence, and soon the whole community is talking about what the Baja boys are gonna do. But ultimately, who actually did the killing is presented as almost beside the point. The police are keen on the Bajas and lose interest when they are released. The pharmacist doesn't seem that keen on figuring it out until near the end, and although he knows his friend Jess is involved, he doesn't seem that bothered to learn why until other factors come into play.<br />Indeed, while Burke's portrait of the downtrodden Welsh/Jamaican/Italian/Arab/etc. waterfront community of Butetown is interesting, none of the characters are developed very well, nor do they have very clear motivations for anything. The bleakness and despair are powerful, to the point where everyone seems to be adrift in this hopeless purgatory of drugs, violence, and awful sex. Which is not to say that every book must have a hero, but it would be nice if there was someone to at least care about. It's not even really about the loss of friendship or trust, since the relationship between Jack and Jess is shown as a sham from its earliest days. Nor is Jack's marriage to Victoria ever shown to have held any happiness. Everyone and everything seem doomed and decomposing.<br />There's mood to spare, but the story lacks pace, plotting, and character, all of which makes more sense now that I know that Burke is an lit/philosophy academic. Let me put it another way, when someone's first two books are The Death and Return of the Author: Criticism and Subjectivity in Barthes, Foucault and Derrida and Authorship: From Plato the the Postmodern, it shouldn't come as a surprise when their debut crime novel doesn't quite cut it.ng.<br />There's mood to spare, but the story lacks pace, plotting, and character, all of which makes more sense now that I know that Burke is an lit/philosophy academic. Let me put it another way, when someone's first two books are The Death and Return of the Author: Criticism and Subjectivity in Barthes, Foucault and Derrida and Authorship: From Plato the the Postmodern, it shouldn't come as a surprise when their debut crime novel doesn't quite cut it.	2003-11-21
893313:US	52254603	RCFR20S0XL35M	0748663282	347134357	Boyracers	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Decent Scottish Coming of Age Story	Bissett's debut novel is-underneath the stylistic semi-pyrotechnics and pop culture references-a fairly traditional angsty coming-of-age story. Set in Falkirk (a medium-sized town roughly halfway between Glasgow and Edinburgh) circa 1999-2000 (based on pop culture references, such as the impending release of the U2 album &quot;All That You Can't Leave Behind&quot;), it's the story of four guys who cling to their friendship as the only ray of light in an otherwise bland life. At 15, Alvin is the runt of the lot, and his Tolkein / Stephen King / Clive Barker obsessions make him the default nerd of the quartet. Add to that, a miserable home life (his alcoholic mother disappeared, leaving his unemployed father permanently depressed and blasting The Sex Pistols, while his older brother escaped to London), and a crush on the prettiest, wealthiest girl in school, and you get one unhappy kid. It's never really clear how he became so close to Franny, Dolby, and Brian, all of whom are several years older and have dead-end jobs, but he buys into the group delusion that friendship is all you need in life.<br />The bulk of the book consists of the guys cruising around town in Dolby's car, scoping girls and avoiding the menacing eyes of &quot;weapons&quot; (teenage thugs). There's lots of aimless teen chatter about stuff like who was the best Batman, the release date of the new U2 album, what video to rent, and so forth. Interwoven with this is the inevitable process of Alvin's maturation, including his first drinking session, his first sex, his first time driving, and of course, the harsh stripping away of some of life's illusions. None of these are anything new, but Bissett handles each ably, managing to wring some empathy for wee Alvin out of scenes that we've all seen a hundred times before in film, television, and print.<br />Stylistically, there's a bit of Scots dialect, but it's pretty low key, certainly not the level of Welsh or Kelman. Bissett tries to weave in song lyrics throughout-sometimes breaking a paragraph in the middle of a word to throw in a stanza-in an attempt to show how pervasive and important music is to teenagers. Sometimes this works, but often it's intrusive. Similarly, paragraphs are broken in the most arbitrary manner, almost as if the typesetter came along at the end and as a joke, just started putting in paragraph markers at random. Not sure what the point of that is, other than maybe to suggest the chaotic nature of teenagerdom... All in all, this is a decent read, but nothing special. Probably not worth seeking out unless you're trying to keep up with all the latest Scottish fiction or are a big fan of coming of age stories. Oh yes, the title is a slang term coined in the UK and New Zealand for teenage drivers who aggressively flout the law and participate in illegal street racing (kind of like the gearheads in The Fast and The Furious).ics throughout-sometimes breaking a paragraph in the middle of a word to throw in a stanza-in an attempt to show how pervasive and important music is to teenagers. Sometimes this works, but often it's intrusive. Similarly, paragraphs are broken in the most arbitrary manner, almost as if the typesetter came along at the end and as a joke, just started putting in paragraph markers at random. Not sure what the point of that is, other than maybe to suggest the chaotic nature of teenagerdom... All in all, this is a decent read, but nothing special. Probably not worth seeking out unless you're trying to keep up with all the latest Scottish fiction or are a big fan of coming of age stories. Oh yes, the title is a slang term coined in the UK and New Zealand for teenage drivers who aggressively flout the law and participate in illegal street racing (kind of like the gearheads in The Fast and The Furious).	2003-11-21
896904:US	52254603	R1V1Q74H42SUNQ	1582342903	972545783	The Rider	Books	5	25	25	N	Y	Brilliant Novella--Even for the Noncyclist	I'm not a cyclist by any stretch of the imagination, and am only a moderate fan of the sport in general. But Krabb&eacute;'s novella, originally published in the Netherlands 25 years ago, has got to best one of the best fictional treatments of any sport. The book follows an competitive amateur rider through a half-day, 150 kilometer race over the very real Mont Aigoual in France. Krabb&eacute; is himself an avid amateur cyclist, and his ability to capture both the mental and physical aspects of the sport is uncanny. Although I've never raced a bike, I did run cross-country competitively, and many of the elements carry over-mainly the twin battle each individual faces with their brain and their body (There's one excellent moment when the rider wills his bike to get a flat so he can withdraw with honor.).<br />The stripped-down prose style (common to all Krabb&eacute;'s work), works especially well in the context of a race where the long distances can lead to almost a trance-like state. The mind wanders all over the place, and that is captured brilliantly in the rider's musings-for example, one part describes how he tries to invent words to keep himself amused during long, boring training rides. At the same time, the race itself is very tense, and Krabb&eacute; does quite well at describing the various tactical gambits employed along the way. The main competitors emerge as distinct figures-allies and foes in both a psychological and physical sense (I especially liked the unknown in the blue Cycles Goff jersey). Interwoven with it all are tidbits of cycling history, which are intermittently interesting to the non-racer.<br />It's not a reach to call this a masterpiece of sports literature. The story does a remarkable job at conveying the tension and flow of a race to the outsider. At the same time, the insights into the psychology of the athlete are so acute as to be universally recognizable across cultures and sports.	2003-11-18
902820:US	52254603	R352RFCL3PVM98	1568581998	838742484	Scorpian Rising	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Murders, Mayhem, and Margate	With his third book, Frewin leaves behind the '60s conspiracy subject matter of his first two crime novels (the Promfuno scandal in London Blues and the Kennedy assassination in Sixty-Three Closure) for a stripped down gangster noir. The book was apparently conceived when his son issued a &quot;let's see you do better then&quot; challenge after they saw The Long Good Friday and Frewin hated it (I quite liked it myself). The result is a revenge tale that is ostensibly contemporary, but has a bleak timelessness that connects it to the '60s. The story concerns a bigtime London gangster and the fallout that occurs when his harmless brother is executed in the dying seaside resort of Margate. The boss, Sid, could easily have been a low-level hood in the '60s or early '70s, and now risen to the top. Most of the story is told through his smart but weary right-hand man, Vince. He's one of those classic crime book characters, he just wants to get out of the underworld while he still can, and retire to a quiet comfortable civilian life. His impending retirement is threatened by the mysterious assault on Sid's empire.<br />As the gang shuttles between London and Margate (about an hour away, you might recall it as the scene of the Mod vs. Rocker riots of the early '60s, as depicted in Quadrophenia, although those were in Brighton) a mysterious foe keeps causing problems for them-lethal problems. It's a strange kind of book, because for half of it, there's absolutely no clue as to who could be responsible. Then, about halfway in, a list of possibilities is presented, one of whom seems like the obvious choice. It's a bit if a disappointment when that is confirmed at the very end. But the book is more about atmosphere than plot, and the atmosphere is very heavy on the mockney gangster tip, lots of tough banter and &quot;Guv&quot; use. The portrayal of Margate as a dying resort is quite good, and it's kind of interesting how it acts as a killing ground for these toughs from the big smoke. All in all, a decent gritty page turner, but unlikely to leave much of a mark.smoke. All in all, a decent gritty page turner, but unlikely to leave much of a mark.	2003-11-13
903798:US	52254603	RGPFIPEEX94FT	0380780496	611117139	Brazzaville Beach	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Another Excellent Work From Boyd	Once again Boyd brings together unrelated topics, interesting settings, and full characters to create a story that's utterly absorbing and hard to pigeonhole. Narrated by Hope Clearwater (an unfortunately clunky name for a protagonist), the story looks back at two traumatic times in her life, as she attempts to make sense of them. One of these storylines begins with the completion of her dissertation and her subsequent marriage to a brilliant but troubled mathematician. The other storyline concerns her work some years later at a chimpanzee research center in an unnamed African country (presumably Congo). Both of these threads revolve around the quest for knowledge and the mania that quest can result in, and both are compelling. The latter is especially gripping, containing elements of a thriller within its arc, and the backdrop of civil war. Boyd consulted extensively with Jane Goodall in his research for the book, and the result is a vividly realistic portrait of a tiny international scientific community, complete with petty jealousies and massive egos.<br />It's difficult to write about this book and do it proper justice. So much of it is about Hope's internal struggles about her life, and the difficulties of being married to someone who is greatly flawed. She makes a good feminist character, strong but not pushy, intelligent but not snobby, often conflicted about what the best course of action is, and sometimes mistaken. Her struggle for respect in both the personal and professional realms is at the heart of the book, and is a theme with wide resonance. It's one of the best cases of a man writing in a woman's voice I can recollect. All the characters that surround Hope, even the most insignificant, are carefully crafted and rich in texture. From her Egyptian mercenary lover, to her charismatic project leader and his frigid wife, to her powerful academic advisor, and the volleyball coach turned rebel-each rings true. The novel is not perfect, there are a few minor flaws, such as a contrivance whereby Hope is never able to take photos proving her observations. On the whole though, it's another very solid, and eminently readable work from Boyd.flaws, such as a contrivance whereby Hope is never able to take photos proving her observations. On the whole though, it's another very solid, and eminently readable work from Boyd.	2003-11-12
904531:US	52254603	R2NQ7815ML2PTZ	1864503467	43734038	Lonely Planet Supercargo: A Journey Among Ports (Lonely Planet Travel Literature)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	A Lackluster Excursion	More often than not, travel literature is sparked by the imagination. That reality rarely coincidences with the imagination is more or less to be expected in the genre. As long as the journey is inquisitive and interesting, the reader remains satisfied. What is less successful is when a writer's imagination exceeds their own verve and boldness, as in this lackluster tramp through ports of the Mediterranean, around Africa and into the Indian Ocean.<br />Australian writer McCamish embarked in search of the &quot;idea of the port&quot;, a restless place on the edges of civilization, where cultures meet to trade, and the dregs of society cluster. He prepares us for disappointment by admitting up front that this kind of port &quot;may have already disappeared,&quot; but proceeds to book passage on several cargo ships. It doesn't take long for him to realize that in the era of the container cargo ship, ports no longer carry much sense of adventure-or at least, not as far as he's willing to pursue the matter. For, even though he's enamored with the idea of dingy dockfront bars full of brawling sailors and women of ill repute, he shrinks from any contact with them. Bemoaning the absence of any &quot;characters&quot;, he is too timid to place himself in the kinds of situations where he might meet interesting people with stories to tell. Constant references to calling his wife back home give the sense that he took this journey about a decade too late in his life. It also doesn't help that he can't get ashore at a number of stops due to bureaucratic hassles or the obstinacy of the ship's captain.<br />Which is not to say there aren't some interesting stories and some amusing characters. The snippets of history and tales from other sources are woven in rather well, and life aboard a massive cargo ship is moderately interesting for a while. At the beginning and the end, McCamish is joined on his trip by friends, and these parts are noticeably better for the addition of another perspective. Eccentric sailors, stewards, and captains fill up the middle, but there's little made from the potential. Too often, McCamish seems to have little to say, and the result is a work that at times barely rises above the level of a good journal.erspective. Eccentric sailors, stewards, and captains fill up the middle, but there's little made from the potential. Too often, McCamish seems to have little to say, and the result is a work that at times barely rises above the level of a good journal.	2003-11-12
906402:US	52254603	RYIQ2UDDRESK1	0380797399	49390421	Faded Coat of Blue (Abel Jones Mysteries)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Solid Start to a Civil War Mystery Series	Parry's Civil War mystery series kicks off with this volume, which introduces Captain Abel Jones, a supply clerk for the Union Army. Jones is a Welshman who served in the British Army in India before immigrating to America and setting up house with his Welsh wife in Pennsylvania. A reluctant enlistee, he joined the Union forces and was severely wounded fighting in the first Battle of Bull Run. Committed to helping the cause, he now battles files in his Washington office, trying to track down missing shipments of greatcoats and the like. A meticulously honest and scrupulous officer, Jones is secretly enlisted by the Army's commander, General George McClellan, to investigate the mysterious killing of a famous and beloved officer.<br />Anthony Fowler was a young, handsome outspoken abolitionist and the son of a prominent Philadelphia family. One dark and rainy night, his body is discovered on the outskirts of a Union camp by a sentry. Several days later, unwilling detective Jones proceeds with due dilligence to investigate the matter, clumsily interviewing witnesses and chasing red herrings. Along the way, we meet a well-developed support cast, including a fellow Welsh telegraph operator, a tough but learned Irish doctor, a roly-poly German landlady with a surprising history, a loveable rogue, and a wide array of posh cads and brutes. The mystery itself isn't bad, but the real treat is is Parry's detailed portrait of Civil War era Washington, D.C. from the boarding houses to the bordellos, eng elegant drawing rooms to dangerous dark alleyways.<br />The story is told in Jones' hand, and his narrator's voice flows quite well. Details are given, but more importantly, the reader is given his opinions, all sprinkled with Welsh idioms and prejudices. In true Victorian form, all races and nationalities are assigned characteristics, and that's just the way it is. Some of these are apt, and some of these are slyly witty (&quot;The Prussian may be diligent and organized, but he'll never make a good soldier.&quot;). As the investigation proceeds, Jones' life story is brought to the surface in bits and pieces, so that the reader gradually builds a picture of the man. From his tough childhood in England, to the bloody service in India, some secrets are revealed and some just hinted at. There is a fair amount of foreshadowing, as Parry cleverly teases the reader with hints about further adventures (which appear in Shadows of Glory, Call Each River Jordan, Honor's Kingdom, Bold Sons of Erin and further to come). All in all, it's a nice start to a series sure to satisfy the mystery reader with an interest in the Civil War.'ll never make a good soldier.&quot;). As the investigation proceeds, Jones' life story is brought to the surface in bits and pieces, so that the reader gradually builds a picture of the man. From his tough childhood in England, to the bloody service in India, some secrets are revealed and some just hinted at. There is a fair amount of foreshadowing, as Parry cleverly teases the reader with hints about further adventures (which appear in Shadows of Glory, Call Each River Jordan, Honor's Kingdom, Bold Sons of Erin and further to come). All in all, it's a nice start to a series sure to satisfy the mystery reader with an interest in the Civil War.	2003-11-10
907489:US	52254603	R2S12TS7TLE980	0060936231	429116202	Soul Mountain	Books	1	17	29	N	N	Stricly For Fans of Experimentalist Literature	Unless you're a fan of experimentalist literature, any enthusiasm for reading this novel will probably evaporate if you come across the author's warning that: &quot;The book is not plot-oriented, but based on the inner world of the author. Rather than plots and incidents, my heart is its basic structure. That's why it doesn't really fit into any category as a novel. In fact, there is no such novel in the history of literature.&quot; Hmm. Human heart as structure for fiction... OK... Factor in that this not-a-novel novel weighs in at 500+ pages, and it's really hard to make a good case for starting, much less, finishing this massive mess of travelogue, folk tales, memories, dialogue, verse, and laughable spiritual quest. However, since this was the book selected by my book group, finish it I did. A feat which none of the seven other avid readers in my group accomplished-not even the woman with a Masters Degree in Chinese Studies!<br />Xingjian won the Nobel Prize for Literature, but a cursory inspection of his bibliography reveals that the bulk of his writings are plays, with critical essays coming next, and short stories a distant third. The novel is not a form he is comfortable with, which begs the question, why did he write this one? In the early 1980s he was misdiagnosed with terminal cancer, and when it was discovered he wouldn't die, he felt compelled to go walkabout in rural China in a quasi-spiritual quest. The results of Xingjian's travels form the basis for this semi-autobiographical novel, in which the narrator shares this history, and heads out on an identical journey to see what remains of China's wilderness and folk tales. The brief chapters alternate between the narrator's travel notes, some good vignettes about environmental degradation, retellings of folk tales, local stories of bandits and warlords, encounters with monks, dialogues with women who may only be in his imagination, and inner ramblings. A lot of this sounds like it might be interesting, but it really isn't. Since there's no plot (or any other reason) to throw all these things together on the page, it merely grows frustrating after about fifty pages or so. And we won't even get into the shifting use of pronouns.<br />The banality of the narrator's experiences and observations cannot be overstated. For example, the &quot;Soul Mountain&quot; that the narrator is striving to locate proves elusive to him until he comes to understand that it is a state of being, not a physical place! Exceptionally profound... if you're thirteen years old. And the reason the book's various strands run hither and yon, without relation, closure, or plot? Because &quot;that's how life is&quot;? Again, very deep stuff here. The government is destroying the land in order to profit? Shocking! The book was written over the course of eight years, from 1982-89, which no doubt contributes to its disjointedness. If you absolutely must try it, I suggest reading the first fifty pages, then Chapter 52 (which sort of explains the pronoun use), and Chapter 72 (in which the author directly addresses a critic of the book). But as there are more books than time to read them, I'd suggest using your time for something else.but it really isn't. Since there's no plot (or any other reason) to throw all these things together on the page, it merely grows frustrating after about fifty pages or so. And we won't even get into the shifting use of pronouns.<br />The banality of the narrator's experiences and observations cannot be overstated. For example, the &quot;Soul Mountain&quot; that the narrator is striving to locate proves elusive to him until he comes to understand that it is a state of being, not a physical place! Exceptionally profound... if you're thirteen years old. And the reason the book's various strands run hither and yon, without relation, closure, or plot? Because &quot;that's how life is&quot;? Again, very deep stuff here. The government is destroying the land in order to profit? Shocking! The book was written over the course of eight years, from 1982-89, which no doubt contributes to its disjointedness. If you absolutely must try it, I suggest reading the first fifty pages, then Chapter 52 (which sort of explains the pronoun use), and Chapter 72 (in which the author directly addresses a critic of the book). But as there are more books than time to read them, I'd suggest using your time for something else.	2003-11-09
907876:US	52254603	R3T2AG0F7O8FOP	1400046874	281738060	Washington Schlepped Here: Walking in the Nation's Capital (Crown Journeys)	Books	2	13	16	N	N	The Same Old Same Old	Buckley's entry in the &quot;Crown Journeys&quot; series is an occasionally amusing, intermittently interesting, and ultimately shallow slim guide to about two of Washington, D.C.'s 67 square miles. His walks cover Union Station, the Capitol, the White House, the Old Executive Office Building, Lafayette Park and Square, Ford's Theater, the Lincoln, Jefferson, Roosevelt, Vietnam War, and Korean War memorials, the Washington Monument, and Arlington Cemetery (which is not in Washington, but across the river in Virginia). In other words, the twenty year resident enlisted to write this book takes the reader to most generic tourist spots in the city, all of which you will find in any reasonably decent regular guidebook. He does this with sometimes funny, sometimes leaden humor, highly leavened with his strong conservative sentiments.<br />His walks are littered with cribbed historical anecdotes and tales of his glory days in the corridors of power. Buckley came to Washington to join the Reagan administration, and he's not shy about name dropping and telling you all the neato-torpedo insider stuff he saw and did. All which could be overlooked if he actually went anywhere off the beaten track, or acknowledged in the remotest way that D.C. is a large city with actual neighborhoods where people are born, live, and die. Sadly, he takes the opposite route, and chooses to disparage that large swath of people (the vast majority of whom are black) who live in DC and have always done so. In the opening pages, he quotes Joseph Alsop's self-description as &quot;That sad and rootless thing, a Washingtonian&quot; and then goes on to say that DC natives &quot;would probably sniff at that, but then they sniff at pretty much everything.&quot; Well, what DC natives sniff at is not being allowed to vote in presidential elections until the mid-60s, and to this day having to pay federal taxes without having a vote in Congress (that's why DC license plates bear the &quot;Taxation Without Representation&quot; tagline). Buckley is emblematic of a whole cadre of people who move to DC-usually to get involved in politics-and never engage with it, never commit to it, and love being there for all the wrong reasons.<br />To be sure, the book tells plenty of interesting stories about the formation of the city, and especially its chief designer, Pierre L'Enfant. However, the city Buckley details is one of monuments and ghosts, not people and neighborhoods. It's an annoying approach, because there is so much more to the city that the casual tourist would benefit from hearing about. How about the historic U Street area, which has boatloads of black history? How about the The Awakening statue at Hains Point? How about historic Georgetown? How about the Canal? How about the largest urban park in American, Rock Creek Park? How about the amazing National Cathedral or the equally amazing Basilica of the Shrine of the Immaculate Conception? How about the most underrated museum, The Building Museum? How about Dupont Circle, the center of gay culture in the city. How about cool walkable neighborhoods like Adams Morgan, Mt. Pleasant, Brookland, and Takoma Park? Nope, instead, we hear about a invitation only party hosted by the Cheney's in the Museum of American History and Arlington Cemetery (which is an amazing place, but ISN'T IN DC!).<br />For the monuments and all that, this book isn't a bad supplement to a good guidebook. However, if you really want to learn about the city and the regular people who live there, check out Edward Jones' wonderful collection of short stories, Lost In the City, or pretty much any George Pelecanos' crime novels, or the 1994 book Dream City: Race, Power, and the Decline of Washington, D.C.esentation&quot; tagline). Buckley is emblematic of a whole cadre of people who move to DC-usually to get involved in politics-and never engage with it, never commit to it, and love being there for all the wrong reasons.<br />To be sure, the book tells plenty of interesting stories about the formation of the city, and especially its chief designer, Pierre L'Enfant. However, the city Buckley details is one of monuments and ghosts, not people and neighborhoods. It's an annoying approach, because there is so much more to the city that the casual tourist would benefit from hearing about. How about the historic U Street area, which has boatloads of black history? How about the The Awakening statue at Hains Point? How about historic Georgetown? How about the Canal? How about the largest urban park in American, Rock Creek Park? How about the amazing National Cathedral or the equally amazing Basilica of the Shrine of the Immaculate Conception? How about the most underrated museum, The Building Museum? How about Dupont Circle, the center of gay culture in the city. How about cool walkable neighborhoods like Adams Morgan, Mt. Pleasant, Brookland, and Takoma Park? Nope, instead, we hear about a invitation only party hosted by the Cheney's in the Museum of American History and Arlington Cemetery (which is an amazing place, but ISN'T IN DC!). <br />For the monuments and all that, this book isn't a bad supplement to a good guidebook. However, if you really want to learn about the city and the regular people who live there, check out Edward Jones' wonderful collection of short stories, Lost In the City, or pretty much any George Pelecanos' crime novels, or the 1994 book Dream City: Race, Power, and the Decline of Washington, D.C.	2003-11-09
913733:US	52254603	R2Z1SOSAW0J4D0	1852426659	430453849	The Bank Robber Diaries	Books	4	2	3	N	N	My Daddy Was A Bankrobber, But He Never Hurt Nobody...	There's nothing like the promise of a behind-the-scenes tour of crime and vice to send law-abiding citizens scurrying for the nearest movie theater, TV set, or bookstore. Former burglar King has certainly tapped into this interest with his &quot;Diaries&quot; series. His well-received debut The Burglar Diaries was the first-person account of a burglar's career. This successor volume follows the formula, being a first-person account of the life and times of a London bank robber. (It should be noted that the &quot;diary&quot; label is not really accurate, as it's not a day-by-day account, but more of a memoir that looks back at the past.) The narrator is Chris, who followed his brother into a life of bank robbery and becomes the head of their small crew when his brother gets nabbed and jailed for 15 years.<br />The story covers about a decade of his career, from inept beginner to slick professional. Along the way, he embarks on a loveless marriage, a desperate affair with his brother's wife, and must confront the growing psychopathic tendencies of his partner Vince. The reader is pulled this way and that, as Chris grows more human and sympathetic, and then will do something awful. He's a subtly compelling character-all he really wants is to be left in peace and quiet to watch TV, enjoy the odd beer, and maybe find some comfort and love. On the other hand, he's not opposed to putting two slugs in anyone who stands between him and jail. The tension mounts as Vince grows more out of control, and in one episode of high black comedy, completely loses it in a paintball battle and starts bludgeoning anyone who stands between him and winning.<br />The whole book is written in a very easy, smooth storytelling style that moves right along and has the ring of authenticity about it. King treads that fine line between humanizing and glorifying criminals, and does an excellent job of bringing the dark reality of the criminal life back every time the story strays toward the sentimental. It can be funny at times, sometimes slapsticky, but more often the humor of the black Coen Bros. kind. Climaxing in an ambiguous dark ending, the story makes its own statement as to the attractiveness of the criminal life. King's series continues with The Hitman Diaries, and the forthcoming Pornographer Diaries.ntal. It can be funny at times, sometimes slapsticky, but more often the humor of the black Coen Bros. kind. Climaxing in an ambiguous dark ending, the story makes its own statement as to the attractiveness of the criminal life. King's series continues with The Hitman Diaries, and the forthcoming Pornographer Diaries.	2003-11-04
919051:US	52254603	R17EUF3ZWIJKYM	1860469779	542736305	Don't Look Back [Import] [Paperback] by Fossum, Karin; David, Felicity	Books	5	90	94	N	N	Excellent Norwegian Procedural -- #5 in the Sejer Series	After being widely translated in Europe, it's about time that Fossum's excellent police procedurals are becoming available in English. Unfortunately this first book in translation is the fifth in the series, and so a bit of the background is lacking. The story starts with the disappearance of a young girl in a small Norwegian village, but adroitly segues into a murder investigation as the search for the girl turns up an unrelated naked corpse. The town is one of several small communities served by the city police, and grizzled Inspector Sejer and his younger partner Skarre are assigned to the case.<br />This is above all a psychological mystery, as Sejer and Skarre carefully poke and prod the small community, where everyone knows everyone else, in order to unravel the tale that led to the killing of a well-liked teenage girl. Although the townspeople have plenty of skeletons in their closets, the story never strays into clich&eacute;, as it might have under a less assured hand. Sejer is a placid and cunning detective of late middle age, living alone with his dog after being widowed (again, one senses that his personal life has been detailed in previous books). He bears a certain similarity to Det. Inspector Charlie Resnick, the protagonist of John Harvey's long-running Nottingham procedural series. Skarre works well as his younger, more informal partner, slightly treading on eggshells around his more experienced superior.<br />With no forensic evidence, no witnesses, and no apparent motive, there's little for them to go on. Thus, Sejer and Skarre spend the whole novel interviewing and reinterviewing everyone who knew the girl and might have seen something. As the tension builds, and various red herrings are dispensed with, Sejer grows convinced that the key to the murder lies in an abrupt change in the girl's behavior almost a year previously. This leads seamlessly to yet another layer within the story. Throughout, every character comes to life, and sometimes, the story shift to their perspective for several pages to add a richer depth to the unfolding investigation. Norway never really emerges as a distinct setting, it's a story that really could have been set in any small town in the first world, but it's an absorbing tale, which ends with a potentially unsettling coda.<br />PS. Danish television produced a four-hour miniseries from the book under the title &quot;Se Deg Ikke Tilbake.&quot; With luck, it might be subtitled in English at some point...hift to their perspective for several pages to add a richer depth to the unfolding investigation. Norway never really emerges as a distinct setting, it's a story that really could have been set in any small town in the first world, but it's an absorbing tale, which ends with a potentially unsettling coda. <br />PS. Danish television produced a four-hour miniseries from the book under the title &quot;Se Deg Ikke Tilbake.&quot; With luck, it might be subtitled in English at some point...	2003-10-31
923400:US	52254603	R61V98L7M8O88	0066209773	650878863	The Master Butchers Singing Club: A Novel (Erdrich, Louise)	Books	3	57	71	N	N	A Muddled Mess	Lack of focus and overripe writing tarnishes this bleak story, which ostensibly follows Fidelis Waldvogel from the front lines of WWI to the new world of America, and on through life until WWII. I say ostensibly because after a very effective opening section detailing Fidelis' action as a sniper, subsequent marriage to his dead best friend's pregnant widow, and journey to America to establish himself as a butcher, he fades far into the background. Delphine Watzka takes over the role of protagonist as the book follows her down a wearying life path as friend to Fidelis' wife, caretaker to her own alcoholic father, half of a vaudeville duo with a part Ojibwa Indian, and into a late marriage.<br />The bulk of the book is set in Argus, North Dakota, a fictional town appearing in several of Erdrich's other books, where Fidelis sets up shop as an old world master butcher. There's plenty going on in the small town, such as the mystery of how exactly some people were killed in Delphine's father's basement long ago. Not to mention the mystery of who her mother is. Plus, there's her unrequited love for her partner Cyprian Lazarre, who harbors a rather obvious secret of his own. Let's not forget that much of the book takes place during the Great Depression, so there's plenty of misery to go around. And, oh yes, there's the long, drawn out illness of another central figure, with all kinds of ramifications. It's life, sort of. More like melodrama masquerading as life. However, there's so much going on with Delphine, and so many other subplots that there's no focus to the story, and it ends up feeling thrown together. A judicious weeding out of one of the nonessential subplots (such as the murder mystery) would have helped matters a great deal. Delphine reigns though it all as an supernaturally compassionate and resilient heroine, almost as if the book was written specifically for women of a certain age who have been hard done by. It's a shame, because the first part is quite interesting, and there are engaging moments scattered throughout.resting, and there are engaging moments scattered throughout.	2003-10-28
923533:US	52254603	R1AZGWL4L2KX8X	1931484511	866426734	Walls of Zhumar (Way of the Rat, Book 1)	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Hong Kong Film as Comic	In medieval China, the border city of Zhumar is threatened with total destruction at the hands of a a Mongol-like horde from the west. However, the evil judge-ruler of the city has struck a bargain with their warlord. In exchange for several powerful magical artifacts, the city will be spared and the judge will be allowed to rule on. Alas, the schemes of the mighty are wrecked by the lowliest rat-in this case Boon Sai Hong (The Jade Rat), a member of the Thieves Guild who inadvertently steals two of the three artifacts on the very night the judge was to have them stolen. Yes, this is a plot straight out of a Hong Kong flick, and it's probably no coincidence that the bumbling hero-thief bears more than a passing resemblance to a young Jackie Chan. The parallels to Chan's films grow even stronger when his two mentors are introduced, a pudgy fellow who looks an awful lot like Sammo Hung, and another who could be modeled after Yuen Bao. The book's film forebearers are perhaps too much in evidence in some of the action scenes, where the artist's have attempted to capture the visual poetry of the combat acrobatics by creating sort of stop-action, slo-mo renderings of Boon's moves. Many others profess to love the technique, but I found it very off-putting and distracting.<br />Most of the book has Boon racing around the city, attempting to elude the judge's assassins, his own Thieves Guild brothers (who are displeased with him), and a mysterious masked woman in white (presumably a princess). This plays out again the siege of the city, in which the Mongols are aided by a Russian military engineer who unveiled a massive cannon. The passage of time gets somewhat confusing actually, as Boon's chase scene over rooftops and through alleys appears to span days, if not weeks, as it is intercut with the siege. It's all pretty stock stuff, a lovable rogue whom destiny grants great power, and then becomes a hero, with a princess in the offing. There are some fresh touches though, like the talking monkey mentor he gains, and the Russian cannonmaker. All in all, not bad, but not great.e the talking monkey mentor he gains, and the Russian cannonmaker. All in all, not bad, but not great.	2003-10-28
925006:US	52254603	R1IS1VMITB88B7	1565847571	661811897	Absolute Perfection of Crime: A Novel	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Slim Homage To Noir Never Finds Its Own Voice	The French fascination with noir is demonstrated in this unsatisfying novella about a casino heist in an anonymous coastal city. The book starts with the release of the narrator's partner, Marin, from jail after three years. The two are part of a tiny &quot;family&quot; of gangsters with a bedridden old man as godfather. Led by Marin, the gang is just tough enough to control a small piece of the action, but are minor players in the underworld. Marin emerges from jail with a grand scheme to rob a casino in what will be &quot;the absolute perfection of crime&quot;. The narrator and another gang member, Andrei, realize that the job is beyond them and it will all end badly, yet true to the noir form, they accept the inevitability of fate and go along with everything. It's all atmosphere and terse sentences as the group plans, and then in an odd shift, the narrator describes the actual heist in a reenacting for a judge. Clearly things didn't quite work out, and indeed, the &quot;absolute perfection&quot; disintegrated in in a shootout with the cops. The final part of the story shows the narrator emerging from jail after seven years to track down his betrayer and exact revenge. Even though all the elements are there: betrayal, death, a beautiful woman, a heist, revenge- it's never all that interesting. Perhaps because it's little more than homage to a hundred films and books we've already seen and read, and has no voice of its own. If you're really after French noir, I'd suggest finding one of Jean-Patrick Manchette's recently translated books from the '70s, like The Prone Gunman.	2003-10-27
931655:US	52254603	R5TUOCJCKF3HP	0224061291	809404093	Sophisticated Boom Boom	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Nothing New Here...	Kelly's sophomore novel inhabits the well-established realm of the fictional memoir arranged around pop music. Now a prominent Irish music journalist and radio DJ, Kelly grew up in Northern Ireland, in Enniskillen, County Fermanagh, in the mid to late 1970s-just as his protagonist does. In a town far removed from any cultural scene, where nothing ever happens, best pals Declan and his pal Spit discover the liberating power of music. In herky, jerky, short chapters, the twosome lurch from musical phase to musical phase, with little in the way to guide them. Other than chronicle their temporal obsessions with Horslips, then Thin Lizzy, then Van Morrison, then Bob Dylan, then John Coltrane, then country music, nothing much happens. They yearn for girls, they play in garage bands, they yearn for escape to the big city, they get to the big city (Belfast), they grow older and wryly wiser. The only thing one emerges with a slightly better sense of how music can consume teenage boys in remarkable ways, and serves as an important framework for creating an identity for oneself. Ultimately, however, the novel teaches the reader nothing new about all this, and as there's no plot to sustain the reader's interest, it all falls rather flat.	2003-10-21
931780:US	52254603	R5F7UY9RH3MKX	0375758585	403242172	The World at Night: A Novel	Books	2	5	7	N	N	Furst's Weakest	Furst's fourth WWII espionage novel is heavy on atmosphere but virtually plotless, and is disappointingly left to be finished in his next book, Red Gold. All his books feature loner male protagonists, and here the subject is Jean Casson, a midrange French film producer. In his early 40s, Casson is a somewhat hedonistic bon vivant, and as life comes to a momentary standstill during the initial weeks of occupation, he struggles to keep himself fed and clothed. One gets the distinct sense that Casson is supposed to be somewhat emblematic of a certain type or even France, rather than a distinctive character unto himself. A somewhat empty womanizing type, without the courage of any convictions, but with expensive tastes, Casson is recruited to help the resistance. It's a third of the way into the book, by the time this happens though, and-unlike in other of Furst's books-the intelligence aspect never picks up any momentum.<br />As amateur intelligence operation, Casson is mediocre at best, and it's never really clear why he agrees to help. The perhaps reflects a certain aspect of France at the time, the desire to retain honor, but without having to do too much hard work, or put oneself into too dangerous a situation. At the same time his espionage work starts, he rekindles an old relationship that is perhaps his one true love. This never transcends the generic potboiler romance level, and fails to add any depth to what little story there is. As in all of Furst's writing, the book is rich in detail when in comes to occupied Europe, one really gets the vibe of the caf&eacute;s, restaurants, and street life in Paris. However, the espionage angle develops rather confusingly and almost randomly, resulting in a rather convoluted anticlimactic finale, which includes a ridiculous escape scene. This weakness is only further exacerbated by the book's abrupt end-why this brief story and Red Gold were split into two books is both annoying a bit of a mystery. The result is that this book is probably the weakest of Furst's espionage oeuvre.is probably the weakest of Furst's espionage oeuvre.	2003-10-21
936202:US	52254603	R3G69HSBHJSOCE	1582341796	637751544	Rain	Books	1	6	7	N	N	German Misfire	This German novel is not pleasant or fun to read--nor, despite the publisher's marketing, is it particularly funny. Its protagonists are Leon and Martina, a newly married couple who share no common interests, traits, or much of a reason to be married. Leon is a dumpy undistinguished poet who is enlisted by a prominent Hamburg pimp to write his biography--and be paid well for it. With half the money in advance, he and Martina buy a cottage in Eastern Germany and move there permanently to write and live. Martina is a pretty bulimic with zero personality, who seems content to follow Leon around. It doesn't take long for them to realize that their new house is permanently damp and in need of serious repair, and that it never stops raining in their new environs. Moreover, they have weird neighbors (two sisters, one who is a very businesslike lesbian and the other who is an obese earth mother figure), a serious slug problem, and a new sort-of-pet dog.<br />There's definitely a lot of symbolism going on, as we follow these two unsympathetic types who move from West to East, from city to country, and gradually unravel. This might have been more interesting if there was much to unravel, but they're so incompatible and unlikable to start with, that it's difficult to really care what happens to them. Any kind of grim comedy that might be extracted from the story is offset by a few exceedingly violent and nasty scenes, including a very graphic and disturbing rape. It's shocking stuff, but since we don't really care about these people anyway, what's the point? Duve succeeds at bringing to life the depressing fetidness of the rain and the marshlands, but there are no characters or plotlines to get invested in. Readers with a keen grasp on contemporary German culture and society might get more out of the symbolism, but the outsider is left wondering what the point of it all is.	2003-10-17
936669:US	52254603	R39BBEBMCWZTOV	0571201024	837633967	Strides	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good Basic London Love Story / Comedy	When the setting is contemporary London, and the protagonist is a neurotic male in his late 20s who's falling in love, and the style is witty/chatty with a sprinkling of film and football references, it's pretty hard not to think of Nick Hornby. Fortunately this is more than another High Fidelity/About A Boy wanna-be (although it does skirt the edges of such territory), and has its own voice. The story follows &quot;Winger&quot;, a sometime photo shoot coordinator, but mostly unemployed guy who spends way too much time stressing about his trousers. This is what happens when he falls in love with a woman who's already got a boyfriend.<br />It's a very simple and recognizable urban, middle-class, twenty-something tale, charming in its own little way, but rather insubstantial. Winger is a compelling figure, a likeable guy with hangups, but who mostly does and says the right things--and when he doesn't, you feel for him. There's plenty of banter, soccer references, and loads of clothes chatter to boot. Foster uses a few stylistic gimmicks which don't add a whole lot, and leave the taste of contrivance in the reader's mouth, but otherwise the book is very fluid and nicely written. The 1973 Robert Altman film, The Long Goodbye, features prominently in Winger's introspective musings, and it's advisable to rent it if you're not familiar with it. All in all, it's a good bet if you're looking for a predictable urban love story/comedy.	2003-10-17
945006:US	52254603	R3N041EXTA8YLV	1931484198	92231669	Ruse v. 1: Enter the Detective	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Intriguing Victorianesque Series	I'm not much of a comics reader in general, but this collection of the first six issues of the &quot;Ruse&quot; series caught my eye. The setting is Partington, the capital city of a place very much resembling gaslight Victorian England. The hero is super-genius detective Simon Archard and his stubborn blonde assistant, Emma. Archard is kind of a Sherlock Holmes character, capable of stunning feats of deduction-but with the body and dexterity of an athlete. Emma is a smart, tough, witty, and beautiful, but continually frustrated by Simon's condescension to her. She also possesses the magical ability to stop time, although for reasons that remain murky, she's not allowed to use it. The two interact in a remarkably witty nonstop banter, much in style of the screwball comedy films of the '40s, with Simon inevitably getting the last word in.<br />Their adventures in this book begin with a relatively simple murder investigation, which ties into a drug-smuggling operation masterminded by a beautiful foreign baroness. The stakes mount and mount over the first four chapters as the baroness brings the city's most influential citizens under her power and Simon is framed and forced into hiding. The fifth chapter finds Emma alone to confront a series of grisly prostitute slayings (a la Jack the Ripper), and to contemplate Simon's disappearance. The last story introduces the Simon's enigmatic archnemesis, in a teaser to set up the next big storyline.<br />The artwork is unbelievably rich and detailed-every panel is excellent, and many times unusual perspectives are given to the most mundane scene to make it interesting. The panel flow can be a bit confusing at times (a couple times I had tostop and figure out if I was supposed to read across the both pages, or continue down the left-hand page), but it's a small price to pay for the inventive paneling. The level of detail on clothing, architecture, and interiors is just amazing, and the colors work perfectly in conjunction. My only quibble is that the last chapter uses different artists and the look is completely different, much thicker and simpler lines, and much more drab coloring. Overall, however, it's great artwork with a compelling storyline and well worth checking out.ly quibble is that the last chapter uses different artists and the look is completely different, much thicker and simpler lines, and much more drab coloring. Overall, however, it's great artwork with a compelling storyline and well worth checking out.	2003-10-10
945273:US	52254603	R2R096JZBU68FT	1931484481	964919451	Ruse	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Strong Second Volume in the Series	Enter the Detective (the collection of the first six issues of the &quot;Ruse&quot; series) sucked me in, and so I had to continue the adventure in this volume. Again, the setting is very similar to gaslight Victorian England and the book opens with super-genius detective Simon Archard and his assistant/partner Emma on a train, bound for the countryside. The first two chapters follow them as they try and track down Simon's archnemesis by finding some tribe of gypsies. This takes them to a strange town that is uninhabited by day, full of townspeople at night, and seething with evil. The mystery here is quite a good one, creepy and effective.<br />The third chapter is a murder mystery which puts Archard fully on the trail of his archnemesis. The final three chapters play out their subterranean mano-a-mano battle amidst fantastically elaborate clockwork constructions, with Emma making the occaisional valuable contribution. Their struggle is interspersed with flashbacks explaining their history together, and how they came to be enemies. It's a titanic struggle that ends up unresolved, with further adventures to follow which tie back into the evil magical baroness of Enter the Detective . The story is laced with humor and plenty of witty banter between Simon and Emma.<br />As in the first volume, the artwork is unbelievably rich and detailed, every panel is excellent, and many times unusual perspectives are given to the most mundane scene to make it interesting. The panel flow can be a bit confusing at times (a couple times I had to break stride to figure out if I was supposed to read across the both pages, or continue down the left-hand page), but it's a small price to pay for the inventive paneling. The level of detail on clothing, architecture, and interiors is just amazing, and the colors work perfectly in conjunction. Great artwork with a compelling storyline that hearkens back to the adventures of Sherlock Holmes and Moriarity.	2003-10-10
945864:US	52254603	RTHPAK7VETO2V	0349105332	567564930	Season of the Rainbirds	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Impressive Portrait of Rural Pakistan	Winner of a Betty Trask Award for best first novel a decade ago, this remains Aslam's only book. Set in a small town in contemporary Pakistan, the novel contains a number of dramatic hooks-most notably the murder of the town judge, and the reappearance of a bag of mail missing for almost twenty years. Despite expectations, these actually don't really pay off in any huge revelations, but rather serve as catalysts for Aslam's examination of a town filled with undercurrents of political, religious, and ethnic tension. The novel flows into and out of various homes, from the town's feudalistic ruling family, that of a the town's main Muslim clergyman, to a widowed woman's, that of a Christian family, and of the district commissioner, as well as the barbershop and post office. What slowly emerges is the portrait of a community largely isolated from the outside world, under the heel of the military dictatorship and the local ruling elite, and culturally caught between tradition and modernity. It doesn't whack the reader over the head with any particular message, but rather offers a glimpse into rural Pakistani life.	2003-10-10
945868:US	52254603	R1ENAEUSON6YDF	0380789035	337033298	American Gods	Books	2	50	95	N	N	An Unwieldy Mess of Ideas and Scenes	Having heard loads of good things about Gaiman's work, and this huge novel in particular, I decided to check out this story of the decline of &quot;old&quot; gods in the face of the &quot;new&quot; gods of technology. The notion that the power of gods is derived from belief in them is a fairly basic one, and forms the underlying framework for &quot;the coming storm&quot;, where the old gods in America band together to fight the new ones. The premise here is that centuries of immigrants have brought their native gods to the shores of America, where, we are told, there were no gods. Gaiman uses a few flashbacks to show these gods in action, which are some of the most effective bits of writing in the book. But there are three main conceptual flaws in the premise. The first is that the American mainland was hardly a tabula rasa, there were plenty of Native American deities in place (Raven, Wolf, Turtle, etc.). Secondly, does that mean that there are multiple manifestations of deities-one per geographic location? If the Norse gods die off in America due to dwindling belief, does that mean they live on in Scandinavia? Thirdly, the book totally ignores the monotheistic traditions which dominate modern American belief, which seems like a massive cop-out by Gaiman. Of course, this is a work of fantasy, and one doesn't look for total realism-but these issues undermine the internal logic of the story.<br />The story's protagonist is the cheesily names Shadow, who we meet right before he is released from prison. Upon his release, he is enlisted by the leader of the &quot;old&quot; gods, Wednesday, as a bodyguard. It's troubling that Shadow never seems that perturbed by Wednesday's creepy knowledge of his life, and it's one of the books central flaws that Shadow takes the most bizarre, X-Filesque events in stride, barely batting an eye. He's such a non-reactive character that it's a real struggle to care about him at all-which is a major problem as he is the center of the story. The two set out on Gaiman's attempt at that most traditional of American genres, the road movie/book, as they attempt to organize a coalition of old gods to do battle with the new ones. So, basically, the whole story is a buildup to this massive battle, which... Well, I won't give it away, but it's likely to disappoint many readers. More problematic is the pace, which is numbingly sedentary. The book drags on and on and on at a steady pace, only to culminate in the aforementioned non-climax.<br />Along with these issues, readers who know their Norse pantheon will probably spot the book's big reveal well in advance (Shadow's prison buddy, Low Key and his boss Wednesday, bear names decodable by a child with an interest in Norse mythology). This is not to say there aren't portions that are well written and intriguing, but as a whole, the book is an unwieldy mess of ideas and scenes. Gaiman clearly has talent and imagination, but sustaining a narrative of this length appears beyond him at this point.The two set out on Gaiman's attempt at that most traditional of American genres, the road movie/book, as they attempt to organize a coalition of old gods to do battle with the new ones. So, basically, the whole story is a buildup to this massive battle, which... Well, I won't give it away, but it's likely to disappoint many readers. More problematic is the pace, which is numbingly sedentary. The book drags on and on and on at a steady pace, only to culminate in the aforementioned non-climax.<br />Along with these issues, readers who know their Norse pantheon will probably spot the book's big reveal well in advance (Shadow's prison buddy, Low Key and his boss Wednesday, bear names decodable by a child with an interest in Norse mythology). This is not to say there aren't portions that are well written and intriguing, but as a whole, the book is an unwieldy mess of ideas and scenes. Gaiman clearly has talent and imagination, but sustaining a narrative of this length appears beyond him at this point.	2003-10-10
948292:US	52254603	R16HBM1Y939P2I	0142003220	932875476	For Your Eyes Only (James Bond Novels)	Books	3	22	24	N	N	Five stories, only three of which are really about 007	The eighth book published in the 007 series is not a self-contained novel, but rather a collection of five short stories-two of which are kind of shoehorned in and aren't really typical Bond pieces. The first story, &quot;From A View To A Kill&quot;, is a pretty decent little Cold War espionage piece. In a well-crafted set piece introduction, a dispatch rider from Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers-Europe headquarters is ambushed and his documents stolen by Soviet spies. As a result of bureaucratic infighting (highly realistic, and doubtless drawn from Fleming's own intelligence experience), M sends Bond to try and figure out the security breakdown. It's a good tale, with an ingenious set of foes, probably the best story of the lot.<br />In &quot;For Your Eyes Only&quot;, Bond enters highly murky waters by taking a more or less personal assignment from M to track down the killers of an old friend. It's a highly topical late '50s piece, involving a former Nazi as mastermind, and henchmen drawn from the ranks of Cuban dictator Battista. Interestingly (in hindsight), Bond expresses real sympathy with the rebel Castro's struggle! To act as M's executioner, Bond must travel to Canada and then sneak across the US border to operate in Vermont, which is kind of interesting. Things take a turn for the ridiculous when he stumbles across another revenge seeker, wielding a bow and arrow. The middle story, &quot;Quantum of Solace&quot; isn't a Bond story at all. Rather, it's a story of disaffected marriage told to Bond by his host after a rather boring dinner party. It's actually quite good, but has nothing to do with Bond.<br />&quot;Risico&quot; takes Bond back to action, and places him in Rome, where he is assigned to disrupt the flow of heroin into England. Fleming creates a rather prescient version of &quot;The War on Drugs&quot; by directing Bond to act against the insidious enemy of drugs. It's a classic Bond story in that Bond is easily duped, meets a pretty woman, meets an unlikely ally, and engages in near fatal gunplay. (And of course, at the end, the drug pipeline to England is all a nasty Soviet plot.) The final story, &quot;The Hildebrand Rarity&quot;, is again, barely a Bond story-reducing him to observer status. He's not really on the job, but instead inexplicably agrees to hire himself out as a fishing expert in the Seychelles. Basically, he's just there as an audience for another marriage-gone-sour story. There is a villain, there is a murder, but Bond's not really a central character in it. The only real purpose to the story seems to be to allow Fleming to work out his own issues vis-&agrave;-vis American millionaires.<br />On the whole, these stories don't add much to the Bond canon. It would have been more interesting had Fleming chose to give us a taste of Bond's action in the Ardennes in WWII, or of the two assignments that led to his 00 designation (both of which are mentioned in Casino Royale). Still, the first story is worth a quick read, and &quot;For Your Eyes Only&quot; and &quot;Risico&quot; will be of interest to those who love the film versions.s an unlikely ally, and engages in near fatal gunplay. (And of course, at the end, the drug pipeline to England is all a nasty Soviet plot.) The final story, &quot;The Hildebrand Rarity&quot;, is again, barely a Bond story-reducing him to observer status. He's not really on the job, but instead inexplicably agrees to hire himself out as a fishing expert in the Seychelles. Basically, he's just there as an audience for another marriage-gone-sour story. There is a villain, there is a murder, but Bond's not really a central character in it. The only real purpose to the story seems to be to allow Fleming to work out his own issues vis--vis American millionaires.<br />On the whole, these stories don't add much to the Bond canon. It would have been more interesting had Fleming chose to give us a taste of Bond's action in the Ardennes in WWII, or of the two assignments that led to his 00 designation (both of which are mentioned in Casino Royale). Still, the first story is worth a quick read, and &quot;For Your Eyes Only&quot; and &quot;Risico&quot; will be of interest to those who love the film versions.	2003-10-08
952936:US	52254603	R17PNFZ6KYYCY9	0142002038	816153289	Doctor No (James Bond Novels)	Books	3	6	10	N	N	One of the Weaker in the Series	The sixth 007 book finds James Bond recuperating from the near-fatal events of From Russia With Love. M sends his on a seemingly easy mission to Jamaica to find out what happened to the missing station head and his secretary. As one might expect, there's more there than meets the eye, and Bond ends up facing off with one of the more memorable villains of the series. Soon after arriving, Bond's cover is blown and an attempt is made on his life, which is easily traced back to the mysterious guano magnate, Dr. Julius No. Bond teams up with his old pal Quarrel to infiltrate No's private island and poke about. As per usual, it's not long before Bond comes across a beautiful wild girl who will be at his side the rest of the story and end up in his bed. Honey is a truly ridiculous character, part untamed Amazon, part innocent schoolgirl, part nubile supermodel, all male fantasy (more so than usual, even for the Bond books!).<br />Once the dynamic trio is teamed up, it's not long before they're bumbling their way into the arms of Dr. No's professional henchmen. Bond makes elementary mistake after mistake, achieving something along the lines of his own personal Bay of Pigs in the showdown with the dreaded &quot;dragon&quot;. Once in the (inevitable) clutches of the hook-handed Dr. No, things get even more silly. First, the villain reveals his entire nefarious operation to Bond (because he's an egomaniac and needs his audience), which Bond had no previous idea about. Then, after gleefully telling Bond and the girl about how he liked to conduct scientific tests of human &quot;will to live&quot;, and conveying them to his own deadly obstacle course, he doesn't even bother to observe his little experiment! Instead, he wanders off to supervise some guano loading operation! This, of course, leaves Bond free to devise an escape (after a particularly groan-inducing battle with a giant octopus), and take revenge in a scene is so bad that it's unintentionally funny.<br />In the end, this is one adventure where Bond's toughness proves more useful than any brains r training. The descriptive writing is quite good, as Fleming places the reader right into the pristine beaches, smoky nightclubs, and fetid swamps. But it's a shame the plotting and internal logic wasn't tightened up, and the the supporting cast wasn't a bit more interesting. Quarrel is a stereotypically drawn islander, rough, tough, and lovin' the ladies, while Honey is a walking fantasy who has Bond swinging back and forth between father-figure and sexual instructor. One of the weaker books in the series.his is one adventure where Bond's toughness proves more useful than any brains r training. The descriptive writing is quite good, as Fleming places the reader right into the pristine beaches, smoky nightclubs, and fetid swamps. But it's a shame the plotting and internal logic wasn't tightened up, and the the supporting cast wasn't a bit more interesting. Quarrel is a stereotypically drawn islander, rough, tough, and lovin' the ladies, while Honey is a walking fantasy who has Bond swinging back and forth between father-figure and sexual instructor. One of the weaker books in the series.	2003-10-04
952981:US	52254603	RXNKI8SP0EGIP	1860469450	749038842	Death and the Penguin (Panther)	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Absurdist Satire from Ukraine	Ukrainian author Kurkov's slim novel combines modern political and social commentary with traditional Russian absurdist satire in a story about a writer whose pen is literally mightier than the sword. Set in contemporary Kiev, the tale revolves around Viktor, a friendless and familyless 40ish writer who lives alone in a dreary apartment with Misha, an emperor penguin. Apparently Viktor grew lonely after his girlfriend left him, and got Misha a week later when the zoo could no longer afford to keep him. The penguin lives in his apartment, with occasionally cold baths drawn for him to topple into, and plenty of frozen fish to munch on. This is presented so matter-of-factly that, like the best absurdism, it seems entirely reasonable.<br />Viktor's life consists of sitting in his apartment struggling on short stories, until one day he is offered a job writing obituaries of public figures for a newspaper. These are not to be written upon the subject's death, but are for the paper to have on file and ready to go when the person dies (this is common practice in the news world). The work is steady and the pay quite generous, as long as Viktor is sure to include veiled innuendoes and subtle moral commentary on the person, as directed by the editor. This is all well and fine, until Viktor's subjects start suddenly meeting their end with alarming regularity... Meanwhile, a mysterious mafioso shows up at Viktor's apartment and leaves his little girl and a huge wad of cash with Viktor for safekeeping.<br />Kurkov appears to be satirizing the society that has risen from the ashes of the USSR, a society where corruption and organized crime have hijacked the &quot;democratic free market&quot; that replaced communism. For example, one of the funnier little threads has the penguin becoming a &quot;celebrity&quot; mourner at mafia funerals. However, Viktor is too detached to be a truly compelling protagonist. He takes care of Misha, but rarely displays any affection for him-nor any of the other characters who come to rely on him. The book is a darkly amusing tale, but with such a cipher at the center, it's hard to really connect with it. Still, for a glimpse at post-Soviet life and<br />sensibilities and a taste of Gogolesque humor, it's not bad.the other characters who come to rely on him. The book is a darkly amusing tale, but with such a cipher at the center, it's hard to really connect with it. Still, for a glimpse at post-Soviet life and<BR>sensibilities and a taste of Gogolesque humor, it's not bad.	2003-10-04
963424:US	52254603	R1NFF7VOZOD80Q	037542217X	405618230	The Kalahari Typing School for Men: More from the No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The Adventure Continues...	Following on the heels of The No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency, Tears of the Giraffe, and Morality for Beautiful Girls, is this-the fourth entry in Smith's series about Botswanan private detective Precious Ramotswe, her master mechanic fianc&eacute; Mr. J.L.B. Matekoni, their assistant Ms. Makutsi, and their two foster children. Devotees of the series will likely deduce from the title that this particular entry will focus on Ms. Makutsi-former star pupil of the Botswana Secretarial College and expert typist. And they will be right, as the title refers to a school established by Ms. Makutsi in order to supplement her income as assistant detective and assistant garage manager.<br />There is only one real mystery in the slight volume, a man who wishes to make restitution for bad behavior of his some twenty years previously. This calls for Precious to track down two people and handle the matter with her usual delicacy. The only other case is a suspected case of infidelity with no mystery to it at all, and once again Precious's greatest difficulty lies in determining exactly what course of action to take in order to effect the best result for all concerned and achieve cosmic justice. Subplots include the ongoing trials of raising the two foster children, and the founding of a rival detective agency. This latter development held great potential for being a long-running obstacle for the Mma. Ramotswe, but is given short shrift and is dealt with all too easily. As in all the books in the series, Smith aims to portray a positive picture of modern Africa, one all too rarely seen in the West. It is both a celebration of the &quot;old ways&quot; of Africa, and a lament for their decline.	2003-09-25
971101:US	52254603	R2CM6TX784QXNG	0385512104	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time: A Novel (Alex Awards (Awards))	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Red Foods = Good	Novels written from the perspective of a mentally disabled protagonist are a tricky business, they can easily veer into condescension, mawkishness, or quirkiness for its own sake. Jonathan Lethem's Motherless Brooklyn is a recent excellent example of a highly entertaining book which avoids these pitfalls, and this story about a 15-year-old boy with a highly functional form of autism (Asperger's syndrome) is another. Christopher lives in Swindon (&quot;the armpit of England&quot;) with his widowed father, excels in math, can't read people's expressions, doesn't understand statements that aren't literal, and has severe color issues (for example, red foods are good, brown foods are not). The story begins when Christopher discovers his neighbor's dog dead, with a garden tool sticking out of it. Someone has clearly murdered the dog, and in the spirit of his favorite fictional character, Sherlock Holmes, he sets out to discover who the villain is. A social worker at his school helps him record his investigation in book form-thus explaining the novel. Christopher encounters inexplicable adult resistance to his desire to investigate, which by a quirk of fate, leads him to investigate his dead mother. At which point the book takes on a classic quest structure and the dead dog is left behind.<br />The real joy of the book is not its plot (which is skimpy and turns into a soap opera in the final third), but its nuanced portrait of the challenges faced by the mildly autistic, and by those who raise them. Christopher's sensitivity to noise, crowds, colors, and especially being touched, is shown in vivid detail (Some reviewers have criticized the character of Christopher as having many behavioral tics that would be cured in a few years therapy, however they seem to have missed the point that his father is a lower-middle class, blue-collar worker, and by inference could never hope to afford therapy.). At the same time there's no attempt to build Christopher into a figure of pity: he's clever, persistent, irritable, and sometimes irritating -a fully rounded character who simply operates in a slightly different world than most of us. The prose is very simple and direct, as one might expect from a young boy, making accessible to younger readers (although parents should be aware that there are four-letter words present). If for no other reason, the book is worth reading for the humanistic and empathetic portrayal of a mentally disabled youth, and will help any reader better understand the challenges facing those with mild autism.he's clever, persistent, irritable, and sometimes irritating -a fully rounded character who simply operates in a slightly different world than most of us. The prose is very simple and direct, as one might expect from a young boy, making accessible to younger readers (although parents should be aware that there are four-letter words present). If for no other reason, the book is worth reading for the humanistic and empathetic portrayal of a mentally disabled youth, and will help any reader better understand the challenges facing those with mild autism.	2003-09-18
974270:US	52254603	R18KN2JIK397M3	0141182393	394767391	Money: A Suicide Note (Penguin Modern Classics)	Books	3	11	20	N	N	The Opening Salvo	Even though it was written in the mid-'80s and is set in 1981, Amis's novel was probably the first major fictional salvo on the culture of capitalism that pervaded the entire decade and characterized the Reagan/Thatcher era in the West. Almost twenty years after its publication, the book's language and style remain vivid and distinctive, but its satirical power has greatly diminished. The materialism and shallowness of the '80s, especially in certain segments of American and British society, has been so widely skewered to have become clich&eacute;, and it's very difficult to read the book now without mentally referencing other major works such as The Bonfire of the Vanities, and especially American Psycho.<br />The story (what there is of it) is narrated by John Self, a 30ish British director of commercials set to embark on his first Hollywood deal. A figure of Falstaffian excess, he drinks, smokes (&quot;unless otherwise states, I am _always_ lighting another cigarette&quot;), whores, handjobs, and bumbles his way through the book, which switches between New York and London as he works with California golden boy Fielding Goodman to set up his movie. Self is a parody of an insecure, self-destructive, racist, misogynist, money-grubbing alcoholic and Amis beats the reader over the head with this caricature. Are we supposed to be sympathetic toward this loser who has been socially conditioned to value only money and sex, or are his antics supposed to amuse, or both? Various reviewers have suggested one or the other reaction, however, boredom is the more likely response. It's hard to imagine being simpatico with the self-anihilating protagonist-unless one has similar problems in their own lives. Meanwhile, the much vaunted humor of the book is very hit or miss, and grows steadily absent as the repetitiveness of Self's antics wear thin.<br />It's too bad, because Amis's goal of highlighting the emptiness of packaged objects of desire and the behavior their pursuit encourages, is a very worthy endeavor. And buried in all of it somewhere is some interesting stuff about the relationship between sex and money. Ultimately, though, it's hard to sit through Self's lengthy slide to the gutter without wondering why it's taking so long to get to. At 250 pages, the book might have fully engaged me, but at 350, it feels bloated and a little self-indulgent. Still, it's hard not to appreciate the many fine twists and turns of language Amis employs in the service of his labored satire.is a very worthy endeavor. And buried in all of it somewhere is some interesting stuff about the relationship between sex and money. Ultimately, though, it's hard to sit through Self's lengthy slide to the gutter without wondering why it's taking so long to get to. At 250 pages, the book might have fully engaged me, but at 350, it feels bloated and a little self-indulgent. Still, it's hard not to appreciate the many fine twists and turns of language Amis employs in the service of his labored satire.	2003-09-16
978003:US	52254603	R25E401X8YPWY0	0765342618	769723156	Kiln People (The Kiln Books)	Books	3	21	29	N	N	Starts Great, Ends Awfully	Cloning is one of the classic themes of science fiction, raising all kinds of philosophical interesting questions about consciousness, ethics, morality, and the nature of reality and the human soul. Brin has tackled this topic by entering the relatively unexplored crossover realm of mystery/scifi. There are certainly many examples of this (George Alec Effinger's Mared Audran series, Larry Niven's &quot;Gil of ARM&quot; short stories, which are collected in Flatlander, and perhaps most successfully, Jonathan Lethem's Gun With Occasional Music), however it's a field rich with unexplored possibilities.<br />Brin's tale takes place about two generations in the future, and the technology has spread around the world allowing people to make cheap clay &quot;dittos&quot; of themselves that last about a day before disintegrating. The precise science behind this &quot;imprinting&quot; technique, and the process of inloading the clone's memories, is thankfully glossed over, allowing the reader to dive into this rich world. We immediately meet San Francisco P.I. Albert Morris in the midst of taking on his archenemy, a &quot;bootlegger&quot; who kidnaps high-priced dittos (for example those of movie stars), and makes crude pirate versions to sell on the gray market. Taking on these &quot;copyright violators&quot; forms the bulk of Morris's business, but soon he and his &quot;ditectives&quot; (there's tons of punning and wordplay in the book), get caught up in the the disappearance of the scientist who fathered this cloning process.<br />This is the first hint that Brin is going to build the story into a disappointingly grand scale. The initial world-building is very entertaining, as Brin gradually unveils the consequences of this new technology. The value of &quot;real&quot; life is now sacrocent, and war has become highly ritualized, treated as a spectator sport. Notions of morality have totally disintegrated as any taboo can be indulged in by one's ditto and then the memory of that can be inloaded to oneself. No one really has to work, as dittos can be sent to the office while you sit home all day watching TV. It's not seamlessly thought out, especially in a political or economic sense, but there's all the framework there for a very enjoyable series, as Morris and his ditto sidekicks play detective in this superwired and webcammed world, with plenty of humor and wisecracking throughout.<br />Unfortunately, the scientist's disappearance spirals into a massively complicated and convoluted conspiracy. Throughout the last third of the book, I kept groaning as all the earlier storylines coalesced into a massively unbelievable mad scientist scenario. Then things get really, really out of hand, and the final fifty pages degenerate into an awful exploration of &quot;soulistics&quot;, quantam mechanics, and consciousness. Despite the attempt to ratchet up the tension with a ticking clock device, the book grinds to an almost halt as tedious speechifying invades to &quot;explain&quot; everything. The problem is that since Brin skimped (thankfully) on the hard science of the whole cloning procedure at the beginning of the book, it's doesn't work to make the process such a central plot element at the end. So, this is another of those massive scifi works that starts very promisingly, but both runs out of steam and is the victim of an overambitious scale.that can be inloaded to oneself. No one really has to work, as dittos can be sent to the office while you sit home all day watching TV. It's not seamlessly thought out, especially in a political or economic sense, but there's all the framework there for a very enjoyable series, as Morris and his ditto sidekicks play detective in this superwired and webcammed world, with plenty of humor and wisecracking throughout.<br />Unfortunately, the scientist's disappearance spirals into a massively complicated and convoluted conspiracy. Throughout the last third of the book, I kept groaning as all the earlier storylines coalesced into a massively unbelievable mad scientist scenario. Then things get really, really out of hand, and the final fifty pages degenerate into an awful exploration of &quot;soulistics&quot;, quantam mechanics, and consciousness. Despite the attempt to ratchet up the tension with a ticking clock device, the book grinds to an almost halt as tedious speechifying invades to &quot;explain&quot; everything. The problem is that since Brin skimped (thankfully) on the hard science of the whole cloning procedure at the beginning of the book, it's doesn't work to make the process such a central plot element at the end. So, this is another of those massive scifi works that starts very promisingly, but both runs out of steam and is the victim of an overambitious scale.	2003-09-12
978299:US	52254603	R1GAYR78HKA9GT	0747556237	223366490	The Cave	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Gripping Thriller	Dutch writer Krabb&eacute; seems to have a knack for crafting slim but emotionally gripping psychological thrillers (for lack of a better term). His first book to appear in English was The Vanishing, which depicted the emotional implosion of man whose wife disappears at a highway rest stop (Two movies were made from it, skip the American version and see the original Dutch film.). A much earlier book, only recently translated, is an amazingly absorbing account of an amateur bicycle race, filled to the brim with psychological tension. Here, Krabb&eacute; adroitly hopscotchs through time to tell the story of two friends, one bad and one good.<br />The book starts in a Cambodia-like southeast Asian country, where a middle-aged Dutchman is sweating his way though his first assignment as a drug courier. The mild-mannered Egon is a geologist by training, and desperate for money. How he got to this point is taken up in the next section, which flashes back some 25 years to a trip he took as a 14-year-old. At summer camp he met the charismatic Axel van de Graaf, who instantly adopted Egon as his sidekick/admirer. Axel is one of those spectacularly wild and charismatic boys who evokes fascination and dislike at the same time. Egon falls in with his plans, even when he knows they're bad or wrong. This sets the theme for the book, a question which Egon asks himself: why is his life such a struggle when he does all the right things, while Axel grows rich and famous by being completely amoral.<br />The third section follows a Dutch journalist (and old acquaintance of Egon and Axel's) in the Cambodia substitute, as he explores the aftermath of Egon's trip. Structurally, this chapter doesn't really need to be in the book, but it does add a certain depth and clarity to what happened in the first section. The fourth chapter takes the reader to Massachusetts, where a college student is coping with the disappearance of his mother, who was an unhappily married rockhound. By the end of this, everything has fallen into place, and the final fifth section elegantly dovetails with the second to tie everything together. The story is somewhat contrived, but powerful nonetheless in the questions it raises about how we live our lives. It was made into a highly praised Dutch film called De Grot, which has only been shown on the festival circuit in the US and UK.hing has fallen into place, and the final fifth section elegantly dovetails with the second to tie everything together. The story is somewhat contrived, but powerful nonetheless in the questions it raises about how we live our lives. It was made into a highly praised Dutch film called De Grot, which has only been shown on the festival circuit in the US and UK.	2003-09-12
979321:US	52254603	R1RFBZID57LHZN	0618126910	177300630	Wild Decembers	Books	2	3	9	N	N	Been There, Read That	They say that all love stories are tragedies, and that's certainly true of this story of two men feuding over land and a woman. Set in a small village in western Ireland, the tale tackles the flaws in human nature: jealousy, envy, pride, madness, etc-without saying anything new or interesting. O'Brien sets everything up early: the reader is told this is a place where men have fought over land for centuries, and is introduced to the bachelor farmer Joseph, his pretty younger sister Breen, and their new wealthier neighbor Mick. Within the first ten pages it's pretty clear where everything is going to lead, and it grows wearisome plowing through the florid prose and many diversions to arrive at the heavily foreshadowed dark conclusion.<br />All the characters drift reflexively through the motions assigned to them, apparently locked into their vicious circles. None of the three main protagonists are particularly compelling or engaging, indeed the best that can be said is that one feels a deep for Breen, who is stuck in her situation. The setting itself is a kind of unreal &quot;village-that-time-forgot&quot; creation, where a new tractor is a big thing, the local gossip knows all, and two saucy sisters act as succubi. Ultimately, everyone in the book is a type, there are numbingly obvious metaphors (for example, Mick's cutting into a peat bed Joseph claims ownership of is symbolic of the rape Jospeh fears Mick will visit on Breen), and there's nothing here that Shakespeare and others haven't already done better.	2003-09-11
983426:US	52254603	R1APUADKP9KQ8K	014200202X	694137922	Casino Royale (James Bond Novels)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Choppy First 00 Outing	This is where it all began, a very simple, unadorned tale of a British spy sent to destroy a Communist agent at the baccarat table. The first 007 story presents a nasty, misogynist, misanthropic Bond-a government assassin who is highly ambivalent about the role he plays in the Cold War. There's even one remarkable scene in which Bond asks what makes his government right, and what makes it moral for him to kill Britain's enemies. Unfortunately, his cynical self-examination is brushed under the table by his new CIA pal, Felix Leiter, and that's the last we hear of that! We learn that in the war, Bond killed a Japanese spy in New York (although the circumstances described strain credulity and common sense), and knifed a Dutch double-agent, earning him the 00 &quot;Licensed to Kill&quot; designation. Here, he's asked to break the bank of a French Soviet agent who has been gambling with his Moscow-provided bankroll.<br />Bond is sent to the fashionable French casino of the title to pose as a playboy gambler, and with the aid of beautiful British assistant Vesper Lynn, a French agent, and the CIA's Felix Leiter, ruin Le Chiffre at baccarat. Once you get over the sort of obvious question (if Le Chiffre is that dangerous an agent, why not just kill him yourself instead of going through this dangerous gambit of trying to bankrupt him, thereby forcing SMERSH to kill him?), the buildup and eventual battle on the green baize is quite gripping. Fortunately, the rules and strategy of baccarat are explained (it's a very very simple game), so that the reader can follow along, blow by blow. There's loads of atmosphere and tension, but the structure is a bit awkward and there are some rather bad flaws. One of these is that there's absolutely no reason for Vesper to be in the book other than to serve as a plot device and sex interest. All she does is get in Bond's way and distract him, and it's hard to imagine why she would ever really be given the assignment to back up Bond. It's also rather strange to find the Le Chiffre affair concluding 3/4 of the way through the book, with the last quarter devoted to the Bond/Vesper romance. And I won't even get into the lame &quot;saved by the bell&quot; device that occurs at the climax. All in all, the book exhibits the excellent eye for detail and atmosphere that characterize most of the Bond books, but Fleming is clearly just learning pacing and structure at this stage.<br />A final point of clarification, the Frenchman &quot;Le Chiffre&quot; is not an agent of SMERSH, as many reviewers seem to think. The fictional SMERSH, with its motto &quot;death to spies&quot;, is an internal Soviet agency dedicated to counterespionage and making sure Soviet agents don't stray. As is explained early, Le Chiffre is forced to gamble because he's afraid that SMERSH will kill him if they discover he's blown his party funds on a bad business deal.so rather strange to find the Le Chiffre affair concluding 3/4 of the way through the book, with the last quarter devoted to the Bond/Vesper romance. And I won't even get into the lame &quot;saved by the bell&quot; device that occurs at the climax. All in all, the book exhibits the excellent eye for detail and atmosphere that characterize most of the Bond books, but Fleming is clearly just learning pacing and structure at this stage.<br />A final point of clarification, the Frenchman &quot;Le Chiffre&quot; is not an agent of SMERSH, as many reviewers seem to think. The fictional SMERSH, with its motto &quot;death to spies&quot;, is an internal Soviet agency dedicated to counterespionage and making sure Soviet agents don't stray. As is explained early, Le Chiffre is forced to gamble because he's afraid that SMERSH will kill him if they discover he's blown his party funds on a bad business deal.	2003-09-08
990167:US	52254603	R1134OZYUCX5Y8	1561633283	236912358	2: House of Java	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not Bad, But Not Original	This collection of ten &quot;slice of life&quot; stories is Murphy's second book (I haven't read the first). The stories fall into three categories: &quot;House of Java&quot;, &quot;Paper Route&quot;, and &quot;Optic Nervish&quot;. The four &quot;House of Java&quot; stories are brief one or two pagers set at a coffeeshop, and depict either conversations with, or internal monologues concerning, the opposite sex. These are brief riffs on usual themes (pick up lines, dirty thoughts), unoriginal, but skillfully executed. The two &quot;Paper Route&quot; stories are more retro-cartoony in style and feature a paperboy living in the '70s and his not so wild adventures. These are not particularly funny or interesting, almost on the level of an Archie. The four &quot;Optic Nervish&quot; stories are longer 15-25 page pieces in the vein of Adrian Tomine, focusing on protagonists living lives of quiet desperation.<br />In &quot;May 27&quot;, the Connie is an ambitious psych student who serves as a pro-bono counselor for smalltime junkie/dealer. The story follows the two characters in the wistful style of Tomine, with the same kind of inconclusive ending. &quot;Tide Pools&quot; is a more effective story about a small-town girl who talks about moving away and never does. Her flirting with a passing grad student is poignant in a sad, desperate way, but other elements don't really work, such as her boyfriend's silent act and the &quot;cubist&quot; party, which feels shoehorned in. &quot;Steven&quot; is the story of a loser with a crush, and although it suffers somewhat from being set in a comic book shop, it's not a bad take on trials of being a &quot;geek&quot;. The last and longest story is &quot;The Burial&quot;, in which a man in the midst of a divorce heads back to his small hometown for the wedding of his cousin. It's attempting to say something meaningful about forgiveness and the past, but the message never makes it through in any effective way. These longer stories all show glimmers of promise, but on the whole strike one as far too derivative (or merely similar) of Adrian Tomine in both tone and style. None of it is really bad, it's just doesn't seem that original.glimmers of promise, but on the whole strike one as far too derivative (or merely similar) of Adrian Tomine in both tone and style. None of it is really bad, it's just doesn't seem that original.	2003-09-02
990235:US	52254603	R1KA1Y9ZV18GXP	0375409203	956735659	Ladysmith	Books	2	3	4	N	N	A Muddled and  Wooden Stew	I generally enjoy historical and military fiction, and really liked Foden's first book (The Last King of Scotland), however this novel of the Boer War (which, according to Foden, was rushed to publication in order to coincide with the centenary of the war) did little to either entertain, educate, or move me. To be sure, the war-which bridged the 19th and 20th centuries-served both as another signal that the empire was dying, and as a portent of the horrors of World War I, and is thus noteworthy. Unfortunately, Foden's meticulous recreation of the three month siege of the town of Ladysmith, in which about 14,000 British soldiers and 5,000 civilians (of which half were Africans and several hundred, Indian) were subject to daily artillery barrages from huge Boer guns, suffers from an overwhelming number of characters and points of view. There were countless memoirs and histories of the siege, and one gets the feeling that Foden felt the need to cram every perspective into his book, which was apparently inspired by letters written by his great-grandfather, who was a trooper in the war. Indeed, those who've read Thomas Packenham's massive history, The Boer War, will recognize where certain scenes in the novel spring from.<br />The story is very loosely arranged around Irish hotelier Leo Kiernan's daughter Bella, and her alternating affections amidst the siege But that's only a small slice of the pie, and is rather clumsily portrayed to boot. The real story is about life in the midst of a siege, with all its familiar aspects: rationing, boredom, terror, filth, martial law, blood and guts, and so on. Chronicling all this are a good fifteen different characters, including fictional creations such as Bella, her sister, her father, various soldiers, a Portuguese barber, a Boer doctor, an early motion picture recorder, a Zulu and his wife and son, and real-life figures such as a young Winston Churchill, British journalists Nevinson and George Stevens, and an Indian stretcher bearer by the name of Gandhi. The book runs back and forth amongst these different perspectives, skimming lightly on each before a heavy-handed transition takes the reader to the next scene. None is fully-fleshed out, and Foden's interest in displaying the siege as emblematic of a sea-change in British imperial history leads his characters to speechify. The pronouncements of Churchill and Gandhi are particularly leaden. The resulting stew is an altogether wooden and unsatisfying one, and unlikely to enrich anyone's understanding of the events-although it does convey the sense of an aging empire muddling into quicksand.earer by the name of Gandhi. The book runs back and forth amongst these different perspectives, skimming lightly on each before a heavy-handed transition takes the reader to the next scene. None is fully-fleshed out, and Foden's interest in displaying the siege as emblematic of a sea-change in British imperial history leads his characters to speechify. The pronouncements of Churchill and Gandhi are particularly leaden. The resulting stew is an altogether wooden and unsatisfying one, and unlikely to enrich anyone's understanding of the events-although it does convey the sense of an aging empire muddling into quicksand.	2003-09-02
990327:US	52254603	RB6IQVTWGLAGP	1400040442	437281256	Bangkok 8: A Royal Thai Detective Novel (1)	Books	4	2	6	N	Y	Solid Summer Thriller	I'm a sucker for crime fiction set in unusual locales, so it was with great anticipation that I dove into this Bangkok-set debut novel. Burdett does a magnificent job in bringing Bangkok to life-from the neon-lit sex industry to shocking poverty, endemic corruption, widespread yaa baa (methamphetamine) trade, ever-present Bhuddism, and the lingering effects of the Vietnam war. Things kick off with straight-arrow cops Sonchai and Pichai tailing an American marine-allowing Burdett to give Bangkok's legendary traffic a cameo. However, in the middle of their task, the marine is killed by poisonous snakes, one of whom also kills Pichai when he tries to rescue the marine. From here on out Sonchai is a man on a mission, dedicated to solving the marine's (and thus by extension his partner's) murder. The death of the marine brings with it the involvement of the U.S embassy, and a female FBI agent comes over to liase with Sonchai. The plot is a typically convoluted thriller effort, involving international jade smuggling, a powerful American with White House connections, extreme S&amp;M, Khmer thugs, Chui Chow Chinese gangsters and more. Actually, the story itself if the weakest part of the book, succumbing to stereotypical thriller elements and scenes. And it has to be said-the ending is really, really lame.<br />Still, there's lots to recommend the book. This is a thriller with many shades of gray to delight in. For example, on the one hand, Sonchai is an arhat (kind of a Bhuddist living saint), the one clean cop in the district, and yet he's clear that the only justice he intends to bring his partner's killer to is that found in the barrel of his gun. Similarly, his boss is totally corrupt, but Sonchai respects and reveres him. Most interesting is the portrayal of the sex industry, which is much less condemnatory than one might expect. (Although whether or not it accurately represents Thai attitudes to sex is not for me to judge.) The straightforward story also veers into the supernatural, with Sonchai able to see the past lives of people he encounters. Others love this aspect of his character, but it struck me as an unnecessary gimmick that detracts from the book's excellent portrayal of Bhuddism. Sonchai is a wonderfully laconic character, and all the more surprising for having come from the pen of a Westerner. On the whole, this is a very enjoyable thriller with a wonderful protagonist and great insight into Thai culture and Bangkok, however don't approach it with overly high expectations or you'll be disappointed-it is still of the airplane/beach read genre.he supernatural, with Sonchai able to see the past lives of people he encounters. Others love this aspect of his character, but it struck me as an unnecessary gimmick that detracts from the book's excellent portrayal of Bhuddism. Sonchai is a wonderfully laconic character, and all the more surprising for having come from the pen of a Westerner. On the whole, this is a very enjoyable thriller with a wonderful protagonist and great insight into Thai culture and Bangkok, however don't approach it with overly high expectations or you'll be disappointed-it is still of the airplane/beach read genre.	2003-09-02
990639:US	52254603	R3DB176VFWMNTG	0435989561	645543064	High Tide of Intrigue (Caribbean Writers Series)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Not Enough Intrigue	Trinidadian writer Anthony has some fifteen novels to his credit, and with this entry in Heinemann's commendable&quot;Caribbean Writers Series&quot; he tries his hand at crime writing. Things start promisingly enough as we meet Maureen, a police officer whose irrationally jealous husband abuses her. The situation is exacerbated because he is a prominent member of an anti-narcotics unit, and she recently found marijuana in his pockets. The story appears to set up Maureen as the heroine who will investigate her corrupt husband and bring down a web of drug dealers, but then it veers off to Grenada, where her sister Clarice lives. Most of the book takes place in Grenada and alternates between Clarice's suspicions of her prosperous brother in law, and the clumsy plotting of the drug smugglers. Only at the very end does Maureen reappear, but by then the story has lost all energy and momentum and it's hard to care about the outcome. The main problem with the book is that the vast bulk of it is comprised of conversations between people who don't trust each other, which rapidly gets boring. There are a great deal of peripheral characters who are never developed, and the whole enterprise grows wearisome. Anthony does have a good knack for portraying the importance of family relationships among islanders, but the story itself leaves a great deal to be desired.	2003-09-02
996047:US	52254603	R374H42DBBZO7	0802117376	768321031	Stories I Stole	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Brilliant Taste of Post-Soviet Life	Former Time magazine writer Steavenson hits upon a nice variation to the armchair travel genre with this wonderful little book on the former Soviet Republic of Georgia. Rather than trying to systematically detail the small country's tangled web of ethnicities and chaotic recent history, she recounts her time there through twenty chapters/stories. These loosely connected and loosely chronological stories provide a remarkably nuanced portrait of a country where nothing works, government seems largely irrelevant, and the people are remarkable. Weaving in many of her own friendships and a relationship with a photojournalist, she covers rigged elections, ethnic tensions, the nearby war in Chechnya, and mainly daily life with remarkable sensitivity. The nice thing is that she doesn't do so with the usual world-weariness of the foreign corespondent, but with a depth of feeling that never falls into sentimentalism or condescension It's a curiously individual work in that there's no real reason for her to be there, there is no larger theme she hangs her stories on, and no gimmicks. Just honest stories about a country where a strange civil war and two secessionist wars over the last decade have utterly destroyed the economy and left the country with little hope. A definite must read for anyone interested in the Caucuses or the fate of post-Soviet republics.	2003-08-28
996646:US	52254603	R1QIYO2MWVEB57	0060540583	715349466	Charlie Big Potatoes	Books	1	0	1	N	N	Plodding, Boring, and Not Funny	This tepid novel with a great title attempts to look under the hood of &quot;new-laddism&quot; to reveal what's really going on inside this group of prosperous, drugged-up, nattily dressed boymen. Charlie is another one of the boys, an alcoholic writer of dubious skills for a glossy men's mag (author Robinson was editor at Loaded) who harbors deep insecurities about himself and his blue-collar background. After his coked off his head bachelor weekend in New York, he has a nervous breakdown on the altar and blows off his wedding to a lovely, posh coworker. After retreating to the arms of his unhappy family, he eventually checks into a rehab facility and struggles to find himself. Unfortunately, this is not particularly funny, moving, or even interesting. Charlie's been acting awfully to everyone around him, and it's a chore to wade through the hundreds of pages it takes for him to realize this and get himself together. While it's kind of nice to see a writer present the insecurities lurking behind the braggadocio of laddism, the prose is far too labored and doesn't read very well. The plot includes such predictable elements as Charlie's obligatory attempt to win back his love, a stab in the back from one of his lad friends that the reader will see coming miles away, and the dogged loyalty of Charlie's oldest pal. There are some good one liners sprinkled throughout, but otherwise there's little humor (black or otherwise) to be found in this plodding story.	2003-08-28
998116:US	52254603	R3HZSO6LB0VT6U	0670032239	752240880	The Snack Thief (Inspector Montalbano Mysteries)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	The Mystery of the Tunisian Housekeeper	The is hugely popular (in Europe anyway) Inspector Montalbano series continues, with this installment following The Shape of Water and The Terra-Cotta Dog. The presence of Tunisian immigrants in Sicily is mined for mystery by Camilleri, as the stabbing of a retired businessman and the shooting of a Tunisian crewman on a fishing boat soon merge to one very tangled web. At the heart of it all is a missing housecleaner/prostitute names Karima and her son. As might be expected, there's some corruption just below the surface and Montalbano pursues justice with the quiet, dogged persistence and lengthy lunch breaks of his earlier two adventures. The intrigue is perhaps a little less intriguing than in the previous books, but there's more going on in Montalbano's private life to make up for it. Girlfriend Livia puts in a long appearance making the Inspector edgier and nastier than usual. It's roughly on par with the previous two books, but being the third book in the series, doesn't seem quite as fresh. As usual, the translation by Stephen Sartarelli is top notch.	2003-08-26
998811:US	52254603	R1YMHC6G2VH0FS	0385481969	793564378	Youth in Revolt: The Journals of Nick Twisp	Books	1	20	41	N	N	Derivative, Tedious, and Not That Funny	When I was an adolescent-turning-into-teen, I greatly enjoyed British author Sue Townsend's series which began with The Secret Diary of Adrian Mole, Aged 13 3/4. I recently came across Payne's book and thought it might be an enjoyable American example of the same coming-of-young-age fictional diary format. What I discovered after 500 pages was an incredibly derivative piece of work with none of the heart of that series, and a fraction of the humor trumpeted by many reviewers.<br />First, the parallels. Adrian Mole and Nick Twisp are both male diarists nearing their 14th birthday and thus obsessed with sex. They share a similar lower-middle class upbringing, both have chaotic home lives, with parents breaking up, losing jobs, having sex with others, and both are nerdy eggheads. Most importantly, they share a common catalyst: the need to capture the heart of a beautiful, smart girl who is also being pursued by a wealthier and better looking rival in love. But while Townsend goes for a fairly realistic portrayal of the heartbreaking, but often funny growing pains of youth, Payne goes for wildly unrealistic, over the top machinations and schemes worthy of the lamest teen movie. It's the same effect as when Hollywood remakes a foreign film: &quot;We love the story, but we're going to punch it up with a few chases, some explosions, and definitely a lot more sex. And check this out, there's going to be a hilarious running gag where the hero keeps getting interrupted just before he loses his virginity!&quot;<br />The story starts off well, establishing Nick as a bitter teenager (with an unrealistically sophisticated vocabulary, even for an egghead) with some funny things to say. However, it doesn't take long before zany plots are hatched and any pretensions of reality are jettisoned. Of course, one madcap plot only serves as the catalyst for the next even wackier plot, and the story becomes an exercise in slogging through to find out how far-fetched these escalations will get. The answer is very, but sadly the journey is not as funny as others would have you believe. Nick's journal style is tedious by page ten, and the antics are unlikely to amuse many readers over the age of 16.<br />The more substantial problem that develops is that Nick is a thoroughly unlikeable character, as is his love interest. Neither of them (nor any other character) is nuanced at all, and you can forget about any shades of gray. As might be expected from the faux-pen of a teen diarist, all the adults are either dictators, sadists, or rubes (this latter category being comprised of the few who try and help Nick). Over the course of the book, Nick is revealed as a whining, shallow, cowardly, selfish, and dangerous kid with no excuse for being so, and no redeeming qualities. By the end he is on the run from attempted murder, felony arson, grand theft auto, burglary, and many lesser charges, but we're supposed to be cheering for him to get away with it! In the end it comes across as an unintentionally revealing authorial revenge fantasy.<br />In the end the book is far too long, far too shallow, and far too stupid to be of any conceivable interest to adults. Young teens and adolescents may find the whole enterprise a good read and a good laugh, but I have to wonder what message they take from it? However, for those who can't get enough, there's a sequel: Revolting Youth.get. The answer is very, but sadly the journey is not as funny as others would have you believe. Nick's journal style is tedious by page ten, and the antics are unlikely to amuse many readers over the age of 16. <br />The more substantial problem that develops is that Nick is a thoroughly unlikeable character, as is his love interest. Neither of them (nor any other character) is nuanced at all, and you can forget about any shades of gray. As might be expected from the faux-pen of a teen diarist, all the adults are either dictators, sadists, or rubes (this latter category being comprised of the few who try and help Nick). Over the course of the book, Nick is revealed as a whining, shallow, cowardly, selfish, and dangerous kid with no excuse for being so, and no redeeming qualities. By the end he is on the run from attempted murder, felony arson, grand theft auto, burglary, and many lesser charges, but we're supposed to be cheering for him to get away with it! In the end it comes across as an unintentionally revealing authorial revenge fantasy.<br />In the end the book is far too long, far too shallow, and far too stupid to be of any conceivable interest to adults. Young teens and adolescents may find the whole enterprise a good read and a good laugh, but I have to wonder what message they take from it? However, for those who can't get enough, there's a sequel: Revolting Youth.	2003-08-26
999487:US	52254603	R22SVSZPFR0PQ	1568582080	714462585	Angry Young Spaceman	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Outstanding Fable	In his second novel, former Adbusters editor Munroe skillfully employs a veneer of science-fiction to cloak his pointed criticisms of contemporary American cultural and economic imperialism. This classic device (most famously used on the original Star Trek series) allows him to transform what might have been a very tired whinefest into a funny and engaging story. Ostensibly set about 1000 years in the future, the story's protagonist is Sam, an aimless young man who rejects his privileged background and the prospect of a cushy family job to go teach English to a squidlike race at the farthest ends of the galaxy. The impetus for this flight is his embarrassment over having been a &quot;pug&quot;-a kind of underground street-fighter very much akin those in Chuck Palahniuk's Fight Club. However, in a future where even the most unlikely subculture is a creation of marketing teams, those searching for authenticity are bound to be disappointed.<br />Sam's fish-out-of-water (or rather human-in-water, his new home planet is all underwater) story is charming enough in its own right, as he leaves behind a girl, tries to learn local ways by hanging out with other teachers, gains a love interest, and muddles his way through an exotic alien culture. However, the parallels to our world are obvious and meant to be so. Earth is the galaxy's hegemon, and uses its imposed system of intellectual property rights to stay on top, with the result that English is the passport to success throughout the galaxy. The story highlights the uncomfortable paradox of English being embraced by other cultures around the world for good economic reasons, and this embrace ultimately leading to a weakening of those cultures. Sam's journey to a backwater planet to teach English is extremely suggestive of similar jobs that exist in many parts of Asia and Eastern Europe today. Indeed, there are more than a few echoes of Japan in his new home of Octavia, and his get-togethers with other English teachers strike familiar notes of expatriate life.<br />Lest one think it's all polemic, it should be noted that the book is written in a very chatty, witty style and never gets too dark or brooding. There are plenty of subplots, such as his friendships with a young man who grew up on the moon, a robotman, and another Earthling, not to mention his local love interest and the will-they-or-won't-they tension there. More ominous is a subplot revolving around his becoming the first human fluent in Octavian and the ramifications of that development. Certainly, hard science fiction buffs could tug the science of the book apart, but there's plenty of wild inventiveness to divert the casual fan of the genre. All in all, a highly entertaining read with a solid progressive message behind it.e familiar notes of expatriate life. <br />Lest one think it's all polemic, it should be noted that the book is written in a very chatty, witty style and never gets too dark or brooding. There are plenty of subplots, such as his friendships with a young man who grew up on the moon, a robotman, and another Earthling, not to mention his local love interest and the will-they-or-won't-they tension there. More ominous is a subplot revolving around his becoming the first human fluent in Octavian and the ramifications of that development. Certainly, hard science fiction buffs could tug the science of the book apart, but there's plenty of wild inventiveness to divert the casual fan of the genre. All in all, a highly entertaining read with a solid progressive message behind it.	2003-08-25
999972:US	52254603	R1GLX4Z8H92EH3	0374117306	556502194	Bunker 13: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Wild &amp; Messy Indian Thriller	Indian investigative journalist Bahal's fictional debut stars MM, an anti-hero investigative journalist who covers military affairs for a fledgling weekly magazine. The roller-coaster of a thriller starts off with MM on an undercover assignment with Indian army paratroopers in Kashmir. Before the reader knows it, the story is knee-deep in corruption, as he discovers an elite unit siphoning off captured weapons and drugs to sell on the international market. With this as the background for gripping set pieces of jungle patrol against the &quot;Mossies&quot; (Kashmiri guerillas), shooting heroin while parachuting, plus loads of recreational drug use and three exceedingly explicit sex scenes, the book rockets along at a furious pace.<br />However, that's just the tip of the iceberg, as it is quickly revealed that the crusading journalist also works for Indian intelligence. Bahal works hard to keep the reader guessing as to MM's true motivation: is he really a righteous journalist who hates corruption, or is he an Indian James Bond looking to take down India's enemies, or is he a recklessly brilliant hedonist who's playing both sides against the middle, or is he all of these, or maybe none? The second-person perspective writing helps to blur matters, but careful readers will pick up on one clue early on that may provide the answer.<br />The overall tone is very hard to describe. Loaded with military jargon, acronyms, weapon specifications, and machinations, the book reads at times like a subcontinental Tom Clancy. Yet the corruption angle and black humor is very reminiscent of Robert O'Connor's excellent novel Buffalo Soldiers, whose plotline also features military drug smuggling, or even the classic military satire Catch-22. However, there's also a wacky Elmore Leonardish feel to it as well, with loads of kooky memorable characters, scathing humor, and wild heist schemes. At the same time, each set piece is vivid and believable, from Mm's visit to the Russian mafia, to the office politics of his magazine, to a giant rave, to the spooky final battle scene in Kashmir.<br />As the book rockets along and the stakes grow higher and higher with each fresh twist, it somehow gets rather exhausting. The second person voice grows old fast, and under Bahal's breakneck pace some of the satire is left behind and the book becomes more of a straightforward thriller. Crammed with action, the pace is relentless enough, however, to largely divert one's attention from the outlandishness of it all. It's a fun read, and a refreshing break from the tidal wave of measured highbrow fiction coming from India over the last decade. American readers may want to do a tiny bit of background reading on the Kashmiri conflict beforehand, as Bahal assumes readership familiarity with the main gist of it.the office politics of his magazine, to a giant rave, to the spooky final battle scene in Kashmir.<br />As the book rockets along and the stakes grow higher and higher with each fresh twist, it somehow gets rather exhausting. The second person voice grows old fast, and under Bahal's breakneck pace some of the satire is left behind and the book becomes more of a straightforward thriller. Crammed with action, the pace is relentless enough, however, to largely divert one's attention from the outlandishness of it all. It's a fun read, and a refreshing break from the tidal wave of measured highbrow fiction coming from India over the last decade. American readers may want to do a tiny bit of background reading on the Kashmiri conflict beforehand, as Bahal assumes readership familiarity with the main gist of it.	2003-08-25
1000162:US	52254603	R5R5VU7B0KA85	0864425066	990478132	Drive Thru America	Books	2	5	9	N	N	Clich&eacute; Thru America	I loved Condon's third book (My 'Dam Life), so it seemed natural to pick up a copy of his account of a US cross-country road trip to read while I embarked on the same trip in reverse. Unfortunately, this earlier effort from Condon t is much more labored and stale than his account of three years living in Amsterdam. After quitting his advertising job, he and an artist friend fly from their native Australia to Canada and cross from Montreal into the US to embark on that most mythic of journeys: the cross-country road trip. Passing through places like NYC, DC, Virginia, Nashville, Mississippi, New Orleans, Texas, Santa Fe, Vegas, LA, SF, and finally flying up to Seattle, they attempt to imbibe a campy version of the American experience. The observations on America are only very occasionally insightful-most of the time Condon is too busy reworking clich&eacute; into punch line to do any real observing. The reason My 'Dam Life was so good is that Condon's scattershot one-liners are mixed into a real narrative about trying to make a new life in a foreign city. Here there is simply a choppy travel journal with joke after joke, many of which aren't that funny. There are so many aspects of America that deserve sending up, it's a shame Condon doesn't reach beyond the obvious targets. Which is not to say there aren't some really funny moments or episodes, just that they are few and far between. It also doesn't help that he draws no distinction between events that really happened on his trip, and events that he makes up partially or entirely. For the true American road experience, rent Monte Hellman's classic film Two Lane Blacktop.	2003-08-25
1003710:US	52254603	R3TL87U4O5NNIA	0802714161	693573960	Talk of the Devil: Encounters with Seven Dictators	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Where Are They Now?	Those seeking detailed biographies of the dictators Italian journalist Orizio tracks down, or penetrating histories and analyses of the years of their respective rule should turn elsewhere, as this is not the book for them. Instead, this is an oddly compelling mix of investigatory reportage and &quot;Where Are They Now?&quot; for readers with an interest in international events. Anyone looking for rigor and meticulous detail will not be pleased with the short chapters such as those on Idi Amin or Bokassa, in which Orizio spends more time recounting his efforts to find his quarry than actually talking to them. This is not necessarily a bad thing though, for the sad truth of the book is that these dictators may have come from a range of cultural and economic backgrounds, but they all end up saying the same thing.<br />In his preface, Orizio writes that &quot;I deliberately chose those who had fallen from power in disgrace, because those who fall on their feet tend not to examine their own conscience.&quot; However, the clich&eacute; of the banality of evil fulfills itself, as every single interviewee has the same lies, excuses, and delusions as the others (except for Bokassa, who insists the Pope secretly proclaimed him the 13th Apostle). Unrepentence is rife, as the interviewees trot out the same old chestnuts:&quot;history will vindicate me&quot;, &quot;the crimes I'm accused of are all lies perpetrated by my enemies&quot;, &quot;my country was better off under me, &quot; &quot;I love my people/country.&quot; Clearly none of them have any interest in or incentive for honest examination of their rule, indeed, at this point belief in their own mythology is probably an ingrained psychological self-defense mechanism.<br />Orizio does present a brief sketch of each dictator's country, and of the history of their rule. We find that hand in hand with the psychological similarity is a methodological similarity in rule. Rise to power based on ideology (or voodoo in the case of Baby Doc), consolidation of power via construction of cult of personality enforced by secret police, leading to corruption, cronyism, and systematic transfer of national wealth to Swiss bank accounts. The odd man out in all this is General Jaruzelski, who instituted martial law in Poland in 1981, and whose hands are vastly less bloody than those of the six others in the book. Indeed, one is almost tempted into feeling sorry for him, lumped in with the half-dozen Marxists, Maoists, Ultranationalists, and nut cases who ruined their countries. The book is an excellent introduction to some creepy, and yes, evil, figures from the recent past. Mengistu, for example, is completely forgotten in the U.S., and the distinctly creepy Hoxha couple of Albania are totally unknown.y Doc), consolidation of power via construction of cult of personality enforced by secret police, leading to corruption, cronyism, and systematic transfer of national wealth to Swiss bank accounts. The odd man out in all this is General Jaruzelski, who instituted martial law in Poland in 1981, and whose hands are vastly less bloody than those of the six others in the book. Indeed, one is almost tempted into feeling sorry for him, lumped in with the half-dozen Marxists, Maoists, Ultranationalists, and nut cases who ruined their countries. The book is an excellent introduction to some creepy, and yes, evil, figures from the recent past. Mengistu, for example, is completely forgotten in the U.S., and the distinctly creepy Hoxha couple of Albania are totally unknown.	2003-08-21
1003789:US	52254603	R1E7VZEZ2U4TF4	0142002062	234813261	Moonraker (James Bond Novels)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Flawed but Fun	It should go without saying, but I'll mention it anyway, the book has zero relation to the film other than title. That established, the third 007 novel is the first of the series where the stakes are truly high (nuclear annihilation), however it's unlike virtually any other Bond story in that it takes place entirely in England (basically London and Dover). Like the CIA (in theory anyway...), the British Secret Service is not allowed to operate in its homeland, and thus Bond is seconded to the Special Branch in order to get him in the mix. But before this happens, the story begins with Bond being asked to do M a favor and try and determine if a popular industrialist is cheating at London's most exclusive private cards club. (By the way, an inside joke in the latest Bond flick is that the fencing club where Bond and the villain fight is given the same name -The Blades Club-as the card club from this novel.)<br />The industrialist Drax's heroic story is told through Bond's admiring mouth. His unconscious, and later amnesiac, body was recovered from an explosion site in Germany during the war (WWII) and eventually was determined to be an MIA British private named Hugo Drax. Over the subsequent decade he became a self-made international metals broker, notably through columbite (yes, it is a real mineral). He has recently returned to England and spent lavishly on charities, but more notably, on privately financing and building an ICBM capable of delivering an atomic warhead anywhere in Europe. The intriguing mystery is why such a popular patriot would stoop to cheating at cards, recalling that at the time of the writing some fifty years ago, as M puts it: &quot;It's about the only way a man can ruin himself!&quot; Most readers will, at this early stage, have already smelt a huge rat, and picked up on the the obvious clue Fleming not-so-subtly weaves in, and will have figured out what's really happening. This is the books major weakness, since from there on, one is waiting for Bond to catch up, and thus the villain's final monologue, in which All Is Revealed, is more than a little anticlimactic.<br />In any event, Bond's appearance at the club and a nerve-racking high-stakes bridge game against the fabulously wealthy Hugo Drax starts the ball rolling. It's a nice bit of tension-building, however those (like myself) who are unfamiliar with the game of bridge will probably not get as much out of it. Still, it's a nice set-piece, and also serves to remind one how puny Bond's salary is as a glorified civil servant when the stakes rise to ten times his annual salary! From here the book proceeds rather slowly, as a suspicious murder-suicide allows Bond to join the Moonraker missile team as security officer. He and a voluptuous undercover cop work to try and figure out what's so fishy about the whole project.<br />Make no mistake, the book is entirely predictable, the bad guys are either stereotypically insane or stereotypically robotic machines with zero depth to them. And perhaps weakest of all, Bond and the female cop are left to escape when throughout the whole story the villain has been ruthlessly precise about eliminating troublemakers. At the the time they're captured, there's no reason whatsoever for him not to simply shoot them in the head and leave them dead in a field. Even so, it's a decent page-turner that, with its lurking ogres of MAD (Mutually Assured Destruction via atomic missile) and lurking Nazism, offers an interesting window to the past.for Bond to catch up, and thus the villain's final monologue, in which All Is Revealed, is more than a little anticlimactic.<br />In any event, Bond's appearance at the club and a nerve-racking high-stakes bridge game against the fabulously wealthy Hugo Drax starts the ball rolling. It's a nice bit of tension-building, however those (like myself) who are unfamiliar with the game of bridge will probably not get as much out of it. Still, it's a nice set-piece, and also serves to remind one how puny Bond's salary is as a glorified civil servant when the stakes rise to ten times his annual salary! From here the book proceeds rather slowly, as a suspicious murder-suicide allows Bond to join the Moonraker missile team as security officer. He and a voluptuous undercover cop work to try and figure out what's so fishy about the whole project.<br />Make no mistake, the book is entirely predictable, the bad guys are either stereotypically insane or stereotypically robotic machines with zero depth to them. And perhaps weakest of all, Bond and the female cop are left to escape when throughout the whole story the villain has been ruthlessly precise about eliminating troublemakers. At the the time they're captured, there's no reason whatsoever for him not to simply shoot them in the head and leave them dead in a field. Even so, it's a decent page-turner that, with its lurking ogres of MAD (Mutually Assured Destruction via atomic missile) and lurking Nazism, offers an interesting window to the past.	2003-08-21
1004094:US	52254603	R1HNIJ5LU2EZVX	0142002054	43762575	Diamonds Are Forever (James Bond Novels)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Bond, Detective Bond	For his fourth 007 novel, Fleming drew inspiration from a real-life international diamond smuggling ring which would also be the subject of a non-Bond book, The Diamond Smugglers, a year later. The premise here is that an American mafia family is running an elaborate operation to smuggle diamonds out of the British colony of Sierra Leone (it didn't win independence until 1961), the British don't like it, and Bond is inserted as a courier to try and discover who's behind the scheme. While this setup remains exceedingly topical almost 50 years later (indeed, the latest Bond flick features the laundering of diamonds from Sierra Leone), however it's not likely to engender much enthusiasm in the contemporary reader. Hmm, someone is smuggling diamonds out from the under the noses of the imperialist colonizing British, gee, that's too bad... so why does this warrant sending a government assassin into the mix?<br />However, if one is willing to overlook the rather small potatoes of the setup, there's a decent enough potboiler to found if you don't examine it too carefully. The pages turn quickly enough as Bond is partnered with the hard-boiled beauty Tiffany Case (like so many of Fleming's women, an underdeveloped character with lots of potential), and then heads to the horse races at Saratoga, the casinos of Las Vegas, a desert ghost town, and the staterooms of the Queen Elizabeth. There are some nice set pieces (especially the mud bath scene and the casino action), but Bond seems to be distracted the whole time. One could mark it down to his being overconfident about his Mafia adversaries, but he's throughout the book he's missing clues, botching basic spycraft, and most importantly, impatient and sloppy. In several places it's hard not to think that if he were this bad an agent, he'd have been killed long ago.<br />It also doesn't help that the Mafia dons Bond is up against are totally generic and unmemorable, and more than a little ridiculous as major villains. The semi-climactic railroad chase scene is borderline farcical for example. Nor are matters aided by Felix Leiter rather improbably crossing Bond's path as a Pinkerton's agent. Still, the homosexual hitmen, Wint and Kidd are memorable characters who bring a great deal of menace and (for the time) exoticism to the story. More of a detective story than a spy thriller, it's not your normal Bond book.i-climactic railroad chase scene is borderline farcical for example. Nor are matters aided by Felix Leiter rather improbably crossing Bond's path as a Pinkerton's agent. Still, the homosexual hitmen, Wint and Kidd are memorable characters who bring a great deal of menace and (for the time) exoticism to the story. More of a detective story than a spy thriller, it's not your normal Bond book.	2003-08-21
1034109:US	52254603	R2B1P0MDGLCQQ	0140296239	979567433	Time Out London Short Stories v.2 (Time Out Book Of...)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good Mix of Stories	Seven years after the first collection of London tales under the Time Out magazine aegis, we have 29 new selections set amidst the sprawling metropolis that is London. In his brief introduction, editor Royle notes that &quot;Cities are breeding grounds for... above all, narrative&quot; and that the stories that can be written about London are &quot;endless&quot;. This is certainly true, and while many of the stories here are good, few of them have much to say specifically about London. No one can argue that London is a distinctive place with it's own vibe, but trying to capture that in a short story is rather difficult. Many of the stories here could just as easily be set in New York or any other large Western city.<br />This is not to say there aren't plenty of good stories. 'cause there are. My own favorites included Geoff Nicholson's hilarious &quot;Wittgenstein's Mattress&quot;, Paul McAuley's ghost story &quot;Bone Orchards&quot;, Stewart Home's brilliant two and half-pager &quot;Didn't I Blow Your Mind&quot;, Robert Elms' enigmatic &quot;My Thing&quot;, Elizabeth Young giving Bridget Jones the two fingers in &quot;Jonesing: The End&quot; and John O'Connell's bizarre &quot;Gone To Earth&quot;.<br />It also must be said that the book does contain an excellent mix of styles, from bleak kitchen-sinkers (Leone Ross' &quot;Mudman&quot;, Michael Moorcock's &quot;London Blood&quot;) to predictable shocker/thrillers (Courttia Newland's &quot;Suicide Note&quot;, Michele Roberts' &quot;The Cookery Lesson&quot;), to bizarre otherworld visions of the city (Christopher Kenworthy's &quot;Waste Ground&quot;, Conrad Williams' &quot;Known&quot;), to relationship tales (Toby Litt's &quot;Unhaunted&quot;, Jacqueline Lucas' nicely done &quot;Touching Base&quot;) to out and out pretentious (Gareth Evans' &quot;Ultima Thule&quot;, Tamara Smith's &quot;The Watcher&quot;), to drug addict monologues (Steve Grant's &quot;Portions&quot; and the aforementioned &quot;Jonesing&quot;) and one story that seemed very oddly out of place, having little to do with London whatsoever, Maureen Freely's &quot;Rapprochement&quot;. So, whatever the anthology's shortcomings as a window into London, it does provide a nice mix and a good way to check out a wide range of authors.e story that seemed very oddly out of place, having little to do with London whatsoever, Maureen Freely's &quot;Rapprochement&quot;. So, whatever the anthology's shortcomings as a window into London, it does provide a nice mix and a good way to check out a wide range of authors.	2003-07-26
1037742:US	52254603	R1ODBSF66PIOIM	1841950955	33868994	Misadventures	Books	4	11	11	N	N	The Bitterest Pill	First of all, let's be clear: this is a memoir, not a novel (as some readers seem to think). Basically, a 50-year-old working class London woman has written down around a hundred or so vignettes or episodes from her life. Smith is a totally ordinary woman, living a totally ordinary life as a secretary and temp, and has no great story to tell. What she does have is mostly mundane memories and stories about friends, acquaintances, and people she passes on the street-all told in a flat, unadorned prose. These are presented chronologically, and are mostly around a page in length each.<br />There are basically two reactions readers might have to this. The first is to be appalled at the simplistic style, stunned at the lack of any compelling story, and bored to tears with the banality of whole effort. One might wonder what the point is of a memoir in which there is no narrative thread to follow and the author's deepest thoughts and emotions are never present. Some will definitely find this a frustrating and annoying read, as it subverts the prevailing trend of edgy memoirs. The second reaction one might have is to appreciate the entire enterprise as a tribute to the everywoman that goes unnoticed and unheralded. One could find a certain profundity in the series of banal episodes, and view it as a valuable document of women's social history. Is there a larger meaning to be found in Smith's portrait of her half-century? Well, it's kind of one of those situations where if you think there is, then there is. I myself found it oddly compelling reading, although rather affected. Ultimately, the book's a mirror, and how one reacts to it may be more interesting than the life it describes.	2003-07-23
1039652:US	52254603	R2VIIO0HAJJSP	0156013371	320637530	The Missing Piece: A Novel	Books	2	5	8	N	N	Amusing Setting, Awful Story	The American edition of this 1998 French &quot;thriller&quot; bears a jacket blurb from A. L. Kennedy compares this tedious puzzler to the works of Borges and Calvino. Now I'm not particularly a fan of Borges, and my views on Calvino depend very much on which work is under discussion, but to put this debut novel in the realm as those two masters is both ill-considered and irresponsible (not to mention irrevocably rendering Kennedy's body of work suspect). The setting Bello creates is certainly an amusing one: a parallel world where the &quot;sport&quot; of timed jigsaw puzzle tournaments is hugely popular. The reader learns at the outset that certain luminaries of the puzzling circuit are being drugged and clinically dismembered. The novel then presents 48 &quot;pieces&quot; or sections, in which lie the clues to unmask the serial killer.<br />These pieces consist of such things as newspaper reports, emails, magazine interviews, memos, letters, and the minutes of the academic Puzzology Society, arranged in a non-chronological order. Of course the conceit is that the sections are pieces of a puzzle, to be arranged to show the complete picture. The major flaw is that the clues are rather too obvious, and most readers will have identified the culprit in the first third of the book. This also is about the time the novelty of the structure wears off and things get boring. The satirical presentations of breathless tournament commentary, or academic minutiae of the Puzzology Society are amusing the first time around, but quickly wear thin thereafter. And when it finally (and I do mean finally) arrives, the d&eacute;nouement is just plain silly. Aside from these rather major problems, there are some nitpicky things relating to the translation. On the whole it's fine, but it's always irking to read a book in which the speech of American characters is peppered with British idioms. And if one is attempting to mimic the style of the New York Times, at the very least, follow their practice of using Mr. Smith, instead of simply Smith, when writing about people.<br />All in all, a major disappointment given the hype this generated in France. The setting is amusing, something Jonathan Lethem might produce in one of his short stories, but that's about the only good thing about this. Let's not even drag Borges and Calvino into it.ctice of using Mr. Smith, instead of simply Smith, when writing about people.<br />All in all, a major disappointment given the hype this generated in France. The setting is amusing, something Jonathan Lethem might produce in one of his short stories, but that's about the only good thing about this. Let's not even drag Borges and Calvino into it.	2003-07-22
1045275:US	52254603	R2AT68B5GI67CN	0671034820	369277977	Thirst	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Mixed Bag of Tricks	The fourteen stories here (all previous published in various lit reviews) display an amazing range of styles and a great deal of promise. There is whimsical comedy is the opening two and half page &quot;Notice&quot; and in the faux records of &quot;The Joy and Melancholy Baseball Trivia Quiz&quot;. There is a liberal dose of fantastical elements, such as the never-ending snowstorm of &quot;The Weather in New York&quot;, the mysterious nomads of &quot;A Line Is A Series of Points&quot;, or the dual-existence protagonist of &quot;Night and Day You Are the One.&quot; There is also the unfortunately presence of the literary joke story &quot;Invisible Malls&quot; (a pastiche of the Italian writer Calvino's Invisible Cities), and a weak meaning semi-historical Borgesian effort &quot;The Republic of St. Mark, 1849.&quot;<br />Kalfus's more &quot;realistic&quot; stories are equally uneven. The stories &quot;Bouquet&quot; and &quot;Thirst&quot; cover an encounter in Paris between an Irish nanny and an Moroccan, and are totally run-of-the-mill. The longest story is &quot;No Grace On the Road&quot; (at 40+ pages), a very awkwardly done story set in Vietnam about a young upper-class official caught in a storm out in the countryside with his American wife, and forced to shelter in a peasant's hovel, where a baby lies dying. It's a really clumsy piece, worthy of a college freshman writing class. On the positive side of the ledger, the brief &quot;Cats in Space&quot; is a simple and haunting story of kids being cruel to neighborhood animals. &quot;Suit&quot; is another short but sweet piece, about a boy being fitted for a suit for a court appearance. &quot;Rope Bridge&quot; is probably the most conventional story in the collection, concerning a man who lusts after a vivacious friend of his wife. But Kalfus treats the material with care and simplicity, creating an exquisite short work.<br />So, a typical first collection of very good pieces and some very bad pieces, with an atypical range of of styles and settings.l range of of styles and settings.	2003-07-17
1045747:US	52254603	R1WOH8XS0NKMNS	0224062018	509055401	A Bloody Good Friday	Books	4	1	1	N	N	All Out Attack!	The short, fast, and exceedingly cinematic story of an exceptionally violent Friday in a Welsh town in 1977. This story of brawlers, druggies, gypsies, and rampaging skinheads is not fine writing, but it is compelling storytelling. The narrator is Davey, a crippled druggie type who is sort of mates with two of the town's more infamous hard men. The book is his attempt to set the record straight about the hectic and convoluted chain of events on the &quot;legendary&quot; day one of them returns from prison. Barry, whose first book was a historically based Western, paces things very nicely as he shows how disparate events, decisions, history, and personalities cause ripples that lead to a roiling climax in the depressed town where everyone more or less knows who everyone else is. The characters are fairly shallow sketches, but still manage to come alive thanks to the story's own energy. There's even two romances thrown in the mix, and it's nice how every now and then hints are thrown in as to what happened to particular characters. It's a quick read, and one I wouldn't at all be surprised to see on the movie screen at some point. Entertaining stuff.	2003-07-17
1047998:US	52254603	RNM5QPZ0O5K18	0312276966	603778953	The Forger: A Novel	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Art Meets Espionage in WWII Paris	A semi-sequel to his book In the Blue Light of African Dreams, Watkins' literary (or rather painting) thriller tells the story of David Halifax (the son of the protagonist in that previous novel). David is a promising young American painter brought to Paris in 1939 via a mysterious scholarship which sets him up to study with a bizarre Russian painter, Pankratov. The first part of the story focuses on David's attempt to make it as an artist in Paris, living a spendthrift existence in a small apartment. Soon, however, he becomes friends with his two other fellow students and a shady gallery owner. One of the books' major strengths is how these characters-and all others, no matter how fleeting their role-spring to life under Watkins' pen.<br />Gradually the threat of invasion looms larger and larger, and David decides not to leave (sparking a major revelation that isn't as much of a surprise to the reader as Watkins probably intended). This leads to his involvement in an elaborate scheme to hide valuable French artwork from the Nazis, who have been systematically looting the countries they sweep though. The scheme involves forging old master paintings and trading them to the Germans for confiscated &quot;degenerate&quot; Impressionist and post-Impressionist masterpieces destined for destruction. It's a small-scale thriller, not end-of-the-world stuff, but perhaps richer for staying within reasonable bounds (although a late scene with Goering veers from the rest of the book). There's plenty of tension as David and his accomplices must walk a tightrope in dealing with and deceiving the dangerous Germans, and facing reprisal from the French who see them as collaborators.<br />The final third of the book feels a bit rushed, especially given the length of buildup, but the atmosphere is great throughout. From the dusty classroom, to David's damp apartment, to the cave-like forging studio, to smoky caf&eacute;s, and occupied streets, the book is crammed with oppressive sets. Watkins writes in an understated but vivd prose that projects the images into the mind in cinematic fashion. The details of painting forgery are intriguing, and the psychology of why men (and women) would risk their lives for art is handled very well. The book is not quite a masterpiece, but it is a very solid tale that will appeal to art lovers, WWII buffs, and general readers.s writes in an understated but vivd prose that projects the images into the mind in cinematic fashion. The details of painting forgery are intriguing, and the psychology of why men (and women) would risk their lives for art is handled very well. The book is not quite a masterpiece, but it is a very solid tale that will appeal to art lovers, WWII buffs, and general readers.	2003-07-15
1048446:US	52254603	R188ZZN07X4UCG	0844296309	834319691	Passport's Guide to Ethnic Montreal: A Complete Guide to the Many Faces & Cultures of Montreal (Travel)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Good but Very Dated	I went to Montreal for a week in 1998 with this and one other guidebook. While the organization and contents are all great, there were way too many listings that were non-existant. So, while it's useful for helping you understand neighborhood, DO NOT rely on it for specific restaurant and business listings. One night I went out for dinner and the first three listings I went to out of the book were no longer there!	2003-07-15
1106722:US	52254603	R19L6KQYRO2POD	038070577X	229254306	Case of the Late Pig	Books	2	1	5	N	N	Not for Newcomers to the Campion Series...	First published over 65 years ago, this entry in Allingham's long-running Campion series didn't do much to enthuse me to investigate other of Campion's adventures. It starts with the detective attending the funeral of an old schoolmate, who was rather widely despised. Several months later, Campion is called to the country to investigate a suspicious death, and the victim appears to be the same schoolmate. Wacky antics and murky mystery ensue. A kind of unsatisfying blend of P.G. Wodehouse and Agatha Christie which is unlikely to interest those who aren't already fans of the series. The one bright spot is Campion's valet, who is kind of a rough \\"anti-Jeeves\\".	2003-05-29
1116147:US	52254603	R1VYSC9QYLVB67	0618124918	697506995	The Best American Mystery Stories 2001 (The Best American Series)	Books	2	5	5	N	N	Odd Selections	I should note from the start that I only listened to the nine stories on the CD audio edition, so my comments only reflect roughly half of the book's contents. I have to say that they were a bit of a disappointment overall. One would expect a collection of mystery stories to have some, well, mystery... Instead, the stories are heavy on atmosphere, emphasizing it over plot, and sometimes there is only the slimmest connection to crime at all. Roxana Robinson's \\"Face Lift\\" for example, is a curious inclusion by any measure. I'm not any kind of genre purist, nor am I big fan of whodunits, or traditional mysteries-but it seems like the editors were going more for stories with cachet (either a name literary author such as Russell Banks or Joyce Carol Oates, or a name source publication like Esquire), rather than actually finding mysteries that are great reads. I'm also not one who likes to puzzle out the endings to mysteries ahead of time, but I had the endings spotted halfway through the three most \\"traditional\\" mysteries of the nine on the CD (which were also my three favorites as it happened). The only story to make me somewhat interested in reading something else by the author was Peter Robinson's \\"Missing in Action\\", which had an interesting WWII setting and a light touch. Still, one out of nine isn't a great success rate, and if the other eleven stories are of the same ilk, I'd have to recommend skipping this year's collection.	2003-05-21
1116364:US	52254603	R2GRJKXNM28WC0	0679730346	318681545	London Fields	Books	4	69	71	N	N	London Calling	This seems to be a novel people tend to either love or hate, and it's not hard to see why. First of all, it is awfully long-and for such a long book, not a lot happens, which is bound to upset some people. Essentially, you have the tale of a not-so-romantic triangle comprised of Nicola Six (messed up psychic sexpot), Guy Clinch (posh, married, naive, and weak-willed), and Keith Talent (underclass wide-boy, schemer, on-the-fiddle, racist, sexist, alcoholic, generally scummy pub denizen), told by a dying American writer in London. Nicola has foreseen her murder at the hand of one of these characters, and thus she directs her own demise by luring them into her tangled web of self-destruction. It's entirely predictable (yes, even the \\"twist\\" at the end), but one reads Amis for the journey, not the destination.<br />The tale is set at the end of the millennium, with some vague catastrophe threatening the world, so it's safe to believe that the trio's story has some larger meaning. The west London of this book is a pretty nasty immoral place, where carpe diem means grab what you want and screw everyone else. As the physical world of the book obliquely slides toward disaster, the moral landscape is already destroyed. The protagonists themselves are stereotypes, the two men representing the opposite ends of the social spectrum, and the most recognizable \\"type\\" of modern British male: upper-crust wimp, lower-class lout. Nicola Six exists solely to satirize, and thus subvert, their sexual fantasies with her psychosexual games. Amis appears to be painting a larger picture about British enrapturement with... well, it's not clear precisely what Nicola represents. Capitalism? America? Or just the dreams and fantasies that have led the country astray? And clearly there's some sort of point being made by having Guy's baby be a monster, and Keith's be an angel, right?<br />Overarching metaphors aside, Amis can write the hell out of sentence, and there's plenty of awfully good description and dialogue here-especially when it comes to wide-boy Keith. There are large swathes of the book devoted to darts, and Amis makes it come alive. Some of this is devastatingly funny amidst the overall dark and bleak tone. My own favorite line is about scratches on Guy's face that (and this is not verbatim, but give's the gist): \\"made him look like a determined, but inept rapist\\"). Ultimately the book is too long, and the broad main characters and interjecting author get rather tedious. Still, it's a major work of modern British literature and merits a look if you're into that stuff.ption and dialogue here-especially when it comes to wide-boy Keith. There are large swathes of the book devoted to darts, and Amis makes it come alive. Some of this is devastatingly funny amidst the overall dark and bleak tone. My own favorite line is about scratches on Guy's face that (and this is not verbatim, but give's the gist): \\"made him look like a determined, but inept rapist\\"). Ultimately the book is too long, and the broad main characters and interjecting author get rather tedious. Still, it's a major work of modern British literature and merits a look if you're into that stuff.	2003-05-21
1116633:US	52254603	R3BXVNMNIZKSCW	1841152838	431757100	Slow Down Arthur, Stick to Thirty	Books	1	6	6	N	N	Totally Skipable	This scattershot novel has some of the elements of the traditional \\"rite of passage\\" novel, in which a young man makes the troubled transition to adulthood, but lacks the narrative cohesion of such novels to fully merit the title. Set in the city of York, circa 1980, the story is told by Billy \\"the Kid\\" Glover, a feckless youth knocking about with equally feckless friends, lamely avoiding the necessity of figuring out what to do with his life. Kid Glover tells, with \\"Yorkshire Ripper\\" paranoia and the rise of New Wave as a haphazard background, how he came to be sort of friends with the inexplicably charismatic Ziggy Hero, a David Bowie impersonator par excellance. There are a bunch of supporting characters who drift in and out, with story always verging on, but never quite leading anywhere interesting. Other than a vaguely interesting fictional sense of York, the only thing one takes away from the book is that to be different in Yorkshire in the early '80s was to court regular beatings. There are a few funny moments here and there, nothing to make you laugh out loud though. Finally the whole proceedings are drawn to a grating conclusion with an inexplicable 13-page epilogue that I defy anyone to explain to me. Altogether, a disappointment.	2003-05-21
1116804:US	52254603	R3S60UZF39K768	0671853872	126655268	Vinnie Got Blown Away	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Cockney Rejects	If you like your crime plunked firmly in the gritty environs of East London, triple-glazed with slang, and peopled by a colorful hodge-podge of the petty criminals and a few hard cases, here 'tis. The story is a basic first-person account by a young hustler of his efforts to revenge the killing of his childhood(lum) friend, Vinnie. He's got to hustle to stay alive and put all the pieces together to pull it off, and each chapter alternates between that tale and him writing from behind prison bars. Between the two, we get a good idea of who our hero is and where he comes from. It's a fun romp. If you like this, check out the following: Throwing the House out the Window, Diamond Geezers, A White Merc With Fins, London Noir, and the film Lock, Stock, and Two Smoking Barrels.	2003-05-21
1116830:US	52254603	R1U1N17OUL3WY0	1896597491	90887251	Summer Blonde	Books	3	24	32	N	N	Four Very Similar Stories	I really liked Tomine's first collection (32 Stories), and loved his last one (Sleepwalk and Other Stories), so shelled out for the hardcover edition of his latest. The four stories are beautifully drawn in Tomine's instantly recognizable precise style, but the storytelling is rather disappointing. His stuff has always been somewhat similar, focusing on loss and loneliness, but here here four protagonists (three male, one female) are little more than subtle variations of each other. Each is a kind of lonerish social outcast type who has deep problems relating to others and whose imagination is fertile territory for spawning sad obsessions. So you get a hipsterish writer who never got over high school and thus neglects his beautiful girlfriend due to his fascination with the younger sister of \\"the hot chick\\" from high school. Then you have the pimply-faced production designer at the alternative paper who seethes at his neighbor's casual sexual prowess and turns quasi-stalker in a surge of misguided imagination. There's the stoic Asian woman who simply cannot manage even a normal conversation. The last story is a totally banal high-school loser story which veers into a loser version of a John Hughes movie with a totally ridiculous ending. I still dig how Tomine just jumps into his character's lives, and manages to convey their whole life with a minimum of exposition, and then stops the story right when they're at a kind of emotional fork. The problem here is that the four stories are simply far too similar, almost as if he's stuck and has nothing else to say but further riffs on the same material he's been doing for ten years. I sure hope this isn't the case and that his next book will show a new maturation of his storytelling, 'cause he is a talented artist.	2003-05-21
1116832:US	52254603	R1X67WMHVV0SGA	185702978X	442306766	Football Crazy	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Poor Cow	In his first book (Diamond Geezers), Williams' protagonist is an ex-soccer hooligan, here, his protagonist is an alcoholic soccer star. Hugely talented and perpetually soused or high, Lee Sweeny appears to have been heavily modeled after real-life superstar Paul Gascoigne (see Granta 45: Gazza Agonistes for a great mini-bio on him). The owners of Lee's unnamed London team, Archie and Gerrard McKay are also drawn from real life, obviously meant to evoke the memory of the Kray twins. The book covers what happens when Lee reaches the end of the line, his marriage to his high-school sweetheart in a shambles, his alcohol and drugs intake at a maximum, his career headed for disaster, his no-good brother back in his life, and a mysterious blackmailer miling him for 10,000 a month. Lee's alcholism and self-destruction are depressingly real, and Williams repeatedly tantalizes the reader with flashes of a nice Lee. There are some nice bits, especially regarding corruption in the Italian Serie A, where lee plays for a few seasons. In the end though, you know they story's a tragedy, and the ending is just too much of a downer.	2003-05-21
1119025:US	52254603	R1GZS8SLHOG0FT	0375412123	802156532	A Multitude of Sins	Books	1	8	22	N	N	Astoundingly Poor	If an author sets out to write a collection of short stories about adultery, you'd think they'd have a lo say about it, right? Well, Ford certainly expends plenty of words, but the net impact of them is next to nothing by the end of this incredibly feeble navel-gazing group of stories. Mind-numbingly similar in tone and temperament, the ten stories center of upper and upper-middle class white, middle-aged, married professionals who seem to have drifted into infidelity. Story after story plods cautiously along, poking at the consequences of adultery in a very mild way, with leaden dialogue and a lot of empty moodiness. Adultery is treated almost as a kind of bland rite-of-passage for a disconnected male. Marital infidelity can happen in so many ways for so many reasons, and yet Ford seems interested in only a very limited field of it. I have no idea what his personal background or situation is, but it's a collection you read and leave wishing the author had worked out their issues in therapy or something. If he wasn't such a literary bigshot, there's no way this would have been published-it strikes the same note over and over and over, and isn't provocative, insightful, or even interesting. PS. If you were planning on the audio version, don't. Ford is a terrible reader, sounding like someone reading the telephone book aloud as punishment.	2003-05-19
1120405:US	52254603	R3O5KCDWE1LQ6E	0671793349	303564375	The Dogs of Winter	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Great Atmosphere but Sloppy Storytelling	Atmosphere is king in Nunn's forth novel, an oddly assembled and arranged rambling semi-thriller about the quest to find a legendary secret surfing spot on the far northern California coast. The story treads much of the same turf as Alex Garland's The Beach, James Dickey's Deliverance, and Conrad's Heart of Darkness-but pales in comparison to all of them (yes, even The Beach). We meet a rapidly aging down-and-out surfing photographer who gets one last chance: he's to accompany two young pro surf hotshots as they meet up with a former legend who claims to know where the secret spot is and will guide them there. With this holy grail of surfing as the catalyst, the men journey to way northern California to meet the old legend, who lives with his weird young wife in Indian land. She forms the basis for another plotline, as she asks around about a local girl who was apparently murdered by an Indian. For reasons that are never explained, she's obsessed with local Indian witchcraft, and wanders the woods at night. One of the novel's big flaws is that she's very poorly drawn, and it's hard to understand why she's married to the ex-surfer king, or what she's doing there.<br />As the surfers pursue their primal communion with the ocean, they manage to stir up trouble with the Indians, who aren't keen on outsiders. Next thing you know, some serious evil types arrive from \\"upriver\\", where the meth labs are... The tension mounts as the surfers hike all over, looking for the spot, unaware that some stone-killer Indians are on their trail. Eventually, the various obsessions and plotlines start to get all tangled up, and even the well-meaning people in the story can't escape. The whole thing is kind of alternately cheezy and offhandedly violent. Nunn certainly doesn't add anything to the \\"quest\\" genre or the thriller genre, but he does provide some great atmosphere. The opressiveness of the heavily wooded rugged coastline, with scary liquor stores, unfriendly natives, and ramshackle summer cabins, is vividly unsettling. But there are too many strands, too many underdeveloped characters, and too much sloppiness to really make it all worthwhile, although those with a strong interest in surfing may find more to like in it.e summer cabins, is vividly unsettling. But there are too many strands, too many underdeveloped characters, and too much sloppiness to really make it all worthwhile, although those with a strong interest in surfing may find more to like in it.	2003-05-18
1121470:US	52254603	R3UY6XJ5ZFR8T7	1896597459	29779272	The Golem's Mighty Swing	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great Book	Even though I'm not a believer in the whole theory/vision of baseball as part of the American myth, Sturm does a pretty nice job with the metaphor in this understated but striking graphic novel. Set in the 1920s, the story concerns \\"The Stars of David\\", an ostensibly all-Jewish (one ex Negro League star qualifies as a \\"member of the lost tribe\\") barnstorming baseball team. With a decent amount of talent, they tour small towns as perpetual visitors, perpetual bad guys, and perpetual outsiders, earning just enough to scrape by. Until the team captain is approached by Victor Paige, of the Big Inning Promotional Agency. Paige convinces the team to create a Golem, \\"a creature that man creates to be a companion, a protector or a servant\\" as a gimmick to increase attendance. The gimmick works, but rather too well, as when they arrive in the next town, they are met with hostility and anti-Semitism beyond what they've ever faced before. The outcome is, well, predictable, and a metaphor for the times. The art is a lesson in the effectiveness of elegant simplicity, and captures the movement of baseball amazingly well. As per usual for Drawn & Quarterly, the book is very nicely printed and produced.	2003-05-17
1122298:US	52254603	R2ATBTC9EUNMF3	030681224X	898602153	Yes Yes Y'all: The Experience Music Project Oral History Of Hip-hop's First Decade	Books	4	24	25	N	N	Real Nice	This beautiful book attempts to trace the formation of hip-hop culture through interviews with those who were around for the first ten years. Fricke (a curator at the Experience Music Project museum) and Ahearn (photographer and director of the seminal hop-hop film Wild Style), attempt to document the New York City scene from about 1974-84 (right up to the formation of DefJam and Run-DMC) through photos, original party flyers, and the words of the DJs, MCs, b-boys (breakdancers), graffiti artists, and promoters who were there.<br />The early portion shows how DJ sound-system battles emerged in the early to mid '70s against the backdrop of a decaying Bronx, attracting youths to more or less impromptu parties in parks, streets, and playgrounds. Competition was fierce as to who had the loudest sound system and the best records, and tough security (gang members) was a necessity. One thing that gets disappointingly glossed over is how this copied what happened in Kingston, Jamaica ten years earlier. It was exactly the same: competing street sound systems, with competing DJs who would take the labels off records so spies couldn't find out what they were playing, gangs, violence-all the same. DJ Kool Herc, who lived in Jamaica until 1967, makes a fleeting reference to it, but that's all.<br />For the first few years, the DJs were the \\"stars\\" of the scene, offering an alternative to disco music. But as DJs started to learn how to manipulate their turntables to extend the \\"beats\\" from a song, eventually MCing started to become more vibrant. What had initially only been calls to the crowd to keep the party's energy up evolved into more and more sophisticated catchphrases, freestyle rhymes, and soon MCs were writing and memorizing lines. Again, it's a bit puzzling that no mention is made of Jamaican\\"toasting\\" which emerged in the mid to late '60s. This was the practice of DJs who would talk and rhyme over the records they played, and soon progressed to a point where they would have instrumental versions of popular songs laid down for them to rhyme over-often in a boasting style, talking about how they were the \\"#1\\", \\"champion\\", and so on. Sounds familiar, doesn't it?<br />The other two legs of hip-hop culture are given somewhat less space. The material on breakdancing (aka \\"b-boying\\" to the true old-schoolers) seems to indicate that the \\"b-boy \\" crews filled a kind of competitive void left by the waning of street gang culture. And while there was some of this dancing at the parties, music was the focus, rather than the dancing-which didn't get big until the early '80s. Graffiti, on the other hand, was clearly a prominent feature of the NYC landscape from the early '70s on. But, what's most interesting here is that while the graffiti artists often went to parties and knew some of the music people, the idea that graffiti was part of a larger hip-cop culture didn't emerge until late in the game. It wasn't until the downtown Manhattan art scene started getting interested that the music, breakin', and graffiti were packaged-by the white art scene-a unified \\"street\\" culture.<br />The book is lavishly put together, with tons to look at-however, the oral history structure isn't the greatest. From a historical perspective, it's great to hear all these unknown voices from the past telling about their roles, but at times it does get tedious. Especially when it comes to details on how so and so met so and so and that led the the formation of this or that. Even more so late in the book, when record companies get in the mix, and then all kinds of resentments come pouring out. There could have been a little more editing, as well as a little more context to fill in some of the gaps. For example, there are a lot of references to gangs being involved in the early scene, and shootings, and violence, but there's never any unified discussion of it. The same for the role of drugs in the scene, at one point someone (I think Spoonie Gee) talks about how everyone was totally coked up all the time, and that's something that could have been explored a little more. In any event, it's still a great book for anyone with an interest in the days of hip-hop, giving proper space and voice to all the unknowns who deserve to be known.one was totally coked up all the time, and that's something that could have been explored a little more. In any event, it's still a great book for anyone with an interest in the days of hip-hop, giving proper space and voice to all the unknowns who deserve to be known.	2003-05-16
1126240:US	52254603	R2YE5ISFZ1RCDG	0867199016	327147087	TINTIN: COMPLETE COMPANION	Books	5	24	25	N	N	A Beautiful Book That Belongs On Every Fan's Shelf	Anyone who has a complete set of Tintin's adventures on their bookshelves should really have this beautifully produced book to sit alongside them. Leading British Tintinologist and journalist Farr spent five years researching this book in his attempt to provide context for each book in the series. The result is a work that charts not only the personal and professional life of the Belgian cartoonist, but also shows how political, social, and technological changes influenced his storytelling. Each Tintin adventure gets about 4-6 pages, and each section is beautifully laid out, with perfectly reproduced color panels, along with photos and clippings from Herg&eacute;'s files to show how reality was incorporated into the books. The main theme that emerges is how Herg&eacute; insisted that the stories be grounded in reality as much possible, and how he took great pains to create a realistic world for his little hero to operate in. It should be noted that the book is aimed at those who have already read the stories, and assumes intimate familiarity with the series. That said, longtime fans will immediately want to reread each book after reading about it in this companion.<br />The minor downside is that Farr writes from an unabashed fan's position, and at times he's a little overenthusiastic, repeating certain information. He's also very intent on explaining away the more unpleasant episodes in Herg&eacute;'s life, such as his working for (some use the term \\"collaboration\\") with a German run newspaper during the Nazi occupation of Belgium, or his divorcing his wife after twenty years to take up with a much younger woman, and so forth. One wishes that he'd spent less space as an apologist for Herg&eacute;'s human failings and done a little more analysis of the stories. It also would have been nice to have an appendix listing all the stories, as well as their dates of serial and collected publication. These are minor quibbles however, because the book is very handsome, a great value considering the lovely printing and production. It will rekindle any Tintin fan's enthusiasm for the series and contains ample material for explaining why Tintin is timeless and so popular worldwide.lovely printing and production. It will rekindle any Tintin fan's enthusiasm for the series and contains ample material for explaining why Tintin is timeless and so popular worldwide.	2003-05-13
1127131:US	52254603	R2IN1LXS2WQ636	0060012781	86601151	A Cook's Tour: Global Adventures in Extreme Cuisines	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Mmmm.... Fried Mars Bar....	To enjoy this book, you have to (A) really like food, and (B) accept that the whole exercise of Bourdain tramping around the world in a psuedo-quest for the ultimate food experience is rather artificial (which he admits right up front). So, bearing in mind that he's being trailed by Food Network cameramen, and has producers to prearrange a lot of stuff for him, Bourdain's global hopscotch of culinary exploration is a very readable and fun journey. He's not really looking for the \\"perfect meal\\" so much as looking for the experience that comes with food-from refined dining (there's a chapter on The French Laundry in Napa Valley), to home cooking (massive home-cooked meals in Portugal and Mexico, complete with barnyard slaughter), to street food (several chapters on Cambodia and Vietnam), to ritualized meals (in Japan and Morocco).<br />If you like your travel narratives to have classy guides, this definitely won't be your cup of tea. Bourdain's \\"bad boy\\" chef image is no doubt somewhat calculated and contrived, but he certainly manages to get good and drunk in virtually every chapter, and he's a chain-smoker to boot. Mix in a large number of sketchy gross-out foods (deep-fried Mars Bar, sheep testicles, beating cobra heart, etc.), and you've got a pretty fun little book. As evidenced in his fiction work (Bone in the Throat, Gone Bamboo, The Bobby Gold Stories), he's got excellent timing and can be very, very funny. He can also be very human and poignant, as in the chapter where he and his brother revisit their childhood summer vacation spot in France, and when he talks about his Mexican chefs. Some people have complained that he doesn't describe the food well enough, which I disagree with. Writing about taste is like writing about music, you can only hope to convey a vague impression, and he's really more concerned with the overall experience anyway. I defy anyone's mouth not to water while reading the Vietnam chapters.<br />Which is not to say to the book is perfect. I actually found his veering into the recent political histories of Vietnam and Cambodia to be rather clumsy but worthwhile. On the other hand, his anti-vegetarian screeching is just plain annoying and off-putting (I am not a vegetarian by the way). He treats all vegetarians as proselytizing, animal-lovers who want to ban any animal death-a portrayal wholly inaccurate of the many vegetarians I've known over the years. First of all, I've never met a proselytizing vegetarian, and second of all, most people I know are vegetarian, are that way for health reasons, not political ones. It's an even more irksome perspective in that he makes a big fuss over how upsetting it is to actual witness a pig/lamb/turkey getting killed for your dinner. It's as if he felt he had to put something feisty or controversial or nasty in there, just to keep his persona going, and it does nothing for the book.<br />The vegetarian thing aside, I would wholeheartedly recommend this book to anyone interested in food (and who isn't?) or other cultures. The chapters work pretty well on their own, and are the perfect length for devouring one a night before bed, although they'll likely drive you to the kitchen for a midnight snack!I actually found his veering into the recent political histories of Vietnam and Cambodia to be rather clumsy but worthwhile. On the other hand, his anti-vegetarian screeching is just plain annoying and off-putting (I am not a vegetarian by the way). He treats all vegetarians as proselytizing, animal-lovers who want to ban any animal death-a portrayal wholly inaccurate of the many vegetarians I've known over the years. First of all, I've never met a proselytizing vegetarian, and second of all, most people I know are vegetarian, are that way for health reasons, not political ones. It's an even more irksome perspective in that he makes a big fuss over how upsetting it is to actual witness a pig/lamb/turkey getting killed for your dinner. It's as if he felt he had to put something feisty or controversial or nasty in there, just to keep his persona going, and it does nothing for the book.<br />The vegetarian thing aside, I would wholeheartedly recommend this book to anyone interested in food (and who isn't?) or other cultures. The chapters work pretty well on their own, and are the perfect length for devouring one a night before bed, although they'll likely drive you to the kitchen for a midnight snack!	2003-05-12
1127558:US	52254603	RZ0ZKV2CCYOVY	0316608432	664665730	Soul Circus	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Murder Capital Once Again...	I've lived in DC for 20 years and Pelecanos is only the second author I've come across who writes about the DC that I know and recognize (the other is Edward Jones, check out his story collection \\"Lost in the City\\" if you can find it). The third book in the Derek Strange series picks up immediately where Hell To Pay left off. In the wake of drug lord Granville Oliver's arrest (as detailed in Hell To Pay), two street gangs are attempting to fill the void his departure has left on the drug market. Meanwhile, Strange is working for Oliver's defense team, gathering background information on various witnesses. This surprising assignment mainly involves the search for one woman, and it soon becomes apparent that someone doesn't want Strange to find her.<br />Here, Pelecanos weaves a critique of the city's treatment at the hands of Congress into the story. Despite the city's 1981 repeal of the death penalty, and a 1992 citywide referendum that rejected the death penalty by a 2-1 margin, federal prosecutors have sought the death penalty in high-profile D.C. cases (such as the \\"Starbucks murders\\") with support from Congress. Strange tells himself he's working for the ex-drug lord as a matter of anti-death penalty conscience, but as in all of Pelecanos' books, there's more to it than that (as readers of Hell To Pay will know). The one misstep in his treatment of this is the appearance of a \\"big brother\\" conspiracy element that threatens to push the story into the \\"24/X-Files\\" zone. Fortunately, this never becomes too overt, and the story is allowed to move at its own pace.<br />Even more than in the first two books, Strange and his fiery white partner, Terry Quinn find themselves tilting at windmills in a crusade to make just a tiny difference to their community. It's been ten years since the \\"Murder Capital\\" days of the early '90s, but little change is evident in the worst parts of the city as the city regains the dubious title. If Right As Rain was about racism, and the last one about hopelessness, this one is about how guns and hopelessness form a lethal brew that threaten entire communities. Pelecanos' other target in this book is guns, more specifically, the ease by which they can be bought in Maryland and Virginia and then transferred into DC. He's clearly talked to ATF people to get the lowdown on waiting periods, and how straw purchases work. It's remarkably simple, and there's no remedy in sight. Some readers may find Pelecanos to have too much of a personal agenda woven into the plot, but he's walked the streets of Southeast DC and seen what goes down and why.<br />This is easily the darkest and most depressing of the three Strange books to date, gushing humanity, anger, and frustration. Strange and his creator clearly feel that the only way to turn things around is one kid at a time (Pelecanos has adopted several children), and that's the one good message to take from the book. As always, the cast of characters is large and distinctive, although Terry becomes more of an enigma filled with demons that never quite make enough sense for the reader. For fans of Pelecanos' earlier work, Nick Stefanos makes a cameo appearance here and there's a hint that he'll have a larger role in the next novel. All in all, another solid entry in Pelecanos' D.C. sagas.st one about hopelessness, this one is about how guns and hopelessness form a lethal brew that threaten entire communities. Pelecanos' other target in this book is guns, more specifically, the ease by which they can be bought in Maryland and Virginia and then transferred into DC. He's clearly talked to ATF people to get the lowdown on waiting periods, and how straw purchases work. It's remarkably simple, and there's no remedy in sight. Some readers may find Pelecanos to have too much of a personal agenda woven into the plot, but he's walked the streets of Southeast DC and seen what goes down and why.<br />This is easily the darkest and most depressing of the three Strange books to date, gushing humanity, anger, and frustration. Strange and his creator clearly feel that the only way to turn things around is one kid at a time (Pelecanos has adopted several children), and that's the one good message to take from the book. As always, the cast of characters is large and distinctive, although Terry becomes more of an enigma filled with demons that never quite make enough sense for the reader. For fans of Pelecanos' earlier work, Nick Stefanos makes a cameo appearance here and there's a hint that he'll have a larger role in the next novel. All in all, another solid entry in Pelecanos' D.C. sagas.	2003-05-12
1131053:US	52254603	R2M7DHOI3U9S1O	1862075298	922115010	The Hard Shoulder	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Stand Down Margaret	Set in 1985 or '86, Petit's fourth novel operates on two levels, both of which succeed, though neither is overwhelming. Most obviously, it is a psychological novel about Pat O'Grady, a former tough guy just released from ten years in prison. Not so tough anymore, he goes to live in his sister's boarding house in the unfashionable Kilburn neighborhood of North London. Unlike the typical Hollywood \\"just-out-of-jail\\" story, there's no one waiting for him-in fact, quite the opposite, his wife left him as soon as he went to prison and took their 8-year-old daughter with her. His nunnish sister wrote him off ages ago and is barely civil to him, while their mother lives in mute senility in a nursing home.<br />O'Grady commences this new part of his life intending to live a quiet, solitary existence. However, with no real plan, he soon falls prey to Shaughnessy, a sly chatterbox fellow Irishman who fills his head with schemes of recovering \\"what's owed to him\\" from the job that landed him in prison. Confused by the changes in society, and fueled by long sessions in the local pub, the adrift O'Grady starts getting notions of redemption. In addition to halfheartedly following Shaughnessy's lead, he also starts searching for his now teenage daughter. It's a compelling portrait of a half-broken man, a realistic ex-con who doesn't burst from prison with plans, but is indecisive, weak, and with without purpose in a changed world.<br />It's this changed world that is the other level on which the novel operates. Petit has done a rather neat job of showing how Irish have operated socially as a traditional underclass in London, and how one such neighborhood stands on the brink of gentrification. The \\"grab-what-you-can\\" ethos of the Thatcher era is displayed through O'Grady's ex-wife (whose name, in case you needed a little nudge, is Maggie), and his former partner in crime, who now lives in a mansion and deals in currency speculation. O'Grady comes to realize that those with the drive and ambition are operating on a whole different level, and the money's he's after is a joke in this world.<br />Ultimately, this is a tough story, and not a little depressing. O'Grady is someone who chose the wrong path long ago, has spent ten years in jail realizing it, and now has no future in Maggie's Britain.e and ambition are operating on a whole different level, and the money's he's after is a joke in this world.<br />Ultimately, this is a tough story, and not a little depressing. O'Grady is someone who chose the wrong path long ago, has spent ten years in jail realizing it, and now has no future in Maggie's Britain.	2003-05-08
1132794:US	52254603	R26FKP09YCY18F	0803267258	162966213	Double Jeopardy	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Too Much Irony	Echenoz is a big cheese in French lit, and having kind of enjoyed his 1983 Prix M&eacute;dicis-winning book Cherokee, I thought I'd check out this 1987 novel of his. The thing I didn't like about Cherokee was its huge cast of characters, and again, there are a lot of people to keep track of and quite a lot happens, but none of it seems to be of any consequence. Kind of a style over substance problem. The plot can barely be summarized, but basically it revolves around gunrunning. Parisians Paul and Bob sell guns illegally and are interested in Justine. Jeff (aka Jean-Francois, AKA Pons, AKA Duke) and Charles need guns to stir up a little trouble in Malaysia so that Jeff can be a plantation manager/feudal lord without any interference from the pesky owners. They both used to be interested in Justine's mother, Nicole, and Charles is also Paul's uncle. Finally, there are some Belgian gangsters, Plankaert, Toon, and Van Os, who are mad that Paul and Bob won't sell them guns and thus kidnap Justine. (If you intend to read the book, do yourself a favor and print this out, 'cause trying to keep it straight as you're reading ain't easy.)<br />What sounds simple and straightforward above, really isn't in Echenoz's fractured style. He playfully hops, skips, and jumps, all over the place, and while it's not an experimental work, it's a far cry from traditional narrative structure. It's more about the rhythm of the story and the irony and comedy derived from his telling a series of melodramatic events in a exceedingly deadpan way. There's the kidnapping or two, a mutiny, bank robbery, worker uprising, lost loves, unrequited longing, long-lost relations, and all manner of melodrama. Some scenes are quite wonderful and witty, however, the story is never really taken seriously by the author, and thus the book is kind of a big piece of steaming irony. (It's not without reason that there's an academic work in French titled, \\"Irony in the Works of Echenoz\\"). It gets pretty tiresome after the first quarter of the book, and I don't think I'll be bothering to seek out any more of his stuff, although the Prix Goncourt-winning I'm Gone is supposed to be quite good.e first quarter of the book, and I don't think I'll be bothering to seek out any more of his stuff, although the Prix Goncourt-winning I'm Gone is supposed to be quite good.	2003-05-06
1134351:US	52254603	R388CJLJJ79NCK	0316146803	307031386	Brownsville: Stories	Books	5	8	14	N	N	Wonderful Debut Collection!	Latino life in the small Texas border city of Brownsville comes alive in this entirely engaging debut collection of nine short stories arranged in three parts. The first three stories are grouped in the section \\"I Thought You and Me Were Friends\\", and focus on male relationships. The opening tale tells of a young boy working at a firework stand and his realization that his boss isn't a nice person. The second is about a man overly obsessed with a hammer borrowed by a white neighbor, and charts the ups and downs of their friendship in relation to the hammer. The final story follows a young slacker whose best (and only) friend recently died and left him without human anyone to talk to. This last one takes a slightly (David) Lynchian turn, and isn't quite as strong as the first two.<br />The second part, \\"They Say He Was Lost\\", is about essentially good men struggling with life. The first story is one of the weaker ones, about an old gardener who has lost his religion. The details of his living and work conditions are far more interesting than his spiritual predicament. Next is a brilliant portrait of a man in his early 20s who married, divorced, and had a kid too young, and doesn't really understand his ex-wife, his child, what happened to his youth, and what's happening to his future. It's a heartbreaking story that shoots to the core of single-family parenting and the other parent. The third tale is of a hardworking state employee who is driven to desperate acts by a neighbor's dog. The final three stories, \\"Don't Believe Anything He Tells You\\", veer into a more odd turf. The first deals with a man whose sly cousin hustles him into prepaying for his funeral. The second is a rather garden-variety young boy/beautiful next door neighbor piece. The third is a bit of a comic turn about a geriatric bowling (the only female protagonist in the book) whose lucky bowling ball gets stolen.<br />The collection is somewhat reminiscent of John McNally's 1999 collection, Troublemakers. Both sets of stories are primarily about working-class men living in marginalized communities between the coasts, trying to hold their own as their communities shift around them. As such, they are more directly relevant to majority of people in this country than the plethora of tiresome New York, San Francisco, historical, or academe-set novels that seem to dominate the bookstores. Casares doesn't seek to shove any messages or agenda in the reader's face, he's simply writing about people and how they live where he comes from. Great stuff.kers. Both sets of stories are primarily about working-class men living in marginalized communities between the coasts, trying to hold their own as their communities shift around them. As such, they are more directly relevant to majority of people in this country than the plethora of tiresome New York, San Francisco, historical, or academe-set novels that seem to dominate the bookstores. Casares doesn't seek to shove any messages or agenda in the reader's face, he's simply writing about people and how they live where he comes from. Great stuff.	2003-05-05
1135648:US	52254603	R34D7K5VRRO142	0864427816	438996960	My 'Dam Life: Three Years in Holland	Books	5	20	26	N	N	Hi-larious!	Even if you never intend to visit the Netherlands, this is a wonderful book-especially if you ever plan to live abroad. I'd never heard of Condon before, but five pages into his hilarious account of spending three years in Amsterdam, I vowed to track down his two previous books (Sean & David's Long Drive and Drive Thru America). Thirtysomething Australian humorist, writer, and advertising hack Condon moved to the Netherlands in 1998 with his half-Dutch wife, who had gotten a magazine job there. Their subsequent trials and tribulations are rendered in vivid and snappily witty prose that's somewhat akin to Bill Bryson's, but pitched at a younger readership and with a bit more pop-culture nodding and winking. The couple's primary trial is the extreme lack of affordable housing in Amsterdam, exacerbated by their own semi-legitimate residency status. The other major running problem is his lack of employment and lack of prospects, which is alleviated here and there by somewhat amusing stints at ad agencies. Throughout the book Condon is somehow able to juggle the task of making the reader feel his pain and provoking laugh after laugh. Of course he doesn't fail to provide a little Dutch history, and a lot of Amsterdam life (albeit with the outsider's eye), which makes the book a must read for anyone planning a trip there. And just to vary the menu, there are rather bizarre and hilarious business trips to San Francisco in search of Francis Ford Coppola and to London in search of good web content. Condon ought to win a prize for \\"Funniest Use of Footnotes\\"-ever. And did I mention the walk-ons by Monica Lewinsky and Roger \\"007\\" Moore?	2003-05-04
1137311:US	52254603	R237G6LTPWK1TY	0871138646	304984877	Old Flames	Books	2	4	11	N	N	British Cold War Snoozer	awton's second Inspector Troy story (following Black Out), finds the upper class detective in middle-age as the Cold War menaces England in 1956. The dense book is equal parts Cold War thriller (a la Carr&eacute; or Furst), period depiction of post-WW II Britain, and insight into a complex protagonist's head. It's an ambitious undertaking, and I regret to say there's not a lot of thrill in the thriller, rather too much detail of domestic British politics for any but the most eager Anglophile, and Troy's hang-ups aren't enough to sustain interest in light of the book's heft.<br />The thriller part concerns the death of an apparent British spy during a visit by Kruschev to England. Troy is part of a Russian-speaking security detail assigned to eavesdrop on the Soviet delegation, but eventually ends up investigating the mysterious death. This investigation is rather herky-jerky and the result is both awfully banal for the amount of effort it takes, and disappointing in how it coincidentally links up to Troy's past. The period detail is well done (especially all the slang), but it would have benefited from a little concision. The grimy look at London and small towns in transition is nice, but there's far too much political intrigue and detail. Troy himself is a somewhat intriguing character, highly ambivalent to Queen and country, he struggles with his Russian heritage and advancing age. Still, one can't help but find the supporting cast more interesting-from Troy's boss \\"Onions\\", to his pig consultant, to the Polish pathologist, and various femme fatales. The problem is that Troy's really not particularly likable, and it's a bit of a chore to stick with him for so many pages.<br />As in the first book, Troy's family, school friends, and past loves are all at the author's service in moving the story along-indeed it becomes hard to overlook how convenient it is to the plotting that Troy's brother is a prominent politician with his fingers in top-secret pies. It's also hard to ignore how many times Troy gets shot, beaten-up, left for dead, etc. and yet still pursues the truth. Were the book more focused (and hence shorter), I'd be able to overlook these contrivances, but coupled with the faults outlined above, they make it difficult to recommend this book. A further warning is that one really must read the first book, Black Out, in order to get the full flavor of the characters and relationships. The third Troy book is A Little White Death, set in 1963-it hasn't yet been published in US, and based on this one, I won't bother to read it when it is.ignore how many times Troy gets shot, beaten-up, left for dead, etc. and yet still pursues the truth. Were the book more focused (and hence shorter), I'd be able to overlook these contrivances, but coupled with the faults outlined above, they make it difficult to recommend this book. A further warning is that one really must read the first book, Black Out, in order to get the full flavor of the characters and relationships. The third Troy book is A Little White Death, set in 1963-it hasn't yet been published in US, and based on this one, I won't bother to read it when it is.	2003-05-02
1147029:US	52254603	R2X43Z3JR9BCW6	1582342334	739854064	The Bobby Gold Stories	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Bourdain is Back to Basics!	Bourdain returns to fiction after earning himself a place on the nonfiction bestseller lists with Kitchen Confidential and A Cook's Tour. Back in the mid '90s he wrote two crime novels, the excellent Bone In the Throat, and the decidedly inferior Gone Bamboo. Here, he returns to the seedy world of mob-backed New York restaurant/nightclubs where Bobby Gold is the head of security at NiteKlub. Although the title says \\"Stories\\", the book is really a novella in twelve chapters. The first two introduce Bobby by showing him getting busted for carrying a few pounds of cocaine and heading to prison for ten years and then emerging and working as a decidedly reluctant armbreaker for his \\"connected\\" buddy. Bobby's story takes off in subsequent chapters on his work as head of security and potential romance with the restaurant's saut&eacute; chef, Nikki. Throughout the book, a realization builds within Bobby that he needs to create some distance between himself and Eddie, the low-level mobster he's connected to. The resolution of that plays out in a rather dark way, as the book takes a decidedly grim turn in the last two chapters.<br />Like Bourdain's previous fiction, this is a fairly graphic tale (both in terms of violence, sex, and language), and one that displays Bourdain's ear for dialogue and slang. There are scenes throughout that simply jump off the page, most notably, a scene where Nikki makes a meal for Bobby as the kitchen is shutting down while the rest of the kitchen watches in disbelief. Another great scene is where Bobby goes to see a man about a carburetor, and ends up drinking with a member of the Aryan Brotherhood. And yet another takes place when Bobby has lunch at a swanky Manhattan joint with Eddie, who plays havoc with the menu. All in all, the story is so simple and there are so many vividly filmic scenes, that I'd be shocked if this isn't made into a movie.<br />If you're unsure about whether or not this is your cup of tea, the second chapter (\\"Bobby At Work\\") can be read online in its entirety at The Barcelona Review. A quick web search should take you to it.can be read online in its entirety at The Barcelona Review. A quick web search should take you to it.	2003-04-24
1148867:US	52254603	R2SLSWKC87GL5M	1840184108	317440992	The Estate	Books	3	0	0	N	N	All Lost in the Supermarket	The author of two books on football hooliganism turns his hand to fiction in this collection of thirteen loosely linked stories set on a south London housing estate in the late 1960s. King attempts to portray the reality of life on these high-rise complexes that sprang up all over Britain and the U.S. in the '60s through the stories of various tenants. Naively conceived of as socially progressive housing solutions, the stories show how concrete towers quickly turned into incubators of urban decay.<br />In very simple prose one gets glimpses into a variety of lives, from the Indian shopkeepers who are routinely threatened by racist neighbors, to the gay hairdresser couple who face down their harassers every day. There's a West Indian couple with two British-born boys, a single mother, a minicab driver, a mechanic, a drug dealer, a publican, and a pedophile. Almost all the characters are rather shallow stereotypes (gay hairdressers, a slimy cab driver, come on!), and their stories are so brief that by the time one gets slightly interested in any of them, it's over. The book is apparently based on true stories (presumably King grew up on such an estate), but all too often it reads like a predictable TV show, rather than a really interesting portrait of a community. There are nice moments here and there, but the writing is so labored and the characters so stock that it's hard to get too enthusiastic for it.	2003-04-23
1151009:US	52254603	R277NDJ5HJP7RW	0743205405	756073777	Take the Cannoli: Stories From the New World	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Not Bad, but Not Great	Like many other readers of this book, I found that Vowell's essays work much better on NPR than they do on the page. Part of that may be ascribed to the overall mood that's created when you hear her voice tell the story, along with the perfect background and bridging music. Her timing and pace is just so much better on radio than in writing-a lot of those caustic or telling one-liners just lie dead on the page. Finally, when I hear her radio pieces it's usually a totally welcome surprise and treat while I'm stuck in the car, whereas when actually sitting down to read her book, I couldn't help thinking of unread books on my shelf crying for attention. What I mean is that Vowell's take on American life is most welcome and effective when it's unexpected.<br />The sixteen essays aren't particularly bad (except the one on Frank Sinatra, which is the one case where Vowell takes a conceit-Sinatra as the original punk-and attempts to ram it home despite the obvious contradictions), but very few of them are truly engaging in the way her radio work is. The best two, are not surprisingly, two of the most personal: \\"Shooting Dad\\", in which she elegantly displays her relationship with her gun-loving father, and \\"What I See When I Look On the Face on the $20 Bill\\", in which she and her sister embark on a \\"Trail of Tears\\" road trip to try and get in touch with their part-Cherokee heritage. On the other end of the spectrum are her set pieces on the famous Chelsea Hotel, learning to drive, hanging out with goths, Disney World, a cheezy Rock 'n Roll fantasy camp, none of which are particularly insightful, funny, or distinctive. Somewhere in the middle are more autobiographical pieces, such as those on her insomnia, obsession with The Godfather, playing music in high school, and the end of the world all of which have chuckle moments and are much less self-consciously post-ironic hipsteresque than other parts.<br />Vowell is great on radio, and I suspect over time, she'll get better and better on paper. The two recommendations I have for this book are to spread it out over time, read it in small chunks, and not to have overly high expectations.nd better on paper. The two recommendations I have for this book are to spread it out over time, read it in small chunks, and not to have overly high expectations.	2003-04-21
1155221:US	52254603	R2VARS8YIMUWYF	074727567X	737917921	The Silver River	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Struggling For Meaning	Of the four Richards' novels I've read, this probably has the most emotional depth and most overtly political background. The protagonists of his books always seem to be essentially nice people working toward some kind of justice (council housing officer Jamie from Throwing the House Out of the Window or trade unionist Mel from A Sweetheart Deal), and here it's Nick, an investigative journalist for a TV program on wrongly incarcerated people. Richards also tends to throw in some kind of South American connection, which is much more prominent here, in the person of Uruguayan refugee Orlando and his computer nerd son.<br />Comfortably ensconced in his semi-socially progressive job, with a beautiful social worker girlfriend/partner, Nick seems to be floating through a series of shallow media parties and friendships. One day, a childhood friend asks him to look into the case of a friend who's currently in jail for murder. This favor leads Nick into a darker, more dangerous world, where he is forced to confront his class, the strength of his convictions, and the depth of his relationships. Meanwhile, Orlando, who is cleans Nick's office, tells of his past involvement with the Tupamaro movement, of exile in Chile and Argentina where he falls in love with another revolutionary, and his escape to the West with his family. He finds himself often wondering what it was all for and about, and why he bothered. Each man's story is compelling, as each has made mistakes and is struggling to grasp the meaning of his life. Their paths dovetail in a startling moment, and a shimmer of hope ends the story.	2003-04-17
1157018:US	52254603	R3RR4LR3WTY3M8	1898927405	27855149	Nightshift	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Moderately Interesting Portrait of a Scene	The first book to attempt to document the \\"Northern Soul\\" subculture that arose in Britain in the early '70s, McKenna's book is a slim and highly personal account of the glory days of the scene. I picked it up, 'cause I'd always heard the term Northern Soul, but was never really clear what it was all about. Well, as far as I can make out from this account, it's basically a little offshoot of the mod scene. Same obsession about obscure black American music, same obsession with clothes and style, and same big ingestion of drugs (especially speed). McKenna spends a good deal of time describing his own local scene around Blackpool-including a lot on fashion, scooters, run-ins with police and motorcycle gangs, and the like-before moving on to the main part of the book, which describes the all-nighters held at the Wigan Casino from the early '70s to 1982.<br />These all-nighters were essentially dances that ran from around midnight until 6am or so, and can very rightfully be considered the precursors to the rave scene that arose in the '80s. The music mostly came from DJs, although for a while, the Wigan Casino was considered the best live soul venue in the world and attracted big name American performers. The music bits are a bit boring if you're not into it yourself, and the details over the scene infighting about which club or DJ was playing more \\"authentic\\" music are laughable.<br />McKenna's discussion of the role of drugs displays an astounding capacity for doublethink. On the one hand, he keeps trying to say that it was all about the music and the dancing, and the drugs were a tiny part of it. But then he also talks about how almost everybody was necking them down, how the drugs were \\"out of control\\" and how obvious it was that eventually the heavy drug trafficking would lead to the demise of the club. In one incredible series of passages, he berates the tabloids for over-the-top articles on drug use at the clubs, and then almost immediately admits that the stories were more or less true. Not only that, but he spends considerable space mourning fellow scenesters who eventually died from heavy drug use! So, although he does do an excellent job of conveying the excitement and camaraderie of being part of an underground subculture, in the end it all seems rather a shallow and silly enterprise. It should be noted that McKenna's book had been criticized for overstating the amount of drugs there were on the scene.<br />The last twenty pages or so are a glance at the scene circa 1995, which he finds to be alive and kicking, as well as a few recollections from some old scenesters he runs into. The book ends with a list of 50 Northern Soul classics and suggestions for further reading, including Soulful Kinda Music and Soul Up North magazines. Since this volume, several other books on the Northern Soul scene have been published, including: Too Darn Soulful: The Story of Northern Soul, Casino, The In Crowd: The Story of the Northern and Rare Soul Scene, Northern Soul Top 500, and the novel Crackin' Up: A Tale of Sex, Drugs, and Northern Soul.es were more or less true. Not only that, but he spends considerable space mourning fellow scenesters who eventually died from heavy drug use! So, although he does do an excellent job of conveying the excitement and camaraderie of being part of an underground subculture, in the end it all seems rather a shallow and silly enterprise. It should be noted that McKenna's book had been criticized for overstating the amount of drugs there were on the scene.<br />The last twenty pages or so are a glance at the scene circa 1995, which he finds to be alive and kicking, as well as a few recollections from some old scenesters he runs into. The book ends with a list of 50 Northern Soul classics and suggestions for further reading, including Soulful Kinda Music and Soul Up North magazines. Since this volume, several other books on the Northern Soul scene have been published, including: Too Darn Soulful: The Story of Northern Soul, Casino, The In Crowd: The Story of the Northern and Rare Soul Scene, Northern Soul Top 500, and the novel Crackin' Up: A Tale of Sex, Drugs, and Northern Soul.	2003-04-16
1157202:US	52254603	R1BT49LF843RQH	0375413901	225791427	After the Quake: Stories	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Six Degrees of Solitude	This rather sober collection of six stories is thematically linked to the devastating 1995 Kobe earthquake, although none is set in Kobe or directly deals with it. The earthquake seems to act more as a lurking idea that nothing is safe or certain in modern Japan. I've not read any other Murakami, but what's immediately striking is how detached all his characters are from any larger sense of community. Indeed, many of the protagonists fulfill stereotypes of the Japanese national characternon-confrontational, repressed, emotionally stunted, and to a certain extent solitary.<br />In the first story, a salesman is left by his wife because he is a shallow person. His response is to take a vacation, in which he discovers he's given away his soul. The second story is more or less a contrast between aimless youth and an older man, as they sit around a bonfire drinking. Then comes the life of a young man born to a religious nut, and his halfhearted attempt to track down his father. Next is the quasi-mystical tale of a middle-aged divorc&eacute;e doctor seeking to restore herself and lose the bitterness that has built up within her. The fifth story is a wild, phantasmagorical episode where a mouse of a bank clerk is called upon by a superhero frog to journey beneath the earth to do prevent an evil worm from causing an earthquake that will destroy Tokyo. The most conventional story is the the last, in which a gentle, bookish man goes through life longing for his best friend's girl. Although all three were close in college, he was too shy to make his move, and lost her to his more charismatic friend. Given the rest of the stories, it's surprisingly sweet and it's placement at the end seems to hint at a belief by Murakami that sometimes (although, rarely) things work out in the end.<br />As a whole the writing is universally excellentsimple and eleganthowever there's a certain detachment throughout them. They are moving, but very, very subtly soand in that sense, the book is perhaps best read in bits and pieces, and twice to receive its full impact. Note: these stories were originally published in GQ, Granta, Harper's, The New Yorker, and Ploughshares.is perhaps best read in bits and pieces, and twice to receive its full impact. Note: these stories were originally published in GQ, Granta, Harper's, The New Yorker, and Ploughshares.	2003-04-16
1166564:US	52254603	R33CTSZ0HB63YE	0312291027	645604671	Hollywood Tough: A Shane Scully Novel	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Schlocky Sorta Fun	The third book in the Shane Scully series is entertaining, but in a very sloppy, shlocky way-kinda like Cannell's old TV show, \\"The A-Team\\". One problem is that there are more plots than you can shake a stick at crammed into the story. The primary one is Scully getting involved with a small time grifter and former informant, turned movie producer, in attempt to set up a prominent East Coast mafia figure. It seems the Mafia is looking to resurrect a scheme from the '30s in attempt to take over Hollywood (and thus LA's economy) via the unions. This is kind of a neat concept, and one almost wishes Cannell had written a book about the '30s scam instead. But instead, he piles on a gang warfare storyline, that involves Scully's son, Bloods, Crips, the Mexican Mafia, and a major shipment of heroin-the lead investigator of which is Scully's wife. And then there's a plot about the rich Hollywood player who's about to marry Scully's wife's best friend-who is he, exactly?<br />Unfortunately, all these subplots are inevitably linked to the main one, which seems rather silly. The book suffers from a mixture of tone throughout. Some of it (like the gang stuff), is very grim, bloody, and realistic. Other parts, such as the East Coast Mafia stuff, is kind of over-the-top \\"goombah\\", Sopranos stuff. And the Hollywood parts are the most heavy-handed satire imaginable. And while the cop procedures and lingo are great, some of the Hollywood stuff is definitely not. For example, Scully and his partner are setting up this movie to be made, and the day after signing a big movie star, they have this major A-list director not only on board, but starting production work! Umm, hate to tell you this, but A-list directors have commitments a good two years into the future and aren't immediately available like that. Nor does principal production on big-budget films suddenly ramp up overnight, with set-building and the like. There's a whole lot of preparation work that happens first-but that would have been too hard to make fun of I guess.<br />Finally, the characters are often ridiculously stock. Scully is ruggedly handsome, but doesn't think of himself that way. His wife is the sexiest cop in LA, and tough to boot! Wow. How original. His son? Oh, he's just the starting quarterback for his high school team and is considering scholarship offers to major Division I football programs. C'mon! Why make all your main characters the best and brightest at everything? Oh yeah, and the Chief of Police basically lets them do whatever they dream up and backs them all the way. So, lots of flaws, but not unenjoyable if you're willing to turn your brain off bigtime.have been too hard to make fun of I guess.<br />Finally, the characters are often ridiculously stock. Scully is ruggedly handsome, but doesn't think of himself that way. His wife is the sexiest cop in LA, and tough to boot! Wow. How original. His son? Oh, he's just the starting quarterback for his high school team and is considering scholarship offers to major Division I football programs. C'mon! Why make all your main characters the best and brightest at everything? Oh yeah, and the Chief of Police basically lets them do whatever they dream up and backs them all the way. So, lots of flaws, but not unenjoyable if you're willing to turn your brain off bigtime.	2003-04-08
1166597:US	52254603	RWBNPZ3KUASQ	1852426381	595927657	Emigr Journeys	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Heartrending and Sometimes Comic Story	Written in chapters with alternating voices, this novel tells the story of a Pakistani immigrant to England in he 1960s and that of his teenage daughter some thirty years later. Like thousands of his South Asian compatriots, Amir left his village and illegally emigrated to the UK to work long hours to improve his family's prospects. He describes the hard life of living in a group house with other illegals, subsisting on the bare necessities in order to send money back to his family to buy land. Living under a shared fear of deportation, his household nonetheless offers a minor sense of community in the strange cold land that is Birmingham. His chapters offer a sense of the furtiveness that is the life of an illegal immigrant-money paid weekly to unscrupulous agents who got them into the country, black market money channels to get money home, fear of any interaction with the locals, etc. All of this is woven in to his telling of an awful event triggered by the arrival of an English woman in their midst.<br />His daughter Parvin's story is a somewhat more familiar and less compelling tale of the problems of cross-cultural integration. Parvin faces the paradox of her father wanting his children to integrate with their new country and his adherence to traditional values and perspective on what constitutes proper behavior. It doesn't help that her mother is an unhappy person utterly subservient to his wishes. Naturally, Parvin and her brother grow up rather more free-spirited than their father might wish, leading to problems. These issues will be familiar to those who read Hanif Kureishi's story My Son the Fanatic or the film made from it.<br />At times comic, and at times heartrending, the novel is an excellent insight into England's immigrant community and their struggle to integrate. Amir's '60s story is more interesting than that of his daughter, but it's all quick reading and worth checking out.	2003-04-08
1168839:US	52254603	R19XQMAKUWPYBK	0002254816	597875897	The Devil's Own	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Decent Fun, But It's No Sharpe	Set in 1854, some forty years or so after the bulk of Bernard Cornwell's Sharpe books, this first entry in Kilworth's\\"Fancy Jack\\" series finds the British Army in rather dire straights in the Crimea. The hero is a Sergeant in the 88th regiment (the mainly Irish Connaught Rangers aka The Devil's Own), who is an outsider in more ways than one. Born and bred a gentleman, \\"Fancy Jack\\" Crossman has done the unthinkable and renounced his upbringing and entered the army as a ranker. While in the Sharpe series, we see a lowborn orphan rise though the ranks, here we have a highborn Scotsman in much the same situation. Mostly hated by those below for his education and manners, he's also mostly hated by his superiors for being a class traitor.<br />Kilworth seems to be attempting to emulate Cornwell's template in presenting an unvarnished ground-level view of historical military exploits. The book is full of details on equipment, procedures, social composition of the British forces, et., plus a parade of real historical figures. However, it's not done nearly as smoothly and seamlessly as Cornwell (or George McDonald Fraser's Flashman series for that matter). Clunky prose and exposition somewhat mars the storytelling, as Fancy Jack is sent on a few secret missions behind enemy lines with a band of misfit soldiers. For example, we're told three different times that the Allied (British/French/Turkish) forces number 55,000. We're also privy to a number of scenes of high-level commanders bickering that don't have much to do with anything other than to get across the historical reading Kilworth's on the ineffectiveness of the leadership. And in case you didn't get how devastating cholera was to the army the first time it's discussed, don't worry, you'll get several more chances to absorb the information. Kilworth has apparently written a number of children's books, and often the prose reads as if it's intended for a younger audience.<br />But the battle scenes are plenty gory, and there are plenty of \\"adult themes\\", and a requisite love interest. All in all, it's a decent page turner, but not nearly as good as the Sharpe books. The Fancy Jack saga continues with Valley of Death, Soldiers in the Mist, and The Winter Soldiers, and perhaps in these later volumes Kilworth touch becomes more subtle.here are plenty of \\"adult themes\\", and a requisite love interest. All in all, it's a decent page turner, but not nearly as good as the Sharpe books. The Fancy Jack saga continues with Valley of Death, Soldiers in the Mist, and The Winter Soldiers, and perhaps in these later volumes Kilworth touch becomes more subtle.	2003-04-06
1169809:US	52254603	RX6KNHEEZY153	1573225290	726947138	Tintin in the New World	Books	1	38	46	N	N	Pretentious, but even worse, boring!	One of the more pretentious novels I've read in quite a while, this postmodern pastiche of German writer Thomas Mann's novel The Magic Mountain and the popular comic character Tintin is likely to leave fans of both exceedingly disappointed, and general readers bored to death. Basically, Tuten (who was a friend of Tintin's creator, Herg&eacute;) started with the notion that the man-boy reporter remained essentially emotionally immature and shallow over the course of his twenty or so adventures. So, he places Tintin, Snowy, and Captain Haddock in Macchu Picchu with a number of characters from The Magic Mountain and has them talk at each other endlessly. The book is subtitled \\"A Romance\\", presumably because in it, Tintin falls in love for the first time. There's also an overarching thread where Tintin is apparently supposed to play some role as prophet. The problem is that Tuten is attempting to play with the idea of Tintin as a \\"real\\" man, with anger, lust, disillusionment, etc. but the entire book is absolutely stagey, talky, and unreal. Most of it reads like a bad play, with endless monologues in language not heard in at least half a century. It's an interesting idea transformed into a very dull book-an experiment that wouldn't have merited a second look from any editor had it not been for the Tintin affiliation.	2003-04-05
1169872:US	52254603	REECRJM3C83P7	0670031380	293390331	The Terra-cotta Dog (Inspector Montalbano Mysteries)	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Utterly Charming!	The second Inspector Montalbano book to appear in English (following The Shape of Water) begins with a high-level Mafia figure arranging for his own arrest by Montalbano and a seemingly innocuous nighttime heist from a grocery store. However nothing is simple in Sicilian underworld, and soon Montalbano's curiosity has him looking into the heist as he desperately avoids getting a promotion for his high-profile arrest. When this leads to the discovery of bodies sealed up fifty years ago in a strange tableau, the Inspector becomes determined to unravel the mystery of their death.<br />As in the first book, the main pleasure comes from watching him elegantly glide through this old crime, digging up the dirt from WWII, when the Allies drove the German and Italian forces off the island. Camilleri is old enough to recall those times, and his firsthand knowledge seeps through the voices of the old-timers Montalbano interviews. Meanwhile, he's also dealing with his long-distance girlfriend who just wants to go on vacation with him, and the troubles of his beautiful Swedish friend. He's an entertaining hero, realistic about what he can do within the constraints of the highly political and corrupt system, and willing to bend rules himself, but always tempered with compassion and empathy. Another deftly translated and beautifully understated mystery that gives a very tangible sense of Sicily.<br />Note: Throughout the book, the Inspector is reading one of Spanish author Manuel Vasquez Montalban's Pepe Carvalho mysteries.	2003-04-05
1182083:US	52254603	R2EF9CULA300CG	0375505741	867162441	Blood of Victory: A Novel	Books	3	47	55	N	N	Not His Best Outing	This is the fifth of Furst's seven WWII espionage novels I've read, and not one of his best. To be sure, it has all the trademarks of his work: good writing, dedication to period detail, oppressive and dreary atmosphere, exotic locales (Paris, Istanbul, Odessa, Belgrade, etc.), a middle-aged loner protagonist caught up in the espionage intrigues of the time, love interest, a blurry web of operatives. But that's the problem-if you've read a few of his books, you've basically read this one. The characters (especially the heroes) in his books are all starting to run together rather distressingly, and he's over-reliant on atmosphere to carry the minimally plotted stories. What's worse is that the pace of this one is absolutely glacial, there's barely any thrill in the thriller!<br />The gist here is that in 1940 the Allies are desperate to interdict German access to the vital Romanian oil fields. Having tried to sabotage them once before, they're faced with a tough problem. Paris-based Russian &eacute;migr&eacute; writer I.A. Serebin is drawn into a plot to resurrect an old spy network in an attempt to strike a blow. However, Serebin's recruitment into this venture is never really convincing, and the weaving of the plot is so oblique that it's hard to get drawn in. It's as if Furst is so faithful to building the shadow world that his characters live in that he's forgotten about the reader. Which is not to say this is an awful book or anything, just that he's written better and might benefit from straying a little further from the European theater he's set seven books in.	2003-03-25
1182450:US	52254603	R1CQRD5ZVRAPKG	1885941757	780195750	The Sleuth of Baghdad	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Moderately Entertaining Stories in an Ugly Package	My first instinct on picking up this book was to wonder why a publisher would go to so much trouble to collect and resurrect these stories only to package them so unattractively. The utterly amateurish cover and inside typography detracts a great deal from the enjoyment of the book, which collects 15 of the roughly 34 Inspector Chafik stories published in Colliers, Ellery Queen Mystery Magazine, and John Bull between 1947 and 1969. Set in post-WWII Iraq, the stories feature a cunning Baghdad police inspector. Drawing on his wartime experience in Iraq, Child created a kind of stereotypical genius inspector who's smarter than everyone else and has those abstract leaps of intuition that are the mark of the brilliant fictional detective. Fortunately, he's not infallible, and in several stories must be rescued by his faithful assistant or his adopted son. In each, there is an initial murder which Chafik tackles, although sometimes he metes out his own form of justice rather than proceeding strictly according to law. The stories need to be read slowly over time, otherwise they tend to blur into each other as the author's style and construction is unvaried throughout. As a portrait of Baghdad, it's occasionally insightful. For example, in the stories Chafik deals with Armenians, Greeks, Sunnis, Shi'ites, city folks, villagers, rich, and poor. In that sense it does a good job of showing the diversity that exists in may Arab cities, but otherwise it's a fairly static and romanticized picture of Baghdad just before rapid modernization hits. Altogether, a moderately diverting collection of old-fashioned stories in an unusual setting.	2003-03-25
1182544:US	52254603	R3STEKK6ZWP6UW	0872864022	506962594	The Prone Gunman (City Lights Noir)	Books	4	16	17	N	N	The Bleak World of French Noir	French crime writer Manchette's final novel was published in 1981 and now finally appears in English over twenty years later. Unmistakably influenced by Jean-Pierre Melville's brilliant 1967 film \\"Le Samourai\\", the story is about Martin, a professional hit man who wants to quit the business and return home to claim his childhood love. However, the mysterious government agency who hires him wants him to do just one last job... Of course this is an old story, and naturally Martin finds it's not so easy to just walk away. Having come from a miserable small town upbringing, he's proven himself in the big bad world and just wants to retire to a quiet beach somewhere with his old girlfriend. But this is the noir world of shattered illusions-as one character puts it, \\"You're dreaming, there are no more desert islands!\\" It doesn't take too much reading between the lines to uncover Manchette's larger political metaphor in the story of a kid who hires himself out to do someone else's killing for ten years only to find it's tainted him forever. The book is brutally dark, but if you like the whole nihilist crime thing, it's worth the two hours it takes to read. The lean story unfolds in rapid, flat prose without an ounce of sentimentality and it's not hard to see why Manchette quit writing after this. If your world view is that bleak, there's not a whole lot else to say, is there?	2003-03-24
1186805:US	52254603	R39O4RMQI5KFG6	0340748214	394968459	Own Goals	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Nice Breezy Footie Crime Novel	This breezy debut by sportswriter Andrews is just the ticket for a light crime read when football's not in season. Set in an unnamed Yorkshire city, the story concerns an unemployed and soon to be divorced bloke who stumbles into becoming a detective by happening to be in a nightclub where an Italian soccer star is accused of sexual assault. Soon after, Steve Strong is hired by the local team to find out who is framing their players in apparently compromising situations.<br />Unlike far too many amateur PIs, Strong thrashes about, upsetting the applecart over and over, repeatedly letting the beans spill to the wrong people, and getting in way over his head. The bad guys are a nice mix of thugs and greedy suits, and there's even a love interest or two. With repeated references to Raymond Chandler, the book wears its heroes on its sleeve. It's not an overly ingenious whodunit, but it does has something to say about the relationship professional sports has to television money and the big business interests that price out the average fans.<br />The tale would have been a little more engrossing had the team been real, as Manuel Montalban's use of Barcelona in his footie crime book Offside. Andrews makes up for it by cramming in loads of humor, some of which works quite well, other of which is a little too forced. But if you're looking for a decent, light crime novel to pass the hours, this'll do nicely! And Strong's adventures continue in Goodnight Vienna, which revolves around the national team.	2003-03-20
1186960:US	52254603	RBQW1IDLONMXF	0670030724	339486410	Emporium: Stories	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Shows Lots of Promise	Make no mistake, Adam Johnson can write a mean short story, and maybe he will be the \\"next big thing,\\" but the hype around this collection is perhaps more a reflection of his potential than of the stories themselves. His shtick (and I like it), is to explore very basic and universal themes, such as loneliness, coming of age, love, death, and other such favorites (often though teenage protagonists) in imaginative and slightly surreal, semi-absurd settings.<br />For example, in the first story we meet a teenage sniper who works for the Palo Alto police, dropping dot-com burnouts on a daily basis. While he does grapple with the issue of empathy, his more pressing concern is fitting in with the older guys and getting a date. The second story is about a night guard at a zoo who is tasked with killing certain animals each night, but the real story is about his attempt to relate to his son, who can't cope with his father no longer being a policeman. In these, and all the stories, Johnson manages to evoke of a lot of sympathy for his characters, as well as humor ranging from dark, to wry, to just plain funny. He's able to create these quirky, yet wholly believable settings (even the snowbound 1960s Canadian space research center), and populate them with characters you want to know more about All of this is accomplished with zero self-indulgence and a high level of prose.<br />Where the stories tend to falter a bit is the endings-they all end on pretty much the exact same note. Not quite despair, but the tangy hollowness of isolation. This wouldn't be a problem for a novel say, but when all the stories in a collection leave the same taste in the mouth at the end, it gets old. Still, Johnson is definitely a talent to watch for, and these stories do exhibit loads of promise, but they're not as completely stunning as some reviewers might lead you to believe....	2003-03-20
1188522:US	52254603	R22GQRRLSKUUIQ	1852426764	127762205	Cutter and Bone (Midnight Classics)	Books	4	23	24	N	N	Dead Souls	One of the best depictions of mid-'70s America I've come across, this powerful novel was written when the country was struggling to recover from the Vietnam War and remains as a vivid reminder of that time. Set mostly in Santa Barbara, the story follows two men firmly stuck in cycles of self-destruction. Bone dropped out of the corporate life and left his wife and kids in Minnesota to float around California as a gigolo, while Cutter came back from Vietnam minus an arm and a leg and teeters on the brink of insanity. Both are utterly disillusioned with the world around them and spend a great deal of time drinking and trying to blot out their rapidly suburbanizing, strip-mallifying, consumerist surroundings. The third member of this circle of dead souls is the sarcastic, Quaalude popping Mo, Cutter's live-in girlfriend and mother to his baby.<br />The whole book reads like one big hangover-the party (late '60s free love, rebellion, Vietnam, etc.) is over, and someone's gotta pay. One evening Bone unknowingly witnesses a murderer disposing of a victim, and what he half saw leads to a half-baked scheme to make some money. In another writer's hands, this could have lead to a comic caper, but Thornburg is intent on showing the county's loss of innocence through the bitter, maimed, and reckless Cutter, and his guilt-ridden and aimless buddy Bone. One problem I had with the story was the friendship between the two men. The book unfolds from Bone's perspective, and it's hard to fathom why he keeps returning to Cutter's side, other than guilt and/or a self-destructive streak.<br />In any event, the book starts fairly slow and there were a few times I considered ditching it. By the second half though, the lean prose gets more and more compelling, and the dilemmas get a bit more interesting. The final quarter or so takes the two men on a road trip from California to the Ozarks, in possible pursuit of the murderer. The climax is awfully gripping in a \\"y'all ain't from around here\\" Deliverance kind of way, and the final sentence packs a huge punch. ...Still, book's theme-that the Vietnam war did irreparable damage to the American psyche and values, and led to an America where money and consumption are king and justice is a mirage-emerges in full color, and the book remains an important picture of the empty '70s.<br />Note: This was made into a great dark film called Cutter's Way.re\\" Deliverance kind of way, and the final sentence packs a huge punch. ...Still, book's theme-that the Vietnam war did irreparable damage to the American psyche and values, and led to an America where money and consumption are king and justice is a mirage-emerges in full color, and the book remains an important picture of the empty '70s.<br />Note: This was made into a great dark film called Cutter's Way.	2003-03-19
1193610:US	52254603	R1MTQO5FGJ1TL7	1896597521	454714303	Road to America	Books	3	6	8	N	N	I Really Wanted To Like This More...	Boy, I really wanted to like to like this book. It's from one the best publishers out there (Drawn & Quarterly) and is about Algeria's struggle for liberation (I lived in Algeria for five years). Unfortunately, the beautiful coloring and wonderful paper and production can't quite rescue a story in which characters are barely developed and the action transitions much too abruptly.<br />The story begins in 1955, the early days of the Algerian revolution against French colonial rule, where the reader meets young boxer Said. Promoters spot his raw talent and he is propelled to France to become a championship contender. Meanwhile, back home, his brother has joined the revolutionary underground. As Said rises through the ranks, he struggles to stay apolitical, refusing to pay a \\"tax\\" to support the revolution and somewhat less successfully refusing to be a poster boy for French rule in Algeria. Indeed, his naive attempt to remain neutral is rather unconvincing as there is no explanation for its grounding, and thus is one of the story's weak points.<br />Said's tale spans six years and takes only 45 pages, which leads to a certain feeling of truncation. Scenes jump into each other rather awkwardly, and the pacing feels very forced. What's also odd is that despite the title, the hero only spends a page and a half in America, and that trip has almost no plot purpose. Another problem is that a number of characters tend to look the same in Baru's representations. Interestingly, although he has gone for lovely traditional European detail for all his buildings, cars, backgrounds, etc. (like Vittorio Giardino), he retains a stylized cartoonish formation for his people, which can be confusing.<br />Ultimately, while the art and production are quite beautiful, Baru has tried to force too much into too small a space. Algeria's struggle to free herself from France was a vastly complicated affair, with several factions on both sides operating both in Algeria and France. It's an integral part of modern French history, but I suspect that most American readers won't have enough of a historical context to sort out what's going on with DeGaulle, the OAS, and whatnot. Finally, the conclusion is rather weak in that it has events overtake Said rather than force him to confront his conscience and make a choice as to whose side he's on. It's still worth a look, and the climactic depiction of the riot by Paris police against peaceful protest marchers (which really happened) is quite vivid and horrific.<br />One final note is that the introductory text has two typos in it. One refers to Algeria's liberation struggle as a civil war, which is rather like calling the American revolution the American civil war. The other is with regard to the number of Algerians killed, which is listed as 150,000. Depending on whose numbers you look at, the real number is from three to ten times that amount (the French government finally admitted to a figure or 350,000 while the Algerian government placed it at 1.5 million).al part of modern French history, but I suspect that most American readers won't have enough of a historical context to sort out what's going on with DeGaulle, the OAS, and whatnot. Finally, the conclusion is rather weak in that it has events overtake Said rather than force him to confront his conscience and make a choice as to whose side he's on. It's still worth a look, and the climactic depiction of the riot by Paris police against peaceful protest marchers (which really happened) is quite vivid and horrific.<br />One final note is that the introductory text has two typos in it. One refers to Algeria's liberation struggle as a civil war, which is rather like calling the American revolution the American civil war. The other is with regard to the number of Algerians killed, which is listed as 150,000. Depending on whose numbers you look at, the real number is from three to ten times that amount (the French government finally admitted to a figure or 350,000 while the Algerian government placed it at 1.5 million).	2003-03-14
1196374:US	52254603	RF0DW1MIR2I3L	0375705465	13260323	The Genocides	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Grim and Unsparing	Bleak is the first word that comes to mind-which is not a bad thing. Disch's debut novel was part of a movement in sci-fi at the time that rejected the prevailing paradigm of human ingenuity and/or nobility being able to save the Earth from alien attack (no matter how technological advanced those aliens were). In this slim novel he tells the story of a small band of Minnesotan farmers near Duluth who are struggling to survive the blanketing of Earth by a mysterious and apparently indestructible species of trees. In the seven years since the spores first appeared, the trees have spread across the globe, sucking all nutrition from earth, drying up rivers and lakes, and generally destroying the planet's ecological balance.<br />At the same time, some kind of automated drones have been leveling cities with fire and gradually seeking out remaining mammals to toast. The implication is clear: Earth has been designated as a planetary cropfield, and all pests need to be eliminated so the crop can thrive. That premise is neat, but the main theme is how the surviving humans interact with one another and newcomers. It's clear that Disch was determined to show how the uglier side of human nature would prevail in such a high-stress situation. Throughout the story, jealousies, rivalries, and petty disputes between characters threaten the safety of the group. Indeed, at times, the various conflicts concerning the women get a little too melodramatic for the situation, but on the whole, the atmosphere is great, especially when the survivors are forced underground into the trees' root system.<br />A great take on the alien invasion story, it could benefit from a little trimming in the second half. Still, if you like your sci-fi grim and unsparing, this is the book for you!	2003-03-12
1198653:US	52254603	RAIG9ZQDMBF5P	0679742034	586032452	Buffalo Soldiers	Books	5	3	6	Y	N	Brilliant Debut	I pray that with the release of the film based on this book that more people will discover O'Connor's amazing (and only) novel. Set at an U.S. Army base in Mannheim, Western Germany, in what appears to be the mid-'80s (based on the TV shows mentioned), the story follows Specialist Elwood. A classic antihero, this clerk/personal assistant to the battalion CO knows just what papers to push in order to get things done and build up piles of owed \\"favors\\". This comes in very handy since his main concern is to maximize profits from his slice of the camp drug trade.<br />The base comes instantly alive a place of very real danger-rather like a prison-with its racial separate gangs, drug wars, and general mayhem. As Elwood explains, in the peacetime Army there are two kinds of people: the MFers and the MF'd-and he hustles daily to stay in the first category. He's a great dark character, an amoral piece of total scum who you somehow end up liking and hoping will get straightened out. In that respect he's very much like Monty, in David Benioff's excellent novel The 25th Hour. As the book progresses, there a shift develops inside Elwood and the tension starts to build as he sets up one big final score before getting out of the Army. The fly in the ointment is that Elwood is being very closely watched by Master Sgt. Lee, a veteran of three Vietnam tours and a many with an unerring ability to detect BS.<br />Awash with dark subject matter (drugs, racial fights, exploitative sex), the book is remarkably funny and hard to put down. O'Connor, a writing professor who apparently never served in the Army, manages to infuse his writing with crackling Army slang and idiom specific to the setting. It's hard to overemphasize just how good the dialogue and wordplay is throughout the book. Throughout the book people are telling stories over other people's conversations, and it's all pulled off with dazzling dexterity. And perhaps the greatest testament to O'Connor's skill is that the ending is not unexpected, and yet is still incredibly powerful.<br />This novel is a piercing depiction of the underbelly of peacetime Army life and invites instant comparisons to Catch-22, while its somewhat unusual second person narration invokes Bright Lights, Big City. Many will find this depiction of peacetime Army life to be deeply offensive and unpatriotic, but it's hard to know just how far from reality it is. In any event, the reality of it doesn't matter, 'cause the book is less a satire of the Army than a dark portrait of a lost soul. Great stuff which leads one to wonder why O'Connor hasn't published anything else in the last ten years.is not unexpected, and yet is still incredibly powerful.<br />This novel is a piercing depiction of the underbelly of peacetime Army life and invites instant comparisons to Catch-22, while its somewhat unusual second person narration invokes Bright Lights, Big City. Many will find this depiction of peacetime Army life to be deeply offensive and unpatriotic, but it's hard to know just how far from reality it is. In any event, the reality of it doesn't matter, 'cause the book is less a satire of the Army than a dark portrait of a lost soul. Great stuff which leads one to wonder why O'Connor hasn't published anything else in the last ten years.	2003-03-11
1202562:US	52254603	R3C94KL9Q7FVQ3	039332303X	364168224	No Bones	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Great Start but Loses Focus	Few things can turn an abstract conflict halfway across the world into reality than to see it through the eyes of a child growing up in the middle of it. That's really the strength of this book about Amelia, a Belfast girl who is seven when the \\"Troubles\\" kick off in 1969. Most readers will be comparing their own (comparably) sheltered and secure childhoods to that of Amelia's, who collects plastic bullets, sees a friend shoot another girl on the playground, and grows up in an area under military occupation, where IRA thugs dole out kneecappings, and being in the wrong place in the wrong time can get you very dead.<br />The clear central theme is that growing up in such an environment is scarring-and as one reads Amelia's story, it's not hard to think of children from El Salvador, Palestine, Algeria, and other areas of recent civil war. Amelia is emotionally broken by the violence around her- totally ambivalent toward her family (as they are to her), and closed to deep friendships, love, or any kind of intimacy. While some of her schoolmates recycle the omnipresent violence into acting out, Amelia absorbs it and rechannels it into self-destruction. She anesthetize herself first through anorexia and then alcoholism, drifting through her twenties before suffering a total breakdown as the ghosts of the dead haunt her.<br />While Amelia's story is a novel, it's comprised of 23 disjoined episodic vignettes that unfold in chronological order over 25 years as Amelia passes from childhood to mentally ill adult. The first third of this debut-spanning 1969-79-is really, really good, unfortunately the focus is lost with the chapter \\"Mr. Hunch in the Ascendant, 1980.\\" The longest chapter, it's a rambling, surreal story about a mentally ill neighborhood guy who escapes and hangs own with Amelia. It's so long and so unconnected to her that the dark spell of her story is broken and is never recaptured. There are too many gaps between her childhood, alcoholic adulthood, and breakdown to get a full sense of the tragedy.<br />There are some nice part in the rest of the book though, such as the chapter \\"Incoming, 1986\\" where two old schoolmates run into each other and over the course of a drink contrive the murder of one's husband (all of which is totally unrelated to Amelia). One the whole, the novel shows great promise, although as the author grew up in Belfast at the exact same time as Amelia, and moved to London just as she did, one wonders what she'll draw on for her next book.down to get a full sense of the tragedy. <br />There are some nice part in the rest of the book though, such as the chapter \\"Incoming, 1986\\" where two old schoolmates run into each other and over the course of a drink contrive the murder of one's husband (all of which is totally unrelated to Amelia). One the whole, the novel shows great promise, although as the author grew up in Belfast at the exact same time as Amelia, and moved to London just as she did, one wonders what she'll draw on for her next book.	2003-03-07
1203248:US	52254603	R2CBYA4KLU7CGX	0140261893	899427388	Jackson's Dilemma	Books	1	13	20	N	N	The Awful End to a Great Career	Never read Murdoch before, and unfortunately this awful book doesn't seem like the place to have started either. After finishing it, I discovered she was diagnosed with Alzheimer's right after completing the manuscript-which goes a long way toward explaining how such an acclaimed author could produce such a monumentally uninteresting book. Another somewhat telling thing I discovered is that the reviewers of this book seem fairly evenly split between describing it as a comedy and describing it as a mystery, of which it is neither.<br />The rough gist of the book is that there is a circle of upper-class Brits who have become friends over the years, plus an enigmatic butler/manservant Jackson. One of the circle is to wed another, when complications arise, sending the whole group into a tizzy. Secret longings are revealed, secret pain and guilt expounded on, endless pontificating and empty philosophizing ensure. I suppose it's vaguely reminiscent of Austen, with various upper-class, and poor hanger-on's all repressing themselves until, in an orgy of Shakespearean homage, everyone gets duly paired off with the behind the scenes assistance of Jackson (can you say \\"Puck\\"?).<br />It sounds vaguely enjoyable, but it isn't. First of all, it's not funny in the slightest. Ever. Secondly, as a satire of the upper class it's halfhearted. Yes, they're all self-absorbed idiots in one way or another, requiring the practical blue-collar help of Jackson to put anything right. But it's a very gentle and loving satire, with no teeth whatsoever, and therefore fails to leave an impression. Thirdly, it's not suspenseful in the slightest. For there to be suspense, there must first exist characters that one cares about, and there are none here. There are some things to be curious about (what's Jackson's story), but nothing that is engaging on anything but the most superficial level. Finally, as writing, it's pretty bad. Given the tremendously stilted dialogue, and bizarre repetitions in some passages, one has to assume that Murdoch was beginning to lose the plot already and that no editor dared point out some of the obvious weaknesses.<br />Best to skip this and concentrate on her earlier work.passages, one has to assume that Murdoch was beginning to lose the plot already and that no editor dared point out some of the obvious weaknesses.<br />Best to skip this and concentrate on her earlier work.	2003-03-07
1206374:US	52254603	R3FZ3MFRBOIEYW	1585747033	242348642	In The Empire of Genghis Khan: An Amazing Odyssey Through the Lands of the Most Feared Conquerors in History	Books	5	26	29	N	N	Outstanding!!!	Since 1980, the Thomas Cook Travel Book of the Year has been considered the travel writing equivalent to the Booker or Pulitzer, and this Stewart's second book to win the prestigious honor. The book's framework is Stewart's plan to travel from roughly the western edge of the 12th-century Mongol empire to the mountain in eastern Mongolia where Ghengis Khan was buried. The first quarter of the book covers his trip from Istanbul to the the Crimea on a decrepit Russian cargo ship, across Ukraine, Russia, and Kazakhstan by train, and by air into Mongolia. This is all warmup for Mongolia itself, as he intersperses the history Mongol conquest with that of a proselytizing mission made by a Franciscan monk to the Mongol court in 1253, as well as his own encounters with a gun-toting teenage Russian smuggler, a Dickens-loving Russian procuress, and various lonely souls.<br />Once in Mongolia, Stewart switches to horseback, as his plan is to ride over 1,000 miles across its breadth. With a succession of translators, guides, and horses, he find that the happiest and healthiest Mongols live virtually the same nomadic lives as their ancestors of five centuries ago. Even accounting for a certain degree of romanticization of the countryside, it's hard to find anything redeeming about the settlements he passes through. Virtually all are crumbling towns with few permanent residents beyond a mayor, policeman, and a few other caretakers. These regional centers are ugly concrete legacies of the Soviet era which have been largely abandoned since the end of Soviet aid and seem destined to return to the earth.<br />Out in the countryside, Stewart meets innumerable nomads, takes part in a wedding, visits a shaman, goes to a festival which includes horse-races and wrestling, and generally finds the people to be friendly and curious. Of course the landscape features prominently, and people with horses may find themselves yearning to across the world to ride next to history's most famous horsemen. The real pleasure of the book is that while Stewart does all these fascinating things, he writes about it in simply stunning prose liberally sprinkled with humor and heart. [...]<br />It's a fascinating and funny book, and one that should read by anyone with an interest in other cultures. One interesting footnote: in discussing the book, several professional reviews have said that the Mongolian nomadic life will likely \\"die out in our lifetime.\\" This is directly opposite to what Stewart describes! He is very clear that the nomadic lifestyle is the only one which makes much sense in a country like Mongolia, and that the vast majority of people prefer not to live in urban areas!en. The real pleasure of the book is that while Stewart does all these fascinating things, he writes about it in simply stunning prose liberally sprinkled with humor and heart. [...]<br />It's a fascinating and funny book, and one that should read by anyone with an interest in other cultures. One interesting footnote: in discussing the book, several professional reviews have said that the Mongolian nomadic life will likely \\"die out in our lifetime.\\" This is directly opposite to what Stewart describes! He is very clear that the nomadic lifestyle is the only one which makes much sense in a country like Mongolia, and that the vast majority of people prefer not to live in urban areas!	2003-03-04
1207136:US	52254603	RJZBNZEEHKEZ9	1895449928	219231316	Prisoner in a Red-Rose Chain	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great Writing, But Weak Plot and Characters	At the start of this debut novel we are introduced to Jeremy, a young English boy whose \\"Uncle\\" Gerard convinces him that a random page torn from an encyclopedia is his destiny. The page contains entries such as Shaka Zulu, Shakespeare, and most importantly Shakuntala, with Jeremy's belief in the talismanic powers of \\"The Page\\" rather warping him. Fastforward to Jeremy as a grownup and fraudulent professor of Shakespeare at a university in Montreal. Having just ended a relationship, he moves into an awful new apartment and becomes immediately obsessed with a local woman. His determined and thickheaded pursuit of ardent feminist, and inconsiderate Milena is more or less the core of the book.<br />Moore wields an awfully witty pen, and his regular deliveries of clever wordplay manage to hide the shallowness of his characters-for a while. A rather major problem is that neither Jeremy nor Milena are at all likable other than in brief flashes (Jeremy when he talks about his Uncle Gerard, and Milena when she puts a snobbish professor in his place), and both are tremendously shallow and maladjusted adults. Their \\"courtship\\"-which is the main plotline-is also not particularly engaging, consisting as it does of her mild on-again, off-again interest, and his pathetic puppy-dog chasing. So, while it's nice writing, it's also squandered writing.<br />It's a pity really, 'cause Moore is very skilled and clever. He keeps one guessing throughout as to whether apparently manifestations of \\"The Page\\" in Jeremy's life are real or simply a series of projected meaning and minor coincidence. There is also a nice subplot of academic satire which is quite funny at times. Throughout the book, individual scenes and conversations can be really engaging, so it's a bit disappointing that things drag on so long and end in a series of rather predictable revelations and semi-reversals. The book did win the Commonwealth Writer's Prize for Best First Novel, so clearly some were able to overlook its flaws. I'll definitely be keeping an eye out for his next book.flaws. I'll definitely be keeping an eye out for his next book.	2003-03-04
1208082:US	52254603	RIZT4HN0ZHBJK	0375705759	902715319	Elementals: Stories of Fire and Ice	Books	2	5	5	N	N	Once Again, Byatt Leaves Me Cold	At the behest of friends who swear by her books, I periodically return to A.S. Byatt to try and get a glimpse of what it is they find so enchanting in her work. After the weighty Babel Tower and Possession, this small volume of six stories seemed to offer a more painless approach. Once again, however, I have to confess that her dense and elaborate style, crammed full of classical and biblical references comes off the page as rather over-thought and contrived to me.<br />The first story, about a woman who literally runs away from her husband's death left me utterly unmoved and cold. Another story about a reclusive painter who encounters a mythical creature in his swimming pool also left me with a \\"so-what\\" emptiness. Yes, Byatt can create these dense sentences dripping with description, but it's all underpinned by a sense of ennui that I find tiresome. The longest and most conventional of the stories is a fairy tale about a princess with ice maiden blood falls in love with a desert prince, and sacrifices her health to be with him. In that context, Byatt's elaborate prose works a bit better and isn't so off-putting. However, my favorite tale is of the wife of an English businessman who gets lost in a giant Asian shopping mall. It's a funny and grotesque absurdist piece, and the only one where Byatt's style doesn't take precedence over the storytelling.<br />In any event, this little volume will likely appeal to Byatt's fans and do little to endear her to those-like me-who don't care for her style.	2003-03-03
1210249:US	52254603	RE0V4YPBE9M6F	0312979479	493632041	And Then There Were None	Books	5	2	3	N	N	An All-Time Crime Classic	This classic Christie whodunit has borne three different titles, which has been the source of some confusion. Originally published in England under the title \\"Ten Little Niggers\\" in 1939, it was retitled \\"And Then There Were None\\" for its 1940 American edition for obvious reasons. However, the English stage version of 1943 retained the \\"Niggers\\" title while the American stage version ran as \\"Ten Little Indians.\\" Even more confusingly, the first film version, released in 1945, bore the American \\"And Then There Were None\\" title, while the three subsequent adaptations (1965, 1975, and 1989) took the \\"Ten Little Indians\\" title! The original offensive title comes from a Victorian-era music-hall song, which itself was a rip-off of an American song by Septimus Winner, circa 1868. All of which is neither here nor there, but only to help clear up any confusion. I would note that the most recent French edition bears the title \\"Dix petit negres\\", which somehow does not surprise me...<br />As for the actual novel, it's perhaps the ultimate whodunit of the \\"locked house\\" variety. Ten people are summoned to an island off the Devon coast, none of them know each other or their ostensible host. The story starts by showing the ten en route to the island and provides a brief character sketch of each as background. I have to confess that at first, some of the men kind of blend together, and it takes little time to keep straight who is who. Once on the island, the eight guests and two servants wait for their host, who never shows up. Completely cut off from the mainland, they grow restless until one of them dies. When another dies, it can be no mere coincidence, and they realize that one amongst them must be a killer. The rest of the book plays this cat and mouse game all the way out, leaving the reader guessing until the very end. Because of the number of characters, there's not a whole lot of depth to any of them, but the story is obviously plot-driven as opposed to character-driven, so that should come as no surprise. It's an incredibly elaborate (and thus slightly contrived) web that is woven, but great fun, especially in bleak, stormy weather!so that should come as no surprise. It's an incredibly elaborate (and thus slightly contrived) web that is woven, but great fun, especially in bleak, stormy weather!	2003-03-01
1211852:US	52254603	R2UFFDF0P8KJU4	1860465382	687482302	Long John Silver: The True and Eventful History of My Life of Liberty and Adventure As a Gentleman of Fortune and Enemy to Mankind (Panther)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Great Fun!	One of the most recognizable characters in English literature gets his own fictional autobiography in this sweeping historical tour-de-force by a Swedish sailor, of all people. For many, LJS is the most memorable and deep character in the classic adventure tale Treasure Island. In this book he recounts his life both before and after the events in Stevenson's tale. His first-person story unfolds in chronological chapters which alternate with chapters in which he tells of his dealings with that chronicler of pirates, Daniel Defoe, and later, Jim Hawkins. Many of these chapters are written directly to the two libelers, and include rambling meditations on the nature of freedom and meaning of life.<br />The accounts of his life adventures are rich in language and detail. It's a stunning achievement by translator Geddes, given all the nautical and period slang, and one would never know the book wasn't written in English. Readers who know nothing about boats and seamanship (like myself) will have no problems following the action and appreciating the details. Larsson has apparently researched the social history of pirates and seafaring in great detail, as the book delivers a detailed and spirited defense of those who went to sea under the black flag. Great attention is given to the awful conditions of the average sailor on a merchantman, and the evils of slave ships are examined at length and in graphic detail. Through Silver, Larsson portrays the buccaneers of the era as freedom-seekers and hedonists, living for the moment. Their crimes are shown as no greater than that of the merchants who plunder distant lands and enslave people.<br />This unvarnished \\"truth\\" is brought out in vivid storytelling as the old pirate, now living in Madagascar, puts pen to paper. It has to be said that while the chapters describing Silver's life and (mis)adventures are wonderful, the shorter chapters where he rambles on about good/evil, etc. can get repetitive and tiresome. Still, the book is great fun and well worth reading for its take on pirate life. Fans of the original Treasure Island may also be interested in Justin Scott's fun 1994 version, which transplants the action to 1950s Long Island.s great fun and well worth reading for its take on pirate life. Fans of the original Treasure Island may also be interested in Justin Scott's fun 1994 version, which transplants the action to 1950s Long Island.	2003-02-28
1212603:US	52254603	RI5NTMUOLN5VZ	0312302452	291257335	The Bridge of Sighs: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Good Post-WWII Crime Novel	The immediate aftermath of WWII-notably the dropping of the Iron Curtain-provides the mental landscape for this brooding mystery set in the unnamed capital of a fictional central European nation. The story commences with fresh-faced 22-year-old Emil Brod reporting for duty at the homicide squad of the people's militia. As a teenager he fled the war and worked as a fisherman in Finland only to return home to find his parents dead and his small country under Soviet occupation.<br />In this setting of scarcity and political opression, his first case is the murder of a prominent writer of patriotic songs. The motive is murky, as are some suspicious photos he finds hidden in the songwriter's apartment. As the investigation progresses and apparently leads toward powerful people, he has to decide whether or not his colleagues are trustworthy, and just how far he wants to pursue the case. Further complicating matters is his attraction to the songwriter's rich, estranged wife, who reminds him of the beauty and comforts he briefly glimpsed in the West.<br />The main plotline of \\"dark secrets at the highest levels\\" is not particularly original, nor is the inspector's affair with the wife, however Steinhauer does an excellent job of putting everything together in crisp prose and a compelling setting. The country's atmosphere of suspicion and tension are captured very effectively, and Brod is a convincing novice inspector, lurching across the landscape in his quest for the truth. He's a policeman with a lot of guilt, pain, and ambivalence, but without the world-weariness often prevalent in such characters. Those who like Alan Furst's work, or Philip Kerr's \\"Berlin Noir\\" trilogy, or Pavel Kohout's \\"The Widow Killer\\" should all enjoy this dark debut.	2003-02-27
1221063:US	52254603	RW1FUFMLH3RAL	0140184996	512173793	The Power and the Glory (Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	3	7	20	N	N	Hate the Sin and Love the Sinner Doesn't Work For Me.	No matter how many times I read one of his books, Greene just never seems to connect with me. At least in this-his one book that in his own words was \\"written to a thesis\\"-at least I understand why. Based heavily on his travels to the southern Mexican states of Jalisco and Chiapas in early 1938, Greene set out to examine faith and personal integrity. Greene's \\"thesis\\" is that even those who are sinners may still posses God's grace if they hold true to their faith regardless of personal hardship. I find that line of reasoning to be a rather tempting excuse for hypocrisy, and have to wonder what the point of being a priest is if you're going to pick and chose which rules you live by. Priests should live the gospel, not just do their best! An excellent nonfiction book that shows priests doing just that under incredibly difficult circumstances is John Kiser's The Monks of Tibhirine.<br />In any event, Green's plot is simple: in an unnamed Mexican state, Catholicism has been outlawed by the local revolutionary authorities due to its decadence (both alleged and real). The priests have all either fled or been executed, except for one \\"whiskey\\" priest who wanders the countryside, halfheartedly looking to escape over the border. His meanderings lead to a number of set piece encounters, including an English dentist, an English plantation owner and his daughter, and the village woman he impregnated several years before, among others. As he goes through small villages, he is compelled to hold secret masses and baptisms, even though he no longer feels spiritually fit to be God's representative to the people.<br />All the while, he pursued by a ruthless anti-church police lieutenant, who metes out summary punishment to villages who fail to turn in the priest. Some characterize this chase as full of tension, and call the book a thriller-I never felt that for a minute. There is never any doubt as to the outcome, which is not a criticism, more an attempt to point out that this is hardly a \\"thriller\\", and anyone who approaches it as such is very likely to be disappointed. The policeman is actually portrayed with surprising sympathy, as ruthless as his methods may be, his critique of the church is remarkably lucid and on target. The best moments of tension occur when the priest is accompanied by a sly mestizo, whom to priest refers to as \\"\\"Judas\\".<br />There is some excellent characterizations, and Greene's gift for capturing smells and textures is wonderful. In some ways, the novel is worth reading if only to feel southern Mexico come alive. However, as I fundamentally disagree with the \\"thesis\\" that Greene wrote to, it's a bit hard to actually recommend the book. I imagine those with a much stronger sense of faith may find it more rewarding and personally relevant.rdly a \\"thriller\\", and anyone who approaches it as such is very likely to be disappointed. The policeman is actually portrayed with surprising sympathy, as ruthless as his methods may be, his critique of the church is remarkably lucid and on target. The best moments of tension occur when the priest is accompanied by a sly mestizo, whom to priest refers to as \\"\\"Judas\\".<br />There is some excellent characterizations, and Greene's gift for capturing smells and textures is wonderful. In some ways, the novel is worth reading if only to feel southern Mexico come alive. However, as I fundamentally disagree with the \\"thesis\\" that Greene wrote to, it's a bit hard to actually recommend the book. I imagine those with a much stronger sense of faith may find it more rewarding and personally relevant.	2003-02-20
1223306:US	52254603	RSNWWEHAKCU57	0375707972	153296191	The Reader	Books	3	46	53	N	N	Problematic but Thought-Provoking in Some Ways	Once again, I read an \\"Oprah Pick\\" without realizing it until afterword. Anyway... this is a superficially simple novel that, for all its flaws, is worth spending a little time thinking about. The foremost thing to realize about it, is that it's main theme concerns postwar Germany's grappling with the legacy of the Holocaust. It's about those who were adults during the war, and the next generation. It's about how that younger generation (of which Schlink is certainly a member) reacted to the generation and individuals who participated in the Holocaust.<br />Recounted in memoir form, the story begins with the tale of a 15-year-old boy and his sexual affair with a 36-year-old tram female tram conductor. The man tells of this time with a certain air of nostalgia that is somewhat understandable. And yet, if one thinks about the ages of the two people, it's also horrific. Make the boy a girl, and make the conductor a man, the psychological dynamic becomes rather clear. This is a problematic element in the novel, and one that is never dealt with in any way.<br />Years after their affair had ended, the now young man discovers that his older lover was a concentration camp guard and was involved in an incident in which a number of prisoners were locked inside a burning church. The twist in the matter is that she fails to properly defend herself of the charges of being the ringleader in the incident because she is secretly illiterate. Clearly the author isn't trying to excuse her war crimes in any way, or imply that she's somehow not really at fault. In prison she learns to read and studies the Holocaust in great deal, and importantly, decides that there is no redemption or atonement available for what she did.<br />But does the author mean this to apply to all Nazis? Or just those who fell into it? And what precisely does that mean? And, and important, but unexplored point, why does he chose to mention at the very beginning that she is Romanian, and never again? So, plenty to think about and discuss. I found the writing to be very precise and clean, an apparently excellent translation, although others' tastes may vary. Someone should translate and publish his crime novels.o think about and discuss. I found the writing to be very precise and clean, an apparently excellent translation, although others' tastes may vary. Someone should translate and publish his crime novels.	2003-02-18
1224394:US	52254603	R3CZG72TDM2KL9	1886913544	30204718	The Watchers	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An Algerian Tragedy	Finally available in English, assassinated Algerian author Djaout's prize-winning novel oozes menace and national confusion. The plot is fairly simple, a young teacher rents a house in a small town outside Algiers. There, he works on perfecting a new kind of loom, which he hopes to exhibit at an international inventor's fair in Germany. However, a lonely and venal neighbor reports the stranger's new occupancy and interprets his presence as highly suspicious to an informal group of old ex-revolutionaries who effectively run things. This results in the inventor's innocuous attempts to get a passport turning into a Kafkaesque bureaucratic farce. Faced by unknown and unseen opposition, he struggles to get permission to go to Germany. When he meets with unexpected success, the cabal aligned against him must find a scapegoat for the obstructionism.<br />There's a lot going on in the book, and sometimes it's hard to get a handle on it all. There's the obvious critique of the bureaucracy, as well as the privileged status of the revolutionaries in society, and the low status of those who create. Even more importantly there are also clear glimpses of a nation turning in on itself and of the fundamentalist Islam that gained great popularity in the early 1990s. And in a sort of wistful opposition to this is a nostalgia for the sounds and smells of the countryside, and the innocence of youth. In the end it's a tragic and sad tale, just like the last 13 years of Algerian history.	2003-02-18
1228103:US	52254603	R3IFDHEAF602QM	0142002089	527924381	The Crooked Man	Books	1	3	7	N	N	Totally Lifeless	I suppose this is one of those book you either love or hate, and while I tend to love dark and dreary stories, I sure didn't care for this one. Originally published in England some five years ago, this sparse semi-thriller is so flat one wonders why the publishers decided to revive it. The brief story tells of a freelance worker for MI5 (the British FBI), whose task it is to take incriminating photos, break into people's houses, wiretap people, and soforthall outside the normal system, so that MI5 can never be implicated. Divorced and alienated from the world, he sleepwalks through life rather like the fellow in Camus' The Stranger, spending most of his time soaking in the tub or getting drunk. When this \\"understapper,\\" Henry Fielding, witnesses a murder by a cabinet minister, he begins to question his purpose in life. This leads to some rather haphazard attempts to change his life, but he seems to be stuck within the dark government machine. Davison writes in short and sparse sentences designed to evoke a very empty and dark tone, however the result overwhelms the book and kills any interest in the actual story. It's a style that actually might work much better on film, and it just so happens a TV movie was produced for Irish TV that will apparently air in late 2003. Those who loved the book will be glad to know it continues in McKenzie's Friend and The Long Suit.	2003-02-14
1228615:US	52254603	R1MD4NKIFM6R	0380633132	677758129	We	Books	3	19	25	N	N	An Important and Overlooked Influence	The key difficulty in reading this influential dystopian novel is that virtually everyone who cracks the cover, does so having already read 1984 and Brave New World. To a very large degree that is a pity, since this work predates those considerably-Orwell cited it as the key influence on 1984. However, once you've read those, Zamiatin's work has little new to offer, and unfolds in much less readable language. Our book group read it and discussed it with great vigor, but ultimately concluded that we wouldn't recommend it to anyone who had already read Orwell and Huxley's works.<br />The story is related through the diary entries of D-503, a rather important cog in the machine of a future city state which has hermetically sealed itself from the wild and primal outside world that is left after the Two Hundred Years War. The staccato form of the entries makes for rather cumbersome and occasionally confusing reading. The society is strictly regimented, everyone wears the same uniform, and follows set schedules throughout the day, and literally lives in glass houses. The aim of the society is to scientifically manage everyone's time and energy for maximum efficiency and smoothness, a notion Zamiatin extrapolated from the writings of Frederick Winslow Taylor, the founder of modern scientific management principles, who was highly influential in the early part of the 20th century. However, this \\"perfect\\" society-where happiness is considered inversely proportional to freedom-has yet to figure out a way to eliminate that most primal of urges, sex.<br />This achilles heel is what sets things in motion, as D-503, who is the lead engineer in the construction of a rocket ship being designed to expand the society to other worlds, falls for a dishy rebel who has access to the outside world. This sparks emotions and feelings he's not familiar with, the discovery of a soul within him, and wild mood swings within him as he grapples with the implications of all this. Zamiatin seems to be indicating that in our most primal urges are also the last vestiges of our individual souls. Clearly the novel is meant to attack both the rise of modern industrialism, and totalitarianism in general (not Stalin specifically though, he didn't consolidate his position until almost a decade after the book was written). Zamiatin was a revolutionary, and was jailed by the Czar's secret police on several occasions. He never renounced the revolution but did have plenty to say about those who hijacked it and created the world's most brutally efficient police state (for a good short history of that, see Martin Amis's Koba the Dread). Ultimately, this is an important novel, but not a particularly enjoyable one to read.be indicating that in our most primal urges are also the last vestiges of our individual souls. Clearly the novel is meant to attack both the rise of modern industrialism, and totalitarianism in general (not Stalin specifically though, he didn't consolidate his position until almost a decade after the book was written). Zamiatin was a revolutionary, and was jailed by the Czar's secret police on several occasions. He never renounced the revolution but did have plenty to say about those who hijacked it and created the world's most brutally efficient police state (for a good short history of that, see Martin Amis's Koba the Dread). Ultimately, this is an important novel, but not a particularly enjoyable one to read.	2003-02-14
1229213:US	52254603	REOPI1XHQDR3X	0393051935	678801528	Waiting for an Angel: A Novel	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Important Stories, Dateline: Lagos, 1990s	Had George Orwell been a young Nigerian writer in Lagos in the 1990s, this is the book he might have written. Structurally, the book is comprised of seven short stories, which are arranged out of chronological sequence and vary from third person to first person narration. The opening piece is about a young journalist who is in his second year of imprisonment for being at a antigovernment demonstration. This is the story that won Habila the 2001 Caine Prize for African Writing, yet I found it to be the most banal portion of the book. The \\"writer in prison\\" is hardly a fresh subject, especially in African literature, and Habila doesn't take it anywhere it hasn't been before. Indeed, the warden's use of him to write love poems is straight out of a bad movie. This is just the setup though, as the rest of the stories \\"flashback\\" to journalist Lomba's life before prison.<br />Despite various other narrators and characters, Lomba is the subject of the book, and through him one discovers its central theme: that those living under oppression can't pretend it doesn't exist, at some point they must stand up and denounce their rulers. This is unveiled through stories showing Lomba as a student, lover, struggling novelist, and arts reporter who tries his best to ignore the violence, poverty, and fear that permeate the city and country. The stories show the people around him going mad, having to compromise themselves, and being beaten by soldiers (\\"soja\\") for no reason. My own favorite section was also the longest, a 60+ page story narrated by a young country boy who is sent to Lagos to straighten up, and lives with his aunt in Lomba's old neighborhood. Eventually Lomba's mentor tells him he must stop pretending that he can live a normal life under a military dictatorship and he should be supporting those who have the courage to speak out. It's not a new message, but it is one that is evergreen.<br />The book is very nicely written, with clean and evocative prose that captures the harsh reality of life under the \\"khakiocrastry.\\" Using real events and real places, Habila skillfully blends fact with fiction to create an important glimpse into what will soon be the world's fifth largest city. Readers should note that the book's afterword is actually best read first, as it provides background on the Nigeria's politics that are essential context for the stories-indeed, it's puzzling that wasn't placed as a preface, since that's really what it ought to be.e harsh reality of life under the \\"khakiocrastry.\\" Using real events and real places, Habila skillfully blends fact with fiction to create an important glimpse into what will soon be the world's fifth largest city. Readers should note that the book's afterword is actually best read first, as it provides background on the Nigeria's politics that are essential context for the stories-indeed, it's puzzling that wasn't placed as a preface, since that's really what it ought to be.	2003-02-13
1232540:US	52254603	R28BOVEG4J6K6W	1569473013	374592223	A Loyal Character Dancer	Books	4	22	22	N	N	Solid Sino-Sequel	The second book in the Inspector Chen series is equal in many ways to outstanding predecessor, Death of a Red Heroine. Once again, the reader is drawn into an excellent mix of detective procedural and portrait of China in economic and social transition during the early '90s. Shanghai-based Inspector Chen is assigned to baby-sit a U.S. Marshal who has been sent to collect the wife of the key witness in a federal case against the smuggling of illegal immigrants into America. However, when the pregnant woman disappears without a trace, Chen, Detective Yu, and Marshal Catherine Rohn have only a week to track her down before the trial starts-and without his wife, the witness won't cooperate. At the same time, Chen insists on investigating the bloody murder of an unidentified man in Chen's favorite park (echoes of, or homage to, Martin Cruz Smith's Gorky Park).<br />Since Chen and Yu's histories were established in the first book, there is much less of their personal lives in this volume, which is a bit of a shame. There is also somewhat less about politics and the Party's influence on private life in this book. Instead the hidden hand of the triad gangs menaces Chen and his investigation, with unclear motives and unclear allegiances. In addition, the history and impact of the Cultural Revolution (a subject at the heart of the recent novel Balzac and the Little Chinese Seamstress) becomes more directly relevant to the plot. Another main element is the proliferation of a \\"gray market\\" economy, where bribery and corruption are nibbling away at the Communist system. Distasteful as it is, Chen must involve himself with unsavory elements with no solid political backing in order to pursue his investigation, and indeed, possible leaks within his own department.<br />This sequel is quite good to be sure, however there is a running flaw which undermines it somewhat. The brilliance of the first book was in its complete immersion in time and place, by introducing an American outsider as a main character in this story, the author cheapens the experience somewhat. It instantly moves into the realm of \\"unlikely partners battling crime\\", which we have seen time and again in fiction and film. This is exacerbated by the rather stilted romantic tension between Chen and the American woman which always seemed rather forced to me. It's also unfortunate that near the end there is a plot contrivance whereby Chen makes an absolutely incredible blunder-it's such an unlikely mistake I had to stop and reread the passage three times to verify that I had understood it properly. Still, there are running mouthwatering descriptions of food, plenty couplets of classic Chinese poetry, and an exciting climax to finish things off. It's well worth reading, both as a crime novel and as a picture of China a decade ago.r as a main character in this story, the author cheapens the experience somewhat. It instantly moves into the realm of \\"unlikely partners battling crime\\", which we have seen time and again in fiction and film. This is exacerbated by the rather stilted romantic tension between Chen and the American woman which always seemed rather forced to me. It's also unfortunate that near the end there is a plot contrivance whereby Chen makes an absolutely incredible blunder-it's such an unlikely mistake I had to stop and reread the passage three times to verify that I had understood it properly. Still, there are running mouthwatering descriptions of food, plenty couplets of classic Chinese poetry, and an exciting climax to finish things off. It's well worth reading, both as a crime novel and as a picture of China a decade ago.	2003-02-11
1238929:US	52254603	RVR7K0WO85T91	086241850X	459924455	Nail and Other Stories ("Rebel Inc")	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Grim and Promising First Collection	I first came across Laura Hird through her story \\"The Dilating Pupil\\" in the Children of Albion Rovers collection. This collection of ten of her stories is fairly consistent, lots of slices of the underbelly of Scottish life. Slices is a key word here, 'cause while she is strong in quickly getting characters and places out there and in the reader's mind, most of the stories feel like one's walked into the middle of a longer piece. There is a kind of haste and unfulfilled quality to a number of them that leaves the reader a bit empty. That emptiness may also be in large part due to the sheer grimness of the stories and the nastiness and/or patheticness of the people in them. Necrophila, pedophilia, animal abuse, abuse of the mentally retarded, spousal abuse, psychological abuse, it's all here and at the core of the stories. At times the symbolism is overwrought (the woman who kills her ex-boyfriend's cat/pussy, the para who rapes a corpse, etc.), and sometimes the clever ideas doesn't lead anywhere interesting. The stories are quick reads though, and are valuable as another perspective on modern Scotland. Hird's next book, the novel Born Free, delivers on the promise evident in the collection.<br />Note: One of the better stories in the collection, \\"Routes\\", is available online in its entirety at The Barcelona Review.	2003-02-06
1239068:US	52254603	R2YROCWY0EO4F5	0553583190	907728694	Off the Mangrove Coast: Stories	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Mixed Bag of Nine Stories	The nince uncollected stories here range from L'Amour's earliest days as a writer to his latest, but are linked by protagonists seeking justice. While L'Amour is most famous for his Westerns, most of these stories draw upon his own life experiences for their setting and subjects. L'Amour was a boxer, winning over 50 bouts, and in \\"Fighters Should Be Hungry\\" he presents the classic tale of a hungry kid seeking to avenge his father's death. Boxing surfaces again in the equally formulaic \\"The Rounds Don't Matter.\\" I don't know that he was ever a detective, but he's not much of a detective writer, based on the two weak pulp stories here, \\"The Unexpected Corprse\\" and \\"Time of Teror.\\" For the Western fans, there's a quite nice little tale of outlaws and gold, called \\"The Secret of Silver Springs.\\" And for the checkers fans there's a brief little throwaway tale about a champion seaman checker player called \\"It's Your Move.\\" I have to confess that \\"The Cross and the Candle\\" made such a small impression that I have no idea what it was about! The two best stories derive their quality from L'Amour's travels. \\"Off the Mangrove Coast\\" is about a villanous quarter of sailors seeking gold lost at sea. It's a tense, gripping story with a great fight scene. The longest and best story is \\"The Diamond of Jeru\\", about an expatriate American on Borneo who dreams of making a big diamond score so he go back home. When an American couple hire him to take them upriver, it turns into Deliverance meets The Headhunters. It's a great old-fashioned adventure tale that was recently made into a cable movie. All in all, a mixed bag with two gems and a few lumps of coal.	2003-02-06
1240858:US	52254603	R2UTCJC5T36RGL	031242163X	364025620	The Scheme for Full Employment: A Novel	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Sadly Lacking	Mills's first two novels (The Restraint of Beasts, All Quiet on the Orient Express) are two of my favorite books of all time, so it is with a great deal of disappointment that I must report his latest to be rather thin gruel. The story here concerns itself with the titular scheme, in which men drive Univans from depot to depot on an intricately synchronized schedule. Of course since the whole enterprise is a welfare program, all they are delivering is spare parts for the Univans (which never need them). The scheme gets thrown into a tizzy when the \\"swervers\\" (slackers who like to leave work early) come into conflict with the \\"flat-dayers\\" (who believe in working the full eight hours). The scheme, the unrest, and the outcome are all related by a five-year veteran who remains neutral in the whole affair. I kept waiting for there to be more to the whole thing, for something to be reveled, but it all unspools in a steady predictable manner. The whole book follows the scheme, there's no home life scenes or non-work scenes. There's a little bit of Mills's deadpan humor and sly satire, but not nearly enough-and since he foreshadows the downfall of the system right off the bat, it's easy to spot the spanner in the works well before the end. As an allegory of welfare systems it's not that compelling and as a novel it's not that great.	2003-02-04
1245858:US	52254603	R2NSTPW3W8R8B9	1569473048	216220905	Death of a Nationalist	Books	4	23	23	N	N	Grim and Unsparing Debut	Set in Madrid of 1939, just after the end of the Spanish Civil War, this intriguing crime book hinges on the politics of the place and time. Franco and his nationalist/fascist army and place are in power and busy hunting down remnants of the republican and communist resistance. Spain's cities are scarred by bullet and shell holes, food is exceedingly scarce, and reprisals and disappearances are the order of the day. To the greatly feared Guardia Civil falls the task of maintaining law and order, so when one of their own is shot in the street, a ruthless investigation led by the slain officer's former partner moves swiftly to identify the communist responsible for the assassination.<br />The investigator is Sgt. Tejada, a respected grizzled veteran who increasingly questions the official party line as he gets accustomed to life after the Civil War. A compelling character, he soon finds himself tangled in a complicated case involving the black market which may or may not be linked to his friend's murder. (French crime writer Didier Daeninckx employed a somewhat similar plot in his 1995 book, A Very Profitable War, set in Paris just after WWII). Meanwhile, a wounded republican must evade capture by the Guardia and mete out his own revenge. The two men's stories both revolve around vengeance, redemption, and hope-seen from opposite ends of the spectrum. Pawel manages to do this without creating a hero and villain dynamic-both are sympathetic, and both are flawed.<br />Ultimately, the book is rather grim and unsparing, and thus true to the nature of civil war. It's a very good debut, although readers without some previous knowledge of the Spanish Civil War may not get as much from it. If the setting is of interest, check out Alan Furst's spy novel, Night Soldiers, which is set partly in the middle of the Spanish Civil War, and Vittorio Giardino's graphic spy novel No Parasan!, which vividly captures battle-scared Barcelona of the era.	2003-01-31
1245973:US	52254603	R82PKHYSD105M	0385333986	557075282	A Vaudeville of Devils: 7 Moral Tales	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good Stuff	We read this for our bookgroup, putting an end to three years of my intending to read it. The seven stories here range from 20-110 pages and are united by both the theme or morality and Girardi's excellent writing and ability to create a vibrant sense of place and dark tone. He's said in interviews that he's deeply influenced by Poe and Hawthorne, and it's entirely evident here, for these are not short stories in the modern style, but tales in the old-fashioned sense. Spanning genres, from historical fiction, to sci-fi, to thriller, to crime, to romance, the stories revolve around moral choices faced by individuals. The stories are not perfect however, due to their semi-mythic nature, some wander rather close to clich&eacute; and predictability. And at times, certain characters are a little too single-minded or focused on one thing. Different people will, of course, have their own favorites.<br />The opening story, \\"The Demons...\\", is the brief WWII tale set in occupied Holland. The tale of an SS officer ordered to kill a Dutch painter can almost be considered a warm-up for the rest of the tales. The next story, \\"Three Ravens on A Red Ground,\\" is the least nuanced of the seven, and probably my least favorite. It switches back and forth between the story of a Seattle businessman whose firm is being bought out by a Japanese firm, and the story of his ancestor who fought in the Crusades. \\"The Dinner Party\\" follows it with a brief semi-surreal tale of alien invasion in which the question is raised as to whether one should compromise one's ideals in order to alleviate suffering for many. As a take on \\"The Last Supper\\" it's not a bad idea, full of vivid imagery, but not particularly satisfying either.<br />The fourth tale, \\"The Primordial Face,\\" was my favorite-though interestingly enough, the least favorite of many of the people in my book club. It's the story of a Yemeni businessman in pursuit of a mythic treasure lost at sea who hires two freelance divers, one Cuban-American, one German, to join him on a secret expedition. There's a great mood of dark adventure and tension that builds to a somewhat uneven conclusion. Still, this is the tale that had me engrossed far more than any other. \\"Arcana Mundi\\" is an interesting sci-fi story set in Napa Valley of the past, just after a plague has wiped out the grape harvest. The moral question here is again one of whether one should sacrifice for a greater good or not. It engendered more discussion amongst our group than any of the other stories.<br />The sixth tale, \\"The Defenestration of Aba Sid\\" is a legal/crime story set in Washington, D.C. It concerns a hopeless public defender who gets assigned the murder case of a notorious Russian mafia type so that the Feds can be sure the Russian will get convicted. It's not really clear why the Russian can't hire a \\"real\\" lawyer, but putting that aside... The realization of why he is assigned the case transforms the public defender from schmuck to determined worker, and he digs deep into the Russian's case. The crime story is fairly interesting, as is the Russian Mafia background material. The moral issue reveals itself at the very end, and revolves around the notion of justice. The final story, \\"Sunday Evenings\\", revolves around an American expatriate in Naples, and is rather languid and desultory.<br />Altogether a highly satisfactory reading experience and one that'll have me seeking more of Girardi's work out., one German, to join him on a secret expedition. There's a great mood of dark adventure and tension that builds to a somewhat uneven conclusion. Still, this is the tale that had me engrossed far more than any other. \\"Arcana Mundi\\" is an interesting sci-fi story set in Napa Valley of the past, just after a plague has wiped out the grape harvest. The moral question here is again one of whether one should sacrifice for a greater good or not. It engendered more discussion amongst our group than any of the other stories.<br />The sixth tale, \\"The Defenestration of Aba Sid\\" is a legal/crime story set in Washington, D.C. It concerns a hopeless public defender who gets assigned the murder case of a notorious Russian mafia type so that the Feds can be sure the Russian will get convicted. It's not really clear why the Russian can't hire a \\"real\\" lawyer, but putting that aside... The realization of why he is assigned the case transforms the public defender from schmuck to determined worker, and he digs deep into the Russian's case. The crime story is fairly interesting, as is the Russian Mafia background material. The moral issue reveals itself at the very end, and revolves around the notion of justice. The final story, \\"Sunday Evenings\\", revolves around an American expatriate in Naples, and is rather languid and desultory. <br />Altogether a highly satisfactory reading experience and one that'll have me seeking more of Girardi's work out.	2003-01-31
1246255:US	52254603	R2NQR7N61XHK7C	0552999849	429396521	Stickleback (John McCabe Thrillers)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Diverting But Not Deep	McCabe's debut is ostensibly about the male need for routine, as 29 year-old programmer Ian strives to recover from being dumped by his girl by retreating into a shell of comfortable routine. However, his bland life is interrupted by the kidnapping of his loathed geeky officemate Archie by a pair of thugs who demand that Ian engineer a financial heist by programming a little hitch in the bank software he is checking for Y2K compliance (not unlike the premise in the awesome movie Office Space). How that all plays out is the bulk of the book, although there is an odd tangent involving a footballing mate who dies, and a final pages encounter with the ex-girlfriend. It all moves along at a pretty good clip, with some 56 chapters of 4-5 pages, but fails in making any sense of the broader themes about being a young man it attempts to bring out.	2003-01-31
1246803:US	52254603	R1G3S40379PL7F	0312290276	548211395	The Smoke: A Creeping Narrative	Books	4	2	6	N	N	Flawed But Fun	The cat burglar turned hero isn't exactly an original idea, \\"The Saint\\" did it a long time ago in print, on TV (from 1962-69 starring Roger Moore), and in film (including a series of British films in the late '30s, a few French versions in the '60s, some made for television films in the late '80s and a lame 1997 Hollywood version starring Val Kilmer). Here, however, the hero/cat burglar operates in London (\\"The Smoke\\") in 1947, when postwar austerity made England a very bleak place indeed. Unaffiliated with any criminal gangs, Jethro is a master \\"creeper\\" who keeps a low profile and has never been nabbed. Told entirely in first-person narration, the story details how he gets tangled up with both a nasty mobster and British Intelligence.<br />London comes alive through Jethro's eyes, and it's a wholly convincing portrayal of the postwar era, with low morale due to widespread rationing (clothes, food, alcohol, tobacco) and the psychological scars of the war. A cockney who fled London for a career in the Merchant Marine and then the Merchant Navy only to return and start a new career thieving, he's a sympathetic figure. Of course he only steals from the rich, who are likely to be insured, and he spreads his wealth generously among friends and family. But when he inadvertently steals from a Russian spy, it leads to the unbalancing of his carefully tailored life.<br />The book is strong on details, both in terms of description and slang. The author has obviously gone to a lot of trouble to get the period lingo right, and it is fairly well sustained throughout, but at times comes across just too campy. One minor annoyance is that he provides a glossary at the start, but then when using slang terms in the text, awkwardly pauses to explain them the first time they appear, interrupting the flow. A few phrases get overused as well:\\"a thousand years ago\\" gets trotted out far too often, for example. The campiness of language underscores a broader fault with the book, which is one of tone. At times the book is a warm fuzzy celebration of camaraderie and family, right down to a scene of everyone standing around the piano signing. At other times, especially the first third, it's a very detailed and suspenseful caper story. At other times it's a London gangster story. At other times it's a dawning of the Cold War thriller. And at other times it's a standard action-adventure piece. These shifts in tone leave the entire thing a little wobbly in places.<br />And while the book is certainly enjoyable, there are other flaws as well. More than once Jethro's bacon is saved by an very weak deus ex machina. Another problem is the general cartoonishness of some of the characters, especially his sharp-tongued sister, cabbie brother-in-law, most of the gangsters and spies, and police. One other potential problem is that the typeface is awfully small and hard to read. Still, the setting is interesting, and its flaws are probably easily ignored by those looking for a light read. If the idea of a postwar mystery appeals to you, check out Didier Daeninckx's A Very Profitable War, set in 1946 Paris, and Phillip Kerr's A German Requiem, set in Berlin and Vienna in 1947.ne of tone. At times the book is a warm fuzzy celebration of camaraderie and family, right down to a scene of everyone standing around the piano signing. At other times, especially the first third, it's a very detailed and suspenseful caper story. At other times it's a London gangster story. At other times it's a dawning of the Cold War thriller. And at other times it's a standard action-adventure piece. These shifts in tone leave the entire thing a little wobbly in places.<br />And while the book is certainly enjoyable, there are other flaws as well. More than once Jethro's bacon is saved by an very weak deus ex machina. Another problem is the general cartoonishness of some of the characters, especially his sharp-tongued sister, cabbie brother-in-law, most of the gangsters and spies, and police. One other potential problem is that the typeface is awfully small and hard to read. Still, the setting is interesting, and its flaws are probably easily ignored by those looking for a light read. If the idea of a postwar mystery appeals to you, check out Didier Daeninckx's A Very Profitable War, set in 1946 Paris, and Phillip Kerr's A German Requiem, set in Berlin and Vienna in 1947.	2003-01-30
1249979:US	52254603	R10CAXVYHHVGX	0525946829	616631756	Quentins	Books	2	5	5	N	N	Terrible!	've never read Binchy before, but apparently this Dublin novel is full of characters from previous novels of hers. While that may add some level of interest to this weak romantic drama for her avid readers, it's hard to imagine they'll be able to overlook the wholly ludicrous main plotline and its insufferable protagonist.<br />First of all, the documentary plotline-which is what attracted me to the book in the first place-doesn't arrive until about a third of the way in. Prior to that we have the saccharine story of Ella Brady, a stock nice girl-next-door who gets on wonderfully with everyone and doesn't realize how beautiful she is. She has a two year affair with a charming and obviously shallow married financial advisor who lies consistently to her, and is clearly not interested in leaving his wife. Eventually, he embezzles a ton of money and flees to the Costa del Sol, leaving a lot of Dubliners-including Ella's father!-penniless.<br />But check this out: he accidentally leaves his laptop, stuffed to the brim with incriminating evidence that would help restore people's money, in Ella's apartment! As implausible as that is, that's not even the lame part! The entire rest of the book she has in her hands the information to recover some of the stolen funds and not only nail the man who lied to and abandoned her, but ruined her parents, and many other good people. But she doesn't do anything with it and even lies to the police about it! Meanwhile, she's constantly wringing her hands and feeling guilty about everyone's plight! This is all so unbelievably stupid that the book is unredeemable. Ella is one of the lamest and unintentionally unlikable protagonists I've come across in the long time.<br />Which is too bad, because there are a number of likable and interesting characters elsewhere in the novel, and Binchy does a nice job of making each interesting. And once the documentary plotline is introduced, there are a number of stand-alone vignettes which are quite engaging. As a whole though, it's structurally unsound. She seems to want to write Ella's lame romance story and weave it into a \\"Grand Hotel\\" (or rather Finbar's Hotel!) series of short pieces Dublin. So while the book has some positives, any benefit will be outweighed by the truly horrible main plotline, and a predictable schmaltzy, puke-inducing tearjerker of an ending.gaging. As a whole though, it's structurally unsound. She seems to want to write Ella's lame romance story and weave it into a \\"Grand Hotel\\" (or rather Finbar's Hotel!) series of short pieces Dublin. So while the book has some positives, any benefit will be outweighed by the truly horrible main plotline, and a predictable schmaltzy, puke-inducing tearjerker of an ending.	2003-01-28
1250121:US	52254603	R2UZAJ7XABQ2PU	081296666X	645608703	Things My Girlfriend and I Have Argued About: A Novel	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Total Comic Brilliance	This very lightly plotted hilarious comedy by British writer Millington is apparently the spawn of a similarly titled website on which he posted vignettes of his life with his German girlfriend. This humble beginning has begat one of the funniest novels I've read in a long long time. There are basically two things going on here. The first is a running account of the comic bickering between 40ish hapless slacker \\"Pel\\" and his partner, the strong-willed German \\"Ursula\\". Their back and forth is dead funny-somewhat akin to P.G. Wodehouse's stories in which Bertie Wooster gets put in his place (and then some) by his Aunt Agatha, with a kind of Nick Hornby twist. It completely and utterly fulfills the \\"laugh out loud funny\\" clich&eacute;. Since we are only shown the moments of conflict between them, their relationship seems somewhat unreal, but it's so sidesplitting it's hard to care. Anyone who takes their nastiness to each other at face value is utterly missing the point of a comic novel.<br />While Pel and Ursula's trials center around finding and buying a new house, dealing with their two young boys, and a ski trip to Germany, the other plotline concerns Pel's work life as a hopelessly unqualified computer administrator at a college library. When his immediate boss TJR disappears without a trace, he's surprisingly asked to take his place. Plenty of wacky antics ensue, especially when some Chinese Triads turn up looking for some money TJR owed them. Not to mention the bodies being unearthed by the construction of the new wing of the library, which Pel is now in charge of... As the complications grow, Pel sticks his head deeper in the sand and things start to spiral out of control. There are a number of scenes that recall the vast idiocy of Basil Fawlty racing through halls and ducking behind cars to avoid being seen. Some great supporting comic characters pop out of the woodwork, including the college's head PR man, \\"24/7 International\\" Nazim, a nasty harridan of a librarian, and another administrator with a sideline too shocking to reveal here.<br />The ending is a bit of a lame cop-out, but I actually fully prepared to let that slide given the nonstop laughs the book generated in me. I defy anyone to read the refrigerator defrosting scene or the scene where two Triads argue about cell phone plans without bursting out in laughter. Great stuff which will no doubt be made into a movie., and another administrator with a sideline too shocking to reveal here.<br />The ending is a bit of a lame cop-out, but I actually fully prepared to let that slide given the nonstop laughs the book generated in me. I defy anyone to read the refrigerator defrosting scene or the scene where two Triads argue about cell phone plans without bursting out in laughter. Great stuff which will no doubt be made into a movie.	2003-01-28
1252114:US	52254603	R5FXK03ZL86LN	1557045097	855940879	Human Nature: The Shooting Script	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Script + Photos + Interview	What you get is the shooting script for this gonzo film plus a sixteen page color photo insert of  stills from the movie. At the end is an eight page interview with the reclusive Charlie Kaufman about the writing of the film in which he uses the word \\"... ...\\" quite a bit. By the way, if  you're interested in the script, there's a quite good interview with Kaufman about the film in the March/April 2002 issue of Creative Screenwriting magazine. The Nov/Dec. 2002 issue also has an interview with him, that one's about \\"Adaptation\\" and \\"Confessions of a Dangerous Mind.\\"	2003-01-26
1252316:US	52254603	R158XCEQ8VPZ14	1557045720	421848781	Igby Goes Down: The Shooting Script	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Script + Stills + Notes	Nice movie. This book has the script (118 pages), a few pages of black and white stills, and the production notes. There's also a two page intro by the film's writer/director, to tell you what it's about, in case you don't get it.	2003-01-26
1252494:US	52254603	R1BZGOIIPHOIFA	0743451791	585102301	Devil in a Blue Dress (Easy Rawlins Mysteries (Paperback))	Books	3	19	24	N	N	A Fine Book, But Hardly A Masterpiece	The first Easy Rawlins book is more enjoyable for its physical and cultural setting than it is for its mystery or characters. Set in Los Angeles a few years after WWII, Mosley does a masterful job of depicting a multiethnic city that's still a sleepy collection of neighborhoods in many senses, but has a distinctly seedy side (not unlike James Ellroy's LA Confidential). The story is about Easy, an ex-soldier who loses his job for standing up to his white boss at an aircraft manufacturing plant. Desperate for money so he can meet his mortgage and not lose his pride and joy of a house, he's offered a lot of money to look for a white woman who's been hanging out at illegal after-hours black clubs. Of course, he's not the only one looking, and soon he's up to his neck in bootleggers, crooked politicians, racist cops, and round-the-way girls.<br />In noir fashion, the mystery is fairly complicated, perhaps overly so with a number of minor characters who run together. As events move beyond Easy's grasp, he has to call on his old friend from Houston, Mouse, to help him out. Mouse is a thoroughly nasty bit of work, and there's some good tension between him and Easy. Ultimately, the \\"big\\" twist at the end isn't that surprising. The book is so thoroughly steeped in race that it's the only plausible solution to a number of thorny questions.<br />As an average hardworking black man, just trying to live with dignity in a racist world, Easy is well-drawn and sympathetic. What doesn't work as well is when he hears \\"the voice\\" inside his head, which appears at moments of stress and urges him not to take any [...] and stand up for himself. It's a device that's remarkably amateurish, given the solid control Mosley exhibits over the rest of the narrative. It should be noted that the book's female characters will probably not be to the taste of many female readers, and indeed, while Mosley seems to have a very clear comment to make about race, his take on gender is rather ambiguous.<br />It's a fine book, but nothing truly spectacular or new. It does a nice job of depicting LA at a certain time, but comparisons with Chandler and Ellison are a stretch, other than Chandler wrote in the same genre, and Ellison also wrote about race./>It's a fine book, but nothing truly spectacular or new. It does a nice job of depicting LA at a certain time, but comparisons with Chandler and Ellison are a stretch, other than Chandler wrote in the same genre, and Ellison also wrote about race.	2003-01-26
1252663:US	52254603	R2K2DDJVNDGAB	0224062948	26166556	The Man Who Walks	Books	4	7	7	N	N	More Highlands Hi-jinks	Warner's fourth book bears many marks of similarity to his first three, both in subject matter, imagination, setting, and unevenness. Set in the same part of Scotland's Western Highlands, the story revolves around the port town of Oban. As in Morvern Callar and to a lesser extent These Demented Lands, there's a central figure wandering the landscape in semi-picaresque fashion in pursuit of a large sum of cash. The protagonist is \\"The Nephew\\" a semi-homeless tinker whose legendary wild uncle (the title character) has stolen a pub's World Cup pool money. As he wanders the highlands a step behind his uncle, the Nephew (who is a bit of an oddball himself) manages to get in situations where he has weird sex, takes odd drugs, pukes, drinks, urinates in a doll's head, feasts with nobility, and gets mixed up with an inordinate number of total weirdoes. Warner's fictional Highlands are a sort of rural New York where every time you turn around there's some madman who's all to happy to include you in his world.<br />Warner's first two books, especially These Demented Lands, exhibited a kind of wild borderline surrealism that sometimes worked and sometimes didn't. These Demented Lands didn't really have enough of a narrative line and ultimately fell apart, however here he's got just enough of a plot to keep everything together. The Nephew's quest is often hilarious, often horrifying, and wholly imaginative, while at times veering off course and just barely holding together. Warner's clearly a talented writer and this is one of his better efforts, but I'd still suggest trying his much more accessible The Sopranos before you delve into this.	2003-01-26
1255096:US	52254603	R2OH7WLAV64F23	0300091257	84111494	Croatia: A Nation Forged in War, Second Edition	Books	3	7	14	N	N	Seems Good, But Hard To Tell!	My fiancee and I were both really eager to read this book, we'd heard good things about it and are planning a trip to Croatia. Unfortunately, it's so poorly typeset that it's a real struggle to read! We both got about 15-20 pages into it and just couldn't continue, we were getting headaches (no joke). The problem is that the text is just too densely set, there's no breathing room whatsoever. Yale Press has a done a real disservice to the author.	2003-01-24
1258350:US	52254603	R1D07QT7BUFUR9	1862074895	328189659	Downriver	Books	2	4	12	N	N	All Over the Map	I picked up this book for a number of reasons: primarily, I was intrigued by the concept of a novel comprised of twelve stories which would reveal a gritty, dark side of London's docklands. (I'm not a Londoner, nor have I spent a great deal of time there, but I am drawn to fiction about it for some reason.) I have to admit I was also impressed with the plethora of effusive praise from the British press on the jacket. Having read the first three stories, I have now set it aside, unlikely to return to it. Why? Well, it all starts and ends with Sinclair's style. Had I known beforehand that he is a poet, I probably would have avoided the book. My experience with poets is that their prose style tends to be overly ornate. Some find this wholly delightful, but it generally leaves me deeply unmoved.<br />I liked the notion of what Sinclair was trying to do in tying the Thames to Conrad's Heart of Darkness, and mixing it all up with a critique of Thatcherite policies and the the capitalist assault on the underclass. He's clearly a writer with a political viewpoint who absorbs his cultural surroundings and infuse them back into his writing. Unfortunately, the connections aren't always visible, and worse, the stories aren't particularly interesting. There are flashes here and there of something, and clearly Sinclair has masses of knowledge and skill, but it's hard to find any cohesion to it all. The reviewer at The New York Times put it rather well in saying, \\"The book is a tremendous pillar of words, not all of them making direct sense and not trying to.\\" It's writing one can appreciate, but not really enjoy, and since I have stacks of other unread books waiting for me, I'll put this one aside-perhaps forever.	2003-01-21
1259133:US	52254603	RKMLZ59MNVOJ3	0802138616	691132252	Quite Ugly One Morning	Books	4	21	24	N	N	Fun Cartoony Crime Novel	I first read Brookmyre in the Fresh Blood 2 anthology, where his story \\"Bampot Central\\" had me in stitches (the story is also posted on Brookmyre's website). I then read his book to be publishedin the US, \\"Not the End of the World,\\" which is a fairly predictable Los Angeles-set thriller, suitable for a long rainy night or airplane, but little else. I thought I'd give him one more chance to wow me with this, his prize-winning first novel.<br />I have to say, I'm not sure what other reviewers are talking about when they throw out terms like \\"noir\\", \\"pulp\\", or \\"Irvine Welsh\\" when talking about this book. I mean, it is a crime story, and it is set in Edinburgh, and there are a (very) few Scottish idioms, but otherwise it's a pretty mainstream crime novel, heavily laced with humor. It's not noir at all, it's not Irvine Welsh at all (unless you think Irvine Welsh invented black humor), and it's only pulp in the Quentin Tarantino sense, which is to say, hip postmodern neo-pulp. There are some rather gory scenes at the beginning and end, but it's all handled with so much comedy and wisecracking that it's more cartoon show than horrorshow. Think Elmore Leonard or Carl Hiassen rather than Raymond Chandler or James M. Cain.<br />In any event, the story is a mostly enjoyable tale about corruption within the National Health Trust system. Hero investigative journalist Jack Parlabane literally stumbles into a cover-up murder and then teams up with a female cop and the murder victim's ex-wife to get to the bottom of it all. Fast-paced, with some memorable villains (the shell-suited hitman is a riot), and plenty of digs at Thatcheism and privatization schemes, it's a fun read with plenty of one-liners, but unlikely to make a lasting impression.	2003-01-21
1264698:US	52254603	R3VH6IFJYVLGY0	1890768448	891058093	Detective Lauriant Investigates	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Hum-Drum Village Cozy	This book is actually two smaller books in one. I must confess, I only read the first story (\\"A Death In A Ditch\\") and didn't enjoy it enough to proceed to the second tale (\\"The Murder in the Vende&eacute;). Set in the early 1960s, the stories feature a title character, who is a gruff divorced Parisian police inspector. In \\"A Death In A Ditch\\", he is summoned by a colleague in the southwest to the fictional village of Saint Sauveur (no relation to the real village of similar name 30k north of Nice). Hoping to escape the dreary Parisian weather and spend a few days in the sun, he instead encounters never-ending rain and the murder of a German antique dealer. The mystery is essentially one of the small village cozy genre (think Agatha Christie), with a cast of about ten main suspects and witnesses. Lauriant is the outsider who must sift through the various intrigues, relationships, and town geography in order to discover the motive and means for the killing. The way he probes the locals and ultimately summons everyone to the hotel to unmask the killer is classic Hercule Poirot. It's not bad, just not that juicy or original either. And at the end, I was left wondering why the victim would have ever settled in the tiny village in the first place. The author also tries to weave in some sense of how French society was changing in the '60s, but it never really gets off the ground.	2003-01-16
1265523:US	52254603	R8TLO3HUGJB0	0140298363	349365874	Mr. Phillips	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Day in the Life of an Everyman	This semi-homage to Mrs. Dalloway follows the title character as he wanders around London on the first Monday after being fired from his longtime job as an accountant. Dressed and accesorized for work as usual, he walks, takes buses, and the subway, encountering performance artists, porno publishers, tennis players, museum goers, tourists, a TV presenter, his eldest son, a neighbor or two, and some bank robbers. These ambulatory and mental meanderings are recounted in a witty and restrained tone with deceptively simple precision. His lone quirk is an accountant's love of translating everything into numerical values, percentages, and probabilities. Lanchester is careful not to overuse this device, and thus it remains amusing and playful throughout.<br />Not surprisingly, Mr. Phillips spends a great deal of his time musing about sex, death, sex, love, sex, life, and soforth. The middle-aged, middle-class Londoner is clearly meant to be an everyman, a sympathetic type recognizable to all readers. So, although he has no particular \\"deep thoughts\\" or epiphanies over the course of his day, his interactions still leave one with a benevolent sense of humanity. It's a much more gentle and embracing book (despite some reader's prudish reactions to certain sexual details) than his well-received, if overly clever, debut, The Debt to Pleasure. This novel can almost be seen as the flipside to that one, totally different, but equally good. Not great, but good.	2003-01-15
1266544:US	52254603	R1GOWMBZOJ6BVW	0971904774	687876775	Songbook	Books	4	33	34	N	N	Lovely Book + CD + Great Writing!	I suppose I should admit up front that I'm one of those people who would buy the phone book if Hornby wrote it. That cavaet aside, this lovely little volume with accompanying CD is the best written explanation of why people who love \\"pop\\" music do so. Hornby uses the word \\"pop\\" not only to refer to garbage of the Britney Spears/'NSYNC ilk, but as a broad distinguisher from classical, jazz, and sofroth. The 26 brief essays aren't about his favorite pop songs, nor are they about what the songs remind him of, rather these are songs that he loves (as of the time of writing) and has something to say about.<br />As readers of his football memoir, Fever Pitch, know, Hornby writes exceedingly well about being a fan. And more than anything, the book is about being a fan of the 3-4 minute pop tune. Of course, this neccesitates a spirited defence of pop as a genre, so throughout the book, Hornby is on the attack, railing against small-minded snobs (including his younger self) who dismiss pop music out of hand. People who've spent a good portion of their lives paying attention to pop music will find a lot of themselves in the book, and may be struck with a newfound openmindedness. And by this measure, any book that can get me to track down an old J. Geils Band album has got be considered noteworthy! (Although I remain unmoved by his essay on reconsidering Jackson Browne.)<br />As always, Hornby's writing is funny, poignant, telling, and dead on. His skewering of church music is priceless, as is his explanation of why \\"Let's Get It On\\" is a terrible song to have sex to, why Led Zepplin rocked his 14-year-old world, how Rod Stewart led him to Motown music, the tedium of being a music reviewer for The New Yorker, and much more. Other parts are more introspective, dwelling on how his music tastes have changed as he's gotten older, fatter, and divorced, his autistic son's love of music, and how certain musical moments have influenced his writing.<br />It's a brief book, but one that ranges far and wide. Although I'm not really fan of much of any of the artists he writes about, he still manages to use their work to make larger points that are relevent to any music fan. Somewhat annoyingly, he mentions my favorite band (The Clash) more often (in eight different essays) than any other throughout the book, but didn't pick one of their songs to write about! That aside, the one thing that holds the book back a little is that the CD doesn't contain all the songs in the book (no doubt due to liscensing and money issues) and so leaves the reader hunting for MP3s online. But as the book's proceeds go to charity, this is easily overlooked and forgiven. Some of the best music writing I've come across.t ranges far and wide. Although I'm not really fan of much of any of the artists he writes about, he still manages to use their work to make larger points that are relevent to any music fan. Somewhat annoyingly, he mentions my favorite band (The Clash) more often (in eight different essays) than any other throughout the book, but didn't pick one of their songs to write about! That aside, the one thing that holds the book back a little is that the CD doesn't contain all the songs in the book (no doubt due to liscensing and money issues) and so leaves the reader hunting for MP3s online. But as the book's proceeds go to charity, this is easily overlooked and forgiven. Some of the best music writing I've come across.	2003-01-15
1268962:US	52254603	R1O5YL4B9ZJAJT	0446667900	347427189	A Darkness More Than Night (A Harry Bosch Novel)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Good Twist on the Serial Killer Genre	The only book I'd read in the Harry Bosch series before this was City of Bones, and I have to say this is a fair amount better. At first, I didn't even realize it was a Harry Bosch book. It starts with the bizarro ritualistic murder of a sad case loner, which brings an ex-FBI profiler Terry McCaleb into the picture. Just as I was about to sigh and groan at yet another FBI profiler vs. serial killer story (ever since Red Dragon/Manhunter and Silence of the Lambs, why does anyone bother?), the case starts bumping into LAPD Det. Harry Bosch.<br />Bosch is the key witness in the murder trial of a big-time Hollywood director, who is accused of having strangled a nobody actress while having sex. While the sensationalist aspect of the case and trial are pretty clich&eacute;, the details of the courtroom ebb and flow of the trial are quite interesting and well done. Intermingled with the court case, and its various last minute complications, is Terry McCaleb's off-the-record investigation of the ritual killing. His personal life gets a little cheezy as well, as he's started a new life with a younger wife and tiny daughter on a transplanted heart, but can't resist the lure of an interesting case.<br />Saying any more about how McCaleb's case and Bosch's trial are connected might tip the plot away, but suffice to say there's a good twist or two and some deep dark secrets that come to light. I don't know if some of them relate to previous books in the series, but one might want to read them in order to avoid spoiling anything.	2003-01-13
1270828:US	52254603	RJIU551H7X95K	0375413952	543388227	Dear Mr. President	Books	3	16	24	N	N	Good, But Not Great	There can be no question that there is a surprising deficit in fiction about the Gulf War. In fact, other than James Blinn's out of print 1997 novel \\"The Aardvark is Ready For War\\", I can't think of another book of fiction set in Gulf War. However, what seems to have happened is that this utter void has resulted in rather over-enthusiastic praise for Hudson's brief collection of eight short stories. The critics who are calling it the seminal fictional treatment of the Gulf War, on a par with Tim O'Brien's \\"The Things They Carried\\" are only right insofar as there is no competition (whereas there are literally hundreds of Vietnam War novels)!<br />In any event, Hudson is surely to be commended for hitting on the whole range of Gulf War issues, from the dubious reasons for the war, to gays in the military, shaky media coverage, the need to \\"get over\\" Vietnam, military intelligence failures, racism, warrior myths, the new technology-laden war machine, Gulf War syndrome, and of course, the terrible psychological toll of the war on those who were in it. All of these are brought forth in stories of soldiers who are physically and psychological scarred-perhaps beyond redemption. In dark and sometimes surreal tales laden with macabre humor, Hudson emphatically drives the message home that this was not the clinical clean victory that was presented on CNN. And while I agree in general with his outlook, his style has a smug, preaching-to-the-choir aspect which will limit the book's audience and impact to the self-selecting literati he belongs to.<br />There are two stories which really stand out from the rest. Over seven pages, \\"The American Green Machine\\" imagines a Marine recruiting effort aimed at high school seniors which involves a brain implant and \\"Brain-Mail\\". It wonderfully captures the gung-ho recruiting and military bureaucracy lingo and is a truly funny bit of satire. The other notable piece is the 50+ page story \\"Notes From a Bunker Along Highway #8\\" in which a Green Beret deserts his unit, carrying a wounded comrade. They hole up in an abandoned Iraqi bunker populated by five chimpanzees, and get into yoga. Perhaps because it is the longest and most developed of the stories, it is also the most engaging and moving.<br />On the whole, I find the book useful and necessary, but not the masterpiece it's been proclaimed. The people who really need to read this kind of critique of the war simply aren't going to pick up a collection of absurdist short stories. So, in that sense, the book has very little power or impact. One final note: Amazon.com lists the book as 192 pages, it is in fact 178. And of these 178 pages, 42 are not writing, they are blank dividers, story title pages, table of contents, dedication, etc., so be forewarned that this is a slim book that you will finish in a little over two hours.een Beret deserts his unit, carrying a wounded comrade. They hole up in an abandoned Iraqi bunker populated by five chimpanzees, and get into yoga. Perhaps because it is the longest and most developed of the stories, it is also the most engaging and moving.<br />On the whole, I find the book useful and necessary, but not the masterpiece it's been proclaimed. The people who really need to read this kind of critique of the war simply aren't going to pick up a collection of absurdist short stories. So, in that sense, the book has very little power or impact. One final note: Amazon.com lists the book as 192 pages, it is in fact 178. And of these 178 pages, 42 are not writing, they are blank dividers, story title pages, table of contents, dedication, etc., so be forewarned that this is a slim book that you will finish in a little over two hours.	2003-01-11
1271330:US	52254603	R24NI2TUQBUTEQ	0066210631	893204491	Veerappan: India's Most Wanted Man	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Tedious Indian True Crime Tome	I came to this book knowing nothing about Veerappan other than he is a famous Indian bandit who has been at large for thirty years. Unfortunately, what could have been a fascinating account of the transformation of a poor villager to locally respected sandalwood and ivory poacher, to nationally famous extortionist and murderer and Tamil nationalist, instead devolves into a rather boring blow-by-blow report of his activities from the mid-'80s up to and including his famous kidnapping of the aging film star Rajkumar in 2000. Journalist Raghuram does a relatively good job of explaining the bandit's background and introduction to a life of crime, but once he starts detailing his crimes and the police attempts to capture him, the book takes on the stunningly dry tone of official reports.<br />Raghuram recreates the setting and execution of several dozen of Veerappan's murders-which total around 140, including many many assorted police officers. What emerges is not a tale of a modern-day Robin Hood, but one of a vicious murderer who steals to sustain his own band of forest-dwelling killers. His criminal activities escalated over time, starting with simple poaching, and then expanding to extortion and kidnapping. And once the authorities began to get serious about arresting him, Veerappan engaged in tit-for-tat retribution, killing suspected informers, ambushing police convoys with guns and explosives, attacking police stations, and even targeting specific officers.<br />The efforts made to capture him are given great attention, and while a certain level of individual police bravery and effort is noted, a more general bureaucratic incompetence underlies everything. The primarily stems from lack of cooperation between the southern states of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, where Veerappan operates. Nor is police brutality overlooked, as Raghuram notes the severe treatment of captured members of Veerappan's gang at the hands of the police, ranging from outright murder, to torture, sexual abuse, and indefinite incarceration.<br />Beyond the general dry prose, the book suffers from a arcane array of abbreviations and acronyms, all of which are explained in the glossary in the back, but make for choppy reading. Similarly, for a Western reader, the barrage of names is likely to be overly intrusive. Do we really need to know the full name of every forester and driver's assistant involved in the narrative? Another constant problem is that key to Veerappan's elusiveness is the geography he operates in, which Raghuram's text brings to life, but is supported by only one remarkably poor map.<br />Where the book really breaks down in Part V, the final 75 pages, which detail the kidnapping of Rajkumar. Here, the tale of Veerappan starts intertwining with the bewildering details of local and national Indian politics. It's too bad, 'cause Veerappan's new alliance with Marxist Tamil terrorist/freedom fighters is rather intriguing, but it all gets lost in a lengthy section detailing legal battles to keep captured members of his gang in jail.sexual abuse, and indefinite incarceration. <br />Beyond the general dry prose, the book suffers from a arcane array of abbreviations and acronyms, all of which are explained in the glossary in the back, but make for choppy reading. Similarly, for a Western reader, the barrage of names is likely to be overly intrusive. Do we really need to know the full name of every forester and driver's assistant involved in the narrative? Another constant problem is that key to Veerappan's elusiveness is the geography he operates in, which Raghuram's text brings to life, but is supported by only one remarkably poor map. <br />Where the book really breaks down in Part V, the final 75 pages, which detail the kidnapping of Rajkumar. Here, the tale of Veerappan starts intertwining with the bewildering details of local and national Indian politics. It's too bad, 'cause Veerappan's new alliance with Marxist Tamil terrorist/freedom fighters is rather intriguing, but it all gets lost in a lengthy section detailing legal battles to keep captured members of his gang in jail.	2003-01-11
1274301:US	52254603	R2G6C4OVMGC0WA	078601105X	850196515	Potomac Fever	Books	1	2	2	N	N	This "Thriller" is Tired...	Those who can't get enough of the \\"conspiracy at the highest level\\" genre of thrillers will want to add this to their reading lists, but the average reader is likely to grow exasperated with this overblown mess, which is stuffed with every push-button issue under the sun. Sex, race, class, drugs, corruption, homosexuality, shadowy operatives, high-power lobbyists, shady real-estate deals, professional athletes, hit teams, public relations, the White House, it's all been crammed into the plot. At a certain level one has to admire the husband-wife authorial team for managing to leave no stone unturned in their attempt to craft a gripping tale. However, all the \\"ripped from the headlines\\" plotlines won't help if the story is told in awkward prose with cheezy dialogue by cardboard characters in a confusing mix of flashback, flashforward, and present tense narration. The plot is too convoluted to recap here, but basically everything is driven by one homicide detective with a dogged determination to pursue justice in the face of high-level opposition. It's a tired character type, and there's certainly no new twists to it here. Indeed, there's no a single character that brings anything fresh or new to the mix, you've seen 'em all before, and here they are again, running through the paces. If you want to read crime stories set in the real D.C.-not the imaginary world of movers and shakers-check out any of George Pelecanos's books, like Right As Rain. They'll show you the real city, whose crimes are much more banal, and much more tragic than the foolishness in this tired \\"thriller\\".	2003-01-09
1274480:US	52254603	R110A48U9USCFB	006001394X	841970994	Five Boys: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The End of Innocence	I picked up this book believing it was a novel about a young London boy sent to live in Devon to avoid getting killed in the Blitz. However, this is only the first of three separate storylines, which are direly lacking in cohesion but form a charming and poignant ensemble. The first part of the book follows Bobby, who is yanked from his London family with little warning, stuck on a train with no explanation, and winds up in a small town in the care of an unprepared spinster. What follows is a kind of warm fish out of water tale as the city boy struggles to adjust to country life. Central to this is becoming friends with the villages \\"five boys\\", a rowdy pack of boys his age who spur each other to various mischief and tomfoolery.<br />The second part of the book kind of wanders away from Bobby's tale and broadens out into little stories about some of the adult villagers and one of the five boys. A catalyst for this is the arrival of the large American Army preparing for D-Day. This means the forced relocation of those living in a large area right next to the village, which is an interesting and unknown story in its own right. But basically, the wacky antics of the kids gives way to the wacky antics of the adults. These include stories about an undercover operation to recover a pig from American territory, the effects of a dance to which the GIs are invited, and a detailed episode of how a ratatcher exterminates a field full of rats after the GIs are gone.<br />In the final third of the book, Bobby has returned to London and the five boys are enthralled by a different newcomer, a mysterious man who keeps bees and is impervious to village prying. The beekeeper completely captivates the boys and his enigmatic nature keeps one guessing as to what's really going on. Despite hints here and there, the ending comes as a bit of a shock, and can be read as emblematic of the end of innocence in England.<br />It's a good book, charming and well written, with plenty of evocative descriptions and smells, and good stories. However, one wonders why it's constructed (and marketed) as a novel, when it's really a series of linked short stories. Without a central figure, mood, or theme, the book doesn't quite hold together in the way one expects a novel to. That aside, it's quite enjoyable, and makes a good companion to Michael Frayn's novel Spies, which is about two London boys during the war.descriptions and smells, and good stories. However, one wonders why it's constructed (and marketed) as a novel, when it's really a series of linked short stories. Without a central figure, mood, or theme, the book doesn't quite hold together in the way one expects a novel to. That aside, it's quite enjoyable, and makes a good companion to Michael Frayn's novel Spies, which is about two London boys during the war.	2003-01-09
1279162:US	52254603	R1XYTG4NMT1YA2	0877457271	770635543	Troublemakers	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Stories of Troubled Men	The eleven stories collected here range in setting from Chicago's south side to small towns in southern Illinois, but are all thematically linked in their exploration of confused and often angry lower-class white males. The stories are also generationally linked, in that their characters all appear to have come of age in the early to mid-'70s. Indeed, the three best stories are set in the '70s and follow the same junior high boys through a trio of episodes (\\"The Vomitorium,'' \\"Smoke'' and \\"The Grand Illusion''), which include a trunk full of stolen Tootsie Rolls, and the forming of an \\"air band\\", and a homosexual advance. These three stories share much of the humor and angst of Chris Furhman's excellent novel The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys, and Tom Perrotta's collection Bad Haircut.<br />In \\"The New Year\\", \\"The Greatest Goddamn Thing\\" and \\"Torture\\", the narrators are teenage boys, whose primary role in each is as sidekick or witness to another person's pain. In the first story, a cuckolded and abandoned father takes an axe to a deer. In the second, a brother just out of jail leads him into an all night bar party complete with gun, fire, and sex. And in the third, a neighbor is stranded on his roof by an irate wife, and no one calls for help. In each case, there's a kind of sad desperation to it all. Desperation is also present in two stories (\\"The End of Romance\\" and \\"Roger's New Life\\") that follow a UPS driver with a flaccid marriage, two kids, and a shaky grip on sanity. These are the most distant of the collection, as the protagonist is clearly cracking up and it becomes harder and harder to identify with his tenuous grip on reality. A rather similar character is the focus of the longest story, \\"Limbs,\\" sharing a troubled marriage, kid, and in this case, friends of dubious character.<br />Two Chicago-set stories stick out: \\"The Politics of Correctness\\" abandons the world of the unemployed and lower-class for the world of academia and a struggling young English professor who must contend with the drug dealer who menaces his home, and the uber-PC people in his department. One sense this is a very personal story from McNally, and while it's not bad, it's not particularly original or noteworthy either. My own favorite is \\"The First of Your Last Chances,\\" which stands out if only because it has a happy ending. Both funny and tender, it's a welcome respite from the heaviness of the other ten stories. The collection as a whole reveals a great new talent, I'll look forward to his next work.h professor who must contend with the drug dealer who menaces his home, and the uber-PC people in his department. One sense this is a very personal story from McNally, and while it's not bad, it's not particularly original or noteworthy either. My own favorite is \\"The First of Your Last Chances,\\" which stands out if only because it has a happy ending. Both funny and tender, it's a welcome respite from the heaviness of the other ten stories. The collection as a whole reveals a great new talent, I'll look forward to his next work.	2003-01-06
1280688:US	52254603	R19PUCCV5O7T4X	156947303X	115812677	Detective Inspector Huss	Books	4	75	75	N	N	Engaging Swedish Debut	Fans of Henning Mankell's Kurt Wallander series will be delighted with this first entry in fellow Swede Tursten's procedural series. Set in Goteborg, the book stars Det. Inspector Irene Huss and her colleagues in the Violent Crimes Unit as they investigate the murder of a prominent and very wealthy businessman. Like John Harvey's Charlie Resnick series, the story's about both the crime and the lives of those investigating it, with similarly satisfying results. The crime itself is an exceedingly tangled one, with loads of suspects, a locked door, and many complications and other crimes cropping up as the story progresses. That said, the primary culprit can be guessed almost right from the start, even if the motive and method for the murder cannot. A great deal of the novel's success is attributable to Tursten's detailed step-by-step rendering of the patient police work that leads to the resolution.<br />The rich and famous milieux of the murder is nothing notably new, nor is the connection to a sleazier world of drugs and sex. However, one thing that American readers may not quite understand is the role of motorcycle gangs in Scandinavia. In the US, the image of the Hell's Angels have been considerably softened to one of benign oversized 50-somethings cruising around on expensive bikes in a now-benign subculture. However, in Scandinavia (and Canada, see John Farrow's thriller City of Ice), the Hell's Angels and other motorcycle gangs are directly involved in high-level drug trafficking and violent crime.<br />Although the crime and its unraveling could be transposed to a US setting without a great deal of difficulty, the book has much to offer. Most importantly, the characters, from the police to suspects and witnesses, all are exceedingly well-drawn and believable. Det. Insp. Huss is especially likable as a 40ish woman in a male-dominated profession filled with casual sexism. Her coworkers are each intriguing, from enigmatic Hannu, to wheezing supervisor Andersson, bright young Brigitta, nasty Tommy, arrogant Medical Examiner Stridner, and the many technicians who assist the investigation. Huss's personal life adds great depth and sympathy to her character, especially the subplot involving one of her daughter's flirtation with neo-Nazism. Ethnicity comes into play as well, with several characters having Finnish backgrounds that render them quite alien to the Swedes. The pacing is quite good considering the book's length and complexity, as is the translation, which is exceedingly smooth and readable.<br />This is an engaging debut, and I eagerly look forward to the next in the series.bright young Brigitta, nasty Tommy, arrogant Medical Examiner Stridner, and the many technicians who assist the investigation. Huss's personal life adds great depth and sympathy to her character, especially the subplot involving one of her daughter's flirtation with neo-Nazism. Ethnicity comes into play as well, with several characters having Finnish backgrounds that render them quite alien to the Swedes. The pacing is quite good considering the book's length and complexity, as is the translation, which is exceedingly smooth and readable.<br />This is an engaging debut, and I eagerly look forward to the next in the series.	2003-01-05
1281150:US	52254603	R2FTNPP48MZ9S9	0553109200	119744907	The Years of Rice and Salt	Books	2	47	54	N	N	Great Idea, Weak Execution	There are few things more disappointing than a book with a great concept that fails to gel into an interesting story. Unfortunately, this is one of those books. And at 650+ pages, it's one of the more tedious doorstops I've ever forced myself to read all the way through. The great premise is that the Black Plague kills 99% of Europe, relegating it to historical oddity and leaving the rest of world for Chinese and Muslim empires to conquer. With that as the jumping off point, Robinson sets himself the ambitious task of recounting the next 700 years of history in ten chapters. To try and lend some structure to this sprawling construction, he uses three characters who continually experience reincarnation and are at the center of each chapter/story. One is ambitious and rebellious, one is sensitive and humane, and one is curious and intellectual. It's a nice idea, but never really works.<br />The problems are many. Foremost is just a general longwindedness on Robinson's part, with lengthy descriptions of landscapes, cities, dress, and custom that simply aren't that fascinating to read, and in any event, don't add much to the stories. Another big flaw, especially in the final hundred pages, is his distinct tendency to sermonize and sprout theories through his characters. There comes a point where one wonders if the whole book is just an author's trick at avoiding writing a serious work of nonfiction. Clearly Robinson has some strong ideas about history, religious and social movements, and Samuel Huntington's famous \\"clash of civilizations thesis\\", so why not [absorb it all]and write about reality instead of cloaking it in pseudo alternate history. And I say pseudo because despite the erasing of white folks from the story, Robinson's history runs parallel to reality. The same scientific discoveries are made at roughly the same rates, with cutesy alternate names (the Chinese qi = electricity, the Arabic alactin = uranium, etc.), colonization of the world by the great powers still occurs, there's a \\"Great War\\", complete with trench warfare, and hey, guess what? Africans and Australian Aboriginals are absent from the story except as slaves!<br />Another problematic aspect to the novel is that without a fairly decent knowledge of Bhuddism in all its flavors, Islam in all its flavors, the real life development of both up until the 14th century, and indeed, world history up until that point, one is unlikely to fully appreciate a lot of Robinson's arguments and themes. I don't know anything about Robinson, and have never read any of his work, but I'd be willing to bet he has some sort of PhD. in history or comparative religion, cause many many parts of the book read like transcriptions of bad grad school seminars in both fields. And one has to conclude that he willfully jettisoned some of what he knows in order to make his broader sermonizing work. For example, throughout the book, Tibetan Bhuddism and Sufi Islam (let's not even get into the very real argument over whether Sufism is Islam!) are much-praised throughout the stories. While he's perfectly happy to take on Islam's treatment of women, he ignores Tibetan Bhuddism's oppression of women. Similarly, he treats Sufism as a monolithic celebration of poetry, wine, and mysticism, failing to acknowledge the real breadth of Sufi sects, for example the Sufism practiced by Chechen freedom fighters, which is hardly all dancing and joy.<br />Ultimately, the book is an ambitious but greatly flawed mess, and simply isn't a good read.s still occurs, there's a \\"Great War\\", complete with trench warfare, and hey, guess what? Africans and Australian Aboriginals are absent from the story except as slaves!<br />Another problematic aspect to the novel is that without a fairly decent knowledge of Bhuddism in all its flavors, Islam in all its flavors, the real life development of both up until the 14th century, and indeed, world history up until that point, one is unlikely to fully appreciate a lot of Robinson's arguments and themes. I don't know anything about Robinson, and have never read any of his work, but I'd be willing to bet he has some sort of PhD. in history or comparative religion, cause many many parts of the book read like transcriptions of bad grad school seminars in both fields. And one has to conclude that he willfully jettisoned some of what he knows in order to make his broader sermonizing work. For example, throughout the book, Tibetan Bhuddism and Sufi Islam (let's not even get into the very real argument over whether Sufism is Islam!) are much-praised throughout the stories. While he's perfectly happy to take on Islam's treatment of women, he ignores Tibetan Bhuddism's oppression of women. Similarly, he treats Sufism as a monolithic celebration of poetry, wine, and mysticism, failing to acknowledge the real breadth of Sufi sects, for example the Sufism practiced by Chechen freedom fighters, which is hardly all dancing and joy.<br />Ultimately, the book is an ambitious but greatly flawed mess, and simply isn't a good read.	2003-01-04
1281907:US	52254603	R2ZFJGS5JFA9SG	0618219188	714511375	Dupont Circle: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Breezy Beach Reading	This completely breezy novel takes on way more characters and issues than its length can handle, and yet for the most part emerges as a fun little beach or airplane read. The theme is solidly on marriage, as the book follows three sets of interrelated duos: May/December housemates who may or may not come together, two young law clerks of opposing manners and temperament who are very fiercely in love, and a gay couple who are raising one of the men's nieces. There are so many links between all the characters that it would take forever to explain them, not to mention the myriad of sub-characters who come on and off stage. All are linked, however, to Bailey, the aging patriarch of a wealthy D.C. family, who is also sits on the DC supreme court.<br />The author throws various obstacles, doubts, and trials in front of the various couples, so much so that the whole affair reminds one of something from Austen or Hardy. Indeed, the characters are all rolling in so much money that they don't have to deal with the mundane problems of average (that is to say, middle-class) people. Instead, the book presents a wagonload of modern issues, from mental illness to gay marriage, gay parenting, the modern May/December romance, and so forth. These are all wittily and ably handled, with some quite nice turns of phrase and banter, but one never ever feels the characters are real or even acting in a real world. The final fifth of the book bogs down in a legal case concerning recognition of gay marriage, and while the author has clearly done his research on the matter, his desire to wave the banner in defense of gay marriage kind of overwhelms all else.<br />I picked up this book 'cause it's set in my hometown in a neighborhood I know well. Kafka-Gibbons does sort of capture part of life around \\"Dupont\\", but only the white high life of cafes and bookshops. It's unfathomable to me that he could have omitted any mention of the bike couriers, chess players, homeless, and young gay hustlers who are the primary denizens of the circle. He does namecheck the city's establishments left and right (although I have to laugh at the notion of middle-aged people catching two sets of jazz at the Black Cat!), but there's none of the sense of what I consider to be the \\"real\\" DC of writers such as Edward Jones (check out his brilliant book \\"Lost In the City\\") or George Pelecanos.<br />Quibbles aside, it's a mostly fun and fast-paced light read.who are the primary denizens of the circle. He does namecheck the city's establishments left and right (although I have to laugh at the notion of middle-aged people catching two sets of jazz at the Black Cat!), but there's none of the sense of what I consider to be the \\"real\\" DC of writers such as Edward Jones (check out his brilliant book \\"Lost In the City\\") or George Pelecanos.<br />Quibbles aside, it's a mostly fun and fast-paced light read.	2003-01-04
1285547:US	52254603	R2SF76UXGYVKAD	1898928207	713665551	Casual	Books	1	1	1	N	N	Awful Pulp Fiction	This book is a very clumsy attempt to update the pulp fiction of Richard Allen's \\"Skinhead\\" series to the modern \\"casual\\" scene that was big in the early to mid-1980s in the UK. Unfortunately, Anderson can't write a lick: the plot is the oldest in the world, and the characters are beyond cardboard. He can't even make the violence and sex at all interesting. Don't you dare waste your time with this. If you want authentic pulp fiction, stick to the master: Richard Allen. If you want interesting fiction about football hooligans, stick to John King's impressive trilogy (The Football Factory, Headhunters, England Away) or Kevin Sampson's Awaydays.	2003-01-01
1285570:US	52254603	R2X67D64PC66RJ	0099731916	719732658	The Football Factory	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Brilliant and Disturbing	Brilliant and disturbing depiction of a contemporary working-class Londoner. The novel portrays a bleak England which has little to offer its poor, white natives. The central character-who one imagines must be loosely based on the author-is a nasty man, whose one outlet is football hooliganism. A Chelsea fan, he defines his existence not around actual matches and scores so much as around prospective and actual pre and post-match violence. The book seems to suggest that for him, and his ilk, society has nothing to offer and he must retreat to the camaraderie of his fighting friends to find any release and meaning in his existence. The chapters alternate between focusing on the main character on match days, and peripheral characters (some only barely related to the novel at all) and slices of London life. Despite the very raw descriptions of violence and sex, the writing is too deft, and the message too sharp for the book to be considered a mere cult novel. King's subsequent novels, Headhunters, England Away, Human Punk, and White Trash are all equally vital-if not as raw-reading. Great non-fiction companions to this book are Colin Ward's classic of football hooligans, Steaming In, and Nick Danziger's depressing travelogue of England, Danziger's Britain.	2003-01-01
1285716:US	52254603	R34XJVW8HSDLPP	0747252807	849559695	Dont Step On the Lines	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not Bad, But Not Noteworthy	This second novel from Richards is a bit of a disappointment following his excellent debut, \\"Throwing the House of the Window.\\" Richards is again mainly exploring how someone in their late 20s deals with picking their life back up after a traumatic relationship event. Here, however, the main character, Kerry, is female and there isn't the threat of violence lurking. Kerry and her best friend/roommate Marco are fairly engaging characters, the first trying to restart her life, the latter trying not to grow up. Many of the themes and touchstones (London neighbourhoods, drugs, messy relationships, bad jobs, school, dealing with your family) are familiar, and unfortunately Richards fails to add anything particularly new or insightful to the mix. Hornby, Welsh, Amis, Hawes, et al have all trod of various parts of the same territory with far better results. It's not bad, just not all that noteworthy.	2003-01-01
1285724:US	52254603	R23H5HXCDLTWQ5	0099284669	455871712	The Season Ticket	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An Amazing Debut!	MAKE NO MISTAKE, this is a brilliant novel. And while most people seem to want to compare it to one of Roddy Doyle's Barrytown works, it more properly belongs alongside Irvine Welsh's Trainspotting. Like Welsh's breakthrough book, conversations are transcribed in local dialect and slang (the Geordie of Newcastle), once you get the rhythm of it, it's lovely. And as in Trainspotting, Tulloch is interested in humanizing the inhabitants of modern Britain's slums and ghettos-here through Gerry and Sewell, two teenage boys living in Gateshead. They play truant from school, wandering aimlessly, joyriding and thieving until they give voice their dream: to save up enough money to buy season tickets for Newcastle United.<br />From that point on, all their half-baked scams and grafting are focused on attaining that prize. In the background is Gerry's impoverished family life: his mother slowly dying, a sister missing on the streets, a baby nephew and grandmother who need caring for, repo men coming for the TV, not enough money for sugar, and always lurking in the shadows, an abusive and alcoholic father who they all must hide from. Rescuing this from being a simple portrait of poverty is the loyal friendship between crafty Gerry and large but slow dog-loving Sewell (bringing to mind Of Mice and Men).<br />The two are minor criminals, but it's hard not to keep rooting for them, even when one of their schemes goes nastily awry. To be fair to the comparisons to Roddy Doyle, Tulloch's narrative is more linear, he doesn't engage in the kind of phantasmagorical pyrotechnics Welsh does, not is it as formless as Trainspotting. Rather, the book is a masterpiece of bittersweet minimalist observation. If Alan Sillitoe had been born 35 years later, this is a book he might have written. Oh yes, and if anyone thinks the portrayal of Gateshead is overwrought, read Danziger's Britain, and prepare to be depressed about the state of modern Britain.<br />Tulloch's next book, The Bonny Lad, is equally brilliant and is set in the same neighborhood, with some of the same minor characters.equally brilliant and is set in the same neighborhood, with some of the same minor characters.	2003-01-01
1285942:US	52254603	R15I8JJZQSLRMY	1898928002	511615519	England Belongs to Me	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Skinhead Love Affair	This is possibly the best fictional account (not that there's a ton of competition) of the London punk and skinhead scene of the late '70s. Low Life is best known for its omnibus editions of Richard Allen's classic skinhead pulp fiction, and has taken to publishing poorly written and plotted modern homages to the same (such as Casual and Saturday's Heroes). Goodman is a far better writer--which is to say, still mediocre--than Low Life's other authors and tackles a much more complicated subject. After introducing Del, a young skinhead, and a plucky young punk girl named Suzie, he has them fall in love with eachother and through their relationship, attempts to show the skinhead and punk subcultures, and how they interacted at the time. There's a whole subplot involving a mercenary who returns to England, becomes leader of an impressionable gang of skinheads, and falls in with a neo-Nazi party. A lot of time and effort is spent explaining that most skinheads are not racist and soforth, none of which is likely to be news to those who pick up this book. The book is best at giving a feel for the specific time and place, and Goodman ends it all with a lighter and more honest touch than might be expected.	2003-01-01
1286048:US	52254603	R2KSFH8F7NSP5B	0224050559	38191504	Awaydays	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Solid Period Teen Angst Novel	Sampson manages several things at once in this slim novel, set in the suburbs of Liverpool over the course of the final six weeks of 1979. The story follows Paul, a middle-class late teen with a government job who lives at home with his decent father and younger sister. His self-identity is wrapped up in his affiliation with a crew of hooligans who support an awful third-division club. His struggle to ingratiate himself with the group, while questioning his own motives and desires is a mirror of every teen's desire to belong to some kind of group. When not describing the prelude to and execution of battles with other club supporters, Paul is perpetually chasing after girls with his best mate Elvis. His friendship with the perpetually crazy and sad Elvis is another running theme, as is his family life, as the family struggles to remain connected after the death of his mother. Some of the slang and period references (especially the fashion) are beyond even British pop-culture aficionados like me, but the story holds together on its own. Not as impressive as John King's trilogy (The Football Factory, Headhunters, England Away), but still a good portrait of a youth trying to come to terms with himself and his future in the midst of a weird little subculture.	2003-01-01
1286105:US	52254603	R34JLNBI8SYGKJ	1898928053	468924942	Saturday's Heroes	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Very Weak Hooligan Pulp Fiction	YET ANOTHER SLIM attempt to update the pulp fiction stylings of Richard Allen's \\"Skinhead\\" series, this is only slightly less clumsy than Gavin Anderson's weak Casual (also published by Low Life). Here, there's a small town skinhead hero, his small skinhead football hooligan crew, a beautiful and willing new girl, the obligatory fight and sex scenes, and no development of any kind. If you want authentic pulp fiction, stick to the master: Richard Allen. If you want interesting fiction about football hooligans, stick to John King's impressive trilogy (The Football Factory, Headhunters, England Away) or Kevin Sampson's Awaydays.	2003-01-01
1286109:US	52254603	R1Q2E3R9FC5VDZ	184018521X	171663537	Sawdust Caesar	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Mod pulp fiction	While there has been a fair amount of pulp fiction about the skinhead subculture (most notably Richard Allen's Joe Hawkins series in the early to mid-'70s), the mod subculture has mostly been absent in fiction. Baker looks to fill that gap with this novel of one early mod's exploits in and observations of \\"the scene.\\" Apparently drawing largely on his own background as an early mod, Baker seeks to set the record straight through the character of Tommy. He firmly paints the movement as arising from working class kids who didn't want to buy into the existing social system. So, while there's plenty of detail on clothes, haircuts and the like, there's also quite a bit of social commentary-and as with any good pulp fiction, plenty of violence, drugs, and sex and sometimes all three at once. Baker's mods are violent, nasty, and always on the prowl. Tommy's definitely a scene snob of the \\"old-school\\" variety, as he sneers at the middle-class mods who appear in greater and greater numbers. Indeed in fall 1963, \\"The Who began to promote themselves as mod icons and we knew it was time to move on\\" and the Hastings \\"riots\\" in August 1964 are described as \\"the death\\" of mod.<br />While much of the book's initial action has to do with early mod vs. rocker bank holiday battles, as Tommy starts to distance himself more from the scene, he gets involved in organized crime. The book then becomes something slightly different-portrait of the mod as a young criminal (actually as this point he's turned into a \\"smoothie\\"). Things get heavier and heavier until Tommy is forced to make a choice. His adventures continue in Enlightenment and the Death of Michael Mouse, which I have not read.<br />Baker hits all the important topics, including a little bit of interracial romance, with its attendant tensions, as well as the class issues, rise of the teenager, and everything else. When he does start to critique the journalists and police of the time for getting it all wrong, the book starts to lose its fictional grounding and veers into diatribe, but on the whole it doesn't suffer for it. Well worth reading if you're interested in the mod subculture and your only exposure is the film Quadrophenia.e its fictional grounding and veers into diatribe, but on the whole it doesn't suffer for it. Well worth reading if you're interested in the mod subculture and your only exposure is the film Quadrophenia.	2003-01-01
1286277:US	52254603	R133S5Z9C89HGD	0224043854	936596935	England Away	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Another Winner From the King	Another excellent book from King, this one is touch below his previous work (The Football Factory, Headhunters) if only because it is a little more disjointed and ambitious. There are three narratives at work here: an English pensioner recalls his WWII experience and what it all means, a football hooligan travels to Berlin via Holland for a England vs. Germany match, with plenty of violence along the way, and Harry Roberts (seen in Headhunters) travels with Tom and others, but goes off on his own and discovers what the new Europe has on offer. Thus, we get the violence and sexual themes from King's previous two books, but mixed in with thoughts on the EU, international bankers and politicians, and so forth. Well worth reading if you like his other stuff. See also his subsequent novels, Human Punk and White Trash.	2003-01-01
1287023:US	52254603	RNB27QG4M94OH	1400031362	405618230	Morality for Beautiful Girls (No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency)	Books	3	17	25	N	N	Not Equal To The First Two	The third book in the Ladies No. 1 Detective Agency series is a little bit of a letdown. Having loved the previous two entries (which one should certainly read before this), I was rather disappointed that there of the five plotlines, only two were actually &quot;cases&quot; and two were left unresolved. Plotline one involves the agency's move to share space with Speedy Motors and Miss Makutsi's new role as Asst. Manager there. Plotline two involves a feral young boy found in the bush, which never really goes anywhere. Plotline three involves the apparent poisoning of the brother of an important &quot;Government Man.&quot;<br />This case is much like those in the two previous books as &quot;traditionally built&quot; Precious Ramotswe must insinuate herself into a country household and unmask the poisoner. As always, she uses her intelligence, keen sense of human nature and a desire to help people to arrive at an outcome that's best for all. Plotline four embroils Miss Makutsi in an investigation of the character of four beauty contest finalists. She proves herself the equal of Mma Ramotswe as a detective, and in that sense, she steals some of the thunder in this book. The final plotline revolves around a mystery held by Mr. J.L.B. Matekoni which is hinted at but never unveiled, presumably leaving it for the next book, which is rather frustrating and annoying.<br />Like the earlier books, this one critiques forces of progress and modernization as well as patriarchalism (although in a lighter way than the other books did), and aims to portray a positive picture of modern Africa, one all too rarely seen in the West. As always, the story is delivered in a delightfully fluid and simple well-paced prose.<br />The series continues with The Kalahari Typing School For Men.	2002-12-31
1287175:US	52254603	R3I9AHFTFOYJQ	1569472696	7143933	Sergeant Dickinson	Books	4	2	3	N	N	The Horror...	Originally self-published in 1984 under the title The Negligence of Death, this short work of fiction from a former Special Forces Sergeant who served in Vietnam carries the full authority of one who has been there. I hesitate to use this term, both because its overused, and because it can have a negative connotation, but the story is hallucinatory. And by that, I mean that it flits around from scene to scene with little sense of standard narrative, but is full of mood and tone that places the reader firmly on the shoulder of the title character.<br />Dickinson is a Special Forces radioman in the Central Highlands, where his small units work closely with the \\"Yards\\" (Montagnards, a French term for the various minority ethnic groups in the Highlands, such as the Bru, Jarai, Jeh, Nung, and Rhad&eacute; people), and are often ignored or forgotten about by the regular U.S. forces. The few battle scenes are typical wartime madness, bleak resignation, and absurdity. Scenes at HQ and in the hospital revolve around the stories told by other soldiers, which reveal a certain element of addiction to the rush of battle. Indeed, many finish their tours only to re-enlist over and over, not because they have a death-wish, but because once there's nothing in civilian life that can match that high, and no one back home can hope to understand that. It's both awful and gripping at the same time, all written in a simple but fluid style that can only come from having lived it.<br />There are hundreds of works of fiction about the Vietnam War, but this has to be one of the rawest and more important.	2002-12-31
1287276:US	52254603	R3QMJ6SV1RQOEC	0525946896	712732369	Hornet Flight	Books	3	18	22	N	N	Paint-By-Numbers WWII Thriller	In the past I've enjoyed Follet's earlier thrillers, such as Eye of the Needle and The Key to Rebecca, and I certainly like WWII spy tales, but this newest one is pretty paint-by-the-numbers. Set in occupied Denmark in June 1941, at the height of Nazi power, the story is about a spy ring desperately trying to figure out the German's new secret weapon-radar. At the center of the story is Harald, a whiz-kid teenager with a mechanical bent who stumbles into the resistance and his Jewish ballerina girlfriend helper. Also entangled in the story are the Harald's brother (in Danish Air Force), his brother's fiancee (who runs the Danish Desk at MI6), the boy's stern preacher father, various schoolmates, the girl's wealthy parents, and a Danish policeman who has a vendetta against Harald's family, and his female partner.<br />Apparently partly based on real event (it would have been nice to have an afterword which explained this in detail), the book is loaded with coincidences which strain credulity. The characters' relationships all dovetail far too neatly. The action moves swiftly and everything is well-paced, but it's rather like an old fashioned \\"Boy's Own\\" adventure, or perhaps a Hardy Boys or something, with some really terrible dialogue and scenes where the teen heroes get to meet Winston Churchill and the Danish King. I suppose it'll serve the purpose if you're desperate for a WWII thriller for airplane or beach, but Follett's written much better books, and if you're looking for the real deal in WWII espionage fiction, try anything by Alan Furst. And if you're looking for good histories about the Danish resistance to Nazi occupation, check out Darkness Over Denmark, and In Denmark It Could Not Happen.	2002-12-31
1287635:US	52254603	R1SPQ4EB7WRIFG	0375505229	754210276	Matchstick Men: A Novel of Petty Crimes	Books	2	1	6	N	N	The Scam is Obvious Way Too Early...	For some stories, knowing the ending before you get there isn't necessarily a bad thing (eg. Titanic), but for a book about con artists and their scams, this is a fatal flaw. I'm not one who likes to sit down with a mystery or thriller and tries to figure out how it's going to end-I want a story to draw me into its web and keep me guessing and entertained. The best grifter stories do just that: think of recent films like Nine Queens, Croupier, David Mamet's The Spanish Prisoner and House of Games, or even The Sting. All of those stories kept you guessing and wondering until the very last moment. Unfortunately, about halfway through this breezy con artist caper, Garcia's various blatant clues coalesced in my head and I suddenly realized I knew what was going on and how it would all end.<br />Even if the ending hadn't been telegraphed, it would be hard to overlook the shoddy characterization of the two main characters, middle-aged con-artist Roy and his flashier young partner Frankie. Roy's main deal is that he's got some kind of obsessive-compulsive disorder, something that might possibly have been slightly interesting if Jonathan Lethem hadn't already brilliantly portrayed just such a protagonist a few years ago in his outstanding novel Motherless Brooklyn. The book starts by showing Roy and Frankie run through a couple basic cons (Does the \\"twenties\\" really still work?), and then Roy's life is complicated by the appearance of his long-lost daughter. It's written in a very stripped down and simple style, one can almost see the script leaping off the page.<br />In the end it's the worst of all worlds: flat characters sleepwalking through a stylistically flat and story whose \\"surprise twist\\" is evident from very early on. Maybe the filmmakers can fix it, and it'll be one of those rare cases where the movie is better than the book.	2002-12-31
1289734:US	52254603	R3QI5ENLR0NJN8	0316154059	817062475	City of Bones	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Solid Crime Story	Never read Connelly before so I wasn't sure what to expect, although I am a big fan of his buddy George Pelecanos. This eighth book in the LA-set Harry Bosch series centers on the discovery of an old child's skeleton. It reads kind of like a good TV movie (although much darker than anything on TV), taking the reader through the forensics that eventually lead to the child's identification, and the long plodding investigation to uncover the truth. As a procedural it's quite well done, with plenty of detail and nuance throughout. Particularly well-handled are the numerous interviews Bosch conducts with witnesses and suspects throughout the book. Quite a bit of internal police politics come into play as well, giving the book a certain \\"insider\\" element. Certain elements are a bit clich&eacute;, from Harry's drive/obsession with the case, to the pressure from his superiors, and even a love interest. However, the book manages to stay away from being run-of-the-mill by showing the police making plenty of mistakes, and portraying all kinds of shades of gray in behavior. On the whole, it's a solid read, but not one that'll have me scurrying to read the rest of the series.	2002-12-29
1290042:US	52254603	RF2SQV1B0WHFX	1555702643	696964121	What Else You Can Do With a Library Degree: Career Options for the 90s and Beyond	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Dated, but Still Valuable	The 62 first-person essays here are aimed at both those considering getting an MLS (like me), and those in the field looking for a change. It provides a very valuable service by doing exactly what the title says, however one can't help but feel it's time for a new edition that reflects the massive growth of the Internet since the book's publication in 1997. Many of the essays are by people who got jobs linked to the first wave of computer use in the libraries, and in that sense, it feels very dated. Indeed, if you look at the contributors' biographies, the majority seem to have gotten their degrees around the time I was born (early '70s). I'd like to see more from younger librarians, and more about the technology end of things. The book is well organized, so it's easy to skim and find the entries that interest you, although there did seem to be a fair amount of overlap in the area of information consulting. Still, it's a valuable book for anyone considering an MLS.	2002-12-29
1290309:US	52254603	R1GC1V3PLJ1EAW	1555702643	696964121	What Else You Can Do With a Library Degree: Career Options for the 90s and Beyond	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Dated, but Still Valuable	The 62 first-person essays here are aimed at both those considering getting an MLS (like me), and those in the field looking for a change. It provides a very valuable service by doing exactly what the title says, however one can't help but feel it's time for a new edition that reflects the massive growth of the Internet since the book's publication in 1997. Many of the essays are by people who got jobs linked to the first wave of computer use in the libraries, and in that sense, it feels very dated. Indeed, if you look at the contributors' biographies, the majority seem to have gotten their degrees around the time I was born (early '70s). I'd like to see more from younger librarians, and more about the technology end of things. The book is well organized, so it's easy to skim and find the entries that interest you, although there did seem to be a fair amount of overlap in the area of information consulting. Still, it's a valuable book for anyone considering an MLS.	2002-12-29
1293046:US	52254603	R1HSSKS5BSHBEA	1585672580	872214446	Brilliant Orange: The Neurotic Genius of Dutch Soccer	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Well-Written and Thoughtful Look at Total Football	Make no mistake, this is a book about Dutch football-however, what makes it of at least passable interest to non-football fans is how Winner ranges into Dutch history, politics, art, architecture, and psychology in his attempt to explain why Dutch football is so different. In that sense, the book is quite a bit more \\"highbrow\\" than most. After starting with a brief history of Dutch soccer, Winner plunges full into the Dutch glory days of the late '60s to late '70s, when \\"total football\\" was king and Johan Cruyff was its master. The book's central idea is to try and suggest similarities between aspects of Dutch football and aspects of Dutch life, which when looked at together reveal something of the Dutch national character.<br />For example, one of these linkages is the shared timeframe for the birth of modern Dutch football and the progressive globalist nature of Holland, as exemplified by Amsterdam as we think of it now. Another is the lack of \\"killer instinct\\" or \\"win at all costs\\" mentalities (as evidenced by the national team's historical failure to win the big games), in favor or a more aesthetic mentality that values style or beauty over results. A third example is his discussion of the tension between society/team as a whole, and the individual/star. Winner splits his time between history and analysis (often very insightful), and interviews with former players, coaches, and non-football academic specialists and art critics. There are great tidbits here and there, such as a chapter about the Ajax club and why many of its supporters wave Israeli flags, which is intertwined with a capsule history of Dutch collaboration with Nazi occupiers and the Dutch collective memory of the war.<br />Lots of neat stuff here, but it's a little hard to get into without having access to video (or at least memories) of some of the pivotal games under discussion, such as the 1974 and 1978 World Cup finals. Winner can explain the \\"total football\\" concept as eloquently as possible (which he does), but I think you have to see it to \\"get\\" it. And in that sense, the book is a little bit of a failure. Maybe one day it can be reissued with a companion DVD?(which he does), but I think you have to see it to \\"get\\" it. And in that sense, the book is a little bit of a failure. Maybe one day it can be reissued with a companion DVD?	2002-12-26
1294524:US	52254603	R3S70R027NAW4Q	0393057232	139199664	Porno	Books	5	30	32	N	N	All the young junkies...	Before you read this book, you definitely must first read Welsh's first novel Trainspotting, and you should probably also read his last one, Glue. Porno is a direct sequel to Trainspotting, bringing back virtually all the characters some ten years later, and it's a semi-sequel to Glue, adding some of that book's characters into the mix, most notably \\"Juice\\" Terry Lawton and Rab Birrell. Porno will lack a great deal of depth and resonance for readers not familiar with those earlier books and their characters and settings.<br />And therein lies both Porno's attraction and minor disappointments. If you loved Trainspotting, reading Porno is very much like the experience of having seen a great band in a tiny club when they were just starting, and then seeing the same band ten years later in a large venue when they are more popular. They may still be amazing and play your favorite songs, but inevitably they've mellowed a touch, the intensity is isn't the same, and you get a little wistful. And to a certain extent, that's exactly what the book is about, aging, maturing, and getting over one's past. It's totally unfair to expect another Trainspotting from Welsh, an author can only write that passionate and electric a book once, and it's usually the first book they write. In any event, readers have had ten years to get used to reading Scots dialect and it's hard to conceive of what Welsh could write about that would be equally shocking as his heroin underworld.<br />In any event, Porno is a carefully plotted and constructed story, told in alternating first-person chapters by Sick Boy, his new lady Nikki Fuller-Smith, Spud, Begbie, and Renton. The central character is Sick Boy, who's seeking to reinvent himself as post-millenium entrepreneur, starting by making a porn film with his circle of acquaintances. Eventually this intertwines with the reappearance of Renton and the question of what went down in London ten years ago when he cheated Sick Boy, Begbie, and Spud on a heroin deal and skipped town. Cynics will no doubt say that Welsh is looking to ride the sequel bus to potloads of money, which is, again, unfair. Clearly the Trainspotting crew were the characters closest to his heart, so of course he's going to want to revisit them and it seems churlish to suggest that an author who uses characters twice is a sellout.<br />Foe most part the characters are exactly as they were in the earlier books, although to varying degrees, most realize they're getting older and need to change. In this regard, Spud's story is the most poignant and affecting of the lot. And of course Renton's attempt to settle the past and lead a normal life is hard not to empathize with, which is why mad-dog Begbie is such a menacing presence throughout the book. Ultimately however, this is a comedy, lacking the darkness of Trainspotting, or Welsh's severely underrated Filth. It's a wonderful sentimental adventure full or wacky hi-jinks, and comuppances aplenty.n deal and skipped town. Cynics will no doubt say that Welsh is looking to ride the sequel bus to potloads of money, which is, again, unfair. Clearly the Trainspotting crew were the characters closest to his heart, so of course he's going to want to revisit them and it seems churlish to suggest that an author who uses characters twice is a sellout.<br />Foe most part the characters are exactly as they were in the earlier books, although to varying degrees, most realize they're getting older and need to change. In this regard, Spud's story is the most poignant and affecting of the lot. And of course Renton's attempt to settle the past and lead a normal life is hard not to empathize with, which is why mad-dog Begbie is such a menacing presence throughout the book. Ultimately however, this is a comedy, lacking the darkness of Trainspotting, or Welsh's severely underrated Filth. It's a wonderful sentimental adventure full or wacky hi-jinks, and comuppances aplenty.	2002-12-24
1299050:US	52254603	R3NJZXL3CB7C8F	1558218769	8505410	No Picnic on Mount Kenya: A Daring Escape, A Perilous Climb	Books	2	2	6	N	N	Wonderful Adventure Flatly Told	I'm a big fan of WWII prisoner of war tales, both real (The Long Walk, Ghost Soldiers, et al) and fictional (King Rat, Bridge on the River Kwai, et al), so I was intrigued by this account by an Italian of how he and two companions escaped their POW camp, climbed Mt. Kenya, and then snuck back into camp several weeks later. Unfortunately, while their adventure was undoubtedly remarkable, it never really comes alive in Benuzzi's book. I suspect much of the problem for me is that I know nothing about mountaineering and don't particularly find it interesting. The other difficulty I had was with the flatness of the prose, whether this is due to a weak translation or to Benuzzi's writing in a foreign language I don't know, but in any event, I found it rather tepid. So while I think the whole idea of his adventure is wonderful and in rather brilliant dark humor, I didn't find the telling equally so.	2002-12-19
1299411:US	52254603	R1DQ6MOYWLTHXZ	0385722206	749687762	Balzac and the Little Chinese Seamstress: A Novel	Books	3	5	11	N	N	Superficialy Simple, Perhaps It's A Not-So-Hidden Allegory?	Set in the midst of China's Cultural Revolution in 1971, this debut from Sijie (who himself was sent to be reeducated from '71-'74) tells the story of two urban teenage boys who are sent to reeducation camp and the beautiful peasant seamstress they meet and become enamored of. Through a series of semi-adventures the boys end up with a secret cache of translated popular French novels (Balzac, Dumas, et al). As corrupting pieces of bourgeois culture they are dangerous totems to posses. However as tools to engineer mental escape from the mind-numbing rigors of manual labor, they are worth their weight in gold to the boys.<br />One of the boys comes up with the notion that reading these sophisticated and thrilling stories to the seamstress will help improve and transform her beyond her humble roots. And it does, though not in the way that they (or the reader) may expect. On its surface it's a simple tale told in elegant and simple prose. If that were all there were to it, I'd dismiss it as so much fluff, however... there is too much symbolism involved to leave it at that. From the boy's assigned task of hauling pails of excrement up a hill, to the seamstresses encounter with a snake, there are many many indications of another level of meaning.<br />One could make a good case that the one boy symbolizes China's late '90s headlong rush into embracing Western values, and the other boy is his complicit accomplice. Together they use their gift of gab to fill the uneducated peasant girl's head with visions of a world beyond her imagining, via the stories they tell based on the French novels. The one boy plays a game with her of tossing his glittering keychain (symbolic of the riches waiting back in the city) into the water, where she dives for it, scarring her hand in one attempt. But she doesn't learn her lesson, as the boy and temptation lead her to further suffering (she has an abortion). Finally, she is transformed and exhibits the true selfishness necessary to get ahead in the newly urbanizing China. That's just off the top of my head, but I think there's definitely something there, otherwise it's just a cute little story.in the newly urbanizing China. That's just off the top of my head, but I think there's definitely something there, otherwise it's just a cute little story.	2002-12-19
1302061:US	52254603	R1EF0RI0G2JBZR	0375703314	831736355	The Last King of Scotland	Books	4	51	55	N	N	Conrad meets Boyd in a Kampala Showdown	Idi Amin's bizarre and brutal eight years of dictatorship in Uganda are the setting for this assured debut. The narrator is Nicholas Garrigan, a young Scottish doctor who arrives in Uganda for a contract job at the same time as Amin's 1971 coup. The book is his recollection of his two years in a small town clinic and six years as Amin's personal doctor in Kampala. His story continues the Conradian tradition of the European man who comes to Africa and becomes transformed through his contact with evil. Amin is Garrigan's Kurtz, and while the doctor and other expats generally turn a blind eye to the truckloads of political prisoners being taken to the countryside to be executed, eventually Garrigan is dragged face to face with Amin's horror.<br />Of course this isn't pure Conrad, rather it's cut with a bit of William Boyd, another Englishman writer who's written compelling fiction about modern Africa and the legacy of colonial rule. For the horror here isn't that Garrigan begins to understand Amin (after all who could really hope to understand a man of Amin's awesome eccentricity), but begins to like him in an odd way. And it's not that the doctor is a weak character, he's actually remarkably average, and thus very much like ourselves. The reader is unable to to find solace in making easy smug judgments about Garrigan's gradual moral slide as he sucked more and more into Amin's confidence and makes small compromises with himself. Amin is a great character in his own right, lurching from buffoonery to gluttony to sly cunning to sheer incomprehensibility at the drop of a hat. Of course Fodden had a lot to work with, as many of Amin's deeds and speeches are classic examples of truth really being stranger than fiction.<br />Speaking oh which, Fodden went to great lengths in researching this novel, interviewing a wide range of people who witnessed Amin's reign. Alas, the Saudi government wouldn't grant him permission to interview Amin, who is still alive and living on a Saudi pension in Jeddah. Garrigan is loosely modeled on Bob Astles, a British WW2 veteran who somehow became Amin's closest advisor. Altogether a very good read, regrettably Fodden's next two books apparently don't live up to this one.di pension in Jeddah. Garrigan is loosely modeled on Bob Astles, a British WW2 veteran who somehow became Amin's closest advisor. Altogether a very good read, regrettably Fodden's next two books apparently don't live up to this one.	2002-12-17
1303158:US	52254603	RPQ21P576ALQA	1400031354	405618230	Tears of the Giraffe (No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency, Book 2)	Books	5	136	143	N	N	Lives Up to the First in the Series!	This second entry in Smith's Botswana-set series picks up right where the wonderful The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency left off. Indeed, the two books are utterly seamless, and it'd be a real shame to read this without reading its predecessor first. The book picks up with the engagement of \\"traditionally built\\" Precious Ramotswe, Botswana's sole woman detective, to local master mechanic Mr. J.L.B. Matekoni. While the structure is the same as the first booka missing son as the central running mystery, and some smaller cases interspersedthe new couple's relationship is the real focus.<br />So, while Precious is asked by an American woman to find out what happened to her son, who disappeared from a commune ten years previously, she must also negotiate the pitfalls of setting up house with Mr. Matekoni, the acquisition of an engagement ring, and the dastardly schemes of Mr. Matekoni's nasty housekeeper, and the unexpected addition of two foster children to her household. All of which she does with her keen sense of human nature and wisdom. Her secretary/typist is also given increased attention, allowed to take on the case of a cheating wife all by herself.<br />Built into the stories are ruminations of the tensions between modernity and traditional values. There are a number of passages that attempt to capture the essence of Africa, and how that noble vision is under constant assault by greed, corruption, and power. The adventures of Precious and her cohort are a warm antidote to the often depressing news that dominates coverage of Africa in the West. Smith writes in a delightfully fluid and simple prose with pacing that makes the book quite difficult to put down. The series thankfully continues with Morality for Beautiful Girls and The Kalahari Typing School For Men, with further volumes to follow, one hopes.	2002-12-16
1303446:US	52254603	R1V3T704NUBQEB	0786868767	964050438	Koba the Dread	Books	4	75	82	N	N	The Revolution Was a Lie	The construction of Amis's book on Stalin is extremely unconventional, which, unfortunately seems to be all the grounds some critics need to trash it. His exploration of why its considered acceptable in many circles (particularly the intellectual left) to joke about Stalin, the USSR, and communism (as opposed to Hitler, Nazi Germany, and National Socialism), begins and ends with very personal sections which bookend an overview of Stalin's rule and his use of the police state bequeathed to him by Lenin to cause the death of some 20 million of his subjects. Amis comes at this in reflection of his recently deceased father, who was himself a communist for some 15 years. The first part of the book is a sort of dialogue with not only his father as he was, but also his good friend Christopher Hitchens, who in Amis's view, is a the embodiment of the problem-a smart public intellectual who refuses to totally denounce the former USSR.<br />Next, the heart of the book provides a primer on Stalinist terror, cribbed from a number of sources. Here, the critics once again open up, curiously accosting Amis on roughly three points (A) Amis isn't telling us anything we didn't already know, (B) Amis is simply cribbing from other books, (C) Amis's sources are weak. The response to A is that Amis never claims that he's providing new information, quite the contrary. His point is that how could we (Western lefties) know all this and not totally distance themselves from it? Furthermore, I suggest that the argument that people already know is only valid up to a certain age. As a thirty-year-old with an honors degree in international relations, I knew the gist of Stalinist times, but certainly not the level of detail Amis provides. And if you took a survey of people on my phone list, almost all of whom have some kind of Master's degree and are engaged in the world at large, I would bet good money that 90% could tell you who Eichmann was and that maybe 5% could tell you who Dzerhinsky was. As to B, Amis tells you all the way through where his citations are from and never pretends otherwise. C is the sort of specialist sniping that's hard to dispute but seems kind of pointless when you consider that much of Amis's quoting is from first-person accounts.<br />Finally, the book ends with a rather strange letter to his dead father in which Amis digresses into family talk, including the death of his sister. It's not history and politics, and thus is appears to upset those for whom these topics dare not be contaminated with anything personal. That, in way seems to be the subtext of some of criticism of the book, why is it so personal, and why does Amis write about it all with such a naive wonder and anger. Of course, to criticize it thusly is to utterly miss the book's point.<br />In any event, the book is filled with keen insight and deadly venom, especially when it comes to the posthumous lionization of Trotsky and Lenin (p 250, \\"An admiration for Lenin or Trotsky is meaningless without an admiration for terror.\\"). It's the rare piece of writing from the left that refuses to separate the ideological ideal of communism with it's real world totalitarian application and utter dehumanization of those under its rule. Amis's conclusions, such as they are, can best be summarized by the following passage from page 258, \\"The enemy of the people was the regime. The dictatorship of the proletariat was a lie; Union was a lie, and Soviet was a lit, and Republics was a lie. Comrade was a lie. The Revolution was a lie.\\" This is an important work-not without its flaws and rough edges-that does the valuable service of reacquainting us with the horror of Stalinist rule.to B, Amis tells you all the way through where his citations are from and never pretends otherwise. C is the sort of specialist sniping that's hard to dispute but seems kind of pointless when you consider that much of Amis's quoting is from first-person accounts.<br />Finally, the book ends with a rather strange letter to his dead father in which Amis digresses into family talk, including the death of his sister. It's not history and politics, and thus is appears to upset those for whom these topics dare not be contaminated with anything personal. That, in way seems to be the subtext of some of criticism of the book, why is it so personal, and why does Amis write about it all with such a naive wonder and anger. Of course, to criticize it thusly is to utterly miss the book's point.<br />In any event, the book is filled with keen insight and deadly venom, especially when it comes to the posthumous lionization of Trotsky and Lenin (p 250, \\"An admiration for Lenin or Trotsky is meaningless without an admiration for terror.\\"). It's the rare piece of writing from the left that refuses to separate the ideological ideal of communism with it's real world totalitarian application and utter dehumanization of those under its rule. Amis's conclusions, such as they are, can best be summarized by the following passage from page 258, \\"The enemy of the people was the regime. The dictatorship of the proletariat was a lie; Union was a lie, and Soviet was a lit, and Republics was a lie. Comrade was a lie. The Revolution was a lie.\\" This is an important work-not without its flaws and rough edges-that does the valuable service of reacquainting us with the horror of Stalinist rule.	2002-12-16
1305887:US	52254603	R1WK65U913XQKN	1400031346	405618230	The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency	Books	5	43	47	N	N	Outstanding!	An absolutely wonderful start to what is hopefully is a long-running detective series set in modern Botswana. This fast-reading book isn't so much a set piece mystery as it is the story of an African woman in her late thirties who stakes her entire inheritance on the crazy idea of becoming the country's first woman private detective. Precious Ramotswe is a intelligent &quot;traditionally built&quot; woman with a keen sense of human nature and a desire to help people in distress. This book tells of her childhood, her loving miner father, an ill-considered marriage to a trumpeter, her strong belief in her own abilities, and skeptical take on the forces of progress and modernization. This volume contains her first cases, which she adroitly solves with the assistance of her expert typist secretary and the local master mechanic, Mr. J.L.B. Matekoni.<br />But the book is not just about her, but also aims to portray a positive picture of modern Africa, one all too rarely seen in the West. The cases often intertwine with issues such as development, social structures, power, and gender, but in a disarmingly light and gentle way. Among her tasks are to find a missing husband, investigate a doctor, follow a teenage girl, and find a missing boy who may have been kidnapped by a witch doctor. None of these are particularly convoluted, and Precious's greatest difficulty often lies in determining exactly what to tell her client in order to effect the best result for all concerned and achieve cosmic justice. The stories are delivered in a delightfully fluid and simple prose with pacing that makes the book quite difficult to put down.<br />The series thankfully continues with Tears of the Giraffe and The Kalahari Typing School For Men, with further volumes to follow one hopes.	2002-12-13
1306934:US	52254603	R1FG392M2FG3Y9	0099284316	482265309	Shifts	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Work It Out Now	This twelve short stories collected here share both a first-person narrative format and a thematic concern with work and the ways work affects ones' life. The narrators vary widely, including an English garbageman recounting incidents from his work, the wife of an Aussie mason struggling to find work in France, a French tire-repairer working for his father under German occupation, an English clerk for a timber company in the Congo, an American adrift in Paris who befriends an cigarette-butt gatherer, a French swimming pool salesman, the brother of an English car-restorer who commits suicide, the wife of a German metalworker, a Pakistani immigrant working at a lightbulb factory, and others.<br />Their stories vary in interest, but through them Thorpe is attempting with varied success to show how work can radically define a person's life and outlook on life. Although, by setting almost every story in past (especially the '30s-'60s), he seems to be indirectly suggesting that this is less and less the case in the modern world. The stories display a keen sense of research and care, as Thorpe adeptly summons disparate voices and argot of various trades, ethnicities, classes, and nationalities. Sometimes the drama gets a little too, well, dramatic. And some of the shorter stories lack the depth to make them truly compelling, but on the whole the book is worth checking out. The title 45+ page story, about a Ghanaian adrift in mid-'60s London, is especially worth reading.<br />Note: Five of the stories appear in other collections (New Writing 3, New Writing 6, New Writing 7, Obsession, Time Out Book of Paris Short Stories), two were performed on BBC radio, and several appeared in The New Statesman.	2002-12-12
1307342:US	52254603	RYEC9IR8RXJ5C	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	1	42	126	N	N	Undisciplined and Tedious in the Extreme	A prime example of why I generally can't stand biographies of &quot;great men.&quot; Dry as bones writing utterly lacking any spark of life, endless summarizations and overreliance on the subject's personal diaries and correspondence, and no detail too trivial to omit. There's certainly tidbits here and there for historians to argue over, notably McCullough's position that Adams deserves more credit for the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution than he is generally given, and should take less blame for the Alien and Sedition Acts than he is generally accorded. But this is likely to only be of interest to armchair historians. What's really disappointing is that despite McCullough's best efforts, Adams never ever comes alive over the 750 pages! Indeed, what little sense one gets of Adams is that he was a highly intelligent, energetic, honest, and somewhat vain and prudish civil servant. Ultimately, the book's main undoing is its endless digressions. Is it really necessary to know, for example, the exact (and I do mean exact) provisions carried on the ship that bore Adams on his first trip to France. Or the exact lineage and familial possessions of Adams' daughter's best friend in Paris? Many biographers and historians seem to be lacking the self-edit brain cells, and feel compelled to include every tidbit of information they come across in their research, irrespective of its actual relevance to their subject. I don't care if it did win the Pulitzer Prize, the book is undisciplined and tedious in the extreme.	2002-12-12
1309986:US	52254603	RVWFF36O1HE67	0061053589	27784955	The Bridge	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Intriguing Nontraditional Narrative	My only previous experience with Banks's work was his twisted first novel, The Wasp Factory, so this surreal and complex work was initially a bit of a surprise. However, having since learned that he also writes science fiction under a slightly different name, this book's style makes more sense. The story here is of an amnesiac man who finds himself on The Bridge, a giant structure and society that seemingly has no end. However, there's also the parallel story of apparently the same man, set in a more recognizable reality. It appears this \\"real\\" man is in a coma, and his existence in the world of \\"The Bridge\\" is a coma-induced dream state. Further complicating the matter are chapters featuring a barbarian warrior who is wandering around a fantastical realm battling wizards and monsters, looting towers, and tupping wenches, all the while recounting his adventures in a thick Scots dialect (think James Kelman or Irvine Welsh).<br />Some (indeed, many) readers will find this crosscutting and the lack of traditional sequential narrative rather frustrating. However once one accepts that this is not going to be a conventional novel, the ride is rather invigorating. The chapters with the warrior are some of the funniest stuff I've read in a long time. Bank's ultimate aim seems to be merely to provoke questions about reality, memory, imagination, and the like (cf. films like Jacob's Ladder or The Sixth Sense). First published in 1986, the book is a clear influence on Irvine Welsh's Marabou Stork Nightmares. And oh yeah, the fictional Bridge is based on the Forth Rail Bridge, which was built about ten miles west of Edinburgh just before the turn of the last century.	2002-12-10
1310583:US	52254603	R23OHS3NY75RE	0060937181	939912884	Battle Flag (Starbuck Chronicles)	Books	2	3	10	N	N	Weak Third Entry in a Weak Series	Cornwell's terribly disappointing Civil War series (Rebel, Copperhead) here continues the trials and triumphs of Nathaniel Starbuck, Northerner turned Confederate rebel. The story here concerns Nate's rise in the ranks, along with the stunning transformation of the drunkard Col. Swindon, while his old best friend Adam finds refuge in a Yankee cavalry unit. The battle sequences-most notably Cedar Mountain and the second Manassas-are typical Cornwell, blood, guts, smoke, terror, and mayhem everywhere. But ultimately the series falls flat because the characters aren't very compelling, and thus we don't really care about them. Some readers seem to find Starbuck a wonderful creation, a troubled soul, struggling with his Northern heritage, God, morality, and soforth. I personally don't get it, Starbuck is a spoiled teenager turned soldier mostly as an act of reflexive rebellion against his father, and there's little to recommend him as a hero-he's certainly no Sharpe.<br />Another problem is that characters from previous books seem to wax and wane to the point of inconsistency. For example, Nate's archnemesis, Gen. Faulconer all but disappears from this book, as does Nate's Sgt. Harper substitute Sgt. Treadwell, not to mention any of the ladies who figured so prominently in the two previous books. Meanwhile, Nate's father gets a much more prominent role, and new characters are introduced, like the black servant Lucifer, and the nasty Billy Blythe, who is a virtual reincarnation of Sgt. Obediah Hakeswill from Cornwell's Sharpe series. One the whole Cornwell's writing is just a bit sloppier and more careless in this series. For example, in all three books he's had Starbuck spy a young soldier in battle reloading an unfired rifle and stop him, giving him a dead soldier's rifle instead. I mean... come on!<br />In any event, the series is far below Cornwell's Sharpe series, but I suppose I'll keep reading just to see if it improves.	2002-12-10
1318620:US	52254603	R1H4IYWX8U7OPY	0897332288	376155864	Chelsea Blues	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Spotty	This passable story of a serial killer in London's West End is rather undermined by the incredibly silly motive for the killings. Told by weaving together the storylines of the killer, the head policeman investigating the murders, and the reporter covering the story, there's not a whole lot of mystery to the tale, as the author gives the reader all the information and lets the story play itself out. In and of itself, it's a decent police procedural, as plodding door-to-door investigation tightens the noose around the killer, who is both arrogant, and unable to control his need to kill. He's a well-drawn character, a pimply-faced motorcycle courier with few friends and a disproportionate hatred for tourists. It's kind of a pulpy story, with an overly dramatic ending, but solid and sordid enough in its own way to entertain one for two hours.	2002-12-03
1325337:US	52254603	R3118ME11ZHSOJ	0571210171	29839569	David Cronenberg: Collected Screenplays 1: Stereo, Crimes of the Future, Shivers, Rabid	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Cronenberg Asks &quot;Why?&quot;	In the brief (page and a half) introduction to this collection of his first four feature scripts, David Cronenberg is clearly puzzled and typically provocative. One can almost hear him getting the phone call from the publishers saying they'd like to publish his first four scripts as a book, followed by a looooong pause, and then Cronenberg's response \\"Why?\\" For, as he quite fairly asks, \\"How can anyone possibly read a film script? A script is not writing. A script is a ghost of something not yet born.\\" He elaborates: \\"Screen prose is rigorously functional.... its purpose is very limited.... Screenplays are scrutinized, not read.... elegance and beauty in screenwriting are qualities not responded to, not rewarded, not actually noticed...\\" Finally, after challenging the notion of a script as something to be read at all, he then goes on to question the reader: \\"How can you possibly approach reading these four odd scripts...? ...you have no function... What, in fact, are you?\\"<br />And he does have a point. After all, why exactly would anyone be interested in \\"reading\\" the scripts for Stereo (1969) and Crimes of the Future (1970), scripts that are nothing more than after the fact transcriptions of voice-over monologues. The only reason one can imagine is if the reader is attempting to chart the early fumblings of the stylish, but self-indulgent Canadian writer-director. However, even at eleven and four pages respectively, the \\"scripts\\" are tedious and pretentious in the extreme, and the idea of spending an hour watching the actual films (they are both just over an hour) strikes me as a singularly bad idea. More useful are the scripts for Shivers (1975) and Rabid (1977), solid horror/sci-fi pieces that clearly demonstrate Cronenberg's gradual progression to such works as The Brood, Scanners, and Videodrome. These, at least, can be examined and deconstructed by writers seeking to unlock the secrets of the decent horror script. Realistically though, it's hard to imagine anyone other than the hardcore Cronenberg fanatics finding this early work very interesting on the page. Those seeking to gain better insight into Cronenberg are much better off reading Chris Rodley's series of interviews with him in Cronenberg on Cronenberg.yone other than the hardcore Cronenberg fanatics finding this early work very interesting on the page. Those seeking to gain better insight into Cronenberg are much better off reading Chris Rodley's series of interviews with him in Cronenberg on Cronenberg.	2002-11-27
1327190:US	52254603	RT6YDS1LVOMLX	006093462X	98247467	Copperhead	Books	2	7	13	N	N	Pathetic Hero Drags the Series Down	Following in the tepid footsteps of Rebel is Cornwell's equally disappointing second tale of Nate Starbuck-a young Northerner who fights in the Confederate Army during the American Civil War. Starbuck is a very weak hero for Cornwell to hitch his Civil War series wagon to, and it's hard to care very much about his adventures. As in the previous book, comes across as more of a reflexively rebellious teenager than a heroic man of action. While it would have been interesting to see Starbuck really struggle with himself about the morality of his actions in joining the rebellion, the bulk of such internal conflicts are actually left to his best friend, Adam, who is a Southerner born and bred, and bullied by his father into uniform.<br />In this installment, Nate is drummed out of the \\"Faulconer Legion\\" by its commander, the vain, inept, and rich Gen. Faulconer, who hates him. This leads him to a Richmond prison cell, accused of being a Northern spy, all of which gets him enmeshed in the spycraft between the states. This rather conveniently dovetails with the activities of Adam Faulconer and Nate's own straight-laced brother. The spy material is rather interesting, with the appearance of real-life Alan Pinkerton as Union spymaster. The South's attempt to deceive the North as to its true manpower is particularly fascinating, and is portrayed by Cornwell as an element in their avoiding early defeat, along with Gen. McClelland's timidity.<br />While these semi-historical asides and speculations are interesting, the best part of the book is the walk-on cameo by a French Army observer Patrick L&eacute;sawn. Yes, he is the son of rifleman Richard Sharpe (hero of Cornwell's infinitely better Napoleonic series), and a vastly more compelling character than Starbuck. Indeed, one wishes Cornwell had decided to show the Civil War from within his eyes instead! Over the course of the book Starbuck displays a moral cowardice that makes him more and more unlikable, especially his pathetic treatment of his brother, when his brother reaches out to him. I'll continue the series in blind devotion to Cornwell, but these first two in the series are pretty weak.tment of his brother, when his brother reaches out to him. I'll continue the series in blind devotion to Cornwell, but these first two in the series are pretty weak.	2002-11-26
1328354:US	52254603	R10XX4ERSR4UP	0375760474	63738527	No More Mr. Nice Guy: A Love Story (Strivers Row)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Superficial Comedy/Romance	Set amidst the Chicago buppie set, this occasionally entertaining romance reads like a decent soap opera / movie-of-the-week, complete with nicely wrapped- in- a-bow moral. The book kicks off with \\"nice-guy\\" Mitchell getting rejected by a beautiful woman, which leads him to ask the book's central question: why do women whine about the lack of good men when they only date \\"players.\\" Alas, this question is never adequately answered as Mitchell embarks on a zany scheme to transform himself from nice-guy to player-dog with the help of two player friends. The results of this are totally predictable in Robinson's \\"be careful of what you wish for, you just might get it\\" cautionary tale. Predictable as it all is, it's well-told, with nice pacing, dialogue, and fair-mindedness. It's the kind of light comedy writing which is really better suited to television or film though, lacking any real depth or truly tough issues. The characters are all so wealthy and privileged that it's hard to really care about all the drama they create for themselves. The reading guide seems to indicate that the book is intended to provoke some kind of dialogue between the sexes, which is a pretty sad commentary if it's true that people need a book like this to figure their business out.	2002-11-25
1328748:US	52254603	R1GWY05W79G6O6	0714842362	671856796	Magnum Soccer	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Beautiful Homage To the Beautiful Game!	An absolutely beautiful collection of about 200 black and white and color photographs celebrating the global sport known as football. Since its founding by a collective of photojournalists in the '40s Magnum has been one of the world's premier photo agencies, so it's not surprising that their archives have yielded such an array of compelling photos of the beautiful game. Few of the photos are of the high level world or professional ranks, rather they are of regular players and fans in the grimy cities, dusty villages, and muddy pitches of the world. Some are action shots, some are posed, some are impressionistic-but all are a tribute to the simplest of sports. Sure to delight devotees of either football or photography, it's an attractive and inexpensive collection that deserves wide readership.	2002-11-24
1328983:US	52254603	R35ZYUOKJJYTQC	1558219730	634394343	We Die Alone: A WWII Epic of Escape and Endurance	Books	4	22	23	N	N	Physical and Emotional Endurance in WWII	Second only to Slavomir Rawicz's The Long Walk in the annals of WWII escape stories I've read, the story of Jan Baalsrud's amazing escape after a failed commando insertion into occupied Norway is more a tale of endurance than one of derring-do. Penned by a former British spymaster, the book is a clear, if somewhat simply written, account of how Baalsrud was sheltered for weeks by various patriotic Norwegians who did their best to keep him out of German hands.<br />An expatriate Norwegian, Baalsrud and his fellow commandos were attempting to establish a resistance cell in northern Norway that would disrupt the operations of a major German airfield nearby. Betrayed, the commandos were ambushed by German soldiers, with only Baalsrud escaping. The bulk of the book described how over the next several weeks, regular citizens in remote villages attempted to keep him alive while arranging for him to get to Sweden. This was greatly hampered by the frostbite that made walking or skiing impossible for him. It's an excellent glimpse into the mundane details of how regular people did their best to resist the Germans with the knowledge that they and their families would be killed if their plotting was uncovered.<br />Ultimately though, the book is a tribute to Baalsrud's incredible physical and emotional endurance-he was buried alive for days under snow, left by himself for days at a time unable to move and in excruciating pain, and had to contemplate self-surgery-all while knowing that his discovery could mean the deaths of many innocent people. Think you're tough? Read this and think again! It would have been nice if the publisher had included a map.	2002-11-24
1331523:US	52254603	R3IL5KJR5CQMH6	0452282950	609426348	The 25th Hour	Books	5	14	16	N	N	A Taut and Gripping Debut	First things first-I've read the book twice, read multiple drafts of the movie script (written by Benioff himself), and spent an hour interviewing David Benioff for Creative Screenwriting magazine, and I assure you, the film will measure up to the book.<br />And the book is outstanding. Slapped with the mystery/crime designation by the publisher's marketing department, the book contains very little mystery or suspense. Rather, it is a trim and haunting account of what goes on in the head of a man who realizes all too well that he's thrown his life away and that nothing will ever be the same. The story is about the last day of freedom for Montgomery \\"Monty\\" Brogan, a pretty-boy Irish-Catholic New Yorker in his late 20s who is about to spend seven years in a federal penitentiary for dealing drugs. In his last 24 hours of freedom Monty must say goodbye to his two oldest friends, Wall Street whiz kid Frank Slattery, and high school English teacher Jakob Elinsky, as well as his longtime live-in girlfriend Naturelle, his bar owner father, his loyal pit bull Doyle, and the post-Soviet mobsters he worked for.<br />This last day is effectively a deathbed for Monty, as he makes his peace with all the people he'll leave behind, knowing that he'll be a totally different person after seven years of hard time. But it's also about those left behind, and their own struggle to come to terms with the fact that someone close to them is gone, and that to a certain extent they are complicit in his downfall. These are fully realized characters, as Slattery struggles to control himself in a high-stakes, high-pressure job, Jakob struggles to avoid the allure of his student Mary, Naturelle must start planning on moving back to her mother's home, and Monty's widowed father must say goodbye to his only child. Despite the lack of suspense, the book builds steadily, ending with a powerful and uncompromising punch. A great debut and it's a shame Benioff has turned his attention almost entirely to film. For those who want more, there are at least three short stories of his available online for free.to film. For those who want more, there are at least three short stories of his available online for free.	2002-11-22
1332479:US	52254603	R34YDLB8JC9YJY	1569472424	377475451	Death of a Red Heroine (An Inspector Chen Investigation)	Books	5	40	43	N	N	Brilliant Debut	The first book in the Inspector Chen series (followed by A Loyal Character Dancer) is a spellbinding meld detective procedural and portrait of China in transition following the Tiananmen Square massacre. Set in Shanghai in the Spring of 1990, the story starts with the discovery of the body of a &quot;national model worker.&quot; The case falls into the hands newly promoted Det. Inspector Chen Cao and his subordinate Detective Yu, who work under the watchful eyes of old Commissar Zhang and Party Secretary Li.<br />Communist China makes for an instantly compelling and intriguing setting, as the police must wend their way through labyrinthine political considerations in a country where one's standing in the Party is paramount but change is clearly underway. The mystery and investigation proceed in a leisurely fashion, and the true challenge is not identifying the murderer, but being able to gather the necessary evidence and piecing together a motive.<br />Inspector Chen and Detective Yu are instantly likable and deeply-drawn characters, as is their circle of friends and family. Woven into the story are the their personal lives, which the author uses to paint a vivid picture of China just a decade ago. Most memorable are the cramped housing conditions, the continued reverence for elders, and the many many mouthwatering descriptions of food. Hardest to imagine for Western readers will be the influence of Party standing and its intrusion into personal relationships, especially when it comes to love.<br />This is a long, but never boring story that deserves wide readership amongst mystery readers as well as those with an interest in China. A well-deserved winner of the Edgar for best first novel.	2002-11-21
1343060:US	52254603	R2SMGXQBWULKAS	0099759713	849080537	Rancid Aluminum	Books	1	1	3	N	N	Total Letdown!	greatly anticipated this&#151;Hawes' sophomore effort after the excellent A White Merc With Fins&#151;and found it resoundingly unsatisfying. The plot follows an early-30ish married, successful Londoner as his fiddling with his company's books result in the attention of Inland Revenue. Suddenly desperate to pay off the authorities and maintain his standard of living, he is forced into bed (yes, literally and figuratively) with Russian mafia/bizness concern, all of which leads to some silly tie-in with oil pipelines and British and American intelligence. What is much more interesting than all this, however, is the internal musing on the nature and uses of sex in the the protagonists' life. While there are some good bits here and there, I found it to be a rather annoying book in the end. This may be partially a result of my raised expectations after loving A White Merc With Fins so much. His next book, Dead Long Enough, was a rather mixed effort.	2002-11-12
1344785:US	52254603	RRQDXEF6V5YGC	0224044680	438652479	Dead Long Enough	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Blah Middle-Aged Crisis	I've never come across an author whose first two books struck such opposite tones in me. I loved Hawes first novel, A White Merc With Fins, and absolutely hated his second, Rancid Aluminum. This, his third, somewhat predictably hit me somewhere in the middle. It's a tale of mid-life crisis, recounted by the quiet member of a foursome of friends in their late 30s. Every year they meet in a pub to celebrate the birthday of Harry, the dynamic, pudgy and well-known TV archeologist for the masses. As is the custom, the quartet (Ben the narrator, Harry, Jan the svelte Arts Council bigwig, and The Wop, a muscle-bound ladies man) are led by Harry into an unknown one night adventure.<br />This year, they head to Ireland, where deep dark secrets from Harry's past are the catalysts for change and the aforementioned crisis. The characters are two-dimensional and fairly uninteresting, serving mostly as foils for Hawes' lengthy monologues to the reader-via Ben-about middle age, youth, and What's It All About. There's a certain energy and vim to it all, and at times it can get rather funny and clever, but ultimately the book has nothing much to say.<br />Currently the book is in development to become a film.	2002-11-11
1345250:US	52254603	R2K2YJNGXHFNL8	0060934611	874881123	Rebel (The Starbuck Chronicles #1)	Books	2	13	23	N	N	An Inauspicious Begining	One of my favorite writers of historical fiction kicks off his Civil War series with this remarkably tepid tale. A number of flaws make themselves manifest over the course of the book, the foremost of which is an unlikable hero. Cornwell seems to have decided to take the hero of his wildly successful Napoleonic era series, Richard Sharpe, and make his new hero come from the exact opposite background. Unfortunately, while one is naturally inclined to root for an orphaned, gutter-bred, ill-mannered rogue who rises through the ranks due to sheer merit, one is much less likely to root for the privileged scion of a Boston abolitionist preacher who joins the Confederate forces as an act of rebellion against his strict upbringing! Indeed, while Sharpe grows and learns a little in each book, the only thing Starbuck seems to learn in this first volume is to devalue human life! Indeed, his overall transformation seems rather forced.<br />It doesn't help that Cornwell appears to be creating the same setups as in the Sharpe series, giving his hero a dangerous and loyal sidekick, a passel of idiotic officers, with one or two sprinkled in who recognize the hero's value. There's even a tempting woman to lead all the men astray! It's also rather slow and plodding compared to the Sharpe books, although granted, it appears to be designed more as a prelude to the series than anything else.<br />The story follows 20ish Nate Starbuck, as he enlists in a local Confederate force being mustered by the fabulously wealthy and dangerously vain father of his best friend. The book sees the slow build to war, as the \\"Faulconer Legion\\" equips and readies itself, before finally getting into action at the Battle of Manassas (aka Bull Run 1). The battle/action scenes are adequate, but not as gripping as his Napoleonic stuff. I suspect this may be because the Civil War is more familiar to us Americanswe've seen it in print, on TV, in film, even reenacted!whereas the Napoleonic battle has the allure of something new.<br />As always with Cornwell, there's a ton of interesting little details, and various historical figures popping in and out of the plot. He does seem to play rather loose with a number of facts, but it is fiction after all. I'll read the next in the series, but this one was a serious disappointment for this Cornwell fan!allure of something new.<br />As always with Cornwell, there's a ton of interesting little details, and various historical figures popping in and out of the plot. He does seem to play rather loose with a number of facts, but it is fiction after all. I'll read the next in the series, but this one was a serious disappointment for this Cornwell fan!	2002-11-10
1346278:US	52254603	R38146XAVQ4D2W	1559706287	610864299	A Season With Verona: Travels Around Italy in Search of Illusion, National Characters	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Chievando Scudetto!	Part travelogue, part mediation on the Italian national character, and part football memoir, Englishman Parks' diary of his season with the fans of Hellas Verona is a muddled but generally enjoyable hodgepodge of anecdotes and musings. A lifelong football fan, twenty year resident of Italy, and fluent speaker of Italian, Parks is an ably accredited guide to the myriad mysteries and intrigues of Italian professional football. His method was to attach himself to the hardcore fans of his local club and go to every home and away game in search of... well, something...<br />In doing so, Parks excels at recreating emotional highs and lows and retelling specific anecdotes experienced over the course of the season. However, by attaching himself to these fans, he places himself in the uncomfortable position of riding along with some of Italy's most racist fans. He tries to deal with this a number of ways, from placing them in a broader context of a nation absorbing large numbers of refugees, to attempting to show that the racist cheers actually represent a sort of self-fulfilling prophesy brought about by sensationalist journalism. Neither approach is very credible and it's a shame that Parks kind of dances around it. More insightful is his analysis of the fans as self-appointed pariahs/Davids, sort of a mix of \\"Nobody likes us, and we don't care\\" and \\"It's us against the world.\\"<br />As the season progresses, and Parks travels around Italy, one gets a very keen sense of the deep regionalism that exists in Italy. From politics to chanted terrace insults, there's a prominent theme of disdain for the \\"other\\". Other overall themes are lacking, as might be expected from a book written on the fly, but for the careful reader, there are some strong bits where he gets into corruption both in football and Italian society, or his meditation on the psyche of the referee. Another fun aspect to the book is that it contains a plethora of vile Italian insults and terrace chants, which are often quite hilarious.<br />One thing that is a bit off about it, is that is only obliquely references Joe McGinniss' excellent book The Miracle of Castel Di Sangro, in which McGinniss also recounts a year following an Italian. It's a shame, 'cause the two books take quite different approaches (McGinniss is an outsider to soccer, can't speak Italian, and follows the team from within), making them rather complimentary. On the whole, I found McGinniss' more enjoyable, and more likely to appeal to the general reader, although neither author is very good at describing action on the pitch. In any event, both paint a picture of league riddled with corruption, game fixing, and bribery, which begs the question of why anyone would bother caring deeply about it?often quite hilarious. <br />One thing that is a bit off about it, is that is only obliquely references Joe McGinniss' excellent book The Miracle of Castel Di Sangro, in which McGinniss also recounts a year following an Italian. It's a shame, 'cause the two books take quite different approaches (McGinniss is an outsider to soccer, can't speak Italian, and follows the team from within), making them rather complimentary. On the whole, I found McGinniss' more enjoyable, and more likely to appeal to the general reader, although neither author is very good at describing action on the pitch. In any event, both paint a picture of league riddled with corruption, game fixing, and bribery, which begs the question of why anyone would bother caring deeply about it?	2002-11-09
1350295:US	52254603	RDEHDX5K0HG3Y	0393317560	910938208	Lone Star Swing	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Of Limited Appeal	I like most travelogues, and I love McLean's fiction (Blackden, Bucket of Tongues, Bunker Man), so, even though I've never even heard of Western Swing music, I thought I might like McLean's account of his journey to Texas in 1995 in search of the remnants of Bob Wills and his Texas Playboys. After reading half the book, I'm forced to admit that I was wrong. While McLean's enthusiasm brims from every page, it's hard for the outsider to care about his descriptions of obscure artists and their tunes.<br />And while McLean is an excellent writer of fiction, he is alas, only a workmanlike travel writer. He dutifully chronicles his trials and tribulations, but there's a certain zing missing-a lack of true insight perhaps. There is plenty in Texas to remark on, and he does, but having driven across the state several times myself, I never felt I was learning anything new. So, while I love his fiction, I'd have to recommend giving this a pass unless you're a fan of Western Swing.	2002-11-06
1350315:US	52254603	R1UIZUOE78V63E	0312204043	680132901	East Bay Grease: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Growing up in Oakland	Coming-of-age novels tend to be highly autobiographical, and true to form, Williamson's own youth provides much of the fodder for this novel set in late '60s to mid '70s Oakland. The story starts with adolescent T-Bird living with his Hell's Angels-groupie mother in a ramshackle house in a largely Latino blue-collar part of Oakland. T-Bird's life consists of trying to get by in elementary school while avoiding the tough black and Mexican kids who prey on him daily. These years are lonely ones, sprinkled with a few touches of humor and compassion. Especially memorable is his friendship with Hiro, a Japanese-American nerd in his class who he plays chess and collect baseball cards with.<br />The second part of book begins with his father's parole from prison, and his mother's abandonment. T-Bird and his father move to a trailer next to the gas station where his father works, and his two brothers come from foster homes to live with him. T-Bird starts to follow in his father's trumpeting footsteps as well, playing in the school jazz band. While he enjoys more of a family life, his father's bigotry also starts to warp T-Bird's world. A conflict with a local family of Latinos escalates into a deadly vendetta that is handled with odd detachment.<br />Eventually T-Bird gets work as a trumpeter in &quot;Los Assassinos&quot; a local Mexican band that takes him into the Latino world of Northern California. He then finishes school and moves on to a series of manual jobs, as a gunite (concrete blown at high speed) man and a demolitionist. All of these vocations are treated with the level of detail that only an insider can provide. In that sense, the book is a great insight into blue-collar life. However, the book suffers from a curiously detached approach to tragedy. Perhaps this is because the storyline is too close to Williamson's own life, and thus too tough for him to write about, but whatever the reason, the book suffers somewhat for it. On the whole, it's not exactly inspirational or uplifting, but it is a whole lot more real than most coming-of-age novels.ational or uplifting, but it is a whole lot more real than most coming-of-age novels.	2002-11-06
1350980:US	52254603	R3AE4QZLHM4W2H	0393313948	144671518	Translating LA: A Tour of the Rainbow City	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A Different Take on LA	Let's face it, Los Angeles gets more negative press than any other city in America. Much of this is because it's such an easy target-from police brutality, to earthquakes, to disgustingly ostentatious wealth, to smog, to gang violence, to sprawl, to racial tension, to the film industry-so much of how outsiders define LA is easy to use as fodder for contempt. And when you have a city that covers over 1,000 square miles and includes about 85 incorporated cities, one is left with a megalopolis that's hard to get one's mind around, much less defend.<br />That said, Boston-raised writer and translator Theroux does his best to find the good in LA. After ten years living in the Middle East, he moved to Long Beach in 1985 and set himself up as a translator. In twelve breezy chapters that mix the history of LA's different areas with his own excursions and recent history, Theroux makes the case for LA as a multicultural melting pot that remains as the overwhelming symbol for the American good life in the Third World.<br />It's far from a comprehensive history or in-depth analysis (Mike Davis' City of Quartz will serve one better), but it does do a nice job of taking the reader through some of the neighborhoods with the aim of trying to explain how they are different and why. There are no big lessons to be learned, but Theroux's crisp prose and storytelling are a treat, and his open-minded approach to the city make for a nice change.	2002-11-05
1358810:US	52254603	RLLZT2AFE6S8X	0099284561	20732551	The Bonny Lad	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Brilliant Second Novel	Tulloch continues his brilliant melding of Alan Silitoe and Roddy Doyle in this, his second novel, once again mixing humor, despair, anger, and hope in a unabashedly social novel that tugs the heartstrings until they come close to breaking the heart. Set in the same Gateshead ghetto as The Season Ticket, and written in the same lyrical dialect (which does for Geordie what James Kelman and Irvine Welsh have done for Scots), the story concerns the relationship between a difficult six-year-old boy and his grandfather...<br />The book is rife with refreshingly unveiled social commentary, ranging from the end of mining, to the government's abandonment of workers, and of course the general decline in community values and behavior. These are mostly delivered through the grandfather's lips with all the bitterness Tulloch can summon to the page. And if anyone thinks the portrayal of Gateshead is overwrought, read Danziger's Britain, and prepare to be depressed about the state of modern Britain. For fans of The Season Ticket, several characters from that make appearances here, including the aforementioned Macca, as well as Gemma, Rusty, and even Sewell.	2002-10-29
1359700:US	52254603	R9U43UB4QXE4O	0786710535	815167865	In a True Light: A Novel of Crime (Otto Penzler Books)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Wonderful Page-Turner	After the ten novels and eleven short stories of his Charlie Resnick police procedural series, poet and publisher Harvey leaves the familiar mean streets of Nottingham in his new crime novel, which splits its time between London and New York (with a side trip to Tuscany). The new setting doesn't mean a totally different style though, as Harvey includes NYC cops, builds plenty of jazz into the tale, and features a world-weary protagonist easily imaginable as a good friend of Charlie Resnick.<br />Sloane is a 60ish painter, just out of prison after a several year stretch for art forgery. He worked for a slimy art dealer, who he refused to drop the dime on. Now out, he works to rebuild his lonely life and wrecked studio, making friends with the local Malian caf&eacute; owner. He receives a letter from a lover from his youth-back when he was a bright young thing, and she ran with the big names in modern painting (Pollock, de Kooning, etc.). On her deathbed, the former flame (and one suspects his everlasting regret), reveals the existence of their daughter, stunning him.<br />Sloane ventures to New York to track her down, tasked with delivering her mother's last words. The woman is a jazz singer, under the thumb of a nasty semi-connected mobster type, who is also being investigated by a pair of homicide cops for the brutal murder of another woman. As Sloane searches for his daughter, he runs into old friends and a possible romance starts. The story builds its multiple strands steadily, only to erupt in a terrifying burst of nasty violence in the final chapters.<br />Unlike some crime writers who try to take on settings other than their native ones, Harvey exhibits total command of Manhattan past and present. His clean meditative prose unmasks the fears and desires of his characters and propels the deceptively simple story to its inexorable conclusion. Great stuff, can't wait for the next. BTW, this is a hundred times better than the last art/crime novel I read, David Ramus' vastly overhyped Thief of Light.astly overhyped Thief of Light.	2002-10-29
1359728:US	52254603	R1IISOF7SP43OZ	0099284561	20732551	The Bonny Lad	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Brilliant Second Novel	Tulloch continues his brilliant melding of Alan Silitoe and Roddy Doyle in this, his second novel, once again mixing humor, despair, anger, and hope in a unabashedly social novel that tugs the heartstrings until they come close to breaking the heart. Set in the same Gateshead ghetto as The Season Ticket, and written in the same lyrical dialect (which does for Geordie what James Kelman and Irvine Welsh have done for Scots), the story concerns the relationship between a difficult six-year-old boy and his grandfather.<br />The boy is Sonny Gee, born to a drug-addicted mother who can't protect him from Macca, her current drug-dealer boyfriend, who uses the kid as a mule. Sonny Gee (aka \\"Bonny Lad\\"), is clever, insolent, hilariously rude, wild, streetwise to an alarming degree, but underneath it all, still posses the glow of innocence. When he mother can't deal with him, he's sent off to stay with one of an informal group of neighborhood women who desperately try to raise the unwanted children of the ghetto. One day, when all the usual spots are full up, his mother has only option left, dump him with her father, who she hasn't seen in over a decade.<br />The grandfather is a misanthrope, who waits for death in his tiny house, his body deteriorating from a lifetime in the coal mines. When the bonny lad is thrust upon him, he is a bitter and unwilling recipient. The bulk of the book then consists of the duo feeling out a relationship, with all manner of \\"odd couple\\" disturbances and disruptions. There are a number of subplots built in, such as the slow revelation of why the grandfather and daughter are estranged, and Macca's desire to use the bonny lad as a mule again. But the dominant question is what the old man is going to do with this wild boy and whether, through him, he can find hope and meaning at the end of a lifetime of suffering. The answer is stirring, and triumphant.<br />The book is rife with refreshingly unveiled social commentary, ranging from the end of mining, to the government's abandonment of workers, and of course the general decline in community values and behavior. These are mostly delivered through the grandfather's lips with all the bitterness Tulloch can summon to the page. And if anyone thinks the portrayal of Gateshead is overwrought, read Danziger's Britain, and prepare to be depressed about the state of modern Britain. For fans of The Season Ticket, several characters from that make appearances here, including the aforementioned Macca, as well as Gemma, Rusty, and even Sewell.ning, to the government's abandonment of workers, and of course the general decline in community values and behavior. These are mostly delivered through the grandfather's lips with all the bitterness Tulloch can summon to the page. And if anyone thinks the portrayal of Gateshead is overwrought, read Danziger's Britain, and prepare to be depressed about the state of modern Britain. For fans of The Season Ticket, several characters from that make appearances here, including the aforementioned Macca, as well as Gemma, Rusty, and even Sewell.	2002-10-29
1359901:US	52254603	R1JWB23PNTUAQS	1852425237	32822256	Vital Signs: Music, Movies, and Other Manias	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Of Limited Interest	Penman is a &quot;name&quot; critic in England, but the 46 pieces collected in the 370+ pages here offer only glimpses as to why. Culled from his contributions to highly influential UK music/style mags (NME, The Face, and Arena), London newspapers, and UK film mags (Sight &amp; Sound, Modern Review) from the late '70s to mid '90s, the pieces generally cover either musicians, film actors and directors, and writers. A quick perusal of the table contents will reveal that there's not a single woman to be found amidst Penman's various interviews, profiles, and critiques-make of that what you will.<br />Non-Brits will find many familiar people lurking in the contents, such as Harry Dean Stanton, Oliver Stone, DeNiro, Nicholson, Mailer, Tarantino, Zappa, Prince, and several Brits that may not be, such as Robin Cook, Martin Amis, Rik Mayall, Dennis Bowell and others. That's almost the collection's fatal flaw in a sense, when Penman does a few pages on someone we know well, he rarely provides a new insight or take (with some notable exceptions, cf. H.D. Stanton, Tarantino), and often the info is dated. When he discusses something/one unfamiliar, as in several pieces on British TV, it's totally meaningless to the uninitiated.<br />On the plus side, every piece exhibits Penman's dexterous wordplay, and most show him to be clever as the dickens. And, as with many critics, when he is tearing someone down, he's awfully entertaining to read. (cf. Mailer, Tarantino). There are some standout pieces, his 1990 essay on Heavy Metal offers an interesting perspective on the genre, and his piece on Tricky manages to capture the essence of the music (unlike, say, his overwrought piece on Augustus Pablo), and his appreciation of Jim Thompson is nice capsulation of his appeal.<br />So, there's some good stuff here, but few readers are going to love every morsel, or, I daresay, even half.	2002-10-28
1364476:US	52254603	RG2OY5F22Z9T8	0811821994	177362219	From Girls to Grrlz : A History of Women's Comics from Teens to Zines	Books	4	5	5	N	N	More of an overview than a history	Subtitled \\"A History of [Female] Comics from Teens to Zines\\", this colorful and attractive book attempts to chronologically plot the development of \\"girl\\" comics from 1941 into the '90s. Stuffed with page and cover reproductions, this is a history in which girl's consumed more comics than boys until the 1960s, ranging from preteen fare like Archie to more advanced romance and morality tale comics. In the '60s superheroes began to dominate the market, and the mainstream female comic largely faded into the background. Thus, the late '60s gave rise to \\"underground\\" women's comics scene that blossomed in conjunction with the feminist movement. Which eventually begat the full on \\"grrrlz\\" comics of the '90s.<br />This makes for fairly quick and simple reading under Robbins' pen, although one that could use a great deal more perspective and analysis. She is more interested in documenting the names or artists, and the plotlines of various comics than she is in a broader discussion of what it all means. She does touch on it from time to time, but these are more interjections (often a little whiny in tone) than a coherent theme. As with most Chronicle books, the production (design, layout, color, quality of reproductions) is outstanding. It's a breezy overview of the subject, but hardly a comprehensive history. I also found myself wishing for information on women's comics from other countries, for comparison.	2002-10-24
1364596:US	52254603	R3GSAY6JSELTM8	0374106770	252394770	The Athenian Murders	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Into the Cave of Ideas	Readers who love historical mysteries set in ancient times, such as Stephen Saylor or Lindsey Davis's Roman series, may well find themselves adrift in this postmodern metafiction riddle whose original Spanish title, &quot;The Cave of Ideas&quot; more accurately presages the contents. At first, the book appears to be a translation of an ancient whodunit. The mutilated body of one of Plato's students is discovered outside Athens and his tutor engages Heracles, The Decipherer of Enigmas (i.e. detective), to find out what happened. However, the anonymous translator's notes soon start to intrude, as he excitedly notes that the ancient whodunit apparently contains &quot;eidesis&quot;, a literary technique allegedly used by the ancient Greeks to convey secret messages in texts.<br />As the book progresses, the two narratives become more an more entwined. It's difficult to describe further without spoiling it, but essentially, the translator grows increasingly convinced the manuscript contains a personal message for him, and his footnotes grow correspondingly lengthy and agitated. The mystery in ancient Greece progresses in relatively pedestrian fashion, with more bodies following the first, and a running argument concerning the merits of empirical reason vs. Platonic philosophy as additional food for thought. However, the mystery of the tale's translator begins to eclipse it. Switching back and forth between the two narrative lines takes some getting used to, but the device will be familiar to readers of Eco and Borges, among others and is integral to the book.<br />Somoza is plays a tricky game, stringing the reader along with the dual narratives, only to land a wallop of a suckerpunch at the end. His literary devices are nothing new, and nor is his ultimate point (which can't be revealed here), but it's a clever book, bound to entertain and please plenty of folks, especially those with an interest in ancient Greek philosophy.	2002-10-24
1365134:US	52254603	R1VFG362BL47LR	0754007014	821552549	Young Men in Spats	Books	3	16	23	N	N	&quot;Spats&quot; Falls Flat...	While I love Wodehouse-he is indisputably one of the masters of modern literature-this particular collection of stories (which originally appeared in Strand and Cosmopolitan in the early '30s) is rather weak. The main problem is that they are all of a piece, virtually every one revolves around a silly young man (generally one of the Drones Club cohort) and his affections for a beautiful girl. Invariably, the man falls for the woman and then due to various simple comic misfortunes, loses her. One or two is fine, but a whole book of the plot over and over gets rather tedious. What makes Wodehouse's longer stories work to much better effect are the existence of multiple storylines which elegantly dovetail a the end, along with smart, clever, or willful other characters to provide contrast and balance (for example, Jeeves, Uncle Fred, various Aunts). It should come as no surprise that the standout story here is the lone Uncle Fred entry. In short, this collection lacks the wit, pleasantly convoluted schemes, and even high level of prose, that one expects when picking up one of Plum's works.	2002-10-24
1367786:US	52254603	R3OUCV8LBTR3A8	190085046X	364784579	Rough Trade (Eurocrime series)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Confusing at times, but good	As one might surmise from the title, this French procedural starts with the discovery of a young Thai girl who has been raped and tortured to death. Set in 1980, this murder sets in motion a stunningly complicated investigation by Inspector Dacquin and his team, which winds its way through immigrant worker politics, the international heroin trade, French-Iranian relations, child prostitution, Turkish domestic politics, police and government corruption, a private  club, blackmail, the CIA, front companies, and most of all, the grimy Sentier district in Paris.<br />The somewhat choppy narrative takes place over a month, with lots of cutting between different locations and perspectives. It's a bit off-putting at first, but by the second half of the story, there have been enough new murders and complications so that one isn't so distracted. There book does suffer from a lack of distinction amongst all the cops. Other than the lead inspector Dacquin, the other cops are interchangeable and unmemorable, which is a bit of a problem since there are at least four of them running around at any one point. Manotti treats them more as Dacquin's pawns than real characters, which is a bit of a shame. Similarly, there are a huge number of people interviewed and interrogated, and they too, tend to run together. To keep everything straight, I recommend readers keep a running list of whom everybody is as they read.<br />It should be said that the book is unrelentingly grim and cynical, which some may not care for. The French cops don't mess around, beating suspects, blackmailing informers, and generally operating by whatever means necessary. It has one of the better climaxes I've come across recently though, very realistic I felt. And there's a fun little epilogue which really ends thing on just the right note. Manotti has written at least two other Dacquin books, but they've not been translated into English.<br />FYI, this book is also known as \\"Dark Path\\", which is the more literal translation of the original French title. Also, Manotti is a pseudonym.ranslation of the original French title. Also, Manotti is a pseudonym.	2002-10-22
1372305:US	52254603	R3U47NP7COBHBL	0316695068	546468505	Hell to Pay: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Return to the Mean Streets of DC	I've lived in DC for 20 years, my family is from here, and Pelecanos is only the second author I've come across who writes about the DC that I know and recognize (the other is Edward Jones, check out his story collection \\"Lost in the City\\" if you can find it). In his tenth book, middle-aged PI Derek Strange and younger white ex-cop Terry Quinn return for their second tour of DC's mean streets following Right as Rain.<br />If the theme of that last book was racism, this one's is hopelessness. The two main stories revolve around teenagers who have lost any sense of hope and whose existence has spiraled into ugliness from which they are incapable of breaking free. One of these stories follows three boys as they peddle hydro (pot), boost cars, bet o dogfights, listen to tunes, eat fast food, and eventually commit murder. The trio are emblematic of many kids who grow up in the ghetto, with no fathers, no guidance, and ultimately no hope. All they have is their street rep and a resignation that they will die young. When they murder someone close to Strange, he races to identify and track them down before the police do. The other story revolves around a nasty pimp (as if there's any other kind) who specializes in teenage talent, and what happens when Quinn helps a prostitution support group try and extract one of the girls and take her home.<br />The antidote to this theme of hopelessness is Strange and Quinn's coaching a neighborhood Pee-Wee football team where they try to teach the boys the right way to live and to see that life holds possibilities for them. Of course, as in all Pelecanos' books, there's a running dark tone that lets the reader know there are few happy endings in this world. Mixed in with the two \\"cases\\" are the duo's personal struggles, the main one being Strange's attempt to come to terms with his relationship with his office managed Janine and her son. Quinn, meanwhile, struggles with his own inner rage and embarks on a new relationship. As in the previous book Strange and Quinn make a nice odd couple as they verbally spar with one another about race, although Pelecanos has subtly made them more comfortable with each other.<br />If you've enjoyed Pelecanos' previous books, you're likely to enjoy this one as well. It's a definite step up from Right as Rain, and full of all the usual Pelecanos details about music, cars, and sports.evious book Strange and Quinn make a nice odd couple as they verbally spar with one another about race, although Pelecanos has subtly made them more comfortable with each other.<br />If you've enjoyed Pelecanos' previous books, you're likely to enjoy this one as well. It's a definite step up from Right as Rain, and full of all the usual Pelecanos details about music, cars, and sports.	2002-10-18
1374331:US	52254603	R12G7FPDYXGWHZ	0753805235	244718788	Football Against the Enemy	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Well In There!	Young journalist Kuper traveled around the world like a madman to gather the stories of soccer's relationship to politics and culture collected in the book's twenty chapters. The result is a book that will delight anyone with an interest in the world's most popular sport, and will intrigue those interested in the world beyond their boundaries. The book's sole flaw is a certain choppiness, which is partially due to the haphazard nature of his travels, and partly due to Kuper's perhaps overambitious goal of examining how soccer \\"affects the life of a country\\" and \\"how the life of a country affects its football.\\" Concentrating on one or the other would have given the book the focus it lacks-but that doesn't detract from its power.<br />Kuper uses soccer as a lens to look at the most central issues of the modern world race (South Africa), religion (Ireland and Scotland), culture (Brazil), totalitarianism (Argentina & East Germany), corruption (Ukraine), poverty (Africa), and especially nationalism (Holland, Slovakia, Catalonia, Serbia). Even those who dismiss sport as an \\"opiate of the masses\\" and don't care for soccer will be forced to acknowledge the sport's popularity and centrality, especially in less-developed nations. Each chapter is a stand-alone piece, with lengths varying from 5-25 pages or so, perfect for reading on the bus or just before bed. The only other caveat on the book is that it does often seem rather dated, and one keeps wishing it was a bit fresher. Still, this is a great bit of journalism and one every soccer fan should read.	2002-10-16
1374983:US	52254603	RXSBRMY1XLJQ0	0753805235	244718788	Football Against the Enemy	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Well In There!	Young journalist Kuper travelled around the world like a madman to gather the stories of soccer's relationship to politics and culture collected in the book's twenty chapters. The result is a book that will delight anyone with an interest in the world's most popular sport, and will intrigue those interested in the world beyond their boundries. The book's sole flaw is a certain choppiness, which is partially due to the haphazard nature of his travels, and partly due to Kuper's perhaps overambitious goal of examining how soccer \\"affects the life of a country\\" and \\"how the life of a country affects its football.\\" Concentrating on one or the other would have given the book the focus it lacks-but that doesn't detract from its power. <br />Kuper uses soccer as a lens to look at the most central issues of the modern world race (South Africa), religion (Ireland and Scotland), culture (Brazil), totalitarianism (Argentina & East Germany), corruption (Ukraine), poverty (Africa), and especially nationalism (Holland, Slovakia, Catalonia, Serbia).E ven those who dismiss sport as an \\"opiate of the massess\\" and don't care for soccer will be forced to acknowledge the sport's popularity and centrality, especially in less-developed nations. Each chapter is a stand-alone piece, with lengths varrying from 5-25 pages or so, perfect for reading on the bus or just before bed. The only other cavaet on the book is that it does often seem rather dated, and one keeps wishing it was a bit fresher. Still, this is a great bit of journalism and one every soccer fan should read.	2002-10-16
1376891:US	52254603	R272ZURACZC2ZY	0060194448	657088689	The Wailing Wind	Books	1	7	16	N	N	Horrible	I've never read a Hillerman book before, and I have to confess that I don't get what the fuss is all about. Are they all this bad? The plot, in as much as there is any, revolves around the revisiting of an old crime (presumably covered in a previous book?) in which two white men who were bent on swindling each other over a lost gold mine, and one ended up dead. Years later, Navaho policeman Sgt. Chee drags his old mentor Joe Leaphorn out of retirement to rethink the crime and how it relates to a modern murder and a missing woman from the old case.<br />It's a pretty pathetic story, filled with lazy writing, poor grammar, continuity errors, a solution the reader can spot a third of the way into the book, zero character development, a tepid romance and very little Navaho culture. This is definitely not a book for newcomers-Hillerman clearly assumes that the reader is already invested in the characters and cares about them, 'cause he spends no time making them at all interesting or human. I can forgive a lot in a mystery as long as there's decent atmosphere and clever mystery, this has smidgens of the former, but none of the latter. It reminded me of nothing so much as an old Hardy Boys story. If you want a book about a lost gold mine in Indian lands that has excellent character development, great tension and suspense, and gritty social commentary, get a copy of B. Traven's classic Treasure of the Sierra Madre instead.	2002-10-14
1378904:US	52254603	R14B0KIA23FSQB	0805068899	853418572	The Silence of the Rain: A Novel	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Promising Start to a Rio Trilogy	Popular Brazilian author Garcia-Roza wrote a trilogy of crime novels in the latter part of the '90s, and this is the first of them to appear in English. Unlike another Brazilian crime novel of that time, Patricia Melo's \\"The Killer\\", this book doesn't take a hard-boiled approach, but is a carefully crafted procedural. With plenty of social commentary mixed in, the book reads somewhat like one of Mario Vargas Llosa's crime fictions such as \\"Who Killed Palamino Molero\\" or \\"The Green House\\".<br />The novel starts by presenting the suicide of a rich executive in Rio de Janerio, and in Hitchcockian fashion allows the reader to know a great deal more than the hero for most of the book. That hero is a rather nebbish Detective Inspector, who for most of the book treats the case as a murder since someone made off with the gun used in the suicide, the note, and more. As in much noir, several smalltime people get accidentally mixed up in the matter and further deaths ensue, making it all rather confusing for the Inspector. He's a likable loner, a kindred spirit of John Harvey's Nottingham Inspector Charlie Resnick, or Sicilian Inspector Montalbano of Andrea Camilleri's series (\\"The Shape of Water\\").<br />There are some rather curious aspects to the story, for example, despite Rio's notorious murder rate, this homicide Detective mostly adheres to strict 9-5, Monday-Friday hours, working only a single case at a time. And in the book's sole instance of awkward author contrivance, his network of informers just happens to have information on a key gun sale-this in a city where guns change hands like pocket change. The setting is fairly interesting, rain-slicked white middle-class Rio neighborhoods which are very cosmopolitan and European (I'm not sure why other reviewers insist on using the word \\"sultry\\" to describe the setting). Rio's favelas (shantytowns) are only seen in the distance.<br />It's always a treat to read crime fiction from other countries, and this is no exception. Garcia-Roza's trilogy kicks off with an intriguing plot, a likable hero, and great promise.Garcia-Roza's trilogy kicks off with an intriguing plot, a likable hero, and great promise.	2002-10-12
1380935:US	52254603	R1OCQOSPTLYXC0	0375420827	766895282	The Art of Travel	Books	4	16	17	N	N	More Consolations...	In his continuing (and admirable) quest to bring the philosophic to bear on concrete everyday topics, de Botton's latest slim work takes on the notion of why people travel, and how this is linked to the pursuit of happiness. It's very similar to his last work, The Consolations of Philosophy, in that his aim seems to be to help the reader avoid being disappointed in their travels-as so often is the case. And is the case in his other work, the answer is to be found within ourselves if only we would take a few moments of self-reflection, as he puts it: The pleasure we derive from journeys is perhaps dependent more on the mindset with which we travel than on the destination we travel to.&quot;<br />To illustrate this, he intertwines his own travel experiences with those of several famous European writers and artists in order to highlight his points. Although the book is divided into five distinct sections (Departure, Motives, Landscape, Art, Return), these each have various subsections and sub-subsections, making the structure is more haphazard than his previous nonfiction. Some of these sections work better than others, a particularly weak one is the examination of Flaubert in Egypt and exoticism. He takes Flaubert's self-professed kinship with the &quot;unwashed masses&quot; of Egypt at face value, failing to acknowledge any of the inherent power dynamics in this, or indeed any Western tourist's visit to the third world. Rather he is content to point out the self-evident fact that the lure of the exotic has always been a powerful motivator for travel.<br />In any event, it's hardly surprising that he uses artists and writers to piggyback his themes on, for (as is evident from the title), he equates travel with art in that one of the functions of each is to provide one with a new window on the world, a new way of seeing. His suggestion is that once we recognize this, and stop trying to use travel as an escape from our dull lives, we'll be much happier. He locates one of the major sources of our disappointment in travel in our ability to image the beach or mountain but our inability to imagine ourselves in that landscape.<br />Even with its flaws, the book is a useful tool for rethinking our own motivations for travel and potentially useful guide to helping us enjoy it more.f the major sources of our disappointment in travel in our ability to image the beach or mountain but our inability to imagine ourselves in that landscape. <br />Even with its flaws, the book is a useful tool for rethinking our own motivations for travel and potentially useful guide to helping us enjoy it more.	2002-10-10
1381642:US	52254603	RXRDFYPUEJ0K9	185242379X	367441307	Beneath Black Stars	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Somehow Lacking...	This anthology of short fiction from Austria consists of stories and novel excerpts from 22 writers published in German between 1963 and 1995. In that regard I suppose it's a fair sampling of postwar Austrian literature, but what I had not expected was that this sampling would be so numbingly boring. As the majority authors represented were born during or soon after WWII, I shouldn't have been so surprised that the war and guilt are recurring themes, even in stories written in the '90s. While understand that the Austrian collaboration (Anschluss) with the Nazis is a scar in the national psyche, I suspect that those with more intimate knowledge of Austria may be able to tease a little more meaning out of the stories than I was able to.<br />Meaning and theme aside, too many of the stories are just flat out boring. I did more or less like Heimito von Doderer's \\"Beneath Black Stars\\", narrated by a Luftwaffe officer. I very much enjoyed Hans Carl Artmann's \\"Blind Chance and Roast Duck\\", which is a brief comic farce about three gentlemen who have gambled their money away. Peter Henisch's \\"Brutal Curiosity\\" appears to be a somewhat autobiographical account of his dying father's experience as a combat photographer in WWII which reads rather well. Gert Jonke's \\"The Bridge\\" comes close to being something quite interesting, and Peter Handke's two page sketches aren't bad. The remainder of the stories utterly failed to connect with me, mostly for stylistic reasons. In many cases the writing seemed incredibly stiff, while in others, experimentation runs amok.<br />I had hoped to emerge from this anthology with a sense of Austria beyond the standard Vienna, Mozart, classical view, with a gritty glimpse into the more real modern Austria. These stories more or less try to do that in a variety of ways, but ultimately fail. Rather than show what's going on now, the authors are more interested in deconstructing myths of the past.	2002-10-10
1382431:US	52254603	R31FI9P0JP05FT	0312872569	930510576	Souls in the Great Machine (Greatwinter Trilogy)	Books	3	25	31	N	N	Great Ideas and Worldbuilding, Weak Characters and Plotting	Almost every problem I have with science fiction is represented in this sprawling book-a ton of really interesting ideas poorly served by a rambling and disjointed plot populated by too many hastily drawn characters. I had greatly enjoyed McMullen's earlier book, The Centurion's Empire and was hoping he'd be able to exercise the same control he showed in that book, but this was a bit of a disappointment.<br />The worldbuilding is quite impressive. Set almost two millennia from now, the world is still recovering from a nuclear winter. In Australia a low-tech civilization putters along, with power resting in the hands of librarians. A new head overlibrarian is elected and brings change, as she ruthlessly builds &quot;The Calculator&quot;, a primitive computer using imprisoned people as circuits, and extends a series of communication towers across the various fiefdoms and emirates. The initial exploration of this is quite interesting, but as the overlibrarian's power grows, McMullen starts adding more and more storylines to the mix.<br />It seems that an ancient sunshade being formed by nanotechnology is threatening to block out the sun and initiate a new Ice Age, unless the overlibrarian can do something. Then there's the barbarian horde being mustered by one of her former prot&eacute;g&eacute;s-for reasons that are never really clear to me, other than the need to have a big war in the book. Then there's the mysterious force that sweeps across the land intermittently, causing all who aren't tied down to walk due south forever. Then there's a whole genetics subplot. Not to mention an awfully confusing series of romances and affairs, you really do need a scorecard to keep track of everyone.<br />The ideas are all individually really interesting, it's just that there are too many of them at once and the characters are too flimsy to carry them. Coincidence comes into play all too often, as characters are constantly running into each other, and too many of them are cast from the same obsessive mold and act altogether arbitrarily. It doesn't help that there are abrupt leaps of time in the middle of chapters, out of nowhere will pop up the declaration that five years has passed, for example. Also, the book is badly in need of a map. Geography is an integral part of the plot, and without a map to clarify things, the reader is often literally lost.<br />I salute the McMullen's imagination for ideas, but this book is just too long and haphazard to properly enjoy. I doubt I'll be seeking out it's sequels, The Miocene Arrow and Eyes of the Calculor.obsessive mold and act altogether arbitrarily. It doesn't help that there are abrupt leaps of time in the middle of chapters, out of nowhere will pop up the declaration that five years has passed, for example. Also, the book is badly in need of a map. Geography is an integral part of the plot, and without a map to clarify things, the reader is often literally lost.<br />I salute the McMullen's imagination for ideas, but this book is just too long and haphazard to properly enjoy. I doubt I'll be seeking out it's sequels, The Miocene Arrow and Eyes of the Calculor.	2002-10-09
1382453:US	52254603	RCVZTCHRZW9MT	2880464501	629703946	Magazine Design	Books	2	12	12	N	N	Designer Porn	I have to echo some of the plaudits and complaints about this book. Yes, it does provide a very nice look at design work from some of the leading magazine designers in the field, with tons of spreads and covers from such ultra high-end publications like Colors, Matador, and the like. But while these can be exhilarating to look at, they're unlikely to be of much practical use except to maybe the 5 or 10 designers in the world who are given the unlimited resources required to produce such works of art.<br />For the average magazine designer (like myself), the book isn't particularly helpful in helping us try and arrive at elegant design solutions to our problems. The book's emphasis on high-end magazines is of no use for those of us grappling with text-heavy magazines with very little photography. The book does attempt to provide examples of the full gamut of items: from barcodes, to spines, to navigation, typography, and so forth. However in many cases, the text and examples provide only the most cursory of insights-navigation systems in particular was a big disappointment. Obviously, the book is much stronger when it comes to photography-related issues. Extremely vexing is the lack of any discussion of advertising, for example, how to integrate 1/3 page and smaller ads into the overall design. Also irritating is the book's own typography, which is often squint-inducing.<br />So, I guess I'd file this under &quot;designer porn&quot;. Nice to look at, but unless you're a superstar (or rich), you'll never get near any of this stuff. On the utility scale, this rates way low although there is a nice bibliography at the back.	2002-10-09
1384277:US	52254603	R14MNKWSJHWYK4	0743227077	510295481	Them: Adventures With Extremists	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Watching the Detectives	British journalist Ronson has written a witty and fast-reading \\"lite\\" tour inside the world of various political and ideological extremists. While the emphasis is very much on individuals rather than organized groups, he takes us into lions' dens from Richard Butler's White Power compound in Idaho to an Islamic fundamentalist \\"training camp\\" in rural England, to the legendary (and sophomoric) annual Bohemian Grove gathering in Northern California. Some of the chapters seem shoehorned into the overall theme, such as the brief one where he witnesses a mysterious \\"Mr. Ru RU\\" buying up the remnants of the Ceaucescu's personal effects at an auction in Romania. Another rather weak chapter is that in which he hangs out with weirdo director Tony Kaye (\\"American History X\\") for a day and sort of halfheartedly explores the notion that Jews control Hollywood.<br />More interesting are his investigations of the \\"Bilderberg Group\\"-a sort of loose affiliation of powerful politicians and financiers who meet in secret (or private, depending on your point of view) once a year. I'd actually never heard of them before, but they seem to be a New World Order version of the legendary Trilateral Commission. Also interesting are his brief encounters with Dr. Ian Paisley, and footballer turned believer in alien lizards David Icke. These are entertaining but have the flaw of being little more than expanded magazine articles.<br />The strongest (and timeliest) parts are his longtime relationship with the self-described \\"Bin Laden's man in London\\", who is portrayed as nothing so much as a ridiculous buffoon- albeit an inflammatory one. Another bit of buffoonery occurs when he hangs out with the new PC leader of the KKK, his archival, and some rabid right-wing radio guys. However, amidst all the chuckling at the idiosyncrasies of these guys, there are two very poignant pieces when Ronson meets up with Randy Weaver and his eighteen-year-old daughter some ten years after the \\"Siege of Ruby Ridge\\". These will have Americans seething at the arrogance and ineptitude of government law officers run amok. By the end of the book, the reader is unlikely to have learned a great deal, but it does provide a few humorous glimpses into the mindsets of those on the fringes.. These will have Americans seething at the arrogance and ineptitude of government law officers run amok. By the end of the book, the reader is unlikely to have learned a great deal, but it does provide a few humorous glimpses into the mindsets of those on the fringes.	2002-10-08
1384897:US	52254603	R37VQCIY3AG2VU	0575058978	686170255	You'll Never Be Here Again	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Good, but probably not memorable	Blackaby's book won the prestigious Betty Trask Award (given annually for best debut novel by a British Commonwealth citizen under the age of 35, other winners include Alex Garland for The Beach, Zadie Smith for White Teeth, Hari Kunzru for The Impressionist, John Lanchester for The Debt to Pleasure, et al), so I had high expectations when I cracked its pages. It's essentially the story of a nebbish young man and his transition from college to happily married adult from 1984-94. Paul is a directionless but amiable cigarette addicted, chess-playing, math whiz who pales in the bright light of his charming, handsome, and rich roommate. But instead of taking the obvious route and creating an atmosphere of simmering jealousy or friction, Blackaby portrays their friendship as more of a client/patron one. And while they do get into a few adventures together, the story is really about Paul, his lack of get-up-and-go, and his love life. It's well written, entertaining, and populated by great characters (I especially like the mercurial mechanic Tony and the friendly local wineshop owners), but somehow I get the feeling that in six months I'll be hard pressed to remember anything about it. If I do, it might be this great passage: &quot;Phil came from a moderately broken home and seemed et on passing his parent's achievement with room to spare. His marriage sounded like the end of a Who concert.&quot;	2002-10-07
1394356:US	52254603	R2NPJRLH6W498A	0140240810	199521294	Black Out	Books	4	18	19	N	N	London Calling	This first book in the Troy series left me rather torn. On the one hand, it's a gripping page-turned stuffed with great characters and atmosphere, all set in London just prior to D-Day. On the other hand, the plot relies on so many coincidences and contrivances that one's suspension of disbelief is sorely tested. Like the Berlin detective Bernie Gunther in Phillip Kerr's excellent WWII trilogy (collected as Berlin Noir), Lawton's D.S. Troy is a wonderful character. Born in England to upper class Russian Jewish parents, he doesn't believe in Queen and country, but pursues a broader notion of justice. As a young Scotland Yard whiz-kid, he tries to unravel a series of murders and disappearances tied somehow to former German scientists and the American military.<br />The downside is-and I give nothing away by saying this-that too many central figures in the story are connected to Troy's personal life. One victim lives above his closest police friend, another is known to his uncle (who just happens to be a scientist working in military research), another central player is known to him from childhood, and another important character has a past history with Troy as well. Not to mention the climax, in which Troy's well connected brother plays a key role. It gets to be rather a lot to ignore, and the worst part is, there isn't really a need for all those connections to be there!<br />Fortunately, Lawton provides ample detail and atmosphere to keep everything enjoyable. His portrait of the tough conditions in wartime London, and the privileged place of the American military there is striking. Food rationing, bombing raids, dense fog, rubble-strewn streets, tough East End children, it's all highly evocative. Similarly, he provides a picture of England's simmering domestic political situation that will come as a surprise to many American readers. Every character springs to life under Lawton's pen, from Troy's keen subordinate, to his canny superior, to a hooker with a heart of gold, and bluff American officers. My own favorite is the cross-cursing Polish forensics expert.<br />Coincidences aside, the book is exceedingly well-written, and it's shame Lawton isn't better known in the US. A second Troy book, Old Flames, is set in 1956, a the third, A Little White Death, in 1963-neither of these had yet been published in US.f gold, and bluff American officers. My own favorite is the cross-cursing Polish forensics expert.<br />Coincidences aside, the book is exceedingly well-written, and it's shame Lawton isn't better known in the US. A second Troy book, Old Flames, is set in 1956, a the third, A Little White Death, in 1963-neither of these had yet been published in US.	2002-09-28
1395330:US	52254603	REQDCQ3YR94G7	0575402636	812527346	In Southern Waters	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Wonderful and Hilarious Debut	Less a novel than a loosely related and chronologically arranged series of stories, this debut is one of the most entertaining books I've read this year. Set in Brighton over the course of a school year, it follows the hilarious and sometimes touching adventures of a group of flatmates and their neighbors. The newcomer is Caroline, she's a blue-haired hippyish student who moves into a group flat run by Bob, who is writing a magnum opus on Antarctic exploration when not supporting himself at the racetrack. The other two flatmates are Dave (a drum technician) and Cats .... Downstairs live, Frances, a cultural studies professor from New Zealand, her philandering layabout husband Paul, and their two kids. And below them lives \\"the Eel\\", a old retired Foreign Office type with a dark secret, who is often in the company of Jerry, a poor African graduate student.<br />Although there are some running storylines (the most prominent being Caroline and Paul's affair), each chapter functions as a stand-alone vignette in it's own right. Here's just a taste of the funnier ones: Frances hires Cat to teach Paul to play golf because she lied to her parents and told them Holland was a golf pro and now they're visiting (hilarity ensues); Paul and his ... dealer are left in charge of a baby (hilarity ensues); Caroline, Bob, and Dave go stay with friends in Wales for the weekend and get involved in an epic battle with a local hippy commune (mega-hilarity ensues, including the great line: \\"Meat to a hippy is like Kryptonite to Superman. If they come to close to it, they lose all their powers of double thinking, prevarications, procrastination and vagueness.\\").<br />Almost half the chapters are actually people telling stories about the past, including three different ones about WWII. In one, a veteran relates having to ditch his bomber in the ocean and watch his crewmates die; another creepy one concerns a war crime committed on British soil, and in the most touching one, an old-timer relates his unrequited ... love for a fellow solider in the chaos of the retreat from Burma (for a common soldier's account of the war in Burma, check out George McDonald Fraser's Quartered Safe Out Here). Clearly Marchant has heard his share of wartime stories and wants to remind readers today of what their grandparents went through.<br />Altogether, the stories mesh to create the portrait of a circle of lovable and flawed people whose exploits and adventures you wish could go on and on for hundreds more pages. Great stuff!ates his unrequited ... love for a fellow solider in the chaos of the retreat from Burma (for a common soldier's account of the war in Burma, check out George McDonald Fraser's Quartered Safe Out Here). Clearly Marchant has heard his share of wartime stories and wants to remind readers today of what their grandparents went through.<br />Altogether, the stories mesh to create the portrait of a circle of lovable and flawed people whose exploits and adventures you wish could go on and on for hundreds more pages. Great stuff!	2002-09-27
1396918:US	52254603	REY38GTLW89P5	0811831361	373588739	The Invisible Art	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Massive Matte Attack!	For anyone interested in either painting or the history and technique of film special effects, this book (and accompanying CD-ROM) is a must. Until the last 20-25 years or so, any filmmaker needing to create impressive historical landscapes, futuristic cities, or even just more elaborate interior sets than could be affordably made, turned to the matte painter for a solution. This massive and colorful book richly chronicles the development of using oil paints on glass to create stunning illusions.<br />From classic films like Thief of Baghdad, The Wizard of Oz, and Citizen Kane to crowd-pleasers Mary Poppins, The Birds, Raiders of the Lost Ark, and Star Wars, the book (and CD) is filled with beautiful photos showing the matte, the \\"live\\" shot, and the composited result. What I really liked was all the photos of the artists at work both in the studios and even on location, creating relatively small paintings that would soar across screens. The final chapters cover the technique's transition to the digital age. The CD-ROM is espcially cool, as uses QuickTime movies to show how seamless the composite shots really are!<br />I would have liked to see samples from Blade Runner, but I suspect the writers wisely wanted to keep from overemphasizing the science-fiction genre. This is a great book that deserves to be under the Christmas trees of anyone interested in film effects.	2002-09-26
1397999:US	52254603	R3T13V2K8XBP2Z	0385720920	729613164	Choke	Books	2	0	4	N	N	Weak	This was my first Palahniuk book, and very likely my last. While I enjoyed the film Fight Club, this effort seemed to recycle many of the same elements of that story with much less at stake. The central character is a loser sex addict who revels in appearing to be emotionless and cynical. His offhand sex addiction, and the scenes concerning that, is presumably supposed to be \\"gritty\\" and \\"shocking\\" to the reader, which is kind of a ridiculous notion in this age. Is there anything that can be truly \\"shocking\\" in literature anymore in the wake of Burroughs or more recent novels like American Psycho (which by the way, is a modern classic) and Trainspotting (another amazing book)?<br />The plot (such as there is), revolves around the protagonist's relationship with his mother, a situationist/anarchist now in an expensive hospice for the insane. He pays for this via an elaborate scam whereby every night he pretends to choke in restaurant so that someone can save his life. Then he writes to these people and emotionally blackmails them into sending him money. This is cute and clever, but if you stop and think about it, unlikely to work both in terms of money (he supposedly makes $3,000 month through this), and practicality (food industry people tend to know each other, and it wouldn't take long for his scam to come to light). Flashback chapters shed light on his offbeat childhood in a halfhearted attempt to explain his current malaise.<br />His day job involves working in a colonial-era historic village, somewhat like Williamsburg. This is a nice milieu for some rather funny scenes, but little else. It seems there's some mystery about who his father is, and over the course of the book this becomes more and more important until it overwhelms all else, unfortunately, the reader is unlikely to care. This is a muddled and weak book just barely redeemed by being terrible by three really funny scenes.	2002-09-25
1398436:US	52254603	R1BRQOPLE6XK2	0865471185	601020682	West With The Night	Books	3	17	24	N	N	Slight Turbulence	I picked this up thinking it was a travelogue, only to find that it is actually a memoir by an Englishwoman who grew up in Kenya in the early 1900s, inhabiting the same world as those other female memoirists Isak Dinesan (Out of Africa) and Elspeth Huxley (The Flame Trees of Thika). Her youth, as recounted here, sounds rather magical: living on a massive farm with her father, a native boy as playmate and boon companion, being attacked by a lion and a baboon, learning to hunt with the natives, and as she moves from girl to woman, mastering the finer points of horse training and eventually flying in the '30s. Markham certainly comes across as one of those remarkable Englishwomen of the Imperial age, who succeeds at whatever she puts her mind too, breaking the gender barrier left and right as she does so.<br />However, her memoir is totally absent any mention of her missing mother, or indeed almost any other of the women she must have interacted with. A friend, who's read her biography tells me that she apparently didn't get on with many women, due to her iconoclast ways and alleged promiscuity. And, apparently, it's highly suspect as to whether she actually wrote this book-many believe it was written by her third husband!<br />In any event, the book is full of descriptions of the majestic landscape and the the wise, noble natives who lived there. Of course, like virtually all colonialists of that time, there's a naive assumption that her (white) people should be ruling over these benighted natives. Indeed, she exhibits a remarkable talent for doublethink, deriding the enterprise of big game hunting for pages, only to to on to describe her own exploits in aerial scouting of elephants for hunters and her close friendship with the most famous of these men.<br />The book ends with an account of her transatlantic solo flight in 1946, the first time it had been done from east to west. Now, some sixty years after the memoir's publication, it's still worth reading as a romantic account of growing up in colonial Africa, and the early years of aviation, however many readers may find some of her offhand commentary on Africa cringeworthy.antic account of growing up in colonial Africa, and the early years of aviation, however many readers may find some of her offhand commentary on Africa cringeworthy.	2002-09-25
1402316:US	52254603	R1SHGJE5XR3ZH9	0879054697	611845685	Angry Graphics: Protest Posters of the Reagan/Bush Era	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Awesome	This is a kick-a** little book which is sadly now out of print. The 90+ pages are a sampling of some of the many political protest posters of the Reagan/Bush era, covering issues from local city politics, to police brutality, abortion rights, gay rights, US involvement in El Salvador, the Gulf War, nuclear disarmament and more. Some of the posters were commissioned works, but most were \\"sniped\\" (illegally wheatpasted in the dead of night) in city streets. The bulk of the selections come from New York and San Francisco, and some of them will be readily identifiable or familiar to people of leftish persuasion. Barbara Kruger for example, Keith Haring, David Goines (who is more widely famous for his restaurant and wine identity work), Artfux, Guerilla Girls, and Robbie Conal (sadly his \\"Meese Is A Pig\\" piece is not included). Graphic design guru Heller contributes a nice little condensed history of graphic political protest, and Jacobs offers a few pages on the culture of protest postering. It's a wonderful book that should inspire the activist and graphic designer that lurks in all of us.	2002-09-21
1403570:US	52254603	R1XG1LJUFXSUK9	1852421312	685552712	Murder in the Central Committee (A Mask Noir Title)	Books	1	1	7	N	N	A Rambling Bore	I love reading detective and crime fiction from other countries, however I have to confess this particular book (the first of Montalban's I've read) left me rather disappointed. The story opens promisingly enough, with the stabbing of a head of the Spanish Communist Party central committee when the lights suddenly go out at a meeting in Madrid. Barcelona-based private eye Pepe Carvalho is hired by the party to identify the murderer, whom it is immediately apparent must be another central committee member.<br />Pepe is an agreeable enough detective, sort of a hard-boiled type who likes to provoke people (an orphan with no relations, he is responsible for no one but himself) and also happens to be a food lover, former communist, and former CIA employee. The book's major flaw is that Montalban gets sidetracked from the crime and delivers lengthy and excruciatingly boring details of Spanish communist party history and insider intrigues. Part of the problem lies in the book's age-originally written in 1981, only a few years after the communist party was legalized in Spain-much of this detail might have been more interesting twenty years ago. But I also think that unless one has some overwhelming interest in Spanish politics, this detail both incomprehensible and boring.<br />That's not the only flaw though, another problem is a more basic detecting one. I give nothing away in saying that the murder was planned to occur when all the lights went out, and yet Pepe does nothing to investigate how that might have been coordinated. The solution is given as if the murderer acted alone, however it clearly could not have been the case! In any event, I certainly wasn't inspired to rush out and read more of Pepe's adventures.	2002-09-20
1403789:US	52254603	R2JJ2PBUZQSR58	0679735771	92932803	American Psycho	Books	4	14	17	N	N	A  Masterpiece of Modern Satire	Satire often doesn't go over too well in the US-we're too literal a culture-so it's not surprising that Ellis's savage send-up of the yuppie '80s was met with such a massive wave of public (and critical) outcry even before its publication. Let me get one thing out of the way: are there multiple lengthy graphic descriptions, of rape, torture, and murder? Yes. Are they gratuitous? No-in fact they are integral to the book's central theme of alienation and disassociation.<br />The book is written from within the head of Patrick Bateman, a handsome mid-20s yuppie Wall Street type. (I recommend watching the Oliver Stone movie Wall Street prior to reading the book, as it will give you the a good feel for the mindset of the era.) Patrick's thoughts consist primarily of which ubertrendy restaurant to be seen at, minute descriptions of his and everyone else's clothes, the plots of TV shows, descriptions of his daily toilette and workout regime, and chapter-length dissertations on the merits of the latest albums by Phil Collins, Whitney Houston, and Huey Lewis. Basically, it's a very shallow and empty existence, which is underscored by Ellis's intentionally mind-numbing detail and repetition.<br />Although past unsavory deeds are obliquely alluded too, it's not until a hundred pages in that we \\"discover\\" that Patrick is apparently completely psychotic, when he savagely attacks a homeless man and his dog. From this point on, Patrick's raping, torturing, and killing is just another aspect of his life described in mind-numbing (not to mention horrific) detail. These acts are the only thing that makes him feel anything. In this, Ellis is clearly satirizing those people-of whom the '80s yuppies are the embodiment-who must consume designer clothes, designer food, and designer drugs in order to feel alive.<br />Many readers may be a little upset with the ending, which after 400 pages offers no answers. Since the whole book is from within Patrick's head, it's never clear if the violence is real or his own hallucination or fantasy, although many clues strongly suggest so. In any event, the book is a nasty critique of American society (or at least a certain segment of it at a certain time), and one that's ripe for study for years to come. Is it a masterpiece of modern fiction? Probably. Is it a perfect novel? No, the repetition could have been reduced without watering anything down, and the violence is just too graphic to make it widely accessible, and finally, it's a book that demands discussion and thus shouldn't really be read on one's own.ce is real or his own hallucination or fantasy, although many clues strongly suggest so. In any event, the book is a nasty critique of American society (or at least a certain segment of it at a certain time), and one that's ripe for study for years to come. Is it a masterpiece of modern fiction? Probably. Is it a perfect novel? No, the repetition could have been reduced without watering anything down, and the violence is just too graphic to make it widely accessible, and finally, it's a book that demands discussion and thus shouldn't really be read on one's own.	2002-09-19
1405308:US	52254603	R1QOZWSLP1OCCQ	0330369202	323380959	Manchester Slingback	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Dirty Old Town	With this book Nicholas Blincoe cements his position to me as one of those authors whose books sound and look good and then fails to produce the good. Acid Casuals was a total waste of time, and this one is only marginally better. The story is mainly about Jake, a successful London casino manager in his mid-30s. One night, a police inspector from Manchester shows up and coerces him into returning to that city where as a teenager back in 1981 he lived a hedonistic drugs and gay sex life. It seems that back then, Jake's best friend was murdered, and just a few weeks ago, another friend from the past was found dead.<br />The story switches back and forth between Jake's present day (1997ish) trip back to Manchester to dig up the dirt, and flashbacks to the days of seedy gay discos and Bowie clones. Clearly, Blincoe is also trying to contrast the gritty old days of Manchester's gay Village with the posh fin-de-millenium redevelopment of the city. Unfortunately, this never really pops off the page to someone who's never been to Manchester. Blincoe is too interested in the flash and sizzle of the past to keep the contemporary story moving, although at the end, as he slowly reveals the crimes of the past and Jake's role in them, the book gets a bit more interesting. However, if you like this stuff, a book with a similar plot, set in San Francisco's gay community in the early '90s, is Agnes Bushell's The Enumerator.	2002-09-18
1405421:US	52254603	R3FT0MPBFTP34F	0809001608	598990781	The Treasure of the Sierra Madre	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A Vital Novel for All Time	Traven deserves recognition as one of the great social novelists, right next to Stienbeck and Orwell-anyone who wonders why need only to read this, his most well-known work (thanks to the film by John Huston). Traven's story is a simple enough tale of how greed can corrupt men, but his intimate portrait of the social conditions which brings this about is what makes the book special. Set in Mexico between the two World Wars, it starts with a destitute American vagabond who's reduced to begging for his meals. He joins up with another American to work at oil camps, only to be exploited and cheated out of their pay. Eventually the duo team up with an old prospector and head to the hills to seek gold.<br />When they do find some gold, it gradually begins to corrupt them like some cursed treasure from myth. Even though the old prospector warns the two younger men at length of what gold can do to men's minds, paranoia and obsession slowly infiltrate the men's heads. While the men's encounter with bandits is one of film's most famous moments (\\"Badges? We ain't got no badges! We don't need no badges!\\"), many other predators lurk in the dusty Mexican landscape. Traven's familiarity with the area is one of the elements that makes the book so strong, as he is able to capture the textures and smells of the mountains and bring them to life. As the story plays out, Traven seems to reveal a strong belief in karma or cosmic justice of sorts and in the end, only the indigenous Huichol Indians emerge as wholly admirable people.	2002-09-18
1405467:US	52254603	RXTMPBVX9338	014200068X	713608567	Cannery Row: (Centennial Edition)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Sentimental Journey	Like a lot of Steinbeck's work (or at least what I remember of it), this fictionalized tribute to the small California coastal town of Monterey is sentimental to its core. Of course, in this instance, it's understandable, since the book is a very thinly veiled portrait of his friends and town, especially the central figure of \\"Doc\\", who was based on a good friend of Steinbeck's. It's a very human book, one that is less concerned about relating a story and events, but is rather about people and community.<br />There's the wise biologist \\"Doc\\", who supplies animals to labs, the ... with hearts of gold and their madam Dora, the Chinese grocer Lee Chong, the wild French artist, and of course down and out Mack and the other well-meaning bums who may be broke and unemployed, but are never homeless as long as there's a vacant lot. No one is wealthy, and people aren't always happy, but one gets the sense that it's a good place to live. There's a lesser known sequel to this (which I haven't read), called Sweet Thursday.	2002-09-18
1406013:US	52254603	R1KUL0XB7HVBO0	189659719X	280755714	Hicksville	Books	3	11	18	N	N	Navel Gazing	As an outsider to the world of comics (well, I grew up on Tintin and Asterix, and love Adrian Tomine's stuff, as well as Joe Sacco), I found this book to be a bit of an exercise in navel-gazing somewhat comparable to when a novelist writes a novel about writing or the publishing industry. The book's plot revolves around the history of comics and the industry's evolution into, well, an industry. One that stifles \\"art\\" and creativity in the name of serving up the latest installment (and movie) of the spandex-clad superheroes.<br />This somewhat whiny message is woven into the tale of a journalist trying to learn about the background of the industry's current superstar, a quest which takes him to a semi-magical small town in New Zealand, where everyone reads and appreciates comics. Horrock's exhibits a remarkable dexterity of storytelling in sustaining the story while interspersing all manner of digressions, subplots, and asides which may or may not be real. But while this is abstractly impressive, unless one is really into the whole world of comics, it's not likely to captivate. The art is not really to my taste, I prefer more consistency and realism, but it does suit the story perfectly. As always with D&Q, the book is beautifully produced, I just wish it had been more interesting to us non-insiders.	2002-09-17
1406258:US	52254603	ROA2OYRXJLEWQ	1852425547	20415620	The Enumerator (Mask Noir)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Decent, but not Thrilling	This thriller takes place in San Francisco in early 1993, a time when AIDS was rampant and uncontrolled. The enumerator of the title is Sean, a public health contractor who does door-to-door sex surveys of gay men as part of an effort to study sexual practices and the spread of AIDS. When a fellow enumerator is murdered, and his interview files go missing, it doesn't take long to figure out that someone had said something in their interview that needed to be covered up. Sean teams up with unemployed and spunky Alexandra (yes, romantic sparks fly) to uncover the mystery. Filled with Queer Nation activists, San Francisco neighborhoods and street life, threats of outing public figures, and Army of God militants, the story is a clever modern take on the thriller genre. Of course, Sean and Alex never get enough treatment to emerge as fully realized characters one cares about, nor does anyone else. It's a little too unlikely to be taken seriously, and the resolution is rather too neat-it's certainly not a noir-but it's not bad for what it is, and a good book to take on a trip to San Francisco.	2002-09-17
1406281:US	52254603	REA3X6SCK1XKY	1896597181	280755714	Hicksville	Books	3	2	14	N	N	Navel Gazing	As an outsider to the world of comics (well, I grew up on Tintin and Asterix, and love Adrian Tomine's stuff, as well as Joe Sacco), I found this book to be a bit of an exercise in navel-gazing somewhat comparable to when a novelist writes a novel about writing or the publishing industry. The book's plot revolves around the history of comics and the industry's evolution into, well, an industry. One that stifles \\"art\\" and creativity in the name of serving up the latest installment (and movie) of the spandex-clad superheroes.<br />This somewhat whiny message is woven into the tale of a journalist trying to learn about the background of the industry's current superstar, a quest which takes him to a semi-magical small town in New Zealand, where everyone reads and appreciates comics. Horrock's exhibits a remarkable dexterity of storytelling in sustaining the story while interspersing all manner of digressions, subplots, and asides which may or may not be real. But while this is abstractly impressive, unless one is really into the whole world of comics, it's not likely to captivate. The art is not really to my taste, I prefer more consistency and realism, but it does suit the story perfectly. As always with D&Q, the book is beautifully produced, I just wish it had been more interesting to us non-insiders.	2002-09-17
1406973:US	52254603	RH117KEA5NGNQ	1862300461	491732356	Donna and The Fatman	Books	1	1	3	N	N	Really Really Poor.	This book is terrible. For some inexplicable reason, various reviews have equated it with the work of Martin Amis (not nearly as literate or clever), Brett Easton Ellis (not nearly as satirical or dark), Irvine Welsh (not nearly as original or funny or human), and Quentin Tarantino (not nearly as ironic or funny). The plot is fairly simple, a young women (for unclear reasons) makes the aquaintence of an aging, overweight London loanshark and his tiny crew. There's a lot of dancing around as the fatman attempts to establish power (via money and sex) over Donna and she tries to remain whole.<br />It's sort of a revenge fantasy type book, but the motivations are never established properly, and the charcters are all ciphers, so it's impossible to ever really care what they do to eachother. Most of all though, the book is just plain boring! For those who think this is a \\"London mob story\\", well yes, there is a lot of driving around London, and the cast are mostly criminials who all speak in the same clipped, laconic banter, but that's about it. If you want a real London underworld tale, check out JJ Conolly's Layer Cake.	2002-09-16
1407312:US	52254603	R2TX44LXZG5YL7	1558539522	376655119	Very Vegetarian: More Than 300 Recipes- From Easy to Elegant- For the Most Delicious Vegan Dishes	Books	2	31	39	N	N	Can't Make It Work...	This is a lovely book, full of really well-written and informative sections on nutrition, ingredients, putting menus together, and the recipes all sound wonderful and are easy to follow and well laid-out. However... I've made ten dishes from it, and not a single one turned out very tasty! I've had other cookbooks that produced occasional disappointments, but never one that so consistently left me crestfallen! So, while I really wanted to like this book, I feel I must warn others against it, sorry...	2002-09-16
1407930:US	52254603	R2ILN16OSGQ2Q9	1582341494	352322588	The Toy Collector	Books	2	0	13	N	N	The Same Old Same Old	I didn't find this a particularly disturbing or sick book, just a boring one, and that's the worst kind of all. I'm baffled by all the good reviews this book has gotten, 'cause there's nothing particularly original or fascinating about this particular study of a selfish, self-destructive young man. It's reminiscent of any number of books and films about depressives who wander through life in a haze of booze, drugs, violence, and empty sex, with occasional glimpses of humanity struggling to emerge. My main problem is that once you've read/seen one, you've seen 'em all-the stories are the same. The protagonist is so wholly unsympathetic, you spend the entire book wishing he'd OD so he'll stop hurting the people who inexplicably try and reach out to him. There is enough real misery in the world that it's very hard to care about a character who creates it for himself.<br />And if you're going to build your story around such an unsympathetic person, there better be a lot more going on to make up for it. In this case, Gunn offers a little bit of humor through flashback scenes to the character's '70s childhood. Many of these scenes suffer from a familiar problem in fiction, children who neither speak nor act like real children. What does work considerably better, and was the only redeeming feature of this stale book, are a few scenes imagined from within the heads of action figures as the children construct elaborate fantasies around them. These are really good and entertaining, and are the only really funny parts. Alas, they are not enough to make reading the whole thing worthwhile.	2002-09-15
1411413:US	52254603	RT8JJ1GP33HEM	1585790249	552381525	Quartered Safe Out of Here: A Recollection of the War in Burma	Books	4	16	17	N	N	One Man's War	Before Fraser became well known for his &quot;Flashman&quot; series of comic historical novels, he was an enlisted man in the 17th Division of the 14th Indian Army during WWII. Almost 50 years later, he recounts his wartime experience in Burma from the perspective of his section of about eight or so men, all from Cumbria in NW England. With his many writerly gifts, he gives a mostly unvarnished account of what he did and saw, capturing battle actions and anecdotes with sharp and often witty prose.<br />Fraser's account is very much a personal one, and throughout the book he rails against contemporary mores and broader political correctness concerning the war. He is quite open about how the British forces believed themselves to be superior beings compared to the Japanese they fought-and points to Japanese POW camps as a vindication of this. Similarly, he reports the campfire discussions after his unit saw newsreels from liberated concentration camps, in which all agreed that Germany needed to be razed to the ground. Fraser himself provides an emphatic defense of the use of nuclear bombs on Japan. And in his defense, it is true that the latest scholarship on the subject is in agreement that Japan was not on the brink of surrender at the time.<br />Beyond these larger issues, the memoir is perhaps at its best when telling the smaller stories. The character of his Cumbrian comrades, the descriptions of various &quot;native&quot; units such as the Gurkhas, Pathans, Sikhs, and especially a hilarious description of the Army's East African drivers. There's a great bit where he falls down a well in the middle of an attack, and another great part where an uneducated Sergeant borrows his copy of Shakespeare's Henry V and definitively concludes that Shakespeare had been a soldier. My favorite bit though, was when he is sent to teach the PIAT (British version of the bazooka) to a guerilla unit led by a character straight out of Monty Python. Cpt. &quot;Grief&quot; was one of those crazy commando-type officers who spoke in a running &quot;rah rah&quot; style, thought that war was great fun, and was totally deadly.<br />Although at times Fraser's conservative crankiness gets old, and at times his slips into over-sentimentality, its kind of hard to begrudge him those faults-having done his service, he's earned the right to grumble. Overall, the memoir is a great taste of &quot;the forgotten war&quot; in Asia and an excellent example of the infantryman-level view of the war.ose crazy commando-type officers who spoke in a running &quot;rah rah&quot; style, thought that war was great fun, and was totally deadly. <br />Although at times Fraser's conservative crankiness gets old, and at times his slips into over-sentimentality, its kind of hard to begrudge him those faults-having done his service, he's earned the right to grumble. Overall, the memoir is a great taste of &quot;the forgotten war&quot; in Asia and an excellent example of the infantryman-level view of the war.	2002-09-12
1411463:US	52254603	R23N2X6SO09OW1	1841950483	888181047	Born Free	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Sad but True	I first came across Laura Hird through her story \\"The Dilating Pupil\\" in the Children of Albion Rovers collection. In this, her first novel, she tells the depressing story of a wreck of a family living in Edinburgh. The chapters alternate between the voices of Vic, Angie, Jonie, and Jake (father, mother, 15-year-old, and 14-year-old), as they each seek escape from the shell of domestic life. Vic and Angie are going through agonizing midlife crises and a marriage that's totally dead. He's a bus driver on Prozac struggling to be decent and win the love of his family, she's a bitter, contemptuous bookie's assistant who's having a blast falling off the wagon. Meanwhile, their two teenagers are caught up in their own selfish angst of sex, friendships, drugs, and avoiding their parents.<br />The book is like a Mike Leigh film, brilliantly put together, but totally depressing. There are many moments of humor and recognition throughout, but ultimately there's not a whole lot of hope to be found anywhere. Given how awful the women act, it's hard to imagine a man being able to write this book without getting attacked as a misogynist. In any event, Hird's obviously got loads of talent, and this book should put her right there with her male Scottish peers like Welsh, Warner, McLean, Legge, and the like.	2002-09-12
1413908:US	52254603	R2KVA8VQLIEMSE	0670030929	261421472	The Shape of Water (Salvo Montalbano Mysteries)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Nicely Understated Debut	The Inspector Montalbano series is hugely popular in Europe, and with this book, the Sicilian policeman makes his English language debut... I'm not sure why, but some reviews have described him as a lethargic, cynical, and reluctant character-which he is none of. He is realistic within the constraints of the highly political and corrupt system, but he has a huge streak of compassion and empathy, and is certainly not lethargic. There are no big surprises at the end, but the real treat is in the journey and getting to know this likable policeman. A small note:... I say curious because I can't recall a single mention of wine, and only two or three meals are described, and then only very briefly-so I'm not sure why the publisher felt the need to make a pretense of gastronomic delights. In any event, it's deftly translated and nicely understated book that gives a very tangible sense of Sicily.	2002-09-10
1415335:US	52254603	R27ALJFX6UOAYU	0312261888	462456139	The Bus Driver Who Wanted to Be God & Other Stories	Books	5	43	46	N	N	Great Short Fiction from Israel	Although wildly popular in his native Israel, this collection is the first of Keret's work to be published in the US. Two-thirds of the small book is given over to 22 equally small short stories, all ranging from 5-8 pages or so. These stories are difficult to characterize, although they generally feature alienated males (often children or teenagers), and the writing is universally deft and satirically witty with an underlying tone of irony and sorrow-occasionally drifting into unreality. Any description of them would not do them justice at all. I don't read enough American writers to think up a good comparison, although I would say Kerst shares some of Jonathan Lethem and Mark Jude Porier's territory. However, what the stories more similar to is some of the short fiction that came out of Scotland in the early to mid-'90s from people like Gordon Legge, Duncan McLean, and James Kelman, who also write very brief stories. Perhaps most of all, the book bears comparison to the absurdist fables of another Scot, Magnus Mills (All Quiet on the Orient Express, The Restraint of Beasts, Three To See The King). The novella which occupies the final third of the book, &quot;Kneller's Happy Campers&quot;, about the afterlife of those who commit suicide, is especially redolent of Mills' odd and affecting mix of black humor and fantasy. The collection is drawn and translated from Keret's bestselling collections in Israel, and one can only hope that more makes it into English and across the shores.	2002-09-08
1417798:US	52254603	R24NLH4GRB6BW7	0967684749	520844945	Channel Zero	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Public Enemy No. 1	With a title taken from the a Public Enemy song, it shouldn't be too hard to guess that this is a book all about apathy, complacence, and fighting the powers that be. Another in a long line of dystopian graphic novels, Wood's is notable for both its impressive and innovative page layouts and its proactive message.<br />In the near future, America has jettisoned many civil liberties in favor of the \\"Clean Act\\", which effectively places all media in government hands and enforces the notion of America as a Christian country. Enter Jennie 2.5, a revolutionary countercultural culture jammer who uses a network of supporters to beam antigovernment and anti-apathy messages over the TV. The recurrent message is \\"Your Mind Is A Weapon. Use It!\\", and to reinforce this, Wood has included little photocopiable flyers for readers to bomb the streets with.<br />Another central message is that \\"the media\\" (all media, or just broadcast or mass media? it's not clear) is inherently corrupt and powerful. Corrupt because it always has an agenda of some sort, and powerful because modern society has wholly surrendered itself to its influences. Of course, you might as well say that all humanity is corrupt, because every living person has an agenda of some sort. And there's more than a little self-righteous elitism in the book's assumption that people are sheep and a revolutionary vanguard must lead the way to freedom. Still, the idea that people should think about where their information comes from, and who's behind it is always worth repeating. In any event, it is a wonderful piece of graphic art that can be enjoyed without reading a word.	2002-09-06
1419223:US	52254603	R3P6JBUFCA3B23	1569470472	174778934	Beat Not the Bones	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Still Fresh 50 Years Later	The title is of course from Act 5, Scene 2 of Shakespeare's Love's Labour's Lost, in which Armando says \\"The sweet war-man is dead and rotten; sweet chucks, beat not the bones of the buried: when he breathed, he was a man.\\" In this case, the buried is David Warwick, an anthropologist in Papua New Guinea, circa 1950, who is nominally in charge of native welfare and protection of indigenous customs. When he dies, apparently by suicide, his young wife comes from Australia to uncover the truth about the husband she barely knew.<br />Jay (actually a pseudonym of Geraldine Halls) packs plenty of Conradian themes into this brooding slim tale. When Stella arrives from the mainland, she finds that every white person is either lying to her or on the verge of a mental breakdown. Gone from the protective cocoon that has shielded her for her entire life, she finds herself wholly capable and unafraid to journey to the heart of darkness, to the village that holds the secret of her husband's death. It's a very dark examination of the human psyche, with plenty to say about colonialism, racism and sexism. One would be hard-pressed to tell it was written fifty years ago.	2002-09-04
1420150:US	52254603	R1P4NK64GGEY34	1899344535	491408121	Oh No, Not My Baby (Bloodlines)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Too Obvious	One of the staple themes of noir is the average man thrown in the midst of a large crime, usually thanks to some yummy woman who comes out of nowhere. James hits all of these right on the head as Nick, a struggling saxophone player, is drawn into the schemes of his schoolboy crush, who shows up out of the blue one day. When she is apparently killed while sneaking around a meat-processing plant taking photos, her getaway driver Nick comes under the heavy attention of the police, as well as that of some very sinister folks who refuse to identify themselves.<br />As he pokes into the matter a little bit-not convinced that she fell accidentally into a meat grinder-he starts encountering some very nasty animal rights ..., as well as a bizarre semi-cult of all-natural beauty product saleswomen. It becomes clear that someone doesn't like his poking around and the apathetic musician must now tread very lightly in his new role as amateur detective. Meanwhile, he's also dealing with the ups and downs of his band's fortunes, which strike an rather off-key note in most of their chapters. It's still pretty decent attempt to write a modern noir, with all the ecoterrorist and ... multinational corporation activity at the center of the book and Glastonbury as a climactic setting.<br />The crime, once revealed, is also classic noir, and so is the ending-unfortunately, the clues are rather too obvious for any reader to be surprised by the \\"shocking\\" twist at the end. ...Instead of this creating suspense (as in a Hitchcock film, for example), it merely makes the proceedings seem a bit tedious as one keeps waiting for Nick to figure it out.	2002-09-04
1420469:US	52254603	REVUS4F4G1DJW	0747275874	140359992	The Crew	Books	4	8	21	N	N	A Surprisingly Decent Page-Turner	British hooligan authority Brimson turns his hand to fiction in this surprisingly readable bit of pulp about a top hooligan and the policeman with a sworn vendetta against him. The plot is fairly simple, DI Paul Jarvis of the National Football Intelligence Unit watched a fellow policeman die a few years previously in a hooligan rampage orchestrated by Billy Evans. Fast-forward a few years and Evans is a top man and a semi-respectable used car dealer. Jarvis discovers Evans is planning something big in conjunction with an England game in Italy, and tries every means possible to find out what. Part of that means putting the screws on those trusted by Evans, and soon enough, Jarvis has got a grass to go along with the undercover officer already on the scene. The story builds nicely to the climax in Italy, and has a really well setup twist at the end that'll leave you shaking your head. I didn't expect much from this book, and to be sure, it's not of the same quality as John King, but it does deliver a page-turning punch of a read.	2002-09-03
1423223:US	52254603	R11KWD5J05GPQI	1585670537	510613166	Flesh Guitar	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A Road To Nowhere	Definitely the weakest of the three Nicholson books I've read (the other two being Bleeding London and Still Life With Volkswagen), this novel haphazardly follows the career of Jenny Slade, an avant-garde female guitar player. Other readers have criticized it's lack of narrative framework or traditional plot, but I think it adheres fairly closely to the traditional \\"quest for knowledge\\" structure. The problem is that the various incidents and episodes fail to add up to the larger knowledge or truth that is implicit in such a structure.<br />Over the course of the book, Jenny appears as a vision and converses with various guitar gods right before they die, including Robert Johnson, Jimi Hendrix, and Kurt Cobain, and also dispenses advice to a young Frank Zappa. Intermingled are her encounters with fictional musicians, the most captivating of which is the one-armed Freddie Terrano and his band of worshipers. Intermingled are excerpts from the \\"Journal of Sladean Studies\\", an uber-fanzine written by her favorite fan. Ultimately, it's a surreal hodgepodge that is intermittently entertaining, but kind of meanders to nowhere. In that sense, I think Nicholson is rather like Jonathan Lethem, who is also capable of great writing and wild ideas, some of which are genius, and some of which flop. For Nicholson, this is a flop.	2002-09-01
1426763:US	52254603	R264ND3XCVXBFC	0747542392	639244515	Waterloo Story	Books	3	1	1	N	N	So-So Story of '64	Set in 1964, this slim novel recounts the struggle between two men over the future of a failing family-owned hardware wholesaler in London. Almost the entire book takes place on the sixth floor of a Victorian-era warehouse, and is narrated by \\"the Ghost\\", an emotionally troubled young man who works in the warehouse and largely ignored by his coworkers. The story is perhaps over allegorical, as the two men represent the past and future of England, with two middle-class teenage seasonal workers representing those undecided who will follow. Brian is the leader of the workforce, and in many ways the entire firm, a charismatic working class hero type who is perhaps a touch too tyrannical, but nonetheless emblematic of the postwar years. This paternalistic figure is constantly at odds with Kenny, a conniving little SOB in his early 20s who's doesn't seem to do much work, and is trying to organize a union, the establishment of which would likely be a death-knell for the firm and Brian. The duo's skirmishes escalate as they try and win the hearts and minds of the two teenagers, with predictable results. Although a present-day prologue and epilogue bookend the events of 35 years ago, the entire book reads almost as a play, with its one location, few players, and overt symbolism. As a novel it's tautly constructed, but perhaps somewhat artificially so, while as a statement on social change, it's more of a quick riff than a considered exploration.	2002-08-28
1429455:US	52254603	R16KDKW5LNMBFK	0375421254	918667395	Anything Goes	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Growing Up.	Filled with themes of identity, family, and maturity, Bell's thirteen book takes place over a year, following a Nashville-based cover band as they travel down the eastern seaboard and up into Vermont, playing roadhouses a few weeks at a time. Jesse is their bassist, and for him, the ritual of being on the road creates a sense of security and family, since his mother abandoned him soon after birth, and his alcoholic father beat him all through childhood. Jesse is happy to follow the warm weather around, playing music, scoring occasional women, and then hanging out at band leader (and surrogate father figure) Perry's farm during the off-season.<br />This steady existence is skewed somewhat when Jesse's father shows up clean and sober, and looking for reconciliation. Part of this involves introducing him to a neighbor whose singing knocks his socks off. Soon enough, she's in the band, and they have great and greater success, all while Jesse struggles to identify his feelings for her and hers for him. Nothing earth-shattering happens in the book, but the relationships and issues are all captivating and feel true to life. Jesse 's mother was a Melungeon (a dark mysterious Appalachian people whose origins are unknown) and the band's drummer is black, allowing Bell to touch on racial identity issues here and there as the band drifts though white-trash venues all through the South. The towns, bars, and motels all spring from the page as real places, with history and grit to them.<br />Over the course of the year's cycle, Jesse comes to terms with his past, his heritage, and his future in a very non-soap opera way. This book could have easily drifted into sappiness (think Oprahish) and never quite does. The last portions get a touch heavy-handed, but never so much as to spoil the easygoing tone of the book. Musicians may especially enjoy this book as there is a great deal of language attempting to describe how Jesse feels about hearing and playing music, and how it infects his whole being. One last note, the first chapter originally appeared as a short story in the \\"It's Only Rock And Roll\\" anthology.his whole being. One last note, the first chapter originally appeared as a short story in the \\"It's Only Rock And Roll\\" anthology.	2002-08-26
1432046:US	52254603	R1PA48748QSOL9	0847820025	413504038	G1 New Dimensions in Graphic Design	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Eh...	The cover is best thing about this now dated attempt to locate design not just in the work of an elite world of artists and designers, but also in the &quot;vernacular&quot;-that is, the everyday items that surround us. To that end, the book positions &quot;found&quot; items such as shipping boxes, torn up billboards, and scraps of paper next to commercial packaging, next to highly designed pieces. What happens is that next to same old overdesigned catalog spreads, arty CD packaging, and industry self-promo pieces, the found objects become a lot more interesting. Of course, I didn't need a book to tell me that, a simple walk down my litter-strewn and graffittied street does the trick just as well. The editors try and get all clever by not putting designer credits next to the pieces, instead printing them on removable stickers in the rear.	2002-08-23
1432406:US	52254603	R1KEBKSWQZ840T	067977548X	523607559	Faster: The Acceleration of Just About Everything	Books	2	63	75	N	N	A Breathlessly Superficial Collection of Tidbits	After hearing so many people rave above Gleick's two previous books, &quot;Chaos&quot; and &quot;Genius&quot;, I was very much taken aback by this unstructured collage of factoids and tidbits. Written in a whiny and grating first-person address to the reader, the book regurgitates endless anecdotal and semi-documented examples of how modern life has accelerated the pace of everyday life. It's somewhat bizarre (or perhaps nudge-nudge, wink-wink, ironic) that the book is divided into wee snippets of psuedo-chapters, reflecting/acknowledging?, the national decline in attention span. While some of these individual items are certainly interesting in their own merit-I liked the discussion of the original research into &quot;Type A&quot; personalities, the bit on telephone voice acceleration technology, and the brief economics of time part near the end-the overall effect is like reading a scrapbook of magazine sidebars and mini-features with no framework other than the self-evident notion that in the industrialized West, we live at a &quot;faster&quot; pace than any previous generation. Nowhere is there any discussion of how we might, as a society, turn away from this trend, or even if we should. (Gleick implicitly characterizes this trend as a negative one throughout). A breathlessly superficial survey which offers no analysis or insight.	2002-08-23
1432904:US	52254603	R23GTA9X0436IC	0819565024	165470493	Global Noise: Rap and Hip Hop Outside the USA (Music/Culture)	Books	3	19	20	N	N	Very Academic & Too Limited in Time and Place	I waited a long time for this book, and I have to say it's not quite what I expected. First, I was disappointed to see that the essays focus on Europe (France, Germany, UK, Italy, Bulgaria, Holland, Basque country), the Pacific Rim (Japan, Korea, Australia, New Zealand) and Canada with absolutely nothing about some of the most exciting and vibrant current hip-hop scenes, such as Mexico, Cuba, and especially Brazil (not to mention Africa). Secondly, I was hoping for an accessible exploration of the phenomenon of international rap, but be warned, this is a highly academic collection unlikely to appeal to the average hip-hop fan. Here's just a taste, from the essay \\"Urban Breakbeat Culture\\" on the UK:<br />\\"The productive syncretism of diasporic cultures is further demonstrated by the creative use British-Asian musicians have made of hip-hop as the basis of musical-cultural statements about how they are negotiating new ethnic identities. Here again, hip-hop is only one node in a complex web of postcolonial cultural elements.\\"<br />It's not that the above is incomprehensible, it's just more academic than I wanted to deal with. The research is pretty impressive from an anthropological sense, however the essays are clearly written for academic purposes and lack the clear prose that might make them more engaging to the general reader. Many also suffer from an abundance of detail and minutiae regarding performers, releases, record sales, and so forth. My third major complaint is that the essays seem somewhat dated-in many of them references to releases and groups end at 1997-98, which is perhaps why places like Brazil aren't covered. Several bear the mark of having been hastily updated just prior to publication.<br />All written by different authors, the essays share some common themes. Those that offer broad surveys of a specific country's scene all start out by defining rap/hip-hop as a culture (why not subculture?) comprised of four elements: breakdancing, graffiti, turntablism, and vocal rap. They then go on in most cases to name the early '80s films Wild Style and Beat Street as catalyzing forces leading to a breakdancing fad, which served as an incubator for the birth of a local hip-hop scene. Many of the essays discuss the local splits between \\"pop\\" radio-friendly rap and \\"real\\" or \\"hardcore\\" rap as well as the problems of airplay and distribution.<br />The more interesting (and unfortunately, dense) of the essays focus on how hip-hop has been used in various countries as part of a cultural identity and/or political struggle. Naturally, this means a lot of muddled talk about globalism, cultural imperialism, but if one is willing to slog through the denser passages, there is some worthwhile material. There's much detailed discussion of how US hip-hop forms are combined with indigenous or other music styles to make something new and more relevant than whatever is coming from the US. Of course, this means some of the artists being discussed are rather far away from what most US hip-hop fans would consider as part of the genre. The Basque nationalist group Negu Gorriak, for example, is more of a punk band, and more commonly associated with Fugazi than hip-hop. The chapter on \\"Islamic\\" hip-hop is sort of a misnomer as well, as the artists discussed (Fun-Da-Mental and the singer from Transglobal Underground) are more part of the Asian beats/dance scene than anything hip-hop.<br />In any event, if you're really really into hip-hop, you might want to check this out to see what was going on around the world five years ago and for a limited view of how hip-hop has evolved beyond US shores. Each chapter has a discography at the end, which is helpful in trying to seek out some of the music, and a few websites are listed as well. Otherwise, I would advise leaving this books for the pop culture academics for whom it's clearly intended.ntablism, and vocal rap. They then go on in most cases to name the early '80s films Wild Style and Beat Street as catalyzing forces leading to a breakdancing fad, which served as an incubator for the birth of a local hip-hop scene. Many of the essays discuss the local splits between \\"pop\\" radio-friendly rap and \\"real\\" or \\"hardcore\\" rap as well as the problems of airplay and distribution.<br />The more interesting (and unfortunately, dense) of the essays focus on how hip-hop has been used in various countries as part of a cultural identity and/or political struggle. Naturally, this means a lot of muddled talk about globalism, cultural imperialism, but if one is willing to slog through the denser passages, there is some worthwhile material. There's much detailed discussion of how US hip-hop forms are combined with indigenous or other music styles to make something new and more relevant than whatever is coming from the US. Of course, this means some of the artists being discussed are rather far away from what most US hip-hop fans would consider as part of the genre. The Basque nationalist group Negu Gorriak, for example, is more of a punk band, and more commonly associated with Fugazi than hip-hop. The chapter on \\"Islamic\\" hip-hop is sort of a misnomer as well, as the artists discussed (Fun-Da-Mental and the singer from Transglobal Underground) are more part of the Asian beats/dance scene than anything hip-hop.<br />In any event, if you're really really into hip-hop, you might want to check this out to see what was going on around the world five years ago and for a limited view of how hip-hop has evolved beyond US shores. Each chapter has a discography at the end, which is helpful in trying to seek out some of the music, and a few websites are listed as well. Otherwise, I would advise leaving this books for the pop culture academics for whom it's clearly intended.	2002-08-22
1433427:US	52254603	R2PCTLI8V9HEKX	0312265859	52382288	Hard Eight (Stephanie Plum)	Books	1	5	14	N	N	really bad	This is the first of the Stephanie Plum series which I've read, and I have to say it didn't inspire me to go back and read the previous seven books. Set in the Jersey 'burbs, the book (and series) features Stephanie, an apparently thirtiesh bounty hunter of incredible ineptness and poor luck, working for her cousin Vinny's bail bond service. In this stale story, she has two main tasks, to bring in a wife-beater who didn't show up in court, and to help her parent's neighbor find her daughter and granddaughter.<br />Nothing in the book has any originality to it. Stephanie's neighborhood, the \\"'Burg\\" is standard issue, people all know each others business, strangers in the neighborhood are immediately known, and everyone talks tough, etc... Stephanie's two romantic possibilities are cardboard cutouts, the first is a dog-owning hunky nice guy next door type who clearly loves her and is good for her but for some inexplicable reason (maybe delved into in previous books?) she doesn't want to be with. And then there's the laughable Ranger, a tempting slice of mysterious Latino love, with apparently unlimited funds and resources. Considering Stephanie is a clumsy fool the whole book, it's not clear to me why either would be all that interested in her.<br />Evanovich seems to be overrelying on the \\"spunkiness\\" of her main character to hold our attention. Certainly, no real-life bounty hunter could make as many basic mistakes and destroy so much property without getting serious hurt and losing their license. It's not just that she's inept, she doesn't ever seem to learn from previous mistakes, which just makes her annoying.<br />The supporting cast of characters lends a small sliver of humor to the proceedings, mainly via Stephanie's tagalong partners, \\"robust black ex-hooker Lulu and puppy-dog correspondence lawyer Albert. Still, most of the attempts at humor are driven by Stephanie's incredible poor luck, repetition (how many cars and handcuffs will she lose?), and so forth. As for the main story about the missing woman and daughter, it's poorly handled from the get go, and only becomes more eye-rolling when her nemesis during her search turns out to be a mad Mafioso type whose dialogue seems cribbed from that of Fat Tony on \\"The Simpsons\\" (only not as funny).<br />Evanovich isn't a good enough writer to bring interesting characters to the table, nor is she a good enough comic writer to make that work, nor is she adept at creating any romantic tension, and forget her crime writing abilities. In sum, the whole thing is too trite for words and a total waste of time.. As for the main story about the missing woman and daughter, it's poorly handled from the get go, and only becomes more eye-rolling when her nemesis during her search turns out to be a mad Mafioso type whose dialogue seems cribbed from that of Fat Tony on \\"The Simpsons\\" (only not as funny). <br />Evanovich isn't a good enough writer to bring interesting characters to the table, nor is she a good enough comic writer to make that work, nor is she adept at creating any romantic tension, and forget her crime writing abilities. In sum, the whole thing is too trite for words and a total waste of time.	2002-08-22
1433566:US	52254603	R1L08UWCDEZNAZ	0224050249	377195413	Ahead of Its Time : A Clocktower Press Anthology	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Gud Stuff	Clocktower Press should enter the annals of literature as one of the foremost incubators of new Scottish literature. Under the stewardship of Duncan McLean, the semi-collective published ten booklets from 1990-96. All but one were 16-20 pages long and the print runs were 300-500. While many of the writers who appeared in the booklets are now well-known, including Irvine Welsh, Alan Warner, James Meek, Gordon Legge, and editor McLean, Clocktower published them when they were still struggling to find their own voice and language. This anthology is broken into two halves, the first contains material that appeared in the ten booklets and has mostly not appeared elsewhere, and the second contains newer material both by past Clocktower contributors and those McLean hasn't been able to present until now. If you've never encountered modern Scottish literature, it's an OK place to test the waters, but a bit more haphazard than something like Children of Albion Rovers or parts of The Vintage Book of Contemporary Scottish Fiction. The pieces here tend to be much briefer then one is used to, many are the half page little sketches that seem to be so popular with the modern Scots.<br />In the first half Meek, McLean, Legge, and Warner provide high-quality pieces ranging from the aforementioned half-pagers, which Legge in particular is fond of, to McLean's 20 page story, &quot;The Druids Shite It and Fail to Show&quot; (which appears in his collection Bucket of Tongues). Brent Hodgson and John Aberdein were new to me, and to be honest didn't do much for me, nor did the except from Janice Galloway's novel Foreign Parts. Alison Kermack's poetry, on the other hand, managed to captivate this poetry-hater with its fierce humor. The same can be said of Alison Flett's poetry in the second section, which shared many of the same qualities. Meek, Welsh, McLean, and James Kelman all have solid contributions in the second part. Ali Smith and Leila Aboulela's pieces I could take or leave, but Shug Hanlan's poetry and short stories were excellent and will have me tracking down his debut, Hi Bonnybrig. So, if you already know the major Scots writers, this won't show you anything new about them, but it's a good way to check out some of their lesser-known peers.Shug Hanlan's poetry and short stories were excellent and will have me tracking down his debut, Hi Bonnybrig. So, if you already know the major Scots writers, this won't show you anything new about them, but it's a good way to check out some of their lesser-known peers.	2002-08-22
1434186:US	52254603	R17W009UEZMXKZ	1568982232	244120399	Fresh Dialogue 1, New Voices in Graphic Design	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great Graphic Design Book	Stemming from a 1999 lecture and slide show for the New York chapter of the American Institute of Graphic Artists, this crisply designed book with almost 150 images is sure to be of interest to designers everywhere. The works included here come from the personal and professional lives of three young designers: Nicholas Blechman, Christoph Neimann, Paul Sahre.<br />Blechman is the art director of the New York Times Op-Ed section, and met the other two through his self-published political 'zone, Nozone-samples from which constitute about a fifth of the book. Neimann is German a freelance illustrator for a number of well-known magazines, and a teacher at the School of Visual Arts. His samples have a slightly quirky and offbeat amusing air concealed in their simplicity. Sahre is a well known book cover designer and postermaker, and his samples tend to be more outrightly commercial and graphically appealing than the others.<br />The book is a quick read, you can probably absorb it in about two hours, and well worth it for those interested in how graphic designers work and arrive at solutions. My own favorite part was the brief &quot;killed work&quot; section, where the three designers discuss work of theirs that was rejected and why. I'll definitely try to track down Fresh Dialogue 2, which covers the next year's lecture.	2002-08-21
1435026:US	52254603	R33HOHSIEF650J	0767909739	250267211	My Legendary Girlfriend	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Beach Reading From Britain	Amusing beach/airplane reading, best described as a male Bridget Jones's Diary meets something attempting to be Nick Hornbyish. The book covers the birthday weekend of Will, a twentysomething high school teacher new to London as he contemplates his crappy flat, crappy diet, and obsession with his ex-girlfriend. The story hinges around his ex, who he has idealized as a fabulous creature who waltzed out of his life two years previously. In the course of this weekend, there are numerous phone calls: his [bad] mate Simon, his best friend Alice, his one-night stand Martina, Kate (the previous occupant of his flat), and inevitably his ex. It's entirely predictable--in fact you can probably figure out what happens just by reading the above--but still reasonably fun, if not particularly deep.	2002-08-20
1435064:US	52254603	R8B3E8OCJ0U6I	1573226068	907067822	Drown	Books	5	59	64	N	N	The Immigrant Experience	This exceedingly strong debut collection of stories is set in the ghettos of the Dominican Republic and New Jersey, but most of all in the invisible psychic landscape of the immigrants who move from the first to the latter. Six of the ten stories here may be familiar to readers of The New Yorker, Story, or other well-regarded literary mags in whose pages they previously appeared. D&iacute;az's stories offer grimly matter-of-fact accounts of harsh childhoods in harsh environments where fathers are either feared or absent and mothers are exhausted and resigned to their fate.<br />The stories set in the DR are from a youth's perspective, and have the unmistakable whiff of the autobiographical about them. In \\"Ysrael\\", the narrator and his brother are sent to the campo for the summer to live with relatives. There, they are casually cruel to a local boy whose face was disfigured by a pig. The boy later turns up as the subject of \\"No Face\\", which attempts to delve into his mind, with lesser effect than almost all the other stories. A third story, \\"Arguantando\\" follows the family from \\"Ysrael\\" as they wait to hear from their father, who has moved to the US. The final and longest story in the collection, \\"Negocios\\", explains the father's journey to the US and his many trials and tribulations before he can bring his family over.<br />The stories set in the US follow the young boy as he grows older in New Jersey-where shoplifting, drug dealing, and eventually work replace the poverty of the slums of Santa Domingo. \\"Fiesta, 1980\\" is the best car-sickness story you're likely to read and \\"How To Date\\" is a quick guide to interracial dating, perhaps overly flip when compared to the other stories. In \\"Aurora\\", a teenage drug dealer (the young boy grown older?) daydreams about a normal life with a crack-addicted girl. The same character reappears in \\"Drown\\", describing a former close friend's homosexual advances and his own ambivalence.<br />My favorite two stories were \\"Boyfriend\\" and \\"Edison, New Jersey\\". The first is a very brief story about a young man overhearing his downstairs neighbor's breakup, and working up the courage to eventually speak to her. The second is about a young man who helps deliver and assemble pool tables for a living and his well-meaning attempt to help a Dominican girl escape a life of sexual service. Both stories contain a wistful nostalgic air that's both dead on and haunting. All of D&iacute;az's stories are immensely satisfying, and taken as a whole, they form an excellent picture of the Dominican immigrant experience. It's been six years now since this collection came out, and hopefully we'll be seeing something new soon from him.dison, New Jersey\\". The first is a very brief story about a young man overhearing his downstairs neighbor's breakup, and working up the courage to eventually speak to her. The second is about a young man who helps deliver and assemble pool tables for a living and his well-meaning attempt to help a Dominican girl escape a life of sexual service. Both stories contain a wistful nostalgic air that's both dead on and haunting. All of Daz's stories are immensely satisfying, and taken as a whole, they form an excellent picture of the Dominican immigrant experience. It's been six years now since this collection came out, and hopefully we'll be seeing something new soon from him.	2002-08-20
1436278:US	52254603	R13R46KC0OC41M	0375701451	662686980	The Zebra-Striped Hearse (Vintage Crime/Black Lizard)	Books	3	5	18	N	N	Routine Hard-Boiled	Book number 11 in the 18-volume Lew Archer series is the first of MacDonald's books I've read. Published forty years prior to my reading, it's aged fairly well as a highly convoluted Chalderesque hard-boiled tale. The tough and terse Archer is hired by an unpleasant rich man to investigate the background of his daughter's fiancee. This is the catalyst for an investigation which roams from San Francisco, to LA, to Lake Tahoe, to Reno and Mexico, ultimately involving multiple murders.<br />I have to say that I didn't find Archer an especially entrancing character. He's a fairly standard fictional detective: world weary, rough when he needs to be, emotionally tender, all topped off with a wide streak of compassion and smart mouth. As he runs around interviewing everyone, patterns start to emerge, people are first open with him and provide him with a morsel of information or two (enough to keep the plot going), then they inevitably turn on him and refuse to tell the whole truth. After a while, it just started to feel too contrived. Another irritant in the narrative is Archer's totally unrealistic ability to more or less use local police as his lackeys. One just doesn't get enough sense of his charisma, why all these cops are willing to tip him off, and why all these dames keep sending him vibes. I suppose that's why noir often seems to work better for me on film, you get to see that charisma, plus the overly complex plots get streamlined-usually with much better results. Certainly, in the case of this story, the hyper-Freudian motives that emerge at the end are hardly satisfying.<br />Still, if you just can't live without your hard-boiled detectives, Archer certainly fits the mold enough to satisfy fanatics of the genre. It also may be that if one reads the series from the beginning, he emerges as a more fully realized character than he does in this single entry.	2002-08-19
1440016:US	52254603	R3A2R6CCO765WM	0515108049	462107538	True Detectives	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Compulsively Readable	A surprisingly good account of the day-to-day operations of four private investigators, the book suffers very slightly from being researched in the late-'80s. Parkhurst followed three New York investigators and one DC bounty hunter from early 1986 to early 1988 and concentrates on one major case for each. One is a child gone missing, presumably kidnapped and possibly killed. There's a \\"matrimonial\\" in which an orthodox Jew suspects his business partner of cuckolding him and embezzling. Then there's the international search for a high-profile con artist. Finally, there's a couple looking for the husband's birth mother so they have a full family medical history for their sick child.<br />As he follows these four major cases through alternating chapters, he also delves into the methods of psychology of the (mostly) men who pursue them. Here the book shows a bit of its age, as the Internet has dramatically changed how information is stored and retrieved, and the protection of personal information has become a hotbutton issue in recent years. In any event, there's also plenty of smaller side cases along the way to mix things up. My favorite of these is the vexing problem of street vendors who set up right outside a client's high rent storefronts. The solution to that \\"case\\" will make you shake your head! Still, the four main investigations drive the book and are flashy and captivating enough to do so. An excellent and compulsively readable glimpse into the world of private investigators.	2002-08-15
1440316:US	52254603	R2JYN8KZYGVH4V	1579620477	410382988	The Foodtaster: The Story of My Incredible Life	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Renaissance Romp	This faux memoir of a widowed Italian Renaissance foodtaster is a decidedly picaresque affair, documenting the rise of a sheep farmer's unloved second son to a position of influence in the service of a mercurial Duke. Through scheming and a great deal of luck, Ugo rises in favor over the years and manages to raise his little girl in relative luxury. Indeed, she becomes too accustomed to her new surroundings and becomes more and more spoiled, especially once the Duke's ... consort takes her under her wing. This leads to an all too predictable climactic difficulty when the young girl becomes a woman.<br />Broadly written, the book offers no depth of characterization, but does present a ground-level view of the era's social customs. It skims along a series of topics, from plague to court intrigues, to the Inquisition, to love between servants, treating each deftly but perhaps too swiftly. The bulk of the detail is reserved for descriptions of the outlandish dishes the foodtaster must sample in his role as poison detector. There's plenty of plotting and intrigue as well as humor as the foodtaster must squirm his way out of one bad situation after another. Ably written and fast-moving, this historical fiction won't knock your socks off, but it will probably keep you entertained.	2002-08-15
1440667:US	52254603	R1SX06L5IEOJ	0517565544	462107538	True Detectives	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Compulsively Readable	A surprisingly good account of the day-to-day operations of four private investigators, the book suffers very slightly from being researched in the late-'80s. Parkhurst followed three New York investigators and one DC bounty hunter from early 1986 to early 1988 and concentrates on one major case for each. One is a child gone missing, presumably kidnapped and possibly killed. There's a \\"matrimonial\\" in which an orthodox Jew suspects his business partner of cuckolding him and embezzling. Then there's the international search for a high-profile con artist. Finally, there's a couple looking for the husband's birth mother so they have a full family medical history for their sick child.<br />As he follows these four major cases through alternating chapters, he also delves into the methods of psychology of the (mostly) men who pursue them. Here the book shows a bit of its age, as the Internet has dramatically changed how information is stored and retrieved, and the protection of personal information has become a hotbutton issue in recent years. In any event, there's also plenty of smaller side cases along the way to mix things up. My favorite of these is the vexing problem of street vendors who set up right outside a client's high rent storefronts. The solution to that \\"case\\" will make you shake your head! Still, the four main investigations drive the book and are flashy and captivating enough to do so. An excellent and compulsively readable glimpse into the world of private investigators.	2002-08-15
1443135:US	52254603	R34QC9KL8SPPE7	037570471X	390728624	Crime Wave: Reportage and Fiction from the Underside of L.A.	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Interesting Essays, Repetitive Fictions	Ellroy's collected writings for GQ magazine from 199399 are collected in this hodgepodge of essays and three short stories. For those (like me) who've never read Ellory before and want to test the waters of his LA-centric writings, this seems to be as good a place as any. The first three essays are grouped under the theme \\"Unsolved\\". The first is about his own mother's murder in an LA suburb of El Monte in 1958 and was expanded into the book My Dark Places. The second recounts the unsolved murder of a woman in El Monte in 1973, and the third retells the death of a smalltime druggie actress in 1963.<br />Next come two \\"LA Confidential\\" era stories narrated by Hush-Hush editor Danny Getchell (the Danny Devito character in the film). These stories are virtual carbon copies in terms of subject matter (sex, murder, blackmail, crooked cops, degenerate celebrities) and style (period slang and alliteration galore). While I'll agree that Ellroy's prose is punchy and full of juice, he's over-dependent on alliteration. Once or twice a page is plenty, once or twice a paragraph is overkill.<br />Next is an essay about the life and times of a '50s teen idol accordion player named Dick Contino. This is a fairly interesting piece revealing the fleeting nature of celebrity and the patriotic fervor of the '50s. Ellroy tracked him down and then wrote a 57-page novella with him as the hero narrator. Unfortunately, \\"Hollywood Shakedown\\" is exactly like the two previous Hush-hush stories, which if you like that kind of thing is fine I suppose. Personally, I grew to find them tiresome and repetitive. Part of the problem is that all his characters speak the same clipped hard-boiled way in every story. The most egregious case being the accordion player Contino who in his narrative uses plenty of alliteration, exactly as Danny Getchell does in the previous stories. Certain words and phrases crop up over and over throughout the story, becoming more drab with every use, for example, sapphic, tumescent, SIN-sational, to name just the first three that come to mind.<br />The final section is perhaps my favorite, including a sharp essay on O.J. Simpson; an engaging profile of the L.A. County Sheriff's Homicide Bureau; a piece on Curtis Hanson (director of LA Confidential); and best of all, Ellroy's reminiscences about his LA junior high school. This last piece, in which he vividly recreates the world of his youth in early 1960s LA and then organizes a junior high reunion is easily the warmest in the book. This and the O.J. Simpson piece are the only two in the whole book in which one gets a sense of Ellroy as a regular human (in the O.J. piece he's an angry human), albeit one still perhaps unhealthily obsessed with the past. All in all, the collection certainly doesn't inspire me to pursue Ellroy's fiction, but I am interested in reading more of his essays., tumescent, SIN-sational, to name just the first three that come to mind.<br />The final section is perhaps my favorite, including a sharp essay on O.J. Simpson; an engaging profile of the L.A. County Sheriff's Homicide Bureau; a piece on Curtis Hanson (director of LA Confidential); and best of all, Ellroy's reminiscences about his LA junior high school. This last piece, in which he vividly recreates the world of his youth in early 1960s LA and then organizes a junior high reunion is easily the warmest in the book. This and the O.J. Simpson piece are the only two in the whole book in which one gets a sense of Ellroy as a regular human (in the O.J. piece he's an angry human), albeit one still perhaps unhealthily obsessed with the past. All in all, the collection certainly doesn't inspire me to pursue Ellroy's fiction, but I am interested in reading more of his essays.	2002-08-13
1446329:US	52254603	R3ANP7IPQQXDL4	0805065989	250809602	The Friends of Eddie Coyle: A Novel (John MacRae Books)	Books	3	31	50	N	N	A Dated Groundbreaker	A seminal book in the world of crime fiction, Higgins' 1970 debut placed maximum emphasis on creating realistic dialogue for the criminals and police and letting that carry a fairly slender plot along. The story concerns a smalltime hood named Eddie Coyle and a loose ring of associates. He's sweating because he's facing a two year stretch, and he can't handle any time at his age (45). The question is, who's he going to throw to the cops in order to duck that time? The story and its resolution are very much in keeping with the dark tone of the early '70s when the nation was realizing Vietnam was unwinnable and hard drugs were getting more and more prevalent, think of films like The French Connection, Badlands, or High Plains Drifter. (I've not seen the 1973 film version of the book, starring Roger Mitchum as Eddie Coyle.)<br />The book has been greatly lauded for its simplicity, dialogue, and realistic characters. However, my own reading was that everyone in the book (men, women, law, criminals) spoke more or less the same clipped wise guy talk as everyone else, and not only that, but other than talking about the \\"Broons\\" (Boston's pro hockey team, the Bruins), there's little that differentiates the speech from that of countless New York and Brooklyn gangsters. So much so that one occasionally has a hard time keeping track of who is who. So, maybe it was revolutionary to reveal the inner woes of criminals back in 1970, but read today, the book lacks the punch it must once have held.	2002-08-09
1447706:US	52254603	R24DAVTKEUM1ZU	0312253176	784799180	The Monks of Tibhirine: Faith, Love, and Terror in Algeria	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Tragic and Hopeful	This excellent book manages the remarkable task of juggling three important themes at once: the touching personal stories of a community of Trappist monks in Algeria, an uplifting investigation of what it means to be a true Christian and \\"live the Gospels\\", and finally an unraveling of the confusing and depressing story of Algeria's civil war. The framework for Kiser's book is the sad and unheard (in the US) story of the kidnapping and subsequent murder of seven Trappist monks in 1996 by a group of Islamic extremists. Using a myriad of French-language sources, including the diaries and journals of several of the monks and their personal letters, as well as interviews with family members and friends, and a trip to the monastery in Algeria, Kiser has crafted an fine work of history.<br />This history is built on his excellent presentation of contextual material. Clear prose takes the reader through brief histories of the formation of the Cistercian order, the Trappist schism, the history of Christianity in Algeria, French colonialism in Algeria, the Algerian revolution, the disastrous rule of the FLN, the rise of the Islamist movement, and the current civil war. Interwoven is the story of the monastery at Tibhirine in the Atlas Mountains and the friendship between the monks and their Muslim neighbors. Most of the French monks had some personal connection to Algeria (several had done military service there), and all felt that their calling demanded that they live a simple life amongst non-Christians, displaying the power of their faith through good works. Kiser takes a great deal of effort to highlight the areas of common ground between the inclusive Christianity of the monks and the Islam of their neighbors. He is also scrupulous in highlighting how the version of violent Islam that plagues Algeria arose from a combination of economic desperation and the influence of those who fought in Afghanistan against the Soviets and returned with Saudi backing to spread Wahabi Islam. Indeed, as Kiser points out, despite the horrific killings of the last decade, there was never a legitimate fatwa (religious decree) issued condoning the killing of noncombatants. While the story of the monk's deaths is certainly tragic, their tale also contains a definite sense of hope for future reconciliation.slam. Indeed, as Kiser points out, despite the horrific killings of the last decade, there was never a legitimate fatwa (religious decree) issued condoning the killing of noncombatants. While the story of the monk's deaths is certainly tragic, their tale also contains a definite sense of hope for future reconciliation.	2002-08-08
1450170:US	52254603	R3T9XR9EG8R9OV	0871318725	693265350	Be Your Own Detective	Books	4	13	13	N	N	A Solid Introduction to the Field	This guidebook by a licensed PI (as you will learn in the book, in order to accept any compensation for investigative work, you must be licensed) and a criminal defense lawyer is a good basic introduction to the realm of private detectives. Well-organized and easy to read, the book is full of practical tips for the budding amateur and prospective professional. Each section (Tailing, Surveillance, Paper Trails, etc.) is introduced and illustrated by anecdotes from Fallis' own career. And while most of the book is pretty common sense and straightforward, it's nice to have it all spelled out in one place. Throughout, Fallis adopts a cautionary tone which dismisses how detective work are portrayed on TV and film and underlines the drudgery that most real life PIs deal with every day. Especially valuable are the chapter on civil work (which is the bread and butter of most investigative work), which outlines the most common areas and issues and the chapter on criminal work, which usually (but not always) involves working for a person accused of a crime.<br />If the book has a weakness, it's that some of it seems a bit dated. In the last two years, the incidence of identity theft has grown exponentially, and so one wonders whether some of the techniques he described for finding personal information out about people would work so well these days. Similarly, the world of computers and the Internet changes so quickly that his chapter on that is also probably not as useful as it might have been. However, the appendix on social security numbers (the first three digits indicate what state or area it was issued in) and information sources are especially handy references. All in all, a fine introduction to detecting.	2002-08-06
1450481:US	52254603	R9CJGILNAGHZ1	0609807900	814027021	Sloppy Firsts (Jessica Darling, Book 1)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Excellent and Fun Coming of Age Story	This debut novel offers up a fairly pleasing take on the high-school novel, replete with cliques of teenagers, sexual (mis)discoveries, angst and confusion, slang galore, and a high dose of comedy. The breezy novel takes the form of a year's worth of teenage journal entries, interspersed with letters to an absent best friend and various comic top 5 and 10 lists. Clearly McCafferty has read and absorbed books like Bridget Jones Diary and High Fidelity and applied the lessons to her own tale for a slightly younger set. It's a very apt novel in that not a lot happens on a day by day basis, and yet quite a bit happens as teenage Jessica struggles to find her identity in the social world of a public high school on the Jersey shore. Her main source of self-pity is that her supercool best friend moved away, leaving her with no one to hang with except the \\"Clueless Crew\\"-three blonde bubblegum bimbos. Her diary entries record the latter part of her sophomore year, the summer, and the first part of junior year.<br />Of course a lot of the book revolves around her own ambivalence to the boys on offer at her school. There's the nice boy next door type who's maturing into an idiot jock, there's a the geeky underclassman in her French class, there's her secret crush on a senior, and there's the strange case of the stoner guy. Added to the mix is the popular theme of parents who just don't understand and a body problem (no period for many moons), and it's got all the ingredients. Of course, like many teens of film and fiction, Jessica does tend to write and analyze way above most 15-16 year-olds, but since she's the class brain, it's at least plausible. And in any event, the book is so enjoyable, one is hard pressed to care.<br />McCafferty has created a wholly believable teenage realm, replete with all the right pop-culture references and icons. Especially funny are all the nicknames bestowed on various cliques, as well as the teen slang. The one quibble I have is that Jessica is a huge John Hughes fan, which seems a little unlikely as his movies (Pretty in Pink, et al) were really touchstones for those (like me), who were in high school 15 years ago. But that's admittedly nitpicking on my part, because the book is a definite pleasure. I would especially recommend it to parents of high school students as a tiny window into the world of their kids.s a huge John Hughes fan, which seems a little unlikely as his movies (Pretty in Pink, et al) were really touchstones for those (like me), who were in high school 15 years ago. But that's admittedly nitpicking on my part, because the book is a definite pleasure. I would especially recommend it to parents of high school students as a tiny window into the world of their kids.	2002-08-06
1457442:US	52254603	R3C0ZDM1MEI2QL	0879518685	662471478	Travels on my Elephant	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Quick-Reading Fun In India	The British seem to be particularly adept at coming up with whimsical ideas, making them happen, and then writing about them (cf. comedian Tony Hawk's Round Ireland With A Fridge, and Playing the Moldovans At Tennis or journalist Andrew Marshall's The Trouser People to mention just a few recent examples). Shand continues the tradition, concocting a scheme to buy an elephant and march around India on its back. This quick-reading book is an account of his adventure in India, where he purchases an emaciated 30-year old elephant ... from a pair of saddhus (mystic holy men) in the province of Orissa (a few hundred kilometers SW of Calcutta). His goal is to walk her from the coast to the great elephant market on the banks of the Ganges at Sonepur Mela, some 1000 kilometers north, in Bihar, where he would sell her.<br />However, as he soon discovers, elephants have a lot of personality, and he quickly falls in love with his. The pleasure of the book is not its travelogue description of the sights and sounds along the way (although these do break things up), but the mischievous antics of the elephant and the discovery of its personality as a loving and lovable creature. Tara, the elephant, displays remarkable intelligence and wit over the course of the journey, although at times Shand does veer into anthropomorphizing her. While he doesn't go deep into the role of the elephant in Indian and Hindu culture, it's clear from his travels that they are widely revered as symbols of Ganesh, as bystanders often often small prayers and alms to Tara.<br />Shand's own lessons in becoming a \\"mahoot\\", one who is versed in the ways of elephants and able to ride/guide one, is an equally fascinating and touching story. An older and younger mahoot are along to train him, as is a photographer friend and two rascally drivers with a support Jeep. It's a fun adventure, with a suspiciously fortuitous climax at the market, when Shand discovers he can't bear to sell his elephant for use as a moneymaking curiosity. It's a touching book in many ways, although some readers may be put off by the notion of a Westerner traipsing around a poor country on an elephant, especially given India's colonial past. Still whatever one may think of that, Shand's love for the animal is clearly genuine. He's written a followup book (Queen of the Elephants), that's apparently not as good.making curiosity. It's a touching book in many ways, although some readers may be put off by the notion of a Westerner traipsing around a poor country on an elephant, especially given India's colonial past. Still whatever one may think of that, Shand's love for the animal is clearly genuine. He's written a followup book (Queen of the Elephants), that's apparently not as good.	2002-07-30
1457699:US	52254603	R23ES77I92SOJP	1582431205	714562311	The Trouser People: A Story of Burma in the Shadow of the Empire	Books	4	24	27	N	N	The Sad Case of Burma	Let's get one thing clear from the begining, if you're looking for a comprehensive history of Burma/Myanmar with analysis on how it has become one of the most repressive nations in the world, this is not your book. Rather, Marshall's book is a sometimes witty, sometimes heartbreaking \\"in the footsteps of\\" style travelogue, in which he manages to travel around modern Burma/Myanmar, following the path of an obscure Victorian adventurer/explorer (and fellow Scotsman) who laid the groundwork for British colonial rule. The core theme is that in Scott's day, Burma was a little known area unpenetrated by the West and populated by a diverse assortment of tribes with varrying degrees of hostility-and some 125 years later Burma/Myanmar remains that way in many ways.<br />Marshall scoured Scott's unpublished diaries and other sources (all thankfully listed in a comprehensive bibliography) before embarking on four sparate trips. The most straightforward of these was a journey from Rangoon upriver to the old imperial capital of Mandalay and then into the some of the hinterlands. Another trip involved travlling through northern Thailand to the border, where ethnic Shan rebels are attempting to resist Burmese army genocide. A third trip took him from northern Thailand across the border and into the hills near the Laotian and Chinese border. And the most harrowing trip involved slipping across the Chinese border and into ethnic Wa territory where he searches for a legendary lake from which the Wa say they evolved from tadpoles. These trips are crisply related, intertwined with accounts of Scott's travels and life, and background history.<br />While Marshall certainly doesn't defend British colonialism, he does credit it for introducing modernity to the region and for creating a nation-allbeit juryrigged -from disparate tribes. Marshall lays Burma/Myanmar's current status as human rights disaster area and its herion-exporting based economy firmly at the feet of a military junta that seized power in 1962 and has held an iron grip on the country ever since. An iron grip that is assisted by ethnic Wa drug lords, whose operations rival that of their more famous Colombian counterparts. Burma/Myanmar's economy is wholy dependent on the exporting of illegal drugs by Wa drug lords in collusion with the military. Historically this has been heroin, but in recent years, mehtamphedamine and ecstacy production is said to rival the most sophisticated European operations, and the drug lords have branched out into music and software piracy. With the country's money and guns all linked together in such tidy self-perpetuating interests, it's difficult to see how the stanglehold will ever be broken short of outside intervention.seized power in 1962 and has held an iron grip on the country ever since. An iron grip that is assisted by ethnic Wa drug lords, whose operations rival that of their more famous Colombian counterparts. Burma/Myanmar's economy is wholy dependent on the exporting of illegal drugs by Wa drug lords in collusion with the military. Historically this has been heroin, but in recent years, mehtamphedamine and ecstacy production is said to rival the most sophisticated European operations, and the drug lords have branched out into music and software piracy. With the country's money and guns all linked together in such tidy self-perpetuating interests, it's difficult to see how the stanglehold will ever be broken short of outside intervention.	2002-07-30
1458156:US	52254603	R3F8LEKOE0ZOI2	0786868279	624080639	Unsung Heroes of American Industry	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Another Good (If Short) Collection	First of all, let me say that I love Poirier's first two books, the excellent Tuscon-themed short story collection Naked Pueblo and the quirky and compelling coming of age novel Goats. I also greatly enjoyed this latest assemblage of five stories, which inhabit that same darkly humorous area as his other work-and yet I found them slightly lesser in comparison. The twelve stories of Naked Pueblo are rooted in a sense of place and ring with authenticity and personal experience, whereas the stories in this book seem somewhat more manufactured, more obviously \\"written.\\" This is a bit of nitpicking criticism though, because the stories are all gripping and enjoyable reads. Once again, Poirier seems blessed with the ability to balance outrageous (and yet wholly plausible) characters with intensely realistic and often sad emotions.<br />The first story, \\"Buttons\\", is the story of a family button empire that transforms into an egg empire whose hilarious attempt to ride a consumer craze results in inevitable downfall. Interwoven with this story is that of one of the the founder's great-grandchildren, who's locked in a silent sibling rivalry with his twin. A similar sibling rivalry is the catalyst for the narrator of \\"A Note On the Type,\\" to go to veterinary school in Boston and thus move in with a bizarre aunt. It's the most stylized of the stories, and follows the same format as \\"Buttons,\\" telling the story of the student while also going into his family history. The book's best moment occurs here, when the narrator waits for service at a deli counter and fantasizes about the young woman behind the counter, constructing her as a fascinating white trash theorist gathering research material.<br />The most inconsequential of the stories, \\"Pageantry\\", is the mostly inner-monologue of a teen contestant at a local beauty pageant. She recognizes the whole enterprise as an enterprise to prey of the dreams and thwarted ambitions of adults through their children and can't wait until she's old enough to say no to her mother. The story is a pretty sharp little piece, but the ground has been so thoroughly covered in so many contexts that it's hard to find anything new in it. \\"Gator\\" and \\"Worms\\" both concern themes of loss and parenthood. In \\"Gator\\" a Louisiana teacher encourages a student, the daughter of a gator-skinner, to become a Manhattan shoe designer. He clearly has some twisted inner fantasy of being her father, and Poirier beautifully captures his sense of loss when she leaves. \\"Worms\\" is another heartbreaking story, in which a Vassar woman who's forced to move to rural Texas to find work as a journalist falls in love with and marries a worm farmer. This is perhaps the only story in the bunch where the main characters aren't psychologically messed up in some way or another, and so it somehow seems more cruel when tragedy strikes.<br />Although a bit slim (the whole book can be read in about two hours), it's another solid collection from Poirier and I look forward to his next bit of writing.she's old enough to say no to her mother. The story is a pretty sharp little piece, but the ground has been so thoroughly covered in so many contexts that it's hard to find anything new in it. \\"Gator\\" and \\"Worms\\" both concern themes of loss and parenthood. In \\"Gator\\" a Louisiana teacher encourages a student, the daughter of a gator-skinner, to become a Manhattan shoe designer. He clearly has some twisted inner fantasy of being her father, and Poirier beautifully captures his sense of loss when she leaves. \\"Worms\\" is another heartbreaking story, in which a Vassar woman who's forced to move to rural Texas to find work as a journalist falls in love with and marries a worm farmer. This is perhaps the only story in the bunch where the main characters aren't psychologically messed up in some way or another, and so it somehow seems more cruel when tragedy strikes. <br />Although a bit slim (the whole book can be read in about two hours), it's another solid collection from Poirier and I look forward to his next bit of writing.	2002-07-30
1461306:US	52254603	R14KPYMULXDATI	1568581467	241216110	London Blues	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Porn and Profumo	Five years ago, I saw this book in a London bookshop and filed it away in my head as something to check out when I had more money. Last week, after carrying the title around in a notebook for years, I stumbled across a used copy in a local bookshop. I'll step right up and say that, yes, it was worth the effort and the wait. Frewin's debut (he was Stanley Kubrick's PA for many years), is a great, gritty period thriller set amidst early '60s London. The atmosphere oozes off the page in a story which follows a small-time part time pornographer who gets mixed up in the Profumo scandal.<br />A note of caution here-those not familiar with the Profumo scandal (which is likely to be almost any American reader) would be well advised to do a little reading about it prior to embarking on Frewin's book. The Guardian web site has a decent mini-history of the affair, or at the least, watch the 1989 film Scandal (starring John Hurt and a young Bridget Fonda). The whole sordid episode is presented in Frewin's book, but only through the eyes of the protagonist, and much of the context may be confusing without further grounding.<br />A further note of caution is order due to the book's structure. Some readers may find confusing or be put off by its framing technique. The book starts with a 40 page section in which a contemporary narrator discovers an old '60s short porn film appended (appropriately enough) to a video of Get Carter. His curiosity over the maker of the \\"blue\\" film leads an interview-like series of other people talking about \\"Tim.\\" Then the bulk of the book slips back in time to follow country lad Tim, as he tries to make it in the big city and the unsavory people he gets mixed up in. The book then ends with a brief further contemporary section. Those who demand their thrillers end neatly, with all loose ends tied up will be especially frustrated by the outcome.<br />Frewin's prose is direct and lively, capturing the period slang and tone. To a large degree, the story is one about a \\"secret London\\" of greasy caf&eacute;s, small time hoods, West Indian immigrants, wanna-be models, and cover-ups. It's a vibrantly seedy portrait of London's transition from the postwar '50s to the legendary \\"swinging\\" '60s. (If the time and place interests you, check out Colin MacInnes' London trilogy of City of Spades, Absolute Beginners, and Mr. Love and Justice) The thriller aspect is a rather perplexing, tied up as it is in Tim's pornographic work and the Profumo scandal, but moves the story along-always with a hint of conspiracy. Good stuff, and I'll definitely be adding Frewin's next two books, \\"Sixty-Three Closure\\" and \\"Scorpion Rising\\" to my list, although hopefully it won't take me five years to find and read them!s one about a \\"secret London\\" of greasy cafs, small time hoods, West Indian immigrants, wanna-be models, and cover-ups. It's a vibrantly seedy portrait of London's transition from the postwar '50s to the legendary \\"swinging\\" '60s. (If the time and place interests you, check out Colin MacInnes' London trilogy of City of Spades, Absolute Beginners, and Mr. Love and Justice) The thriller aspect is a rather perplexing, tied up as it is in Tim's pornographic work and the Profumo scandal, but moves the story along-always with a hint of conspiracy. Good stuff, and I'll definitely be adding Frewin's next two books, \\"Sixty-Three Closure\\" and \\"Scorpion Rising\\" to my list, although hopefully it won't take me five years to find and read them!	2002-07-27
1462099:US	52254603	R2GN992I5DA3NM	0571210228	620248351	Paul Schrader: Collected Screenplays Volume 1: Taxi Driver, American Gigolo, Light Sleeper	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Great Value	Paul Schrader positions Taxi Driver, American Gigolo, and Light Sleeper as the first three film in a quartet depicting, as he puts it, \\"...a certain character... who drifts on the edge of urban society, always peeping, looking into the lives of others. He'd like to have a life of his own, but doesn't know how to get one.\\" This character is angry in his 20s (Taxi Driver), narcissistic in his 30s (American Gigolo), and anxious in his 40s (Light Sleeper). In his brief introduction to the collected screenplays for these three films, Schrader announces the existence of a fourth script that will show this \\"certain character\\" in his 50s, after which \\"I'll retire him. It's getting too difficult to finance existential character studies.\\" Schrader finds the genesis for this character in his own strict Calvinist upbringing and subsequent escape to  LA, where he says \\"I was not unlike Travis Bickle: a bundle of tightly wrapped contradictions.\\" He thus wrote the script to Taxi Driver in a chapter format \\"because I wanted to capture the seeming randomness of Travis' life...\\" Several years later finds the script for American Gigolo in a conventional format because \\"I was `in' Hollywood... and wanted scripts that looked like everyone else's.\\" Light Sleeper, being an independent film, was able to return to the chapter format (for better or worse). Both Taxi Driver and Light Sleeper were previously published as single volumes by Faber &amp; Faber, and in the case of Taxi Driver, it's shame to have lost the 14 page dialogue between Schrader and Martin Scorcese that was in that book. Still, it's hard to complain about getting three Schrader scripts in one book, and judging from the \\"1\\" in the title, further Schrader collections are forthcoming.	2002-07-26
1463221:US	52254603	R2SEKBIGV4REMM	0316601950	760222125	The Pilot's Wife (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Surprisingly Bad	This book is surprisingly bad given Shreve's excellent literary reputation. The story of a woman struggling with grief after her pilot husband's death reads like a decent screenplay-which is to say, a poor novel. The only reason I don't rate it lower is that Shreve does at least manage a spot on portrayal of teenage girl Mattie and does manage to capture something of the nature of grieving. Otherwise the book is bereft of any deep characterization and is betrayed by a ridiculous and unnecessary plot twist. Indeed, Shreve could have investigated her main themes (grief, betrayal in marriage, and the eternal question of whether we can really know another person), without having to resort to international thriller antics. It's the kind of overkill one typically finds at the movies, and totally undermines what might have been a decent fictional treatment of grief and betrayal.<br />The other element that totally undermines the book is the savior-like appearance of a strong man for the wife to depend on. This diverts the wife, the reader, and one suspects the writer, from the main thematic concerns and leads the story into conventional wistful love story territory. On the whole, it reminded me quite a bit of that Kevin Costner movie \\"Message In A Bottle.\\" I should note that I had no idea this was an Oprah book until after I finished it and a friend told me-had I known, I probably would have avoided it since the few of her picks that I've read have all had major flaws of one kind or another.	2002-07-25
1464168:US	52254603	R30ZIOFN14D9KI	052594642X	838675611	The Impressionist	Books	3	19	21	N	N	The Flawed Overambitious Debut of a Promising Talent	This sprawling debut novel ambitiously attempts to combine satire and farce with questions of identity, class, race, culture and heritage in the symbol-laden Dickensian story of an Anglo-Indian boy born just after the turn of the century in British India. Pran is conceived in the midst of a Biblical flood and spends the early years of his life living the spoiled luxurious life of a wealthy child. When he is cast out as a young teenager, he is forced to adapt to circumstances in order to survive- a pattern that will define his life. Throughout the book Pran has no point of view of his own, and grows up learning how to copy the speech, mannerisms, and beliefs of others. It's an interesting idea, but ultimately one that undermines the narrative, since the result is an essentially a soulless creation who has no depth.<br />Through his semi-picaresque adventures, Pran does manage to occasionally engender some sympathy, especially when he is tricked and drugged into sexual slavery. However, Kunzru holds back a bit here, preferring to \\"draw the veil\\" over Pran's several rapes, rather than exposing the true horror of the experience, and so a distance is maintained. Pran then lands in the grasp of a self-loathing British Major with a prediction for young boys (a rather stereotyped character), who begins the process of Pran's transformation into a proper British schoolboy. Next he pops up in Bombay's red-light district of Falkland Road as an assistant to the preacher at the Independent Scottish Mission Among the Heathen. This is perhaps the strongest portion of the book, with evocative descriptions of street life and the unhappy Scottish missionary couple he lives with. As the anti-colonial movement grows more active, Pran is presented with a golden opportunity to escape to England.<br />The last third of the book concerns Pran's adventures in England, where he is constantly on thin ice as he tries to pass as English while at Oxford. Here, the book trods rather familiar paths in its satirical savagings of the British elite and notions of class and empire. The book's density overwhelms in this section, as Kunzru crams in a subplot about Pran's Jewish roommate, anti-Semitic riots in London, and his obviously doomed romance with an English girl. The final chapters, in which he travels to Africa on an anthropological expedition and stares into the face of colonial expansion, while an appropriate ending, are far too indebted to Conrad to be considered original.<br />Ultimately, the book rambles about fairly satisfactorily in attempting to wrestle with notions of identity. If nothing else, it sheds light on the discrimination suffered by mixed race children of the British Empire, who were often rejected by both sides. Pran's ultimate goal is to be accepted as British, but once that occurs, he's not sure what to do next, or even why he was striving for that in the first place. The problem with the book is that the reader recognizes this flaw in his quest from the beginning, and therefore the journey has to be pretty entertaining to keep one reading to the inexorable conclusion. Kunzru partially accomplishes this, often through digressions into history, science, and biographies of minor characters. These are all quite interesting in and of themselves, however the book does tend to bog down at times as a result of overwriting.in its satirical savagings of the British elite and notions of class and empire. The book's density overwhelms in this section, as Kunzru crams in a subplot about Pran's Jewish roommate, anti-Semitic riots in London, and his obviously doomed romance with an English girl. The final chapters, in which he travels to Africa on an anthropological expedition and stares into the face of colonial expansion, while an appropriate ending, are far too indebted to Conrad to be considered original.<br />Ultimately, the book rambles about fairly satisfactorily in attempting to wrestle with notions of identity. If nothing else, it sheds light on the discrimination suffered by mixed race children of the British Empire, who were often rejected by both sides. Pran's ultimate goal is to be accepted as British, but once that occurs, he's not sure what to do next, or even why he was striving for that in the first place. The problem with the book is that the reader recognizes this flaw in his quest from the beginning, and therefore the journey has to be pretty entertaining to keep one reading to the inexorable conclusion. Kunzru partially accomplishes this, often through digressions into history, science, and biographies of minor characters. These are all quite interesting in and of themselves, however the book does tend to bog down at times as a result of overwriting.	2002-07-24
1466462:US	52254603	R2UPCWWRCQW8DY	0156006847	297422625	The Fencing Master: A Novel	Books	3	18	19	N	N	Predates his much better other books	Although this is the fourth of P&eacute;rez-Reverte's book to appear in English, it actually predates The Flanders Panel, The Club Dumas, and The Seville Communion. Originally published in 1988, this earlier book is an entirely historical thriller set in Madrid in 1868 amidst Spain's September Revolution, which apparently heralds the end of the monarchy as plots abound and the Bourbon Queen Isabella II is rapidly losing control and influence. One of the novel's flaws is that this period of turmoil is so chaotic and confusing that, although the reader knows the political machinations and plots will somehow prove integral, it's presented rather tediously and is hard to follow. On the whole, the prose is not nearly as rich and accomplished as in his other books.<br />The story follows an aging fencing instructor, Don Jamie, whose personal code of honor defines him as he attempts to live outside the \\"real\\" world around him. He is a rigid and exacting \\"maestro\\" to the few remaining pupils he has (guns have all but supplanted swords), and an amusingly old-fashioned expert to the wealthy nobleman he spars with every day. His only other human contact is with a group of yammering men who gather every day in a caf&eacute; to argue politics-and whose main function is to deliver the political background the reader requires to understand the rest of the story (although as indicated above, their arguments are not very effective in this).<br />Don Jamie is a portrait of a faded gentleman, with all his best experiences behind him, he almost revels in his self-constructed persona of a man of honor (and little else). When a beautiful woman comes to his door and demands instruction in the male-only art of fencing, it catapults him into a dark intrigue. It's another flaw of this early P&eacute;rez-Reverte work that readers will see what's coming almost from the moment she first steps onto the page, and only the details need to be revealed. Indeed, those who have reader his intricately plotted other books, will likely be disappointed by the relative simplicity of the story. What is perhaps more intriguing are the timeless questions raised about honor and its role in a world where honor means little. Don Jamie's disengagement from the world around him has tragic consequences, so is he a failure for clinging to tattered ideals, or should he be lauded for his commitment? In that sense, this book has a more moral center than any of P&eacute;rez-Reverte's others.<br />One other minor flaw is the lack of a fencing glossary or any diagrams. The terminology of fencing and its maneuvers are so integral to the story and so arcane to most modern readers that the publisher does both the book and the reader a major disservice by not providing any supplementary material. For those with access to a video store with a good selection of international titles, the book was made into a film in Spain called El Maestro de Escgrima.ks, will likely be disappointed by the relative simplicity of the story. What is perhaps more intriguing are the timeless questions raised about honor and its role in a world where honor means little. Don Jamie's disengagement from the world around him has tragic consequences, so is he a failure for clinging to tattered ideals, or should he be lauded for his commitment? In that sense, this book has a more moral center than any of Prez-Reverte's others.<br />One other minor flaw is the lack of a fencing glossary or any diagrams. The terminology of fencing and its maneuvers are so integral to the story and so arcane to most modern readers that the publisher does both the book and the reader a major disservice by not providing any supplementary material. For those with access to a video store with a good selection of international titles, the book was made into a film in Spain called El Maestro de Escgrima.	2002-07-22
1466489:US	52254603	ROHO1Q0XBE5CO	0140156097	644877753	Rumpole a la Carte	Books	2	0	4	N	N	Dull and Predictable Stories	Despite the fact that I generally enjoy comic British writing, and have on occasion watched the TV version of Rumpole with amusement, I found this collection of short Rumpole stories rather tedious. Having never read any of the extensive Rumpole series, I figured this collection of six stories would be a good place to test the waters. What I found was a series of predictable tales, populated by thin characters that offer little variety in their foibles from story to story. And while you could make the same case for P.G. Wodehouse's creations, the difference is that he had the Midas touch when it came to language and wit, whereas Mortimer's prose is generally uninspired. After a while, the curmudgeonly grumblings of Rumpole get rather old, as does the sharp tongue of his wife (She Who Must Be Obeyed), the pathetic philandering Erskine Brown, and the doddering foolishness of Uncle Tom. While the cut and thrust of the courtroom scenes do impart a sense of vigor and wit to the proceedings, they are the only bright lights in what are otherwise remarkably dull and predictable stories. Perhaps lawyers find Mortimer's prose remarkable, I, on the other hand, do not.	2002-07-22
1467463:US	52254603	R1N2CPMZKLQ0A4	0872863956	598983888	Three To Kill	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Still Fresh 25 Years Later	Originally published in 1976, this slim French crime novel has just now been translated into English. The story follows a typical noir theme: an average man thrown into an underworld intrigue entirely by chance. Georges is a mid-level manager in Paris with a wife, two young daughters, and a collection of West coast jazz records. His life has gotten a little humdrum, and so fate thrusts him in the path of two nasty and well-drawn hitmen. After he unwittingly witnesses a murder, the duo track him down in order to tie up loose ends. Although the plot trods a familiar path, Manchette's terse prose, filled with dark humor and ably translated, keeps it fresh and absorbing. And as in much noir, Manchette exhibits an underlying thread of anti-confomism. Manchette wrote nine other crime novels for Gallimard's legendary S&eacute;rie Noir imprint, another of which (The Prone Gunman) is also being published by City Lights.	2002-07-22
1472213:US	52254603	R1FEQRVEQHMUM1	1852426861	435314707	The Devil in Me	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Strong and Varied Collection	I first came across Fowler in the Vox N' Roll anthology where his creepy story \\"At Home In the Old Pubs of London\\" stood out as the best in a distinguished lot. (That story reappears as the lead story in this collection.) I gather Fowler is a prolific writer of horror novels in the UK although you'd be hard pressed to guess so from this collection this strong collection of twelve stories. Three of them have near-future settings, but that's the closest they flirt with genre fiction. Each story retains its own voice and sucks you in-and I think it might be fair to compare some of them to Roald Dahl's work, both in terms of black comedy and final page twists.<br />One of my favorite stories was the deadpan \\"Rainy Day Boys\\", in which two London flatmates bicker and kill someone in King's Cross. It's funny stuff, and first appeared in The Second Time Out Book of London Stories. I also quite enjoyed \\"The Beacon\\", where an old man enters the age of the Internet, although I must confess I don't really understand the twist at the end. \\"Come On Then If You Think You're Hard Enough,\\" is a very brief and good piece about male violence. \\"Living Proof\\" is the most Dahlesque story in its noir depiction of a journalist trying to regain his pride-very good, although the final twist is rather foreseeable. I also quite liked \\"Sex Monkeys\\" which details in roller-coaster fashion a darkly hilarious chain of events set off by a wayward sexual aid.<br />The second story, \\"Crocodile Lady,\\" is a decent story revolving around a middle-aged teacher emerging from her marriage and facing her demons in the subway. A similar female character is the central figure in \\"Seven Dials,\\" which attempts to grapple with time. The near-future stories are \\"The Look\\", which is a scathing anti-fashion industry piece that might appeal to lovers of Bret Easton Ellis. In \\"The Torch Goes Out\\", walls are being erected to literally separate the violent chaotic \\"inner\\" city with the middle-class \\"outer\\" city/suburbs. It's a decent premise (somewhat akin to the Deadenders graphic novel series) that doesn't really pay off. \\"Something For Your Monkey\\" is a P.G. Wodehouse inspired \\"light\\" comic story which isn't nearly as amusing as anything by Plum (then again, what is?)... until the final page, where a waiter makes a devastating laugh-out-loud speech which makes the whole thing worth reading. \\"Eighteen and Over\\" is the one false step in the collection, comprised of an exchange of letters between a filmmaker and the British version of the MPAA ratings board.<br />Altogether, this is a very good varied collection of short fiction. I doubt I'll go back and check out Fowler's horror stuff, but I'll definitely keep a lookout for his next book of fiction.s. It's a decent premise (somewhat akin to the Deadenders graphic novel series) that doesn't really pay off. \\"Something For Your Monkey\\" is a P.G. Wodehouse inspired \\"light\\" comic story which isn't nearly as amusing as anything by Plum (then again, what is?)... until the final page, where a waiter makes a devastating laugh-out-loud speech which makes the whole thing worth reading. \\"Eighteen and Over\\" is the one false step in the collection, comprised of an exchange of letters between a filmmaker and the British version of the MPAA ratings board. <br />Altogether, this is a very good varied collection of short fiction. I doubt I'll go back and check out Fowler's horror stuff, but I'll definitely keep a lookout for his next book of fiction.	2002-07-17
1473913:US	52254603	R3KOVWDYZA7JA5	0872863816	700372589	Points of Departure	Books	4	3	4	N	N	The Usual Mixed Bag	When I saw the subtitle to this book, \\"New Stories From Mexico,\\" I was excited, thinking I'd be reading invigorating short fiction from young Gen-X or Y writers. So it was a bit of a letdown to learn in the introduction that all the authors were born in the 1950s or '60s (although even this is a little misleading, as only one of the writers was born after 1961). All are well-established writers, most of whom have won various literary prizes yet are little-known in the US, save perhaps for David Toscana who has had two novels published in English in the US (Tula Station and Our Lady of the Circus). In any event, the collection, while not being totally engrossing (few short story collections are), provided a few of pleasant discoveries.<br />Perhaps self-consciously, the collection starts with its grittiest, most urban entry, Eduardo Parra's \\"Real Life,\\" in which a journalist attempts to shape a sensationalistic story about the murder of a homeless couple who he knows in passing and whose love for each other makes him ashamed of his own life. Depending on one's predilections, readers will find it either exceedingly powerful or borderline cheezy. The following story, Bernardo Ruiz's \\"Queen of Shadows\\" is one of my favorites, telling the story of a woman in prison who longs to escape her isolation and connect with someone on the outside. Later on, David Toscana's \\"The Big Brush,\\" injects a note of forlorn absurdity with its portrait of a failing paint seller which I found oddly compelling. Another of my favorites was Alvaro Uribe's \\"The Hostage,\\" a dark sketch of interior terror. \\"Isiah IIV, 14\\" by Ethel Krauze is a surprising little cross-cultural vignette of a Jewish family going out on Christmas Eve in Mexico City.<br />Several are set in refined upper middle-class circles and concern themselves with sexual relationships, these stories Rafael P&eacute;rez Gay's \\"Night Calls,\\" Rosa B&eacute;ltran's \\"Scheheresade,\\" M&oacute;nica Lav&iacute;n's \\"Why Come Back?\\" I generally find these kind of stories rather boring, the type of stuff I would never read by an American author and none of these did much for me. A few of the stories veer down surreal, semi-magical realist routes that didn't really appeal to me, these included Josefina Estrada's \\"June Gave Him the Voice,\\" and Daniel Sada's \\"The Basilisk,\\" and Francisco Hinojosa's \\"Marina Dosal, Juice Vendor.\\" Rosina Conde's \\"Morente\\" is a somewhat better story in this vein, a riff on the supernatural lover genre.<br />The remainder are nothing spectacular. Juan Villoro's \\"Coyote\\" sketches the trip of three well-to-do urban couples out to the desert where they will look for peyote and attempt to rekindle their spirits. It's a rather obvious setup, so it comes as no surprise that one gets lost and has to get \\"primal\\" to survive and reenter civilization. It's not terrible, but it's the kind of unoriginal riff one might expect in a college writing class. Juvenal Acosta's \\"Ginsberg's Tie\\" takes place at a dinner party of two upper class Anglo couples in Berkeley wherein the past is rehashed. It reads sort of like a rough draft for a one act play more than anything else. Mauricio Montiel's \\"Olga, Or The Darkest Mambo\\" is a brief study of an aging dancer/prostitute and Enrique Serna's \\"Self-Love\\" is a vaguely irritating unpunctuated stream of consciousness encounter between a transvestite performer and the actress s/he mimics.tories rather boring, the type of stuff I would never read by an American author and none of these did much for me. A few of the stories veer down surreal, semi-magical realist routes that didn't really appeal to me, these included Josefina Estrada's \\"June Gave Him the Voice,\\" and Daniel Sada's \\"The Basilisk,\\" and Francisco Hinojosa's \\"Marina Dosal, Juice Vendor.\\" Rosina Conde's \\"Morente\\" is a somewhat better story in this vein, a riff on the supernatural lover genre.<br />The remainder are nothing spectacular. Juan Villoro's \\"Coyote\\" sketches the trip of three well-to-do urban couples out to the desert where they will look for peyote and attempt to rekindle their spirits. It's a rather obvious setup, so it comes as no surprise that one gets lost and has to get \\"primal\\" to survive and reenter civilization. It's not terrible, but it's the kind of unoriginal riff one might expect in a college writing class. Juvenal Acosta's \\"Ginsberg's Tie\\" takes place at a dinner party of two upper class Anglo couples in Berkeley wherein the past is rehashed. It reads sort of like a rough draft for a one act play more than anything else. Mauricio Montiel's \\"Olga, Or The Darkest Mambo\\" is a brief study of an aging dancer/prostitute and Enrique Serna's \\"Self-Love\\" is a vaguely irritating unpunctuated stream of consciousness encounter between a transvestite performer and the actress s/he mimics.	2002-07-16
1475521:US	52254603	RJB3RQC1Y7QCD	0345390458	543344242	Havana Bay (Arkady Renko Novels, No 4)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Great characters & setting, weak plot	The fourth Arkady Renko book (following Gorky Park, Polar Star, and Red Square), takes the dour Russian police detective to a struggling and tattered Havana. On the heels of his lover's accidental death, he receives a telegram warning him that an old friend posted to the Russian embassy in Havana is in danger. After paying for his own ticket and flying halfway around the world, he arrives in time to watch his friend's decomposing body being pulled from the bay. The story that ensues is an extremely convoluted thriller, more enjoyable for its portrait of modern Cuba than for its weak plot.<br />Grim Renko is the ultimate fish out of water in a Cuba where Russians are despised as back-stabbing former allies and betrayers of the revolution. One the book's most enjoyable aspects is watching Renko poke around with virtually no resources at his disposal. With no authority, no Spanish, and only the most tenuous of allies, he starts looking into his friend's death, galvanized by an unprovoked attempt on his own life. As he negotiates a city struggling to exist under the US embargo without Russian aid, he discovers a civil society, government bureaucracy, and economy constantly on the brink of failure. Eventually he is helped by a female police officer who, in a society where everyone must run some kind of illegal scam to bring in enough money to live on, has idealistic and unshakable ideas about justice. Of course, their pairing up is as cheezy as it is inevitable, but that's a minor flaw compared to the confusing plot the characters are run through.<br />As the book wears on, Renko starts stumbling into a rather massive and ridiculous conspiracy. It's a scheme totally disproportional to the fine nuances and detail that are so enjoyable elsewhere in the book, and its masterminds are shabby cardboard characters compared to the Cubans Smith so carefully constructs. So, read the book for its atmosphere of modern Cuba, populated by hustlers, sex workers, musicians, mechanics, Santeria priests, Abakua secret society members, veterans of wars in Angola and Ethiopia, and mouthy grandmothers who live in a realm where the socialist ideal is rapidly rusting, and boom-boom decadence of the West is capturing the hearts and minds.anteria priests, Abakua secret society members, veterans of wars in Angola and Ethiopia, and mouthy grandmothers who live in a realm where the socialist ideal is rapidly rusting, and boom-boom decadence of the West is capturing the hearts and minds.	2002-07-15
1476436:US	52254603	R1C4OWATXJ0D0N	0805070583	439605009	Spies: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The Ignorance of Youth	The ignorance of youth can be both a blissful and terrifying thing, for while ignorance of the \\"adult\\" world, with its nasty realities allows for a period of innocence, this same ignorance can lead to times of horrible terror when children are forced to play roles in an adult world beyond their comprehension. This book takes the form of an old man visiting the street he grew up on in suburban London during WWII, where he unwittingly stumbled into the dealings of adults. In flashback narrative, he tells the story of what happened when his best (and only) friend Keith uttered the words, \\"My mother is a German spy.\\"<br />Against the backdrop of wartime shortages, blackouts, and night time German bombing, young awkward Stephen follows his friend Keith in all matters. Keith is more affluent than the rest of the neighborhood kids, but is an insufferable snob, which is why Stephen is his only friend. When Keith makes his pronouncement, the two boys engage is play spycraft, only to discover that indeed, Keith's mother is up to something fishy. As the investigation continues, Stephen starts to grow bolder, leading to Keith's snubbing of him. Stephen is ultimately propelled into a situation well out of his depth, and comes to the frightening realization that adults are not all-powerful.<br />By recounting the story from the younger Stephen's perspective, Frayn allows the suspense to build, revealing events and information as his child-self came to understand it. The ultimate revelation is a minor letdown, as is the epilogue about Stephen's own family (which won't come as much of a surprise to readers who pay attention at the beginning and notice a few rather obvious clues dropped along the way). Still, that's a minor quibble with an altogether gripping read. Frayn brings the secret ways of young boys to life in a vivid and sympathetic portrait, replete with the cruelty of youth. Very likely to become a movie.	2002-07-14
1478875:US	52254603	REC428XZOQXRJ	0811810437	537522842	San Francisco Thrillers: True Crime and Dark Mysteries from the City by the Bay	Books	3	3	3	N	N	No Real Sense of the City	Having just moved to San Francisco, and being a fan of mysteries and crime novels, I figured this collection of thirteen short stories and excerpts would be a nice way to get to know my new surroundings. Unfortunately, only a few of the stories really attempt to evoke their setting, and on the whole, the book is a bit flat.<br />Bill Pronzini's contribution is a tragic (and rather predictable) little story set in Glen Park and the Mission. Dashiell Hammet's 1928 Continental Op story, \\"Fly Paper\\" is the longest, and perhaps best fiction in the book. Hildegarde Teilhet's \\"Demon in the Belfry,\\" which recounts a savage double murder that occurred in 1895 is interesting reportage, but pales next to Oscar Lewis' 1924 true crime article, \\"The Phosphorescent Bride.\\" His retelling of a famous murder and legal battle is the most engrossing bit of writing in the collection. Joe Gores contributes an early story from 1966, in which two hipsters decide to go witness an execution at San Quentin for kicks. It's an effectively creepy story, but not as evocative of the city as one of his DKA stories (which are collected in the volume Stakeout on Page Street) would have been.<br />The editors note that Jim Thompson's story \\"Ironside\\", is one of his few that has fallen out of print. However, after reading it here, one can understand why as it exhibits a few of the harsh sentences he excelled at, but none of the coherence. Scenes from the 1958 film Vertigo are included, and although one may concede that Alfred Hitchcock \\"made\\" the movie, it's nonetheless irritating that the actual authors of the screenplay which is being excerpted, Alec Coppel and Samuel Taylor, are buried. Ambrose Bierce's Poe-inspired ghost story is a decent inclusion, but Mark Twain's brief ghost piece is not. Marcia Muller's \\"Deceptions\\" is a so-so story set amidst the city's elite and the Golden Gate Bridge. The excerpt from Mabel Maney's \\"The Case of the Not-So-Nice Nurse\\" is atrocious, while those from Gloria White's \\"Murder on the Run\\" and John Lantigua's \\"Heat Lightning\\" are more interesting, especially the latter, whose action is set in the Mission.<br />On the whole, the collection is a very mixed bag, one I found rather disappointing. There's no real sense of the city to be gained from it, nor was I introduced to any outstanding talent I wasn't familiar with. Oh well, I guess I'll stick it in the guest bedroom.ite's \\"Murder on the Run\\" and John Lantigua's \\"Heat Lightning\\" are more interesting, especially the latter, whose action is set in the Mission.<br />On the whole, the collection is a very mixed bag, one I found rather disappointing. There's no real sense of the city to be gained from it, nor was I introduced to any outstanding talent I wasn't familiar with. Oh well, I guess I'll stick it in the guest bedroom.	2002-07-11
1479939:US	52254603	RQFNLMQ9UKA0B	0765303922	170230601	Whole Wide World	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great Gritty Near Future Procedural	This near-future police procedural is unfortunately one of those genre-crossing novels that's probably not going to get the attention it deserves from either pure science fiction or crime readers. That's a pity, because while it may not contain enough sci-fi elements for that cadre, it is one of the better crime novels I've read in recent years. The story is set in London, about ten years in the future. Temperatures are regularly in the 90s (presumably due to global warming), and the effects of a terrorist attack on London's information systems several years ago are still unfolding. The forces of morality have grown notably stronger (including a proliferation of Legion of Decency type organizations), and Internet blue laws prohibit the production of online porn in the UK. Another effect of the \\"Info War\\" is an intensification of state surveillance of public space, led by an experimental networked and artificially intelligent system of CCTV camera linked to police systems. This system, which uses facial recognition technology to track people as they move through London, is only a short step from reality, which helps impart a greater sense of immediacy and realism that many sci-fi books have.<br />In this setting is a diminutive fortysomething techie detective, stuck in a crummy job in a dying IT division of the Metropolitan police. Like many a fictional detective hero, he can't escape a dark past, leaving him ostracized and more or less a loner, save for an ex-girlfriend he's trying to win back. His sad little existence is interrupted by his routine involvement in a very non-routine case-the torture and murder of a young woman, broadcast via webcams across the Internet. He manages to second himself to the flashier homicide unit that takes over the case, and is soon in deep. Clues point toward a master porn techie who's been in trouble before for stalking, but there's also the matter of the woman's uncle, who happens to be the guru behind the new CCTV camera system technology. Naturally, obstacles, red herrings, and all manner of bedevilment impede the detective's progress, but like all obsessed heroes, he persists 'till the bitter climax. The book actually loses a bit of steam in the end, when the action leaves London and shifts to Cuba, which has remade itself as host for websites that no one else will host. McAuley's gritty future London is an integral part of the story, and Cuba never comes alive in the same way. It's not the most original mystery, but the prose crackles and draws you deep into the hero's unhappy life while presenting a fascinating imagining of the near future, and the combination is something quite unusual and worth reading.chnology. Naturally, obstacles, red herrings, and all manner of bedevilment impede the detective's progress, but like all obsessed heroes, he persists 'till the bitter climax. The book actually loses a bit of steam in the end, when the action leaves London and shifts to Cuba, which has remade itself as host for websites that no one else will host. McAuley's gritty future London is an integral part of the story, and Cuba never comes alive in the same way. It's not the most original mystery, but the prose crackles and draws you deep into the hero's unhappy life while presenting a fascinating imagining of the near future, and the combination is something quite unusual and worth reading.	2002-07-10
1480718:US	52254603	R33E9NQ17A8T5F	1874061718	378045638	Magic Hoffman	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Excellent	In a departure from his Kemal Kayankaya mystery series, this novel from German/Turkish writer Arjouni is a deceptively simple story about friendship and the reunification of Germany. Three rural teenagers dream of moving to Canada to escape the boredom of their country existence, and to finance this they embark on a brazen bank robbery of around $500,000. \\"Magic\\" Hoffman is caught and sentenced to four years in juvenile prison, while the other two escape with the money since Hoffman refuses to implicate them. The member of the trio with the highest spirits and wildest antics, he spends the four years keeping a low profile and dreaming of the move to Canada. So, when he's released, he's perplexed that neither Nick or Annette have come to the prison to pick him up.<br />Assuming it's all a misunderstanding, he takes a train to Berlin to find them and reunite. Of course, when he gets to the big city, he's totally out of his element. Beyond the difficulties of navigating a big city, he encounters a cultural and political climate totally foreign to him. While he was in prison, Germany reunified, but never one to pay attention to such things, he doesn't really see what the big deal is. So while everyone around him is yammering about culture and politics, he just smiles dumbly as it all goes over his head. Unsurprisingly (but no less poignantly) when he does catch up with his friends, they are very different people, and have no intention of running off to Canada with him. The realization that times have moved on without him dawns heartbreakingly on him, and you can't help but sympathize with the obtuse Hoffman. The ending is a little off-too over the top compared to the rest of the book, but that doesn't take away from the book's overall excellence.<br />It's a story about betrayal, not melodramatic betrayal, but the aching kind that happens when friends grow up and grow apart. On another level, Hoffman is clearly meant to symbolize Eastern Germany, locked behind the Iron Curtain for years, and too slow to catch up with the self-absorbed go-go West (as embodied by Nick and Annette). A sad, gritty, and compulsive read, it's a shame Arjouni isn't more widely known in the US.n Curtain for years, and too slow to catch up with the self-absorbed go-go West (as embodied by Nick and Annette). A sad, gritty, and compulsive read, it's a shame Arjouni isn't more widely known in the US.	2002-07-10
1483827:US	52254603	RWGCF6MN0LE1	0399146849	936865739	A Murder of Honor	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Decent DC Thriller	I don't usually read mainstream thrillers like this, but I find it hard to resist anything set in my hometown of Washington, DC. Andrews' tale follows two grizzled DC police detectives, Frank Kearney and Jos&eacute; Phelps (the requisite white/black cop duo), as they attempt to solve the driveby shooting of a world-renown local activist priest. Their search of the dead priest's quarters turns up half a million in cash and a bunch of classified personal ads from DC's gay newspaper, The Blade. The killing is poised to escalate into a full-blown media event, with the priest's reputation bound to be tarnished forever, and it's up to Kearney and Phelps to sort out the connections. Naturally, there's pressure from above, in the form of Mayor Malcom Burridge-who is a very thinly veiled Marion Barry.<br />The plot is appropriately convoluted, with bureaucratic obstacles, recalcitrant informants, and all manner of complications. The DC details are mostly authentic and believable, although the year is somewhat unclear. It appears to be set during DC's \\"Murder Capitol\\" days back in '91-'92 or so, but references to Kearney's Vietnam service and age make it seem to be set in the late '90s. One major issue I have with the book is a certain level of clich&eacute; creep that occurs throughout. For example, the Mayor has a speech where he threatens the two cops with the tired old threat, \\"If I go down, you're going with me!\\" The slimy media star character is also rather cardboardy in comparison to other characters. The other complaint I have with the book is that its fairly well-done procedural aspect is undermined by a ridiculously high body count. Indeed, every clue seems to lead to another murder or wild shoot-out. It was my impression that in the real world, when a police officer shoots and kills someone (even a criminal), they're put on administrative leave pending a hearing, in this book Kearny and Phelps run around with an Armalite and riot shotgun in their trunk, and pull them out at the drop of a hat. It's almost as if Andrews felt that every time the cops started getting too close to the whole picture, the person who could fill them in would have to die in order to keep things rolling along.<br />In any event, it's still a competent thriller that doesn't require too much brainpower and is enjoyable for what it is.he drop of a hat. It's almost as if Andrews felt that every time the cops started getting too close to the whole picture, the person who could fill them in would have to die in order to keep things rolling along.<br />In any event, it's still a competent thriller that doesn't require too much brainpower and is enjoyable for what it is.	2002-07-08
1489216:US	52254603	R3L2HL1IL7OMOS	006000438X	759689844	The Death of Vishnu: A Novel	Books	3	9	12	N	N	A Disjointed Comic and Cosmic Debut	I've hardly read any of the deluge of fiction that seems to have burst forth from Indian writers in recent years, so I'm in no position to compare Suri's debut to other books of the same ilk. On its own merits however, this first in a projected trilogy (The Life of Shiva and The Birth of Brahma are its intended successors) is a decent comic, cosmic, and ultimately tragic look at a microcosm of contemporary India.<br />The story revolves around an apartment building in Bombay, zooming in on the myriad events of a single day. The title character is an alcoholic who sleeps on one of the building's landings, and over the course of the day moves from coma to death. Throughout the book, his life's memories are displayed and intertwined with the real and imagined melodramas of the families in the building. Vishnu's moments of brief happiness and joy (prominent in these is his relationship with a self-absorbed prostitute) drift by in increasingly dreamlike sequences which grow less interesting as they get more hallucinogenic. More entertaining and compelling are the families around him, including the two Hindu women (and their long-suffering husbands) who bicker about who's responsible for Vishnu and who's stealing water and ghee from the kitchen they share. Above them is a Muslim family whose son elopes with the shallow, movie-obsessed daughter of one of the Hindu families. At the same time, his father, a harmless intellectual who has turned into a fanatic in his quest for spiritual enlightenment has a vision. And above them lives a widower whose story emerges rather late in the scheme of things. Bit characters include a crafty servant woman, local street vendors, and a women's card circle.<br />It's hard to escape the feeling that if I knew more than a smattering of Hindu mythology, other layers of meaning might reveal themselves. Indeed, readers with a copy of the Bhagavad-Gita might want to skim through it to refresh themselves before starting Suri's novel. In any event, the comic elements of the book work better than the cosmic ones. Unfortunately, Suri seems to have intentionally employed melodrama (star-crossed lovers, internecine tragedy) to help the comic part of the book have a larger meaning. This strategy doesn't mesh very well with the more cosmic side of the equation, with a somewhat disjointed narrative resulting. It's altogether decent and enjoyable, but not the masterpiece I'd been told to expect.t, the comic elements of the book work better than the cosmic ones. Unfortunately, Suri seems to have intentionally employed melodrama (star-crossed lovers, internecine tragedy) to help the comic part of the book have a larger meaning. This strategy doesn't mesh very well with the more cosmic side of the equation, with a somewhat disjointed narrative resulting. It's altogether decent and enjoyable, but not the masterpiece I'd been told to expect.	2002-07-03
1489249:US	52254603	RF2W7XSEIENRO	0609603531	563653528	The Dragonhead: The Godfather of Chinese Crime--His Rise and Fall	Books	3	5	5	N	N	FlawedBut Not Fataly	First of all, I strongly encourage anyone to read an excerpt of this book before purchasing it. Sack (for better or worse) is one of the pioneers of \\"literary journalism\\", which means his writing style is more akin to storytelling, with recreated conversations and whatnot, than many people will be used to. This is especially disconcerting because he explains his methodology in assembling this biography of Chinese gang lord Johnny Kon at the end of the book, instead of the beginning. If this doesn't put you off, it's still hard to ignore some of his other stylistic flaws. Foremost of these is an excess of detail-throughout the book the reader is kept up to date on every dish consumed during gang meetings, the cost, style, and provenance of every item of footwear Johnny Kon is wearing, and the precise decor of every hotel lobby and room he passes through. These details, marginally interesting the first or second appearance, rapidly grow annoying and intrusive, ballooning what might have been a 250 page book to it's final 400 pages. Another stylistic flaw is the lack of dates throughout. Once the early part of Johnny's life is past, and the Vietnam War is over, it's very hard to get a sense of what time frame is under discussion.<br />The life and times of Johnny Kon is certainly an interesting tale, and not one many people could have even attempted, much less completed. From a life of poverty in Maoist China, Kon escaped to Shanghai and then Hong Kong, building a semi-legitimate fur empire. Much of his fur fortune was linked to the huge US Army presence in Southeast Asia during the 1960s, and the sections which detail his interactions with the US Army are very compelling. However, in this period also lies Kon's alleged motive for becoming the leading importer of heroin to the US. I say alleged because the basis for the book is Sack's relationship with Kon and interviews with him conducted in jail, and so it's hard not to view Kon's \\"motive\\" as an after-the-fact self-justification. In any event, whether one believes it or not, the event that pushed Kon into drug dealing was the death of two of his children in the chaos of the Khmer Rouge coup in Cambodia. He lays the ultimate blame for this at the feet of the US and its meddling in other countries and spread of indiscriminate death and destruction. The book posits the dubious notion that heroin was \\"popularized\\" by all the US soldiers who became addicted during their tour of duty, and thus created the demand for Kon's operations ten years later.<br />So, Kon builds himself a gang comprised of a tough circle of ex-Red Guard soldiers and embarks on an effective smuggling operation that massive quantities of heroin into the US in the '80s. While the logistics of his operation make for interesting reader, the dynamics of the gang do not. There are so many members of his gang, it gets hard to keep them, their nicknames, and their allegiances straight (here, a diagram or simple list at the beginning of the book would have been a useful editorial addiction). Similarly, the Byzantine feuds of the various gangs and how they all relate to each other gets a bit tedious and hard to follow. Ultimately, Kon's downfall was predictably the result of some rather amazing bungling, silly escalations of petty rivalries over \\"respect\\" between gang members, and that ultimate foe of the gangster-betrayal.<br />One of the more disturbing aspects of the book are the descriptions of how the US government strong-armed a number of countries into extraditing members of Kon's family who had nothing to do with his heroin operations. They were used as leverage against Kon, forcing him to plead guilty-and while there's no denying he was a very bad drug lord, those kinds of tactics are bad precedent setters. Ultimately, the book is moderately interesting, but far too long. It suffers greatly from its more or less detached recounting of Kon's life story-especially odious are Kon's attempts to be a good Bhuddist amidst it all. The same kind of hypocrisy that infested the Irish-Catholic gangs and Italian mafia. Ultimately, unless one is really really interested in the heroin trade, or in Chinese gangs, I'd probably advise skipping this overladen book.midst it all. The same kind of hypocrisy that infested the Irish-Catholic gangs and Italian mafia. Ultimately, unless one is really really interested in the heroin trade, or in Chinese gangs, I'd probably advise skipping this overladen book.	2002-07-03
1491530:US	52254603	R2QXMYZAQUGJUQ	1885941447	149375555	Stakeout on Page Street and Other DKA Files	Books	4	5	6	N	N	The Collected DKA Files	Joe Gores' DKA series, which details the operations and adventures a San Francisco repo firm, got its start in Ellery Queen's Mystery Magazine back in 1967. With six books in the series in print, this volume provides the admirable service of collecting the twelve DKA short stories into a single volume. Gore based the DKA characters and series on his personal experience and coworkers at a San Francisco repo firm, which lends the tales the zing of procedural authenticity and an atmosphere likely to appeal to Bay area readers. Each story is introduced by Gores, who explains its origin and fidelity to actual cases-as he grew more and more sure of his writing, Gores strayed more from the actual case facts, thus the stories grow progressively freer. In his introduction, Gores also discusses the problem of setting a long-running series in the present, but not having its main characters age at the same rate.<br />Running almost exactly twelve pages each, the stories are perfect for those times when you only have ten or fifteen minutes to sit down. The thrill of these stories come from the tricks and craftiness employed by the repo men (and women), and their quarry. Since no one is interested in killing or getting killed over an unpaid for car, guns don't come into play very often, although fisticuffs do provide for some action. And of course sometimes an unpaid for car is simply part of a greater crime... Most of the stories are fairly straightforward and enjoyable detailings of interesting repo cases. A few, such as the Dashiell Hammet homage, \\"Beyond the Shadow\\" and the anti-developer \\"Do Not Go Gentle\\", with its Snidely Whiplash villain, do not work as well. My own favorite stories are the more whimsical ones, such as \\"The O'Bannon Blarney File\\" in which a hearse is repoed, or \\"Jump Her Lively, Boys!\\" in which a fire engine is repoed. The best of all however, is \\"The Maimed and The Halt\\", whose denouement is masterful, hilarious, and true.<br />This is the perfect introduction to the DKA series, for those who haven't encountered it, and the perfect gift for those who have. Unfortunately, the stories aren't packaged very well, with a terrible cover and the worst typography I've come across in a long time, but at least one doesn't have to track down ancient copies of EQMM to find the stories any more!duction to the DKA series, for those who haven't encountered it, and the perfect gift for those who have. Unfortunately, the stories aren't packaged very well, with a terrible cover and the worst typography I've come across in a long time, but at least one doesn't have to track down ancient copies of EQMM to find the stories any more!	2002-07-01
1493308:US	52254603	R2IOHXSYW839BL	0575033363	842527028	Tik-Tok	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Good fun, but no masterpiece	I had heard this book was an outrageously funny masterpiece of black humor, so finally, after many years I tracked it down at the library. While I discovered is a brief satire with a one joke premise that's diverting, but ages quickly. Told in 26 chapters-each of whose first word follows the sequence of the alphabet (Chapter 1, \\"As\\"; Chapter 2 \\"Broaching\\"; Chapter 3. \\"Culpritwise\\" and so on, at least until the final letters, where Sladek's gusto for this very little joke seems have run dry)-the story tells of a sociopathic robot in future America.<br />Tik-Tok has \\"asimov circuits\\" which are supposed to keep him from harming humans, but somehow these aren't working, or as he suggests at one point, never really existed in the first place, but are part of some massive groupthink. The result is that Tik-Tok kills sadistically over the course of the book, all while building himself a corporate empire and manipulating social and political opinion so that robots are allowed to own property and vote. This is all fairly predictable from the beginning, but what I did find unexpectedly interesting are the parallels with Bret Easton Ellis' highly controversial novel American Psycho, which was written eight years later. In both, an outwardly impeccable character engages in nasty sadism, even tells other people what's he's done, only to have them think it's a joke.<br />Mixed in with Tik-Tok's ascension are his reminisces of past owners, which are mostly played to comic effect, with a running commentary equating robots with slaves. Traditional caretakers of the moral status quo such as priests, judges, military, and aristocracy are repeatedly revealed to be charlatans, sadists, and just plain crazy. On the other end of the spectrum, the civil rights do-gooders of the \\"Wages For Robots\\" movement come under equal unsubtle satirical attack, as does the celebrity media industry. Capitalism itself, along with the military-industrial complex is further fodder for Sladek's acid pen. Ultimately, however, none of the satire is as subtle as I would have liked, and much of the book reads like an author riffing on familiar subjects. It's a nice addition to robot literature, but hardly the masterpiece it's made out to be.timately, however, none of the satire is as subtle as I would have liked, and much of the book reads like an author riffing on familiar subjects. It's a nice addition to robot literature, but hardly the masterpiece it's made out to be.	2002-06-29
1494026:US	52254603	R3JNYPRGBF8Z67	0375413839	22904795	The Rotters' Club	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Dawning of a New Era	If you're looking for an hilarious and poignant coming of age story interwoven with a sociopolitical history of '70s Birmingham (England not Alabama!), which serves as stand-in for pre-Thatcherite Britain-well, this is the book for you! Of course that description can't really do justice to this masterfully crafted 400 page novel, which will have a sequel covering the subsequent decades. First of all, larger themes aside (more on those later), the adventures and trials of the four boys who enter into and pass through teenagerdom over the course of the book and those of their siblings, schoolmates, and girlfriends are a delight. All the familiar aches and pains of teenage life are here in bucketloads, angst, humiliation, betrayal, unrequited love, awkward fumblings in the closet, drifting friendships, the birth and death of a band, and first love. The book will remind the vast majority of readers of how awful teenage life was, but Coe's depiction is always deft and empathetic, even during scenes that will cause one to cringe in recognition.<br />If that were all there was to it, one would be happy to enjoy the book as a simple coming of age flashback novel. However Coe also immerses the reader in the lives of the boys parents, which aren't any more complicated, but invoke much higher stakes and are emblematic of the forces changing Britain. One boy has a father who's a union shop steward in a local auto plant, while another's father is in management. Through the two men, the reader is propelled into the emasculation of organized labor, the violent death of British socialism (one harrowing sequence takes the reader into a union demonstration that is attacked by police), and the entire malaise of post-imperial Britain. Imagine that, a novel where characters actually discuss politics! Also present is a reminder of the prevalent anti-immigrant racism that existed then, as well as the violent appearance of IRA activity in the British heartland.<br />Some will find this fascinating and absorbing stuff, expertly fitted to the lives of the large cast of characters. Others (especially non-British readers) may find the sociopolitical aspect, time period, setting, and cultural milieu of the novel distracting and cumbersome. Some may also be frustrated by the lack of conclusion, as Coe ends the book with Margaret Thatcher's election at the end of the decade, and asks readers to continue the characters' stories in the next installment. Personally, none of this bothered me, given its grand sweep, the book is an amazingly written tale littered with wit and insight. I can't wait for the next half.ascinating and absorbing stuff, expertly fitted to the lives of the large cast of characters. Others (especially non-British readers) may find the sociopolitical aspect, time period, setting, and cultural milieu of the novel distracting and cumbersome. Some may also be frustrated by the lack of conclusion, as Coe ends the book with Margaret Thatcher's election at the end of the decade, and asks readers to continue the characters' stories in the next installment. Personally, none of this bothered me, given its grand sweep, the book is an amazingly written tale littered with wit and insight. I can't wait for the next half.	2002-06-28
1494894:US	52254603	R2T2OO0T23J2YM	0375421335	80064322	Only in London: A Novel	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A Comic Exploration of Exile	I'm stunned more people haven't commented on this book...<br />Through the lives of four passengers returning to London from the Arab world, Lebanese author al-Shaykh displays a deep concern with issues of exile, memory, language,freedom, desire, and ultimately identity. Each of the three main Arab characters have spent most of their lives playing roles. Lamis, a newly divorced 30-year old Iraqi, is returning to London where she's lived for twelve years in to pick up the pieces of her life after briefly fleeing to Dubai after her divorce. Having thrown off her stifling life as a young trophy wife to a wealthy older man, she's unsure how to maintain her role as mother and what to do with her life.<br />Amira is a high-end Moroccan prostitute who is coming to the realization that her looks won't last forever. She embarks on a comic and cunning scheme to pose as a princess in a royal family in order to con wealthy Arab men out of large sums of cash. She helps monkey-smuggling newcomer Samir navigate Arab London. He's a Lebanese man who has concealed his homosexuality for years by marrying and fathering five children. Released in liberated London, his flamboyant and cross-dressing nature comes bubbling up to great comic effect. The final piece of the puzzle is Nicholas, a British employee of Sotheby's, who is also an antiquities consultant for an Omani prince.<br />The lives of the foursome intertwine, with Lamis and Nicholas falling in love. Their relationship forms the nominal core of the book, and while Lamis' inner turmoil and fears, social awkwardness, and cross-cultural problems come across pitch perfect, Nicholas remains a bit of an enigma, and is the most unsatisfying of the characters. At the same time, Samir moves in with Amira to become her majordomo while pursuing young men. As their tales play out, one gets a real sense of the difficulties of faced by exiles-although it must be noted that no one in this book lacks for money. Indeed, while one gets a sense of what the lives of London's Arab elite is like, it's a totally different world from that of the average immigrant or refugee. Still, it's a refreshing view of Arabs (sprinkled liberally with comic scenes and moments) unlikely to be familiar to most Westerners. The writing is easy and natural, with none of the stiltedness that often emerges in translations, kudos to translator Catherine Cobham.f what the lives of London's Arab elite is like, it's a totally different world from that of the average immigrant or refugee. Still, it's a refreshing view of Arabs (sprinkled liberally with comic scenes and moments) unlikely to be familiar to most Westerners. The writing is easy and natural, with none of the stiltedness that often emerges in translations, kudos to translator Catherine Cobham.	2002-06-28
1497900:US	52254603	R38SVW6I1OPNAK	1887128646	366001756	Scorch	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Libertarianism, Consumerism, and Capitalism Run Amok	This debut dystopian novel posits an America in the not so distant future in which libertarianism, consumerism, and free market capitalism have run amok and have replaced the imperfect representative democracy of today. This old form of governance is known as \\"Big Brother Government\\", and is held in contempt for its protection of the weak and its attempt to regulate. So, instead of federal government, there are three huge corporations who control everything and everyone, but most importantly the media. Entertainment, news, and advertising have seamlessly merged, resulting in consumerism as the dominant driving force in society. Sitcoms have evolved beyond having product placements to becoming outright commercials, or \\"adstories\\" which often featuring graphic violence and sex. These adstories and their constant reminders of what people lack (a better car, nicer furniture, a prettier woman, personal safety, and soforth), perpetually reinforce the notion that people can never really be happy without the latest model of everything. Thus every waking hour is devoted to either working for money or spending money, and no one has time to think.<br />Set in Chicago, the story follows Arel Ashe, an assistant at Adstory who has not entirely bought into the system. At her night job she discovers a storeroom of books (which are obsolete and ignored in this America), and by reading some of them is energized to try and mess with the dominant paradigm that equates happiness with purchasing. Thus, she tries to tweak some of the adstories that pass through her computer, but her clumsy attempts backfire on her and she must scramble to avoid becoming one of the dreaded homeless. This is a serious problem, as a prominent self-help videobook author has turned into a religious fanatic whose credo that \\"Satan Walks Among Us Today\\" is an anti-homeless message that results in overnight support for a scheme to imprison all homeless. (This is quickly abetted by the corporations paying [money] for every homeless person brought in to their corporate prisons, where they are put to work.) As she scrambles to stay afloat, she also embarks on a relationship with an odd outsider named Ben, who works all day on a secret scheme of his own.<br />The book is studded with current trends stretched to their fairly clever satiric extremes, which in some cases aren't so extreme. Drivers shooting at each other is common, everyone carries \\"sellphones\\" on which they receive \\"FlashNews\\", instead of mace people carry personal \\"Flame-Off\\" mini-flamethrowers to roast would-be muggers, streets are totally privatized and tolled, schools are privatized brainwashing facilities, only the rich can afford to pay for police, and so on. Of course, as with many dys (and u) topian novels, there's a lot left unexplored and unexplained. For example, it's not clear if the rest of the world, or even the rest of the country is this way. Surely there are pockets of alternative lifestyles? It's also not clear why people don't have better memories-apparently these have been atrophied by the continual media blitz, but this is unexplained.<br />More problematic are character interactions and motivations. Arel's background as the daughter of university professor is repeated alluded to and apparently has some relation to her outsider nature, but this is left murky. Her relationship with media star Hampton Drane seems to exist solely to advance the story. Most importantly, she oscillates wildly between rejecting and embracing the system, which makes her hard to believe and care about. The characters tend to be rather cartoony and outlandish, which robs the book of any sense of grimness or darkness that could have been there. Finally, it's surely no fault of the author, but the typography is atrocious and makes the book a chore on the eyes.<br />Nauman's book isn't as provocative or groundbreaking as it's forebears like 1984 or Brave New World, but it is a worthy addition to the body of dystopian fiction. It could be especially useful for young teens to read as a prelude to a discussion on consumerism.tion. It could be especially useful for young teens to read as a prelude to a discussion on consumerism.	2002-06-25
1498766:US	52254603	R1FCRTWOYTGG1Y	0688158196	251233801	Kill the Shogun: A Samurai Mystery (Samurai Mysteries)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Worthy Finale	The Matsuyama Kaze trilogy concludes with this book which sees the ronin complete his trip down the Tokaido road (detailed in Death at the Crossroads and Jade Palace Vendetta) and end up in Edo, the new capital of the new Tokugawa Shogunate. Away from the rural settings he's comfortable in, Kaze is faced with the daunting task of searching the entire city for his dead lord's daughter. His problem is confounded by the organic nature of the city, which is constantly shifting as various lords claim swathes of land, and people and businesses are constantly relocating. It also doesn't help that he's a fugitive from the new Shogun's forces, having been a loyal to the deposed Emperor Hidyoshi. And it really doesn't help that someone tries to assassinate (with a gun no less) the new Shogun, and Kaze is suspect number one.<br />While the first two books were well-contained and precise, this finale is perhaps a little too grand in scale and action. The manhunt has Kaze ranging all over the city, and engineering too many unlikely escapes, and in addition to high level court machinations, the reader is introduced to ninjas and the use of guns. However, if one is prepared to forgive this surge in superheroism and scale, the book is as enjoyable as its predecessors. As in the those, Furutani ably adds period detail throughout the mystery, with fascinating tidbits of social custom and history. As with Kaze's previous adventures, the reader is likely to be several steps ahead of the ronin in deducing who the real villain is (indeed, I surmised it almost immediately!). Readers of the earlier books will not be surprised by the appearance of Kaze's boyhood rival Okubo, and his centrality to the climax. Despite the minor excesses and lack of mystery to the reader, it's a fitting and fun finale to an excellent trilogy.	2002-06-25
1498826:US	52254603	R2VFN182FLJ1JA	0811831795	267536011	Jack Cole and Plastic Man: Forms Stretched to Their Limits	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Draft Portrait of the Artist	This biography/retrospective of cartoonist Jack Cole is certainly eye-catching with its chaotic design, popping full-bleed artwork, rounded corners, and varying paper stock, but as a portrait of the artist it never really amounts to more than a draft sketch. Spiegelman's text is slightly expanded from an article he wrote in 1999 for The New Yorker, and while it's a fairly decent biographical sketch of Cole's life and career as creator of Plastic Man, Playboy illustrator, and syndicated cartoonist, it never does more than skim the surface. Most indicative of this is the skimpy treatment Cole's unexpected and unexplained suicide is accorded. It's clear that Spiegelman (creator of the acclaimed Maus) loves Cole's work, but other than some generic plaudits that could apply to a number of cartoonists, it's never really clear why he considers Cole a genius (or for that matter, why the reader should).<br />A graphic tribute it's more successful, combining reproductions of complete strips and stories (including the True Crime Comics classic \\"Murder, Morphine, and Me\\"), pieces from Playboy, family photos, unpublished sketches, covers, and collages. Some people are bound to hate renowned book designer Kidd's treatment of the material (and indeed, some of the text is a strain to read), but it seems wholly suitable to Cole's own frantic graphic style from the Plastic Man series. In the end, the book is unlikely to appeal to those outside the world of comics.	2002-06-25
1502359:US	52254603	R1UTNJG184Q8QU	034539092X	312499471	The Great Train Robbery	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Outstanding Retelling of the Legendary Caper	Drawing heavily from court records and testimony, Chrichton's novel of historical fiction recreates the ingenious planning and execution of perhaps the most famous crime in British history. It's a novel in a very loose sense of the word, since throughout the book, Chrichton stops the proceedings to explain Victorian social customs for several pages at a time. But this is not a complaint at all, for the details on dog fighting, rats, gender roles, fear of premature burial, chimney sweeps, tipping servants, the Crimean War, safecracking, and most importantly urbanization and railroads, are all integral to the crime, and fascinating historical tidbits in their own right.<br />Central to the entire crime is the understanding that in the 1855, there was no such thing as dynamite or other explosives, so safes really were impregnable without keys or unlimited to time to pick them. Thus, the robbery of the monthly gold shipment that traveled by rail to France to pay for the Crimean War was deemed inconceivable, as opening the safes required four keys which were held in three separate locations. However, along comes Edward Pierce, a safecracker and master con artist who wanted that gold. The book tells how using an incredible array of scams, assistants and associates, misdirection, boldness, and quick thinking, he obtains copies of the four keys and embarks on the theft of the century. Crichton does this is a fairly documentary style for the most part, however the dialogue amongst the criminals sparkles with period underworld slang (all of which he stops to explain).<br />The story is recounted with continual reference to the trial, so its clear from the get go that the plot was successful, yet somehow the plotters were caught. Even knowing this in advance, the suspense is maintained throughout as the plotters encounter unexpected difficulties, last minute roadblocks, and increased police attention. And despite this knowledge of the trial, the ultimate outcome is shocker. I can't say how closely Chrichton adhered to the facts of the plot, but the social context of mid-19th century England he puts it in is certainly well researched and accurate. Sure to please fans of of the David Mamet films House of Games, The Spanish Prisoner, The Heist, and of course the classic George Hill movie, The Sting.I can't say how closely Chrichton adhered to the facts of the plot, but the social context of mid-19th century England he puts it in is certainly well researched and accurate. Sure to please fans of of the David Mamet films House of Games, The Spanish Prisoner, The Heist, and of course the classic George Hill movie, The Sting.	2002-06-21
1502430:US	52254603	R1WQBOY2J668GZ	0786197412	242053487	Fatal Remedies	Books	3	13	15	N	N	Decent, but nothing Great	This is the first of Leon's books I've read, although it is apparently the eighth in her police procedural series set in Venice and featuring Commissario Guido Brunetti. It starts off with a nice twist, with the Commissario's university professor wife deliberately breaking the display window of a travel agency she believes profits from sex tours to southeast Asia. Hers arrest and subsequent repetition of the vandalism/protest obviously creates a number of problems for the Commissario. Professionally he is placed on administrative leave, and at home husband and wife must face differing beliefs in the relationships between morality, law and justice.<br />Then everything gets a whole lot more complicated when the nominal owner of the travel agency is found murdered. For reasons that aren't ever properly explained, the Commissario is assigned to lead the investigation despite the obvious conflict of interest. Non-Italian readers may just have to chalk it up as another Italian idiosyncrasy. That's actually one of the pleasures of the book-the way Leon subtly incorporates Italian culture throughout the story. Examples include the constant ducking into bars and cafes for drinks and snacks, highly flexible work hours, lengthy lunches at home, and the offhand banality of tax fraud. To fill out the Commissario's portfolio, there is a subplot involving the witness to a bank robbery and possible Mafia intimidation.<br />The result is a credible, if not exactly dense, procedural built on several social concerns. One flaw is that one never really gets much of a sense of Venice from the book, it felt like it could have been any Italian city. The other flaw is the Commissario's repeated reliance on a uber-hacker secretary who provides him with all manner of data. She's a wholly believable character with unbelievable skills who's far faster and better than any real-life hacker. Those minor complaints aside, it's a diverting read, albeit unlikely to have me scrambling to track down the previous seven in the series.he previous seven in the series.	2002-06-21
1502545:US	52254603	R1DRVNJBV8HCHE	0316777730	1192464	Naked	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Not For Everyone	The seventeen essays collected here proceed in a chronological order that appears to validate their autobiographical appearances-all of which leads one to wonder if this is a memoir, a series of short fiction, or some conglomeration of the two. The truth (in as much as anyone other than Sedaris himself will ever know), is likely to reside somewhere on the more autobiographical end of the spectrum. Indeed, the title is emblematic of the entire book-both a clever nod to the last story (which paradoxically revelas the least about his mental being), as well as a clear signal that the contents are meant to display Sedaris, psychological warts and all. However, readers must be warned that the first essay is very different stylistically from almost eveything else, it's a riffing fantasy which is best skipped lest it provde too distracting.<br />In the first part of the book, the essays tend to be bref and mostly unmemorable. Sedaris's early childhood is marked by an afflication of nervous tics (resembling in many ways the compulsions suffered by those with Tourette's syndrome), which never fully disappear until he takes up smoking in college. The second essay, \\"A Plague of Tics\\" sets the tone for the whole book, which carries throughout its frequently amusing pages, an element of whining self-pity. In this essay seems to be saying, \\"Look at me, I'm so messed up, no one understands or cares. But I can make a joke out of it and mock myself at the same time.\\" And in the third story, \\"Get Your Ya-Ya's Out,\\" the pattern is established that Sedaris will never fail to go for the one-liner or easy joke-even milking the idiosyncracies of his ancient Greek grandmother (who one suspects deserves better) for all they're worth. Granted, nothing should be sacred or off-limits to humor, and the chuckles are pretty good, but one can't help but feel a little sorry for Sedaris that the only way he can write about his grandmohter is by mocking her. Indeed, some readers are likely to find Sedaris a thourougly unpleasant character.<br />Many of these early stories also concern his childhood and teen fantasies, which he captures quite well. \\"The Drama Bug,\\" in particular, is an excellent example of momentary teenage obsession (in this case with acting), and the disillusionment that follows close behind. A large number of the stories revolve around wierd work or life experiences he choses, including volunteering in a mental hospital, picking apples, carving jade clocks (\\"C.O.G.\\"), living with a quadraplegic (\\"Incomplete Quad\\"), hitchhiking, paint stripping (\\"Something For Everyone\\"), and vacationing at a nudist colony (\\"Naked\\"). This last essay is among the most disapointing, as it is the one expedition which he seems to have embarked upon soley to gather material for his next book and is not rooted in anything within him.<br />Throughout the book Sedaris treads the line between mocking people and being self-deprecating because he mocks people. He's snobbish when it comes to the poor working class and devoutly religious, and seems to think that as long as he acknowledges he's snobbish, it's OK to gp ahead and make fun people. It's an odd kind of snarkiness that can be very off putting-that is, if you stop laughing long enough to recognize what he's doing. In the end, the book is a bit wearying, it's probably best consumed in small chunks. And ultimately, even though Sedaris is letting the reader peek into his head, there's a lot he's not putting out there. Probably the closest he comes to honesty is in \\"Ashes,\\" about his mother's death from cancer.aris a thourougly unpleasant character.<br />Many of these early stories also concern his childhood and teen fantasies, which he captures quite well. \\"The Drama Bug,\\" in particular, is an excellent example of momentary teenage obsession (in this case with acting), and the disillusionment that follows close behind. A large number of the stories revolve around wierd work or life experiences he choses, including volunteering in a mental hospital, picking apples, carving jade clocks (\\"C.O.G.\\"), living with a quadraplegic (\\"Incomplete Quad\\"), hitchhiking, paint stripping (\\"Something For Everyone\\"), and vacationing at a nudist colony (\\"Naked\\"). This last essay is among the most disapointing, as it is the one expedition which he seems to have embarked upon soley to gather material for his next book and is not rooted in anything within him.<br />Throughout the book Sedaris treads the line between mocking people and being self-deprecating because he mocks people. He's snobbish when it comes to the poor working class and devoutly religious, and seems to think that as long as he acknowledges he's snobbish, it's OK to gp ahead and make fun people. It's an odd kind of snarkiness that can be very off putting-that is, if you stop laughing long enough to recognize what he's doing. In the end, the book is a bit wearying, it's probably best consumed in small chunks. And ultimately, even though Sedaris is letting the reader peek into his head, there's a lot he's not putting out there. Probably the closest he comes to honesty is in \\"Ashes,\\" about his mother's death from cancer.	2002-06-21
1504243:US	52254603	R3UQNUBSNRXBL5	1841951161	252290611	No Smoke	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Grim Glasgow	The phenomenon of formerly violent ex-cons turning their hands to memoir and fiction is hardly a new one. One of the more notable examples in the US is that of Edward Bunker, who has written extensively on his own past (Little Boy Blue) as well as having penned a number of novels (Dog Eat Dog). Released (and presumably reformed) after 16 years in jail for murder, Hugh Collins is another of these real life gangster literati, with two volumes of memoir, and this, the first in a projected trilogy. What makes Collins intriguing is that his personal background and fictional setting coincide in Glasgow circa 1976.<br />This pulpy potboiler starts in somewhat confusing fashion, in the midst of a shady deal in which both sides are trying to con the other. This transaction is the catalyst for a story that will invoke all the traditional gangster elements from double-crossing to razor blades, police brutality and racism in an almost nostalgic attempt to portray the end of of an era. Barney Boone is a charming, old timey (and at 60+, old), small time grifter. Unfortunately, for the scam that kicks things off, he partners with two decidedly more violent younger men. The contrast between the solid old-time \\"earners\\" who graft every day and the younger, drug-addled, violent mobs is one of the book's main themes.<br />The plot is built on a series of misunderstanding and coincidences end in grimly violent repercussions. Collins jumps around a bit, zooming in on different characters a little haphazardly. For quite a while Barney gets the most attention as we learn his history and family life, and then part way through, the focus shifts from him and his two partners to two women and another, unrelated, gangster. There is also a Pakistani family who awkwardly disappears completely from the narrative. The story wraps up with cosmic justice meted out and the stage clearly set for the next in the series. The end result is a mostly satisfying Scottish riff on the pulpy crime novel which is not particularly original, but nonetheless interesting. Collins writes in the type of Scots popularized in recent years by writers such as James Kelman and Irvine Welsh. For newcomers to Scots, there's a basic glossary in the front, which is serviceable, but unfortunately omits the more obscure terms.is not particularly original, but nonetheless interesting. Collins writes in the type of Scots popularized in recent years by writers such as James Kelman and Irvine Welsh. For newcomers to Scots, there's a basic glossary in the front, which is serviceable, but unfortunately omits the more obscure terms.	2002-06-19
1506469:US	52254603	R1DI9NKAK7HVFG	061809525X	267283819	The Caprices	Books	5	8	12	N	N	Wonderful	The nine short stories here are all linked to the Pacific Campaign of WWII (Malaysia, the Philippines, New Guinea), encompassing the native civilians and combatants as well as the Japanese, American, and Australian soldiers who traveled far to fight each other there. More than anything, the stories are about the suffering-both physical and psychological-of both those who fought and those who were bystanders. Occasionally these drift into a surreal realm (not magical realist) inhabited by the dead and the walking spiritually dead.<br />\\"Order of Precedence\\" is a deceptively simple tale of Harry Gillen, an Anglo-Indian officer interred in the Changi POW camp (made famous by real life POW James Clavell's novel King Rat). When his former commander in India appears as a POW, Gillen's story flashes back to his days in India, where he is an officer, but never accepted as a full gentleman. \\"Guinea\\" follows two American soldiers, Francino and Burns, lost in the jungle of New Guinea, they bicker and take a Japanese prisoner. \\"Walkabout\\" is about an Australian veteran who survives life as a POW building the railroad to Burma (as seen in Pierre Boulle's book and the subsequent film, The Bridge on the River Kwai). After the war, as a rancher, he is haunted by those who never came home from the jungle. \\"Folly\\" tells of a Dutch plantation manger, the Indonesian guerilla leader who tries to buy guns from him, and how the war changed their lives. \\"Colossus\\" is similar to \\"Walkabout \\" in that it's main character is a former POW (this one American) who will never escape the horrors of being a POW. in old age, he is able to repay the Filipino who rescued him from the Bataan Death March (which is well-described in the history Ghost Soldiers).<br />\\"Intramuros\\" is a series of brief vignettes about a Manilla family, and how the war affected it. It's the most seemingly autobiographical story in the collection, but also the least strictly constructed. \\"The Caprices\\" is also about a Filipino family, and the terror of the Japanese occupation brings to them. Set in the early '70s, \\"Yashamita's Gold\\" is a mini-thriller about missing treasure from the war. Japanese Gen. Yashamita purportedly had a massive hoard of gold and jewels looted from occupied territories that vanished during the tail end of the war. The story tells of the possible surfacing of that treasure and how it affects two Japanese in hiding in Manila many years later. Finally, the most fanciful story of the collection is \\"Position,\\" which posits a tired Amelia Earhart scouting Saipan in 1937 and being captured by the Japanese.<br />These stories are an invaluable addition to WWII literature, all the more remarkable for being written by a woman several generations removed from the war. They provide a rare glimpse into the impact of the Pacific Campaign on the Filipino people, and a haunting reminder of how long war's wounds can linger.o family, and the terror of the Japanese occupation brings to them. Set in the early '70s, \\"Yashamita's Gold\\" is a mini-thriller about missing treasure from the war. Japanese Gen. Yashamita purportedly had a massive hoard of gold and jewels looted from occupied territories that vanished during the tail end of the war. The story tells of the possible surfacing of that treasure and how it affects two Japanese in hiding in Manila many years later. Finally, the most fanciful story of the collection is \\"Position,\\" which posits a tired Amelia Earhart scouting Saipan in 1937 and being captured by the Japanese. <br />These stories are an invaluable addition to WWII literature, all the more remarkable for being written by a woman several generations removed from the war. They provide a rare glimpse into the impact of the Pacific Campaign on the Filipino people, and a haunting reminder of how long war's wounds can linger.	2002-06-17
1506603:US	52254603	R2BGZWNOLEVZ6F	0306811561	54880889	The Odds: One Season, Three Gamblers, and the Death of Their Las Vegas	Books	2	6	10	N	N	Some good details, but kind of weak otherwise	Indifferently written and poorly edited, this brief book about three sports gamblers in Las Vegas never really lives up to its potential. There are a few interesting details and insider tidbits here and there, but on the whole, the enterprise feels a bit rushed and incomplete. Millman tries to mix a broad overview of the history of sports gambling with the individual stories of three men over the course of the 1999-2000 football and basketball seasons, but ends up giving short shrift to both.<br />We get a shallow history of how sports gambling's shady roots, gradual move into the light in Vegas, its meteoric rise over the last several decades, and in recent years its near total transition to internet operations based in the Caribbean. Millman continually implies that the increase availability of televised sports-especially via ESPN-was the direct cause of increased sports gambling. But then he also continually implies that increased viewership and ratings have been due to increased interest in sports from casual sports bettors. This is kind of a chicken and egg type argument, and since neither position is backed up by anything other than anecdotal data, its hard to lend either much credence. Still, even though his larger themes aren't particularly well thought out, Millman does better at explaining some of the details of sports wagering. The most important of these is \\"the line,\\" which he explains as not how much better one team is than another, but rather as a number that will attract maximum betting on both sides. A \\"weak\\" line is one that \\"wiseguys\\" (professional sports gamblers) think is drastically wrong and worth putting a lot of money on, which then causes the line to \\"move\\". As in any industry or subculture, there's plenty of insider slang for Millman to spread around and keep things somewhat lively.<br />Millman builds his investigation of Vegas sports betting around three men: a high-roller \\"wiseguy\\", a wannabe newcomer to the scene from Indiana, and a young bookmaker on the fast track at The Stardust. Unfortunately, none of them come across as all that interesting individuals. The high-roller is kind of manic and obsessive, the wannabe is a pothead loser, and the bookmaker gets lost in the shuffle as Millman concentrates on his higher profile bosses who have a lot more stories to tell. And while Millman tries hard to show the adversarial relationship between bettors and bookmakers as a cunning battle of wits between men who are both obsessive and honorable, it never really comes across as anything more than pathetic. Millman's tries hard to summon some reader sympathy for the \\"end of an era,\\" as sports betting moves online, but since none of the old-timers seems particularly happy, we're left to wonder why we should be particularly bothered. All in all, a disappointing book.oung bookmaker on the fast track at The Stardust. Unfortunately, none of them come across as all that interesting individuals. The high-roller is kind of manic and obsessive, the wannabe is a pothead loser, and the bookmaker gets lost in the shuffle as Millman concentrates on his higher profile bosses who have a lot more stories to tell. And while Millman tries hard to show the adversarial relationship between bettors and bookmakers as a cunning battle of wits between men who are both obsessive and honorable, it never really comes across as anything more than pathetic. Millman's tries hard to summon some reader sympathy for the \\"end of an era,\\" as sports betting moves online, but since none of the old-timers seems particularly happy, we're left to wonder why we should be particularly bothered. All in all, a disappointing book.	2002-06-17
1510131:US	52254603	R179FETHATXJOU	0340666838	712969094	The Last Pink Bits: Travels Through the Remnants of the British Empire	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Outstanding!	The trademark adage of the Victorian era proudly (and accurately) declared that the sun never set on the British Empire. Turn of the century maps designated British territory by using the color pink, and pink bits could indeed be found littered across the globe. However, given Britain's imperial decline and notable retreats from former prize possessions such as India and Hong Kong, at the start of the new millennium the adage is regarded (wistfully by some) as yet another testament to faded grandeur. It may strike readers as shocking therefore, to discover as Ritchie did, that Britain still has some sixteen dependencies, and that... wait for it... the sun still doesn't set on the British empire!<br />Intrigued by a list of these last remaining \\"pink bits\\", Ritchie sets out in this slim and compelling travelogue to asses the status of the empire by visiting a selection of them. Restricting himself to only inhabited territories, striking Pitcairn Island as being too inaccessible, and limiting himself to only one of the Caribbean territories, he sets out on a grand tour of Bermuda, Ascension Island, The Falkland Islands, Gibraltar, The Turks and Caicos Islands, Tristan da Cunha, and St. Helena. Each of the chapters contains a chatty pocket history of the territory along with an overview of the current political, social, and economic climate. Of course, woven amidst this information are Ritchie's own adventures amidst the natives, recounted in a amusing self-deprecating style reminiscent of Bill Bryson.<br />The chapter on Bermuda describes a lovely economic powerhouse beset with few social problems and a brilliant climate. It is essential readering for anyone planning to visit. Ascension Island gets short treatment as it is essentially a 35 square mile airbase, famous for about two seconds as a staging area during the Falklands War. Still, Ritchie manages to wring some humor out of the military types surrounding him there. Then it's on to the Falklands, which gets the lengthiest and most complex treatment in the book. Although the war was about 15 years past at the time of Ritchie's writing, the islanders are still in recovery from it, especially psychologically. It's a war that tends to be thought of as a bit of a joke (much like the US invasion of Grenada), but anyone reading this chapter will quickly learn that even the most minor of conflicts with minimal casualties are traumatic in the extreme to the non-combantants in the area.<br />Next is a tour of Gibraltar, which reveals its population as wildly diverse and deeply segregated. Again, there is some very interesting history here, especially the tension between \\"the rock\\" and mainland Spain. In the Caribbean, Ritchie visits the beautiful and deserted backwater that is the Turks and Caicos Islands. Struggling to develop, the islands languish out of sight and out of mind but are the equal in natural splendor of any other part of the Caribbean The next stop is Tristan da Cunha, which is probably the most interesting of any of the places Ritche visits. Originally a naval base, its civilian population began in 1817 with a British couple who produced 16 children, and almost two centuries later, one finds there are only eight surnames in use. Ritchie's five hour visit unearths an incredible 300 person utopiaa cooperative, sustainable, and happy community. Interestingly, due to its homogeneity, Canadian researchers have found it a perfect place to try and isolate the gene responsible for asthma. It's a territory that begs for further study.<br />Finally, Ritchie stops at St. Helenathe famous prison island of Napoleon. Here is perhaps the greatest example of woe and imperial neglect. Indeed, it's the capstone to a book whose somewhat bitter running theme is that Britain's few remaining imperial outposts (total population around 150,000) are being utterly neglected by their imperial owners. All in all, this is an excellent piece of travel writing, filled with good humor (\\"Ritchie's First Law of Colonial Lifewhich states that, whichever pink bit I visited, I would have a better than evens chance of meeting an expert on Scottish football), nuggets of history, and pointedly detailing problems and injustices in the last \\"pink bits.\\"chie's First Law of Colonial Lifewhich states that, whichever pink bit I visited, I would have a better than evens chance of meeting an expert on Scottish football), nuggets of history, and pointedly detailing problems and injustices in the last \\"pink bits.\\"	2002-06-13
1511420:US	52254603	R2OTGLDIWYQ35W	1929998074	829552590	Blue Monday: The Kids Are Alright	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Archie + Anime + The Ace Face	Archie meets anime down in the the tube station past midnight, resulting in this quirky high-school confidential series stocked with alternakids into ska, mod, punk, and new wave tunes and fashion. The main character is an Adam Ant obsessed 15-year-old girl named Bleu, who is joined in her adventures by her best friend Clover (a feisty Irish transfer student)t and a third girl named Erin. Their perpetual antagonists are Alan and Victor, fellow students at Jefferson high, one of whom is a mod, the other a rude boy. Their running gag is that they're a pair of porn-collecting peeping toms who take pictures and videos of semi-dressed girls and sell them. However, when they're not infuriating the three girls, they occasionally do good deeds for them. This is actually one problem I have with the series in general-the relationship between the guys and girls. The series makes a point of showing how both sides are outside the mainstream, indeed they are more or less in the same tiny subcultures, yet they don't hook up. The girls don't like the guys because they're idiots, but the guys' behavior is totally ridiculous. Any guy at that age into obscurish music would jump out of a window to be with a girl who was equally tuned in (I know, my friends and I all lived it)-especially ones as yummily drawn as Bleu and Clover. Granted, it's a comic, not reality, but I still found it annoying.<br />In any event, the first two thirds of the book is a running story about Bleu's attempt to score Adam Ant tickets, with subplots concerning a crush on a substitute teacher, and an escalating prank war with the boys. This is followed by about ten short stories which are more artistically rough and scattershot than the main story. Chynna's listing of a soundtrack for each story is a cute device (well, at least it is if you recognize all the songs). In general her artwork is very clever and full of activity, with an obvious Japanese influence in faces and bodies. An interesting technique she employs is when characters get emotional, their depictions turn into highly stylized, more simplistically formed 'toons. Another thing to look for is small details in the backgrounds, like the titles of books lying on the floors and band names on flyers. All good stuff touching on the same stuff I was into in high school-'ll be keeping an eye out for the next volume, Absolute Beginners.<br />...loys is when characters get emotional, their depictions turn into highly stylized, more simplistically formed 'toons. Another thing to look for is small details in the backgrounds, like the titles of books lying on the floors and band names on flyers. All good stuff touching on the same stuff I was into in high school-'ll be keeping an eye out for the next volume, Absolute Beginners. <br />...	2002-06-12
1511706:US	52254603	RDR9B5NMVHL0V	0395966582	152573253	All She Was Worth	Books	3	10	13	N	N	Good, but Occasionally Forced and Clumsy	Miyabe's first book in translation is a solid mystery with an engaging investigator, but suffers slightly from an occasionally lecturing tone. The story revolves around a widowed middle-aged Tokyo police detective who's on injury leave when a distant relative asks him to look into the disappearance of his fianc&eacute;e. This missing persons case soon turns into what we would now call a case of identity theft as the detective delves into the woman's background.<br />The protagonist, with his dogged determination to uncover the truth, is an engaging world-weary PI familiar to the genre, and yet still enjoyable. His precocious adolescent boy adds a measure of humanity to him, and you know that at some point, the boy will unwittingly say something important to the investigation. The people he interviews, from a personal bankruptcy lawyer, to a mail-order executive, to hostess bar ladies, all have their own motives and personalities which bring the story to life. A mechanic who becomes his assistant is another great character, brimming with humanity.<br />The story revolves around consumer credit and its corrupting influences on young people-a problem that while still relevant, is hardly likely to be as surprising to the reader as it is to the detective. There are several sections on the book where long lectures on the history and evils of consumer credit, and the mechanisms of personal bankruptcy are explained. These tend to be clumsy and forced, and the story suffers from them. While it's moderately informative to know that Japan shares the problem with the US (and other wealthy nations), it's not nearly as interesting as the other main device of the novel, the family register. The Japanese system of tracking people via family registers is a method unknown in the US, and as the story shows, easily subverted. Unfortunately, this potentially interesting device is rather confusing to the outsider, and some passages may require rereading in order to absorb the procedures involved. Ultimately, these two elements feel very mechanical when contrasted with the excellent characters found in the story itself, and the climax is enervatingly unsatisfying.ved. Ultimately, these two elements feel very mechanical when contrasted with the excellent characters found in the story itself, and the climax is enervatingly unsatisfying.	2002-06-12
1511779:US	52254603	R26VV2WI806BV1	0060194251	77138633	Sharpe's Trafalgar: Richard Sharpe & the Battle of Trafalgar, October 21, 1805 (Richard Sharpe's Adventure Series #4)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Too Much of a Good Thing?	The 17th Richard Sharpe book finds author Cornwell touched with a bit of \\"Flashman\\" syndromethat is, the desire to place a swashbuckling title character on the scene of every major event of their lifetime, meeting all manner of historical personages. In George McDonald Fraser's Flashman series, this is acceptable, as the whole enterprise is comedic. However, the Sharpe series is a much more serious and realistic effort at historical fiction, and it detracts from it to have Sharpe shoehorned into the defining naval engagement in the history of the British empire. That said, the book is still fairly entertaining stuff sure to please any fan of the series.<br />The gist of it is that Sharpe is making his way from service in India to join the 95th Rifles, the green-jacketed regiment that is his home for most of the series. Loaded down with jewels looted from the Sultan Tipoo, he books passage on an East India Company ship. There's the usual cast of characters here, a bluff Englishman or two who like Sharpe, a Lord who very much doesn't, a pretty young woman to fall in love with, and a few people who aren't what they seem. Intertwined with various shipboard skulking and skullduggery is a plot involving a French raider. This eventually leads to Sharpe's transfer to British naval ship. a lengthy cat and mouse game with the raider, and ultimately a meeting with the legendary Admiral Nelson and finally the great battle.<br />The shipboard fighting is all extremely well described, and one gets a full sense of the terror and horror of naval warfare of the era. Similarly the shipboard deceit and treachery is ingenious and nasty. Less interesting is the love affair of Sharpe's, and given the intensity and outcome, it doesn't dovetail with the earlier written, though chronologically later Sharpe books. All in all, it's wonderful to have another Sharpe book, but one wonders how the series can continue without Cornwell having to shoehorn him into more and more unlikely venues.	2002-06-12
1512128:US	52254603	R3J6SEQ5XK9KRM	1880656574	705158478	Life in the Cul-De-Sac	Books	3	0	0	N	N	ImportantBut not really timely or enjoyable	For those unfamiliar with Japanese literature, I recommend starting this connected series of short stories only after first flipping to the back to read the Translator's Afterword. There is so much context given in those five pages that I was left scratching my head as to why the publisher hadn't made it a &quot;Foreword&quot; instead. There, one learns that the twelve stories, which are all grouped around a nondescript cul-de-sac in outer Tokyo and its few families, is a &quot;rensaku shosetsu&quot; (novel of linked stories)-which apparently is a popular literary format in Japan. There, one also learns that the stories were originally serialized from 1981-84, a period marking the beginning of the Japanese boom economy and high national spirits.<br />In that context, the stories-which carry with them a sense of quiet desperation and disconnection familiar to readers of Cheever and Carver-can be seen as going against the grain of popular sentiment of the time. Indeed, there is little evidence of the much-heralded Japanese &quot;group ethic&quot; and rather more a sense that no one-not even people in the same family-are in any way connected to those around them. The families of the cul-de-sac are a demographic cross-section clearly meant to embody average Tokyoites, and Kuroi's portrait of them as lonely and alienated individuals is meant to disturb. Wives and husbands live totally separate lives, children come and go, elders grow old and forgotten, with only occasional bursts of outreach. The writing is necessarily sparse and ventures into surrealism at times, and though the book is an important social commentary, it's not the most timely or enjoyable read.	2002-06-12
1513326:US	52254603	R19SNM86N0BCTA	1561632090	114204139	A Jew in Communist Prague: Rebellion (v. 3)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good, but too short as usual	This third installment (following Loss of Innocence and Adolescence) of Italian cartoonist Giardino's graphic novel series about a Jewish boy growing up in Communist Prague concentrates on the developing relationship between title character Jonas and fellow teen Tatiana Gostrov. Of course, since he's the son of a political prisoner and she's the daughter of a Soviet diplomat, they are forced to see each other in secret. Meanwhile, the bookseller for whom Jonas works is coming under increasing scrutiny by the secret police. Over the course of the short (56 page) book, Jonas moves from outsider in his group of intellectual teenage friends, to a leader of them. As with the other books, the story is drawn in the lovely realistic style I tend to associate with European cartoonists, and colored with an appropriately subdued palate of grays and browns. And, as with the other books, it's all too brief-one day this series will be assembled an excellent single volume.	2002-06-11
1513555:US	52254603	RXH99YJL1VXCI	1563897067	419589485	Dead Enders: Stealing the Sun	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Dead End Kids	Twenty years after \\"the cataclysm\\", New Bedlam is a bleak metroplis divided by the authorities into fenced-off sectors dilineated by wealth and class, all policed by stormtrooper-type policemen. In the outer sectors, a post-cataclysm nuclear winter type phenomenon means 24 hour darkness, while in the wealthy areas, weather machines can generate sunlight and temperate climates. The story takes place mostly in an outer sector where a group of teenagers styled on the mod subculture run around on scooters and deal in amphetamines. One of these mods seems have visions of the past, and the authoroties are trying to find him in order to study him for some unxplained reason. In the meantime, he's trying to steal a weather generator to fulfill a friend's dying wish. Although the story is somewhat disjointed and has a number of grey areas, it's visually compelling, with a nice palate and good action art. The use of basic mod style touchstones, such as parkas, scooters, and arrows is kind of interesting, but that's about all. Of course, Chynna Clugston-Major's \\"Blue Monday\\" comic series also uses mod characters and stylings. For a pulp fiction treatment of the original mod subsulture, check out Howard Baker's novel \\"Sawdust Caesar\\". \\"The Sharper Word\\" anthology edited by Pablo Hewitt is another book to check out.	2002-06-11
1522159:US	52254603	R23D8Q881ZTKLO	0441001874	131926929	Brother Termite	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Film version en route?	Haven't read the book, but I can tell you that James (&quot;Terminator&quot;) Cameron bought the movie rights, and that John Sayles wrote a script for it several years ago...	2002-06-03
1526381:US	52254603	R2E4TXEFBT3LIH	080326724X	910621248	Cherokee	Books	4	9	9	N	N	&quot;One day a man came out of a shed.&quot;	This offbeat French novel (which won the Prix M&eacute;dicis in 1983) is hard to pin down. It more or less follows the story of George Chave, a tall but otherwise nondescript middle-aged Parisian collector of jazz records. He lives off a meager inheritance until one day he meets a woman, falls in love, and discovers the need for greater income. This more or less leads him to a job at a very strange detective agency, where he is involved in searches for a rare missing parrot, a runaway wife, the heir to a great fortune, and becomes entangled in a weird cult. Along the way one meets geriatric booksellers, giant thugs, intrepid policemen, suspicious private eyes, a homicidal cousin, actors and actresses, an odd Englishmen, a police informer, and several others. That, in a nutshell, explains what's wrong with the book-there are too many characters in too small a space and keeping track of everyone's agendas gets to be rather a chore. However, the prose is both dry and humorous, and worth reading for its' own sake. You have to love a book that starts with, &quot;One day a man came out of a shed.&quot;	2002-05-30
1528993:US	52254603	RFOIXCDPTMM7N	0743423526	764771953	Tunnel Vision	Books	4	10	10	N	N	An Enjoyable (if shallow) Pageturner	Whether you like this book will depend on large part how willing you are the accept its basic premise: that a slightly geeky 20-something Londoner would keep a drunken bet (his passport, Euro Star pass, and honeymoon tickets vs. a collectible set of train tickets) that he could travel the entire London tube system in a day, that day being the one before he gets married. If you're willing to roll with that premise, then you're probably willing to overlook the shallowness of the characters and the herky-jerky flow of the book. Some may find the protagonist Andy a bit hard to like, since he's largely in a mess of his own making, however he's got just that right balance of geek and everyman about him to keep you rooting for him. For reasons that are never explained, a homeless man of remarkable stamina, coherency and wisdom decides to tag along for the fun, which gives Andy someone to relate the story of his relationship to and someone to save the day from time to time. Andy's friend Rolf, with whom he made the bet, is at least given some motivation for his nefarious actions-although he also comes across as a one-dimensional supergeekvillan.<br />The story is probably best appreciated by those who've had wide contact with the London tube, although you could pretty much do the same story in New York (although it would take more like a weekend). In fact, don't be surprised if the movie takes this route (and there will be a movie, rarely have I come across a book that translates so directly to screen as this). Of course, one expects complications and wacky hijinks to ensue, and they do, but somehow aren't as wacky as one expects. And then there's a whole semi-conspiracy subplot which peters out disappointingly. In any event, like many other young male novels of recent years (High Fidelity comes to mind), the book attempts to probe the idea of the adult boy becoming an adult man and leaving behind childish things (or at least keeping them in their proper place). However, it never really lives up to its potential there either. In the end, what one has is a book that never quite lives up to its potential, but is nonetheless an enjoyable pageturner.<br />There are plenty of other books available on the London tube, including Geoff Ryman's interesting hypertext novel, \\"253,\\" Simon James' collection of photos \\"Mind the Gap,\\" Tobias Hill's thriller \\"Underground,\\" Barbara Vine's mystery \\"King Solomon's Carpet,\\" and Christopher Ross' book about working on the tube, \\"Tunnel Visions.\\"t never really lives up to its potential there either. In the end, what one has is a book that never quite lives up to its potential, but is nonetheless an enjoyable pageturner.<br />There are plenty of other books available on the London tube, including Geoff Ryman's interesting hypertext novel, \\"253,\\" Simon James' collection of photos \\"Mind the Gap,\\" Tobias Hill's thriller \\"Underground,\\" Barbara Vine's mystery \\"King Solomon's Carpet,\\" and Christopher Ross' book about working on the tube, \\"Tunnel Visions.\\"	2002-05-28
1529847:US	52254603	R18KHAMLBT5WAP	0060931671	183823737	The Crying of Lot 49 (Perennial Classics)	Books	1	144	172	N	N	Literary Three Card Monte	Thankfully brief, this surreal satire may have been fresh and irreverent some 35 years ago when it was first published, but today it reads as a hyperstylized game of literary three card monte. The book is ostensibly about a woman who has been made executor of a rich former lover's estate, and her attempt to unravel the meaning of an ambiguous set of clues left behind. What this allows is for Pynchon to whisk her into and out of a number of wacky hi-jinks and meetings with post-beatnik weirdoes in an attempt to satirize both humankind's quest for knowledge and meaning, and post 1950s America. This is accomplished with a prose style that is going to either delight or dismay most readers with it's silly wordplay (especially in character names) and grab-bag referencing of physics, Greek tragedies, postal history, drug culture, and much more. I personally found the language tiresome, grating, and insubstantial-like too many Hollywood blockbusters of today, Pynchon is so busy throwing carefully constructed pyrotechnics at the reader that he never provides anything to care about.	2002-05-27
1529974:US	52254603	RSQ857QNH3N21	1862074070	703182446	Taking It to Heart	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A Little Too Much of the Same	I first came across French writer Desplechin in the XCit&eacute;s anthology of new French writing, which had an excerpt from her story &quot;Haiku&quot; (which appears in full in this collection). One gets the sense that the eight stories here are all intensely personal, as each features a Parisian female protagonist of the late 20s to late 30s persuasion, and most are written from a first-person perspective. The characters and stories get a little repetitive when read all in one go, I would suggest reading perhaps one a week or so to really do them justice. The women (some married, most single) are all looking for love, but not in that fun and frantic Nick Hornby way, but with a more quiet and aimless approach that underlines their inability to identify what or who it is that will make them happy-or at least keep them from becoming bored. These women don't lack for men, rather they can't really determine which they prefer, however, it's worth nothing that the two best stories deviate from this template.<br />In &quot;Haiku&quot;, Christiane has plenty of men in her environs, but despairs at how to meet them. When her friend Anne-Marie gets her interested in haiku, she discovers a world that she can truly love and understand. This leads to a hilarious dinner party, and the one truly conventional happy ending of the book. The story &quot;Joy&quot; is a chatty first-person account of a young girl's genesis as a writer, culminating in a confessional memoir. It's the most self-conscious and witty of the bunch, and perhaps the most enjoyable. The six other stories are all well-written, but failed to move me, however perhaps young urban female readers may find some level of connection in these tales of their Parisian counterparts. In any event, if you enjoy the stories, she also has a novel, Sans Moi, in translation, which I have not read.	2002-05-27
1530493:US	52254603	R3UW7V7165U2Z3	0140044930	957550566	Ashenden: The British Agent	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Historically Significant	Worth a read for historical reasons as it is one of (if not the) first modern spy novels. That said, it is very far away from the intricately woven page-turners featuring brainy CIA types bedding winsome females that we tend to think of as being spy novels today. Maugham served in the British intelligence corps in WWI and drew heavily upon his own experiences in writing this book, indeed the epynonymous hero is a well-known writer by profession. Each chapter is almost its own vignette, illustrating some experience or aspect of the intelligent agent's life. The theme is that the agent's life is marked by dullness and inability to know the &quot;big picture.&quot; Ashenden is based in Switzerland and undertakes his assignments (none of which involve gunplay or physical prowess) dutifully, yet the reader feels, with a certain ambivalence. There is one especially haunting scene where, for once, Ashenden witnesses first hand, the repercussions of his actions.	2002-05-27
1530568:US	52254603	R1WMSKM54ACC2E	0671009214	918063070	Road to Perdition	Books	4	27	29	N	N	Good gritty remake of "Lone Wolf and Cub"	This grim graphic novel might better have been titled, \\"The Road to Revenge\\" and the story is clearly influenced by the legendary Japanese graphic series, Lone Wolf and Cub. Set during the Great Depression, its about a mobster hitman and his son (instead of a samurai and his son iin feudal Japan). Michael O'Sullivan is known as \\"The Angel of Death\\" in mob circles for his unflinching gaze and unblemished record as a loyal soldier for the Looney Gang, allies of Al Capone. O'Sullivan lives with his wife and two young sons in the \\"Tri-Cities\\" area on the Illinois/Iowa border (Rock Island, Moline, and Davenport). One day, one of his sons-who narrates the story as a flashback-sneaks into his father's car and witnesses a hit he performs. The boys knows killing is a sin and wrong, but his father rationalizes it by explaining that a father's duty is to provide for his family, and being a loyal soldier/killer is all he knows how to do. It's the kind of lip-service to honor and duty that suffices as rationalization in the world of comics and Hong Kong action films, but can't really be held up to the light. In any event, the boy's loss of innocence coincides with his father's betrayal by his employers. Set up to be killed, he escapes, only to discover his wife and other son dead. The father and son duo hit the road for revenge. There's plenty of action and gun-in-both-hand shoot-outs worthy of John Woo, as \\"The Angel of Death\\" tries to force the Capone Gang to give up the Looneys. Collins' story and Richard Rayner's meticulous art takes the reader deep into the rackets and slimy lawyers behind the Midwestern mob. Good gritty stuff.	2002-05-27
1533262:US	52254603	R1R3SDXBOXRIDF	0156011476	518332576	On Parole (Harvest Book)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Remorse and Redemption	This provocative novel from prolific Japanese author Yoshimura is only the second of his works to appear in English. The story follows a middle-aged Shiro Kikutani, who after 16 years in prison for an initially unspecified crime, is paroled and released into a Tokyo which has changed almost beyond his comprehension. For the first 100 pages or so, the reader is treated to an almost anthropological examination of his transition from the simple, regimented life in jail to a new chaotic life in the scary outside world with its myriad of options and outrageous (to him) prices. With the aid of two very humane parole \\"officers\\", he slowly starts to build a normal life with his own apartment and a job at an egg processing plant. One element that will be interesting to the American reader is the level to which being an ex-con is a stigma in Japanese society-Kikutani lives in fear that someone will discover his past and thus makes no friends. Similarly, he must stay away from his brother and his former hometown because of the shame of his crime. Another interesting element is the role of his two parole officers, who act as civilian counselors or mentors rather than the standard representative of American law enforcement. Yet, while they are clearly benevolent, they are almost Orwellian in their knowledge of his affairs, which makes Kikutani question the true nature of his new freedom.<br />Meanwhile, Kikutani finds that he is not in the least bit remorseful for his crime-which is alluded to, but not detailed until page 110 or so. Thus the central theme of the novel is brought forth: whether redemption can occur without true remorse and forgiveness. Yoshimura muddies Kikutani's case by casting him as a respected member of society (a teacher), who commits a crime that is understandable if not conscionable, but in an ambiguous approach. Kikutani attempts to revisit places from his past in his quest to understand himself and how he became a murderer, and what it all means, but cannot find solace or aid, leading to a tragic and fatalistic ending. The book's tone is not unlike Yoshimura's other two translated novels, Shipwrecks and One Man's Justice, check those out as well.nnot find solace or aid, leading to a tragic and fatalistic ending. The book's tone is not unlike Yoshimura's other two translated novels, Shipwrecks and One Man's Justice, check those out as well.	2002-05-24
1548919:US	52254603	R1UA9CIYQDL489	0871135221	579558206	New Japanese Voices: The Best Contemporary Fiction from Japan (A Morgan Entrekin book)	Books	3	8	12	N	N	Not So New Anymore...	A decade has passed since this collection was first published, so it's a little difficult to still consider these voices \\"new\\", especially when you consider that all twelve writers fall firmly within what is known in American as the \\"Baby Boomer\\" generationhaving been born between 1944-64. It's also hard to consider them \\"new\\" voices since all had written multiple novels when this book was published. As such, it should come as no surprise that while the stories are almost all set firmly in modern Japan, none of them is particularly surprising or edgy in any way.<br />Ten years on, most of the writers in the collection remain unknown in the Westwith the notable exceptions of Haruki Murakami and Banana Yoshimoto who both have many novels in translation. Their two piecesMurakami's a quick riff, and Yoshimoto's an excerpt from her novel Kitchenare quite good. Two stories about children, Shiina Makoto's \\"Swallowtails\\" and Itoh Seikoh's \\"God Is Nowhere\\" are among the more promising ones, and make one wish for more in translation. Mariko Hayashi's story \\"Wine\\", about a young women on a vacation who mistakenly purchases an extremely expensive bottle of wine which then becomes a social burden to her, is an interesting piece. Tamio Kageyama's \\"The Unsinkable Molly Brown\\" is the only story that can be considered comic, and makes a nice change of pace.<br />Genichiro Takahashi's \\"The Imitation of Leibniz\\" starts promisingly with a star baseball player faced with the conundrum of being in a slump, yet not in a slump, but suffers from an awful translation that interferes with the philosophy that follows. Two stories (Sei Takekawa's \\"On a Moonless Night\\" and Kyoji Kobayashi's \\"Living in a Maze\\") meander into magical realism of a sort with rather unsatisfactory results. The other three stories are fairly forgettable pieces. All in all, the anthology feels somewhat dated, but is worth skimming for a few pieces here and there.	2002-05-10
1550318:US	52254603	R2D7R2PDQSYG7P	0140124497	810043400	Uncle Dynamite	Books	5	29	31	N	N	Hilarious!	This is the first non Jeeves and Wooster book of Wodehouses's that I've read, and I'm pleased to report that the adventures and exploits of Uncle Fred (aka Lord Ickenham) are just as madcap and droll as those of his more renown duo. As with many of the Jeeves and Wooster stories, the plot revolves around (mis)engagements, misunderstandings, country houses, bonny baby contests, blustering pompous old men, duck ponds, and a constable. However, the difference here is that instead of an idiot (Bertie) getting into sticky situations and being rescued by a genius (Jeeves), we have Uncle Fred, who seems to relish creating havoc and then sorting it all out through a variety of impersonations, good natured lies and blackmail, with general irreverence for one and all. The matchmaking leads to all manner of wacky hi-jinks, and as per usual, Wodehouse's comic timing is impeccable. Of course, the real treat is the language, which sparkles as it amuses. The names are especially good in this one, with Pongo, Bill Oakshot, and Sally Potter leading the way. (Coincidentally, two characters share the names of prominent characters from the Harry Potter saga: constable Harold Potter and Hermonie Bostock.) Uncle Fred is the equal of any Wodehouse character, and look forward to tracking down the rest of his tales.	2002-05-09
1551587:US	52254603	R1VJEXW3VBU8B0	0688158188	143247993	Jade Palace Vendetta: A Samurai Mystery (Samurai Mysteries)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good Period Fun with Minor Flaws	Each volume in the Matsuyama Kaze trilogy-this is the middle book- is a standalone tale, however it adds a great deal to read them in order, as the wandering ronin's central quest spans all three books. Set in 1603, just after the events recounted in Death at the Crossroads, the story finds Kaze traveling down the Tokaido road tracking three travelers who may have a clue to the whereabouts of his dead lord's daughter. Just as in that previous book, a chance encounter on the road propels Kaze into intrigue and danger. This time, he comes across a merchant being attacked by bandits. He naturally saves the man and his cargo from immediate danger, but then they must trek through the lawless wilderness to safety with the merchant's valuables, avoiding the rest of the bandits. Most readers will probably pick up on a slightly discordant note in all this that for some reason Kaze seems to miss, even with obvious prompting.<br />When Kaze then proceeds on his quest, he locates his targets, but is forced to help them before they will reveal their information-all of which dovetails to his adventure with the merchant. This all hinges on a bit of coincidence that isn't too annoying as long as one doesn't think about it too long. Another minor quibble is that just as in the previous book, the villain here is a powerful, but insane figure who manages to maintain a semblance of normality. All in all the story telegraphs its clues and direction, and most readers will and unraveled all the connections well ahead of Kaze, yet it's still fun to read.<br />Unlike so many mysteries, it's a pleasantly compact tale, easily digested in a single night's reading. The cast of characters is small and well depicted-although not perhaps as vivid as the villagers of the previous book. What is impressive is the development of Kaze as a protagonist you can't get enough of, from his mastery in swordsmanship, to his sly sense of humor, compassion, and reverence for humanity-he's an excellent dispenser of cosmic justice. (Justice is one of the book's themes, as a careful delineation is made between murder and killing.) As with the earlier book, Furutani weaves period detail throughout. Often, a ritual or object will lead to a brief tangential discussion of its development and use. These asides are not always subtle, but are fascinating slices of history and custom. I look forward to the completion of Kaze's quest in Kill the Shogun.of cosmic justice. (Justice is one of the book's themes, as a careful delineation is made between murder and killing.) As with the earlier book, Furutani weaves period detail throughout. Often, a ritual or object will lead to a brief tangential discussion of its development and use. These asides are not always subtle, but are fascinating slices of history and custom. I look forward to the completion of Kaze's quest in Kill the Shogun.	2002-05-08
1552514:US	52254603	R3J2F0O4ZZ9JV1	0156008351	77641626	Shipwrecks (Harvest Book)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Bleak Morality Tale	PUBLISHED IN JAPAN in 1982, this is the first of the prolific Yoshimura's provocative novels to appear in translation. The story spans three years in the life of a young boy (ages 9-12) living in a tiny, isolated coastal village in medieval Japan as he struggles to come of age. The village exists purely on a subsistence level, forcing many people-including the boy's father-to sell themselves as indentured laborers so that their family may eat. In his father's absence, the boy struggles to learn the tricks of fishing, and must make do with less food. Through sparse prose, the reader is shown a life of pure work, the villagers' waking hours are completely devoted to gathering food (mainly fishing for octopus, squid, sardines, and the like) or household chores-allthewhile worrying about absent family members. The villagers, who number about 200 or so, seem to accept their grim existence with stoic fortitude, with the only glimmer of hope coming during the stormy winter season.<br />It is then that the sea every so often delivers bounty in the form of a shipwreck, providing foodstuffs, tools, and other useful items the villagers could never hope to obtain any other way. There is a dark side to these boons, however, and the karmic consequences are both inevitable and heartrending. The story slowly builds to its tragic conclusion by detailing the flow of the seasonal cycles of fishing and chores. This is pretty slow, sedate stuff, which can be annoyingly repetitive. Finally, however, when the shipwreck comes, we share in their joy at the small comforts it offers, such as rice. Soon after this, the insular village is threatened by powerful outside forces and the tension mounts. Ultimately, a tragedy occurs, one that is all the more poignant to modern readers because it is so easily prevented, but then again, the story is essentially a bleak morality tale. Altogether it's good, but not very demanding reading-kind of interesting as a period piece as it details mundane chores and customs with almost anthropological attention. I'd read another of his books, One Man's Justice, previously, and liked it a bit better.s and customs with almost anthropological attention. I'd read another of his books, One Man's Justice, previously, and liked it a bit better.	2002-05-07
1553563:US	52254603	RQMPQBH7O4EDF	0874160529	978860060	The Ranks of the Black Order	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Bleak Look At Principles	From its arresting cover portrait to its Peckinpaughesque finale, this unusual graphic novel sucks you back to the '70s, when there were still Nazis on the run and European terrorist groups like Brigade Rossei and Bader-Meinhoff were still active. It starts with the massacre of entire Spanish village by a mysterious group of old men. We soon learn that these men-a mix of Spanish, Italian, French, German, Belgian, and soforth-were all fascist militants in Spain, and that they have formed their own geriatric terrorist organization. A British newspaperman, once a member of an International Brigade, learns of this and vows to fight them by reassembling his old group of friends in true \\"we getting the band back together\\" fashion. What ensues is a long and frustrating chase across Europe in which ethics blur and ends start to justify means. It's a bleak story that calls into question the very notion of principles. The artwork and coloring is excellent throughout. The characters are all given distinctively craggy faces and the \\"action\\" sequences are extremely vivid and realistic. Gray and brown tones mute everything in keeping with the bleak tone of the story. Those interested in this should also check out Vittorio Giardino' graphic spy series (Hungarian Rhapsody, Orient Gateway, and No Parasan), which features Max Friedman, an ex-brigade member.	2002-05-06
1556831:US	52254603	R31FMPPZSK3A3W	0312272189	837137898	Fear & Trembling	Books	4	23	26	N	N	A Charming, Witty Commentary on Cross-Cultural Communication	This charming and compelling novella was a huge hit in France, winning the prestigious Grand Prix de I'Academie Francaise and selling half a million copies, and while it's certainly good, I have to wonder if it was a slow year or something. Clearly based of Nothomb's own experiences in Japan (the title character is also named Am&eacute;lie in case there was any doubt), the story covers a year in a Belgian woman's life as she starts and ends a job at a huge Japanese corporation. Because the character was raised in Japan and speaks the language fluently, she's caught between two worlds, she can never be accepted as a Japanese, but she knows to much to be the classic clumsy foreigner.<br />Which is not to say that she doesn't screw up culturally, because she does-multiple times-but often the underlying problem is not her, but in the system around her. Nothomb uses these little catastrophes as windows to criticize Japanese business and social structures with scathing attacks, most notably a long discourse on the plight of the Japanese woman. Am&eacute;lie is contrasted with her immediate boss, an immaculately put together beauty who is a lowly middle-manager, but still the highest level female in the company. Am&eacute;lie has an odd, vaguely erotic, attraction to her which complicates everything. When the entire office witnesses (but tries not to ) this woman's verbally rape and humiliation at the hands of the boss, Am&eacute;lie finds this emblematic of Japanese society's ostrich-like tendencies. While this may all sound deep and dark, the book is actually quite lively and humorous. That said, it's not a breathtaking book. It's certainly well written and ably translated, and definitely worth reading as commentary on cross-cultural communication (especially by those intending to work in Japan), yet it's hard to understand how it could have become such a phenomenon in France. In any event, I'll certainly be tracking down Nothomb's other works in English.<br />One footnote: why must publishers insist on branding books \\"A Novel\\" when they are so clearly not. If a book is printed in a smaller than standard format, with loads of space between the lines, and comes in at 132 pages, it's a novella, not a novel. Clearly they feel uneasy about asking us for almost [$$] for a book that'll take no more than two hours to read-but please don't insult our intelligence by trying to pass it off as a novel!insist on branding books \\"A Novel\\" when they are so clearly not. If a book is printed in a smaller than standard format, with loads of space between the lines, and comes in at 132 pages, it's a novella, not a novel. Clearly they feel uneasy about asking us for almost [$$] for a book that'll take no more than two hours to read-but please don't insult our intelligence by trying to pass it off as a novel!	2002-05-03
1557593:US	52254603	R1VDWMPD1X03AP	0924486902	205257872	The Incredible Voyage: A Personal Odyssey	Books	4	5	10	N	N	A Good Yarn with Minor Flaws	This is a pretty entertaining account of one man's quest to sail the same ship from the lowest body of water on Earth (The Dead Sea in Israel) to the highest (Lake Titicaca in the Andes), a feat never attempted before or since. Jones, apparently a renown figure in sailing circles, took five or six years from the late 1960s to early '70s to complete his quest, enduring many a hardship throughout. One thing that needs to be understood from the get go is that Jones was kind of a crusty old sea-dog type, and some of his writing is repetitive and irksome.<br />One example is his constant tirade against bureaucracy, which he seems to believe only exists to stifle adventurous souls like him. While it's true that he faced a lot of stupid red tape, and had to bribe his way a number of times, he treats it like a personal assault on him. Another is his dismaying encyclopedic knowledge of the brothels of port's around the world-we are reliable informed what areas to frequent in various ports, where the world's largest brothel is, and that Madagascar's hookers of mixed Javanese and Arab blood are the most beautiful women in the world. While he's totally scornful of wealthy Westerns who try and live an elevated &quot;colonial&quot; existence in lesser-developed countries the reader is somehow supposed to overlook his (and his crew's) exploitation of women around the world?<br />In any event, Jones was of a different age, and if one can overlook certain elements of the narrative, there's a very good adventure story to be had. While it's certainly more likely to appeal to sailors (nonsailors like myself will want to skim certain passages about technical nautical matters), the book is really more about distant places and people, especially in South America. As Jones' travels take him from place to place, he includes little bits or history and ethnography. My own favorite is the proposition that Chinese sailors might have visited South America well before any European explorers. If you enjoy stories of man against nature, like Shackleton's Endurance, you'll probably like this incredible tale.you enjoy stories of man against nature, like Shackleton's Endurance, you'll probably like this incredible tale.	2002-05-02
1559087:US	52254603	R3NU4RW4NPYS7Z	1896597009	204267521	32 Stories: The Complete Optic Nerve Mini-Comics	Books	5	17	17	N	N	The Birth of a Talent	The 32 stories collected here reprint the self-published first seven issues of Tomine's \\"Optic Nerve\\" comic, spanning 1991-95. While his Tomine's work is always enjoyable on at least some level, reading his earliest work in chronological order allows us to witness him grow as a writer and artistwarts and all. The earliest stories tend to be short two-page pieces, while the last stories tend to be longer narratives.<br />The stories fall into a few rough categories: dreams (Adrian Tomine's 10, 533rd Dream, Haircut), the Amy quartet (Solitary Enjoyment, Rodney, Two In the Morning, Leather Jacket), autobiographical vignettes (Sean's Story, Disappointment and Despair, Back Break, This is A True Story, Adrian Quits Hi Job, Psycho Cook, An Everyday Triumph, My Appearance on the Jane Pratt Show, Allergic, The Sell-Out), and moodier stories that deal with loneliness, alienation, and relationships (Lifter, Smoke, Happy Anniversary, Stammer, Laundry, Dine and Dash, Grind). There are also some crude attempts at social commentary (Patriotism is Alive and Kicking), reportage (Heat Wave Death), biography (Kerouac's Life With Comics), and an amusing tirade against sleep (Sleep = Waste).<br />Over the course of the book, we can see Tomine's increasingly sophisticated take on alienation and relationships. His artistic progression progresses from crude to totally exacting and precise, a style that reinforces his themes and storytelling. This trend is continued in his subsequent collection, Sleepwalk and Other Stories, which is more bleak and stark. Tomine is often compared to Raymond Carversince I've never read any Carver I won't do that, however, I will say he is brilliant and his work deserves a wide audience.	2002-05-01
1559368:US	52254603	R16F7I0HJO844N	0966712722	519931320	Geisha	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A Little Flat	The futuristic story is of a female android raised as a human who is trying to eke out an existence as a painter. This leads to the question of her soul, since the conventional wisdom is that without a soul, one can't really create good art. Soon, she is forced to enter the family business in order to pay her rent, and becomes a bodyguard to a supermodel. This leads to a convoluted plot concerning an obsessive ex-husband, candid dirty photos, blackmail, the city's crime mogul, a gossip columnist, an ex-military mech/battlebot, and a bunch of fights and chase scenes. If this sounds exciting, be warned that it somehow isn't. This may be because the story doesn't take itself to seriously, or it may be because the art is simply and broadly done, but for whatever reason, it failed to move me. I think with a darker tone, it might have worked a little better. Oddly enough, the whole thing seems exceptionally well-suited for film adaptation, complete with hokey happy ending.	2002-05-01
1560138:US	52254603	RXJ0OXBSZYLAN	0786707984	831620043	The White Rhino Hotel: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A Grittier "Boys Own" Adventure	The end of WW I brought with it the dawning of a new colonial era in many parts of Africa, as European nations converted former soldiers into settlers in various distant colonies, literally turning swords into ploughshares. This first novel uses the \\"opening up\\" of Kenya from 1918-21 as the vivid backdrop for an old-fashioned, page-turning adventure featuring a colorful, multinational cast. The first quarter of the book establishes the background of all the main characters and their motives for heading to Kenya, where their lives and ambitions will intersect at the frontier hotel of the title. Among the people we meet are: Anton Rider, an English half-gypsy who has been an outsider everywhere and seeks adventure; Gwenn a beautiful Welsh ambulance driver who's heading to meet her maimed husband and start a new life; Penfold, an increasingly destitute English lord who's hotel is the locus of the story; Olivio, a proud Goan dwarf who is major domo at the hotel and spies on all intrigues in the area; Fonseca, a brutal and ruthless Portuguese nobleman who's looking to grab land; Annunciata, his sexpot sister; Ernst von Decken, a former German officer; Rack Slider, American safari leader; and various other exotic prostitutes, evil Irishmen, and noble natives (the heroic sidekick Karioki and his nubile sister being the two most prominent).<br />These folks are all painted with rather broad strokes, as is the norm in historical adventures such as this, however they are so exotic and fun, one generally doesn't mind. There actually, a few transformations that are quite nice, notably the dwarf's realization that friends can exist. Still, it seems a pity that the natives (aside from Olivio's concubine) all come across as part of the landscape, like the lions, elephants, and other flora and fauna so lovingly detailed. The relationship of Anton and Karioki, has a decidedly Lone Ranger and Tontoish feel to it. With Anton as the hero, the reader is propelled through a number of set-piece hunting scenes, a running plot of intrigue and colonial corruption, and vivid portrayals of the harshness of the land toward unprepared newcomers. It's quite fun-if one is willing to take it as an boisterous old-fashioned \\"boy's own\\" adventure, with some rather lurid sex, and a few shocking scenes of tragedy and violence. Indeed, at times the book can be quite jarring, as a major character is killed, or in one particularly nasty rape scene. It's as if the author was trying to write an old-fashioned yarn with a heavy dose of reality added. While I quite liked this approach, others may find it upsetting, and it probably isn't appropriate for those under 18.-piece hunting scenes, a running plot of intrigue and colonial corruption, and vivid portrayals of the harshness of the land toward unprepared newcomers. It's quite fun-if one is willing to take it as an boisterous old-fashioned \\"boy's own\\" adventure, with some rather lurid sex, and a few shocking scenes of tragedy and violence. Indeed, at times the book can be quite jarring, as a major character is killed, or in one particularly nasty rape scene. It's as if the author was trying to write an old-fashioned yarn with a heavy dose of reality added. While I quite liked this approach, others may find it upsetting, and it probably isn't appropriate for those under 18.	2002-04-30
1561039:US	52254603	R3NR0BZDANJH4Q	0786707984	831620043	The White Rhino Hotel: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A Grittier "Boys Own" Adventure	The end of WW I brought with it the dawning of a new colonial era in many parts of Africa, as European nations converted former soldiers into settlers in various distant colonies, literally turning swords into ploughshares. This first novel uses the \\"opening up\\" of Kenya from 1918-21 as the vivid backdrop for an old-fashioned, page-turning adventure featuring a colorful, multinational cast. The first quarter of the book establishes the background of all the main characters and their motives for heading to Kenya, where their lives and ambitions will intersect at the frontier hotel of the title. Among the people we meet are: Anton Rider, an English half-gypsy who has been an outsider everywhere and seeks adventure; Gwenn a beautiful Welsh ambulance driver who's heading to meet her maimed husband and start a new life; Penfold, an increasingly destitute English lord who's hotel is the locus of the story; Olivio, a proud Goan dwarf who is major domo at the hotel and spies on all intrigues in the area; Fonseca, a brutal and ruthless Portuguese nobleman who's looking to grab land; Annunciata, his sexpot sister; Ernst von Decken, a former German officer; Rack Slider, American safari leader; and various other exotic prostitutes, evil Irishmen, and noble natives (the heroic sidekick Karioki and his nubile sister being the two most prominent).<br />These folks are all painted with rather broad strokes, as is the norm in historical adventures such as this, however they are so exotic and fun, one generally doesn't mind. There actually, a few transformations that are quite nice, notably the dwarf's realization that friends can exist. Still, it seems a pity that the natives (aside from Olivio's concubine) all come across as part of the landscape, like the lions, elephants, and other flora and fauna so lovingly detailed. The relationship of Anton and Karioki, has a decidedly Lone Ranger and Tontoish feel to it. With Anton as the hero, the reader is propelled through a number of set-piece hunting scenes, a running plot of intrigue and colonial corruption, and vivid portrayals of the harshness of the land toward unprepared newcomers. It's quite fun-if one is willing to take it as an boisterous old-fashioned \\"boy's own\\" adventure, with some rather lurid sex, and a few shocking scenes of tragedy and violence. Indeed, at times the book can be quite jarring, as a major character is killed, or in one particularly nasty rape scene. It's as if the author was trying to write an old-fashioned yarn with a heavy dose of reality added. While I quite liked this approach, others may find it upsetting, and it probably isn't appropriate for those under 18.	2002-04-30
1561558:US	52254603	R5JLIX2TYEGYH	1896597297	496851985	Berlin: City of Stones: Book One (Part 1)	Books	3	12	17	N	N	OK, but not Breathtaking	The first in a project trilogy, Lutes' fictional attempt to recreate the confusing period of the tail-end of the Weimar Republic in Germany rambles and doubles back just a bit to much to satisfy. In trying to show how inter-war Germany was pulled to extremes by the Communists and National Socialists (Nazis), he creates a handful of characters and follows them from September 1928 to the violent May day clashes of 1929-with occasional flashbacks to World War I and the months following the armistice. The two main characters are journalist Kurt Severing and art student Marthe Muller, who meet on a train en route to Berlin (yes, they do eventually fall into bed together). Through his savvy and intelligent eyes, and her newcomer's naivet&eacute;, Lutes presents the political scene, one where the middle is disappearing, and every citizen is forced to pick a side. Ultimately, however, the book is far too ephemeral to work as a history lesson, and the relationships presented aren't compelling enough in and of themselves.<br />As for the artwork, Lutes' style is what might be called \\"European\\" in that it's all clean black and white inks that bring to mind H&eacute;rge. Architecture, automobiles, and wardrobes are all skillfully executed, however Lutes has difficulties with faces. Many of the characters' faces are either oddly formed and proportioned, or are too similar to one another. Still, the publisher has to be commended for the beautifully designed and produced book.	2002-04-29
1561592:US	52254603	R3DXU7VBQFU382	0872863891	348058805	Almost Blue (City Lights Italian Voices)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Interesting setting and voice, Run of the mill story	Although his ten previous books have been widely translated into French and German, this slim thriller marks Italian author Lucarelli's first appearance in English. The book is one of three in a series starring female Detective Grazia Negro, a member of a special task force on serial killers not unlike the FBI team portrayed in Silence of the Lambs. She is brought from Rome to help track down a serial killer preying on university students in Bologna. Her one good lead comes from a blind man who sits in his room all day listening to an array of scanners picking up cell phone conversations, police scanners, and whatnot. The story alternates three first-person narratives: the detective's, the blind man's, and the killer's. The detective and killer's threads are fairly straightforward and what you might expect (she's tough but gets no respect from anyone, and he's mad mad mad) however Lucarelli's ability to take you into the blind man's world of \\"colored\\" voices is excellent.<br />However, once you get past the novelty of the blind assistant, and the excellent translation which conveys his world, the story is fairly run of the mill. There's a frisson of love/sex which comes across as unnecessary, and, as with most serial killer stories, the underlying motivation for the killings isn't really intriguing, and the hero is always one step behind the killer until the climactic showdown. However, the book does paint a decently grimy portrait of the seedier side of Bologna, and it's a quick read, so I'd say it's worth checking out. It was made into an Italian film which, as of this writing, has not made it to video stores in the US.	2002-04-29
1565200:US	52254603	RVNK8130W42IU	1568581955	457297209	Headbanger	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Oh Lord Please Don't Let Me Be Misunderstood	The loner policeman/detective has been a staple protagonist in crime fiction and film for the better part of a century, however here we find Dublin Garda (policeman) Pat Coyne not in this role, but rather as a portrait of a middle-aged man disintegrating. While his partner prattles on about golf, Coyne is pondering the bigger problems of the world, especially environmental ones. Unfortunately no one-not his colleagues, nor his wife and kids, or harridan mother in law-seem to understand him. His frustration manifests itself in increasingly rash acts on the job which earn his the nickname of \\"Mr. Suicide\\" as he goes to extreme lengths to clean up Dublin's streets of all its criminal trash.<br />Over the course of the book, his transformation from misunderstood family man to Dirty Harry starts veering more and more toward Travis Bickle territory as he encounters a criminal's girlfriend and is struck by the need to protect her. This pits him against the city's nastiest gangsters in a series of impulsive, clandestine, off the job actions with their own repercussions. Meanwhile, on the home front, his wife is throwing her self into painting, and possibly the arms of her instructor, which only ratchets up Coyne's breakdown. The climactic showdown brings all these threads together and resolves them with very symbolic actions.<br />Ultimately, the book, while an enjoyable quick read, is not the tour de force the cover would have you believe. It is refreshing to find an Irish novel that doesn't tread upon the topics of religion and sectarianism (although the jacket copy writer seemed to think otherwise) for once. There are enough unexplained elements though, to leave readers scratching their heads. For example, in the very beginning, there's a chase scene, and an axe is thrown at Coyne and his partner. There's no talk of taking the axe in as evidence, taking prints off it, using it to convict anyone, it's just like \\"Oh, well someone through an axe at us, hopefully we'll run across them some other time.\\" Coyne has a sort of mentor/father figure who dispenses Obi-Wan type advice to him from time to time, who seems to exist only to point Coyne in the right direction (ie. keep the plot running). And finally, although Coyne is clearly self-destructing and not thinking through the consequences of his actions, it's hard to believe he'd so blithely put his family in the danger he does. It's hard not to compare Coyne (and the book), to Irvine Welsh's imploding Edinburgh police detective Bruce Robertson in the much more inventive and rewarding \\"Filth.\\" Still minor problems aside, it's well worth reading if you're into modern Irish literature, plus, Coyne's story continues in \\"Sad Bastard.\\"across them some other time.\\" Coyne has a sort of mentor/father figure who dispenses Obi-Wan type advice to him from time to time, who seems to exist only to point Coyne in the right direction (ie. keep the plot running). And finally, although Coyne is clearly self-destructing and not thinking through the consequences of his actions, it's hard to believe he'd so blithely put his family in the danger he does. It's hard not to compare Coyne (and the book), to Irvine Welsh's imploding Edinburgh police detective Bruce Robertson in the much more inventive and rewarding \\"Filth.\\" Still minor problems aside, it's well worth reading if you're into modern Irish literature, plus, Coyne's story continues in \\"Sad Bastard.\\"	2002-04-26
1575608:US	52254603	R12W0C2HU4WANE	068815817X	393112698	Death at the Crossroads: A Samurai Mystery (Samurai Mysteries)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great Start to the Trilogy	The first volume in the Matsuyama Kaze trilogy (followed by Jade Palace Vendetta and Kill the Shogun) transports the reader to Japan in 1603, the first year in the long reign of the Tokugawa Shogunate. When the army of Emperor Hidyoshi was defeated at Battle of Sekigahara, hundreds of lords were killed, leading to thousands of samurai becoming masterless warriors, ie. ronin. Matsuyama Kaze is one of these, wanted by Japan's new rulers, he wanders the country under an assumed name on a quest to find and rescue his former lord's young daughter. The book and mystery begins with Kaze discovering a rural charcoal-seller standing over a dead merchant lying at a crossroad. The peasant is soon named as the murderer by the local authorities, who don't seem too concerned with the truth of the matter, and Kaze comes to his defense. For, Kaze is one of the few samurai who feel that peasant's aren't necessarily subhumans, and that justice is worth expending energy on.<br />The mystery is fairly simple, and most readers will and unraveled all the connections well ahead of Kaze, but the book is pleasurable nonetheless. First, unlike so many mysteries, it's a pleasantly compact tale, easily digested in a single night's reading. Secondly, the cast of characters is small and vivid. There's the stoic charcoal-seller, the village prostitute, a nasty bandit leader, and a weirdo lord who lives according to the customs of six hundred years previously in the Heian period. Finally, the most enjoyable element is Furutani's weaving of period detail throughout the book. Often, a ritual or object will lead to a brief tangential discussion of its development and use. These asides are not always subtle, but are fascinating slices of history and custom. On the whole, the book is reminiscent of a Kurasawa film, with a small story, small cast of regular people, and elegant delivery.	2002-04-18
1575753:US	52254603	RQS8BURMW9RF9	0316966207	778637679	Walkin' the Dog	Books	4	8	10	N	N	A Moral Message	A dozen linked episodes form the return of Socrates Fortlow, the 60ish ex-con who first appeared in Always Outnumbered, Always Outgunned. Of course, when the main character is named Socrates, you shouldn't be surprised when his story turns out to be a metaphor. Socrates is a man whose daily life is suffused with his past (he spent 27 years in jail for murdering two friends), and is engaged in a constant struggles break free of that past and try and live somewhat normally in the Watts ghetto he calls home. He's cautious and tentative about new opportunities and options before him, seeing traps and pitfalls in every deviation from his simple, spartan life. It's not difficult to see how Mosley is using Socrates to embody disenfranchised black men everywhere and give voice to their (and his) own inner conflicts as black men in contemporary society.<br />Central to this is angera theme that pervades not only Socrates' life, but that of those around him. Throughout the book, Socrates bubbles with an undefined rage at his surroundings, and ultimately he must find some way to accommodate that rage without letting it consume him. Even so, the good side of Socrates is always plainly evident: he's a father figure to a young boy, cares for his two-legged dog, and saves the life of a drunk. That's not to say that he's a \\"good\\" person, because he has killed people, but he is a man that's trying to do good things with life despite his past and despite the turmoil within him. Through his interactions with a neighborhood discussion group (a somewhat clumsy device) and a self-styled revolutionary, Socrates comes to discover that he has a right to be angry, but it's how that anger is channeled that will decide his fate. This is played out in a rushed and melodramatic final story that fits thematically with the rest of the book, but is kind of jarring.<br />Ultimately, the book's message is reasonably clear. Black men need to translate their anger into productive action and free themselves of the mental shackles that keep them from fulfilling their potential. For every person, this means something different, but even those who have committed the greatest sin can live a moral life. Which is not to say their aren't evil people in the worldor in their own communitybut just because one lives in a ghetto doesn't mean the only solution is to leave. Rather, stay in the community and try and make it bettereven though the man is trying to keep you down.emselves of the mental shackles that keep them from fulfilling their potential. For every person, this means something different, but even those who have committed the greatest sin can live a moral life. Which is not to say their aren't evil people in the worldor in their own communitybut just because one lives in a ghetto doesn't mean the only solution is to leave. Rather, stay in the community and try and make it bettereven though the man is trying to keep you down.	2002-04-18
1575990:US	52254603	R3UKH04NZ0USNF	0520205936	937207355	Play It Again, Sam: Retakes on Remakes	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Nuggets Amidst the Jargon	The nineteen essays collected here (along with introduction and afterword) grapple with various aspects of cinematic \\"remakes\\", and while most have something to offer the general reader, many get bogged down in attempting to find a definition or critical space for remakes. In other words, to get to the good stuff, you're going to have to wade through a lot of critical jargon from psychoanalytic film theory and cultural studieswords such as \\"intertextuality,\\" \\"oedipal\\" and \\"postmodernity\\" pop up a lot. That caveat aside, there are plenty of nuggets to reward the patient reader.<br />Albert Kolker's \\"Recalculating the Hitchcock Formula\\" is an intriguing analysis of Martin Scorcese's Cape Fear, in which it is proposed that Scorcese remade Cape Fear by simultaneously remaking Hitchcock's Stage Fright, I Confess, and Stranger on a Train. Dan Georgakas's essay on Robin Hood effectively shows how the 1938 and 1991 versions each embodied the cultural and political trends of their time. Michael Brashinsky's considers Bergman's Virgin Spring and Wes Craven's The Last House of the Left in an examination of how a to remake a European \\"art\\" film into a low-budget slasher picture. In \\"The Superhero With A Thousand Faces,\\" Luca Somigli provides a cogent analyses of the relationship of superhero film franchises such as Batman and Superman to their comic-book sources. His elegant conclusion is that such projects are based on the accumulated myth of the characters and setting, rather than being remakes. My favorite essay is Elisabeth Weis's exploration on how the film M*A*S*H was adapted for television and managed to continually reinvent itself while maintaining audience loyalty. Other essays have their moments, but the ones above will be the most accessible and interesting to the general reader.	2002-04-17
1577529:US	52254603	R2L2QM4R4A31CI	0815607261	407813566	The Committee: A Novel (Middle East Literature In Translation)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Anti-Globalization meets Kafka	Written from 1979-81, this short novel invites immediate comparison to Kafka's &quot;The Trial&quot;. In it, an unnamed man is summoned to appear before a mysterious and apparently powerful committee who will apparently judge him in some way-although what this actually means is left unexplained. The first theme of the tale emerges when the committee asks him, &quot;By which momentous event among the wars, revolutions, or inventions will our century be remembered in the future?&quot; This results in a lecture on globalism (remember this was written over 20 years ago) via a capsule history of Coca-Cola and its proliferation across the world in the years after WWII. The second theme comes forth when the committee directs him to write &quot;a study on the greatest contemporary Arab luminary.&quot; This drives him to research a powerful and mysterious man known simply as &quot;the Doctor,&quot; a man with fingers in every conceivable pie. Given the timing of the writing, one could well read &quot;the Doctor&quot; as representing Sadat's &quot;open-door&quot; economic policies and the entire book as a satirical attack on those policies and the figures behind them. Despite the censorious obstacles in his path, the narrator manages to start uncovering nuggets of truth about &quot;the Doctor.&quot; Unsurprisingly, this angers the committee and he is commanded to pick another subject which leads to a surreal (and satirical) climax.	2002-04-16
1578473:US	52254603	RJC7IRYU9ZXWK	1561631914	582777581	The Blue Notebook	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Nothing special...	This French graphic novel leaves much to be desired, both in terms of story and artwork. The sparse tale is about a young woman glimpsed by two men from a train. Both desire her and pursue her in their own ways, with somewhat drastic results stemming from extreme coincidence. It's the kind of moody, frustrated tale that might work better as an atmospheric noir film, but in any event it's certainly not enhanced by the flat style and drab colors employed throughout. The translation seems rather awkward at times, although it's difficult to tell without reading the original French as well. In any event, there are many better graphic novels to spend your time with.	2002-04-15
1579340:US	52254603	RB6FCLK6WNETP	1870084306	229633387	001: Lea: The Confessions of Julius Antoine	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Lolita meets Psycho	This cinematic French graphic novel shows a clear Hitchcock influence in its story of a creepy man who is accused of murdering a teenage girl. Julius is a Anthony Perkins lookalike with a fun, pretty girlfriend, but he can't banish an unhealthy obsession with teenage girls from his head. One day his girlfriend takes him to dinner at a friend's house and he's exposed to their daughter, the rebellious and attractive Lea. When he is asked to house-sit and watch her for a weekend, it looks like the perfect chance to act on his obsession. And when she disappears and turns up dead, it looks he has-or has he? We're left guessing until almost the end of this short and potent morality tale.	2002-04-15
1579597:US	52254603	R2O2ME5RGUV7OO	0874160332	328002611	Hungarian Rhapsody	Books	4	3	7	N	N	Convuluted Spy Story with Great Art	I FIRST DISCOVERED Italian cartoonist Giardino through his series A Jew in Communist Prague but the first of his books was this one about spy Max Friedman. Set in Central/Eastern Europe just prior to Hitler rolling into Austria, it's an elaborate spy tale in which no one can be trusted. Friedman was former officer in the International Brigade fighting against Franco, but he grew disillusioned with Soviet hijacking of the struggle and left before he got shot. Here he is roped into a shady operation in Budapest by the French Deuxi&eacute;me Bureau, the outcome of which is depressingly realistic. Giardino has clearly been influenced by such morose spy writers as Graham Greene, John LeCarr&eacute;, and more recently Alan Furst. However, more compelling than the convoluted plot is Giardino's strong art, which really blossoms in showing cityscapes, architectural details, and ephemera such as background posters and advertisements. Here the city is Budapest-subsequent Max Friedman adventures take place in equally well-displayed Istanbul (Orient Gateway) and Barcelona (No Parasan!).	2002-04-15
1582864:US	52254603	R366KE68BE9GCJ	0783815379	838582791	Ring of Terror (G K Hall Nightingale Series Edition)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Great Setting, So-So Story	The highly visible presence of political exiles and Jewish refugees from Imperial Russia was a notable feature of turn of the century London. Their visible presence was also a volatile one, as exiles and imperial operatives waged operations and counter-operations on English soil, occasionally culminating in spectacular crimes. Indeed, at various points, Lenin, Stalin, Trotsky, and Gorky all lived in Whitechapel. Joseph Conrad used this backdrop to initiate the modern spy novel with his 1907 book The Secret Agent, which he based on an anarchist plot to blow up the Greenwich Observatory in 1894. Gilbert sets his brief police procedural in 1911 amidst these budding Bolsheviks and well-armed anarchists, with the Siege of Sidney Street as his historical touchstone.<br />Luke and Joe are two young London policemen originally from the same rural village who are getting their feet wet in the big city. Following the real life murder of a policeman during a sensational robbery of a jewelry store by an anarchist gang and the subsequent media event of the Siege of Sidney Street, the duo are assigned to the task force put together to watch the Russian &eacute;migr&eacute; community and track down its dangerous elements. (Here, Donald Rumbleow's 1988 book The Houndsditch Murders and the Siege of Sidney Street seems to have been a main reference work.) Their efforts, sometimes bumbling, sometimes crafty, often lucky, are interspersed with policy discussions of their superiors and Home Secretary Winston Churchill, as the government attempts to maintain rule of law.<br />While from a historical point of view, it is important to understand the constraints the police worked under at the time-most notably being outgunned-the mix of high policy and ground-level footwork doesn't come together particularly well. There are altogether too many mid and senior level policemen characters whose comings and going distract from the story. Many of the bad guys are based on real figures, and in some cases real names are used-although it should be noted that the real life Sidney Street gang was Latvian. Gilbert has obviously studied the period in great detail, and brings it to life, but the story remains disappointingly flat given the exotic material he has to work with. Most of the book is set in London's East End, and as it's geography plays an integral role in the story, one wishes the publisher had included a map or two of the area.l names are used-although it should be noted that the real life Sidney Street gang was Latvian. Gilbert has obviously studied the period in great detail, and brings it to life, but the story remains disappointingly flat given the exotic material he has to work with. Most of the book is set in London's East End, and as it's geography plays an integral role in the story, one wishes the publisher had included a map or two of the area.	2002-04-12
1583153:US	52254603	REJDHM72DQ38T	0704381001	518881165	Grandfather's Tale (Fiction Series)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Welcome Story	The storytelling method of Sheherazade (of 1,001 Nights fame) is here employed by a Syrian of Dagestani descent to tell the story of her grandfather and how he came from Dagestan to Damascus in the early 19th century. As its translator notes, the simply told novella is more of an Islamic story than it is a Syrian, or certainly Arab, story. The grandfather, Salih, is brought to live in Damascus by his father, a highly-respected elderly Dagestani mufti. There, he raised never to forget his homeland-a territory in the Caucuses adjacent to Chechnya and resisting invasion by the powerful Russian empire at the time. Salih grows up in Damascus and accorded the privilege of going on the pilgrimage to Mecca with with his father. On the trip, he learns the reason behind their exile in Damascus, and vows to return to his homeland one day to see his mother. He grows older, builds a family, and rises to prominence in Damascus, and eventually he fulfills his vow to travel to Dagestan and reunite with his mother. The book is a quick read suitable for children and is a good introduction to the little known history of Dagestan and its resistance to Russian rule. Those interested in further reading are directed to Yo'av Karny's Highlanders, an excellent book on the people and history of the Caucuses, which spends 125 pages on Dagestan. The book also provides many examples of the centrality of faith in many Muslims' lives.	2002-04-11
1583239:US	52254603	R1YK3EFWH6DW8G	0345426258	763358805	Hart's War	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Good Idea but Too Long and Too Many Clich&eacute;s	The basic premise at work this thriller is a good one-there's a murder in a WWII POW camp with racial issues involved, and thus we get a combination murder mystery, courtroom drama all wrapped together with a classic escape attempt. The idea of a murder mystery in a POW camp isn't exactly new, Michael Gilbert's 1952 whodunitThe Danger Within, also featured a murder in an Allied prison camp, with an officer appointed to investigate (the motivation for the murder was the same in that book). Here, Katzenbach adds the spin of race, as a downed Tuskeegee airman is accused of murdering a popular Southern (and deeply racist) fellow prisoner-which allows him to present a capsule history of US race relations circa WWII. But he doesn't stop there, he also adds subthemes on friendship, aging, anti-intellectualism, and most importantly truth vs. justice vs. duty. Not to mention the shocking revelation that heroes have to sometimes get their hands dirty and face consequences.<br />With so much going on, it's hardly surprising that much of it is flawed. The writing is breezy and page-turning, but also clich&eacute;-ridden, repetitive, and highly melodramatic. Similarly, the camp is heavily populated by cardboard characters: a sophisticated and civilized camp commandant, a deformed and nasty Gestapo agent, an erudite and avuncular British lawyer, a plainspoken tough Canadian, and on and on. Even the main characters of Hart and the black flyer Scott are locked in a hokey and tired \\"white man's burden\\" relationship. Hart is the Ivy-league northerner with ideas about truth and justice who'll stand up against the tide to defend the proud, noble, bible-totin' black man. And of course the black man has rage within him that he can barely control... and is a champion boxer...<br />The first half of the book is fairly diverting, but after a while one starts to get tired of the all the bad dialogue, flat characters, and clich&eacute;s. The courtroom scenes are especially turgid, and Hart's continual screeching of \\"Objection!\\" and \\"Your honor, this is unfair!\\" make one lose all sympathy with him. At the very end, the excitement picks up a little bit, but when the curtain is pulled away and the real motivation behind the murder and trial are revealed, it descends to the ridiculous. This is momentarily redeemed by the chilling consequences of Hart's action, but then an utterly mawkish and awful epilogue put the finishing touch on the whole endeavor. This is one book where the movie is likely to be an improvement.reeching of \\"Objection!\\" and \\"Your honor, this is unfair!\\" make one lose all sympathy with him. At the very end, the excitement picks up a little bit, but when the curtain is pulled away and the real motivation behind the murder and trial are revealed, it descends to the ridiculous. This is momentarily redeemed by the chilling consequences of Hart's action, but then an utterly mawkish and awful epilogue put the finishing touch on the whole endeavor. This is one book where the movie is likely to be an improvement.	2002-04-11
1583425:US	52254603	R2H8YL09LZK6B1	044021355X	527437793	Mean High Tide	Books	2	1	2	N	N	A Forgettable Mess	Hall offers yet another look at the seamy underbelly of South Florida life, this one with a plot revolving around revenge, the threat of environmental havoc, and a rather forgettable cast of characters. The ostensible hero, Thorn (although he's not particularly interesting or likable to root for, nor nasty enough to be an anti-hero) comes across a scheme to genetically modify and breed Red Tilapia, with potentially devastating consequences for Florida's coastal ecology. Thorn is apparently a carryover from previous novels, in which other relatives and friends of his have been murdered, so perhaps the reader is meant to have gotten to know him better from these previous outings. In any event, when his girlfriend dies mysteriously while diving, he and his ex-cop buddy start poking their noses around. This soon entangles them with Sylvia, a stereotype man-eating sex kitten who has a bizarre relationship with her ex-CIA hitman father. Their combined actions and motivations require a rather substantial suspension of disbelief on the part of the reader. This is also required when someone tried to kill Thorn in his house, spending a considerable time firing a gun at his house without rousing anybody in the neighborhood. Of course, it's never really clear how or why this person comes looking for Thorn, much less to shoot at! Throw into the mix a wildlife inspector with a detachable nose, a pudgy retired Mafia boss, a mass killing at a federal research facility that apparently somehow got covered up, a bizarre and herky-jerky climax, and what you're left with is a big mess. Hall is at his best in his lyrical descriptions of the water and landscape, but when it comes to dialogue and story, he falters and often fails.	2002-04-11
1584037:US	52254603	R1YQDCO4HA5X42	0553108301	90950526	The End of War: A Novel of the Race for Berlin	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Workmanlike Historical Fiction	This historical novel takes as its setting the final months of WWII in the European theatre, as Allied forces converge on Berlin. Robbins attempts to capture both the high-level machinations of Allied statesmen and commanders, as well as the trials and tribulations of those \\"on the ground.\\" While the intent is certainly admirable, the story just can't hold up to the switching between the perspectives of six different characters, especially as three were real people. President Roosevelt, Winston Churchill, and Stalin play the role of Olympian gods in this tale, as Robbins recreates their interactions from documentary material and supplements it with internal speculations. This is predictably flat, as their sections come across as historical re-enactment, rather than anything truly alive. However, it is truly illuminating material for anyone interested in history, as it highlights as critical time in the birthing of the Cold War.<br />The high level diplomacy, bickering, and trickery drive the events on the ground, viewed through the eyes of Life combat photographer Charles Bandy, two Russian army buddies Ilya and Misha (who together represent the Russian character), Lottie (a cellist in the Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra) and her mother. These characters are naturally more engaging than the historical figures, but still walk predictably through the situations set up for them. What Robbins is good at is capturing the mood of everyone involved. The yearning to finish off the German war machine felt by the Russians, the almost cheery feeling of the war being won by the Americans, and the dread of the Berliners as they prey the Americans come to capture the city, rather than the Russians. While the Berliners' situation is well-rendered, it's not remarkably different from that of any city being strangled by war (Robbins somewhat heavy-handedly works in Wagner's Gotterdammerung as a metaphor for the fall of the Third Reich).<br />The themes here are no different from those in countless other novels on war: vengeance, the emotional toll of killing, the destruction of civil life, the psychological toll on non-combatants, rape in war, etc... While this will never be confused for good literature, it's an effective, workmanlike piece of historical fiction which covers some important terrain. To that end, he should be commended for bringing this story to a wider audience than would be likely to pick up a history book. However, if you are looking for a straight-up history book to complement the novel, check out Cornelius Ryan's \\"The Last Battle.\\" A really good grunt-level novel set just before this book, as the Allies attack the Siegfried line, check out Richard Matheson's recently republished \\"The Beardless Warriors.\\"in countless other novels on war: vengeance, the emotional toll of killing, the destruction of civil life, the psychological toll on non-combatants, rape in war, etc... While this will never be confused for good literature, it's an effective, workmanlike piece of historical fiction which covers some important terrain. To that end, he should be commended for bringing this story to a wider audience than would be likely to pick up a history book. However, if you are looking for a straight-up history book to complement the novel, check out Cornelius Ryan's \\"The Last Battle.\\" A really good grunt-level novel set just before this book, as the Allies attack the Siegfried line, check out Richard Matheson's recently republished \\"The Beardless Warriors.\\"	2002-04-11
1584640:US	52254603	R13R6QGXGDRVSG	0156659751	21402036	The Nonexistent Knight and The Cloven Viscount	Books	3	13	15	N	N	Ok, but not his best work	As I'd previously read and enjoyed Calvino's The Baron in the Trees, I thought I'd try this collection of two novellas. While I more or less enjoyed the two stories, they're not quite as good as The Baron in the Trees. The first tale is of a knight whose every action is perfect, but has no physical body, he is literally an empty suit of armor. His perfection is an aphrodisiac to a female knight who has contempt for all other men, but finds him irresistible. Meanwhile, a naive young knight follows her around like a puppy. Meanwhile, another young knight seeks out the Order of the Holy Grail, who he claims as having fathered him. There's a kind of Shakespearean comedy element to all of this, especially in the hasty and tidy conclusion. However, one has to read it as a fable instructing us that though we seek spiritual and earthly perfection, they may not turn out to be what we want.<br />The second tale is of a nobleman cut in half whose two halves live separately on: one evil, one good. This is a more straightforward and compact story, and clearly a warning against extremism of any kinds. The evil side is truly nasty, and the good one starts out beloved, but eventfully gets too pushy and interfering for everyone's good. Eventually the two halves are rejoined to make a balanced personality and everyone lives happily ever after.<br />Both stories can also be read as existentialist meditations on the meaning of existence. They can also be read with an eye toward the horrors of WWII and the nature of evil. In the first tale, Charlemagne and his knights are bumbling fools for the most part, but still manage to engage in a bloody war. In the second, a carpenter's expertise is enlisted to create more and more elaborate torture and hanging devices, while a doctor abandons his commitment to helping people. In any event, if you like Calvino's other fabulist work, you'll like these two novellas, but they're probably not the place to start if you're unfamiliar with his work.	2002-04-10
1585687:US	52254603	R27M5REQAWRMSU	0385495641	161920063	Ghost Soldiers: The Forgotten Epic Story of World War II's Most Dramatic Mission	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Another Fascinating Slice of "the Good War"	Given the recent vogue for WWII, it should come as no surprise that there have been a slew of books unearthing (or rather, retelling) episodes from \\"the good war\\" for the consumption of modern readers. This book contributes to the field by combining an account of the famous Bataan Death March with the story of the liberation of the its survivors. Both of these events were widely covered and written about at the time, and author Sides synthesizes the mass of existing material with his own interviews of survivors to retell the tale of \\"the Battling Bastards of Bataan\\" and their Ranger liberators.<br />The narrative proceeds along two time frames, switching back and forth in a manner that requires close attention. One thread starts with the US retreat from the Philippines in 1942 and the abandonment of the forces at Bataan and Corregedor. The other thread starts with the discovery in late 1944 by Army intelligence that Japanese forces were killing Allied prisoners before retreating-most notably in a massacre at Palawan. The fear that this may occur to the survivors of Bataan spurred the formation of an ad hoc force of Rangers to go behind Japanese lines and liberate the POW camp at Cabanatuan before the US completely retook the Philippines. The two threads alternate, recounting the Death March and three years of horrific prison camp life through the stories of survivors with the planning and implementation of the raid.<br />The story is highly readable and fairly vivid, although not without its flaws. First, while Sides does an excellent job explaining how the Japanese vastly underestimated the number of prisoners they would take, planning for 40,000 and actually getting 100,000, the book is rather confusing on the precise fates of the 100,000. I think about 12,000 were US soldiers, the rest Filipinos, but I'm not sure. I know abut 500-600 Americans died on the march, as did about ten times that many Filipinos, but their disbursements after the march is a little unclear. Another problem is the author's overindulgence for interrupting the narrative to give little capsule biographies of participants, this sometimes stops the book dead in its tracks, and other times leads to redundancies in information. To be fair, the longest such digression-the story of American spy Claire Phillips-is the most intriguing part of the book. It would have been nice to hear a little more about the non-American POWs in the camp and how they fit in to camp life. Finally, it's hard to countenance the lack of index or footnotes. Sides does present a lengths bibliographic essay, but that's lazy history and a poor service to readers interested in following up particular details.<br />On the whole, however, it's a good tale worth retelling, and Sides does a more than serviceable job of it. His explanation of the underlying reasons for why the Japanese were so cruel to prisoners is especially useful, as his capsulated explanation of the tactics surrounding the abandonment of Bataan and Corregedor. In the end, the raid is somewhat anticlimactic, but for those interested in WWII, it's good stuff.r. Another problem is the author's overindulgence for interrupting the narrative to give little capsule biographies of participants, this sometimes stops the book dead in its tracks, and other times leads to redundancies in information. To be fair, the longest such digression-the story of American spy Claire Phillips-is the most intriguing part of the book. It would have been nice to hear a little more about the non-American POWs in the camp and how they fit in to camp life. Finally, it's hard to countenance the lack of index or footnotes. Sides does present a lengths bibliographic essay, but that's lazy history and a poor service to readers interested in following up particular details.<br />On the whole, however, it's a good tale worth retelling, and Sides does a more than serviceable job of it. His explanation of the underlying reasons for why the Japanese were so cruel to prisoners is especially useful, as his capsulated explanation of the tactics surrounding the abandonment of Bataan and Corregedor. In the end, the raid is somewhat anticlimactic, but for those interested in WWII, it's good stuff.	2002-04-10
1586419:US	52254603	R3PSK82U95FBEB	1896597122	788877264	Sleepwalk: and Other Stories	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Brilliantly Heartbreaking	The sixteen stories contained here are predominantly quiet angst-ridden portraits of young men and women who are experiencing some kind of loss. Several lurk in the disorienting and heartbreaking wake of breakups. &quot;Six Day Cold&quot; is perhaps the most touching of these, showing a young man with a severe cold encountering his ex-girlfriend on the street. She takes care of him, bringing him soup and whatnot-and the way Tomine captures the unseen wistful looks he gives her is shattering. It's an awkward emotional terrain he captures with equal precision in the title story.<br />Indeed, awkward situations are Tomine's forte, from threatening teenagers on a bus in &quot;Hostage Situation,&quot; to a family vacation in &quot;Dylan &amp; Donovan&quot; to the realization of shifting friendships in &quot;Hazel Eyes&quot; or a supermarket worker encountering a blind customer out on the street in &quot;Supermarket.&quot; Tomine's ability to rapidly capture the exact right emotional tone of each situation and character is amazing. The longest story, &quot;Summer Job&quot; is pitch-perfect in showing a slacker-punk middle class kid on summer vacation from UC Berkeley (A Berkeley resident, Tomine sets many of his stories in and around Bay Area.). The kid's arrogant disdain for the Kinko's-like job he takes and his complete obliviousness to the economic realities of his co-workers is dead on and enraging.<br />Another common theme is loneliness, from the difficulty in long-distance relationships in &quot;Long Distance&quot; and &quot;Layover&quot; to an old widow remembering better days in &quot;Lunch Break&quot; or the creepy tale of a young woman who's stalked via the personal ads in &quot;The Connecting Thread.&quot; Thus, it should come as no surprise that on the whole, the collection can be rather depressing (apparently Tomine's other collection, 32 Stories, is more upbeat). Of course it should be noted that the artistry is consistently graceful and real over the 102 pages, and the book's design and production is lovely and understated. This is the graphic novel to give people who would never consider picking one up.pages, and the book's design and production is lovely and understated. This is the graphic novel to give people who would never consider picking one up.	2002-04-09
1587040:US	52254603	R3NIEWKQJOT119	0006551912	547038091	XCiTes: The Flamingo Book of New French Writing	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Dig the New Breed	This haphazard collection of eighteen pieces attempts to present the the new face of French literature, featuring writers mostly unknown in the US and UK. It's haphazard because twelve of the pieces are excerpts from novels, three are short stories, one is a screenplay excerpt, one is an original essay, and finally there's the inexplicable inclusion of an interview with French soccer star Marcel Desailly. The brevity of the excerpts just barely gives one a sense of the writer and often one is left wishing for more. However, disappointment is likely to ensure, since only five of the writers (Marie Desplechin, Virginie Despentes, Michel Houellebecq, Guillaume Dustan, and Agnes Desarthe) have books available in English translation.<br />As with any anthology, different stories will appeal to different readers, and the quality varies wildly. My two favorites were Tonino Benacquista's short story about a man who finds a gun and spends the day walking around with it in order to experience it's transformative power and a nasty except from Michel Houellebecq's novel Whatever. Marie Desplechin and Agnes Desarthe's excerpts touch upon the angst of young single urban women in a manner that will be stylistically and thematically familiar to their counterparts across the Channel and Atlantic (which probably explains why each has two books in translation). The pieces by Guillaume Dustan, Mehdi Belhaj Kacem, Fr&eacute;d&eacute;ric Beigbeder all dwell in the realm of drugged-up hedonism, but are fairly unmemorable and borderline self-indulgent (while Lorette Nob&eacute;court's piece crosses this line). More crudely provocative is the excerpt from Virginie Despentes's highly controversial novel Rape Me (made into an equally controversial film), the full translation of which should be available in the US ...<br />Two pieces, by Ilan Duran Cohen and Abdourahman Waberi are set outside France (New York and Djibouti respectively), and, together with Mounsi's excerpt, reflect a vague sense of dislocation and alienation. Eric Faye's short story is the only piece that could be termed playful, and sticks out from the crowd because of it. Mathieu Lindon's story reads more like reportage than fiction, while DJ Tov's \\"Lost in Music\\" essay is a overheated cooler than thou history of French hip hop and club culture replete with endless name dropping. The script excerpt is from Mathieu Kassovitz's outstanding film La Haine (Hate), which in many ways is the visual godfather of many of the stories in the collection. The final piece, a rambling and uninteresting interview with Ghanian-French soccer star Desailly seems only to have been included in order to complete the Irvine Welshian holy trinity of sex, drugs -n- clubs, and soccer.<br />In sum, the collection is recommended reading for its highly original portrait of modern France and its increasingly multicultural population. The biographies in the back tout the authors diverse heritage's (birthplaces include Algeria, Tunisia, Jerusalem, R&eacute;union, and Djibouti) as proof of the collection's diversity, but it would have been nice to see greater gender equity as well-only four of the writers are women, although they are crowded in the front perhaps to disguise this disparity. In any event, one might regard this an introduction to a new wave of French writers similar in some ways to the \\"new Scots\\" (Irvine Welsh, Alan Warner, et al) in Scotland and \\"grunge\\" writers like Andrew McGahan in Australia.and alienation. Eric Faye's short story is the only piece that could be termed playful, and sticks out from the crowd because of it. Mathieu Lindon's story reads more like reportage than fiction, while DJ Tov's \\"Lost in Music\\" essay is a overheated cooler than thou history of French hip hop and club culture replete with endless name dropping. The script excerpt is from Mathieu Kassovitz's outstanding film La Haine (Hate), which in many ways is the visual godfather of many of the stories in the collection. The final piece, a rambling and uninteresting interview with Ghanian-French soccer star Desailly seems only to have been included in order to complete the Irvine Welshian holy trinity of sex, drugs -n- clubs, and soccer.<br />In sum, the collection is recommended reading for its highly original portrait of modern France and its increasingly multicultural population. The biographies in the back tout the authors diverse heritage's (birthplaces include Algeria, Tunisia, Jerusalem, Runion, and Djibouti) as proof of the collection's diversity, but it would have been nice to see greater gender equity as well-only four of the writers are women, although they are crowded in the front perhaps to disguise this disparity. In any event, one might regard this an introduction to a new wave of French writers similar in some ways to the \\"new Scots\\" (Irvine Welsh, Alan Warner, et al) in Scotland and \\"grunge\\" writers like Andrew McGahan in Australia.	2002-04-09
1592525:US	52254603	R2Y0OD0IJNHGX3	0743203623	846087460	Jeeves And The Tie That Binds	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Good StuffBut Not the Best Jeeves and Wooster	The Jeeves and Wooster books generally follow the same template: the young, wealthy airhead Wooster or one of his upper-crust pals gets in some sticky social situation, and it is up to his genius butler Jeeves to devise an ingenious solution to the quandary. Often the stories involve some manner of deception, misunderstanding, or often, mistaken identity-and sometimes, Jeeves' scheme backfires, resulting in even greater hilarity (although as with every comic tale, all is set right by the end). The books can fairly be compared to contemporary TV sitcoms, as they to reply on recurring (often over the top) characters, a rarefied setting, a single type of humor, and recurring situations. Simply put, if you like one Wooster tale (and don't get sick of them), you're going to like them all. Much of this can be explained by Wodehouse's mastery of the language and constant deft turns of phrase, period slang, and comic timing.<br />This entry in the canon (a direct sequel to Stiff Upper Lip, Jeeves) is a little disappointing in comparison to others, mainly because for once, Wodehouse overuses some of his gags. Throughout the story, Wooster fumbles for words and phrases, a device which quickly loses any of its scant charm. Similarly, Jeeves' erudition is overdisplayed, as quotes from Shakespeare, Burns, Worthsworth, and numerous Romans are crammed in-as are Biblical references and Wooster's reminiscing about winning a school prize for Old Testament knowledge. Still, the story of a local election, a purloined silver pot, the missing journal of the Junior Ganneymeade Club, Spode, and various ladies eager to marry Bertie, all set amidst Aunt Dahlia's mansion, is sure to please what Wodehouse refers to as \\"the old sweats.\\"<br />Those who deride the shallow subject matter and milieu of the Jeeves and Wooster series need to recall the context in which these stories appeared. Only a few years removed from the horrors of World War I-an event that is never alluded to in the series, despite the loss of an entire generation of British young men-the stories can be viewed as a bandage of sorts, an attempt to transport the reader to a world far removed from the traumatic recovery from the Great War. Not to mention Wodehouse's clear depiction of the upper classes as wastrels and idiots of the highest order when compared to the street savvy of the servants (as exemplified by Jeeves). Of course, one doesn't read Wodehouse for social commentary or as a salve these days, but for his dry wit and keen command of the written word.spite the loss of an entire generation of British young men-the stories can be viewed as a bandage of sorts, an attempt to transport the reader to a world far removed from the traumatic recovery from the Great War. Not to mention Wodehouse's clear depiction of the upper classes as wastrels and idiots of the highest order when compared to the street savvy of the servants (as exemplified by Jeeves). Of course, one doesn't read Wodehouse for social commentary or as a salve these days, but for his dry wit and keen command of the written word.	2002-04-05
1597537:US	52254603	R26EUGT4HDHYLP	0385498438	344559301	New York Graphic	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Luridly Readable	Baker's vision of a slightly exaggerated New York comes more from the lurid pulp tradition than from noir, with it's night photographer protagonist and his lowlife pals. This New York is infested by rats, roaches, corporations, rich perverts, culture jammers, and a mad bomber. Virgil is a photographer who trawls the night with his police scanner, searching for bizarre and ironic tragedies to snap-hoping to get a job with the city's lead tabloid, the New York Graphic. There's not a whole lot of plot-as the book progresses Virgil participates in a few small heists with some friends, helps an AIDS-stricken porn pinup exact revenge, and is sought out by the mad bomber. The choppy episodic narrative makes it hard to get too engrossed in the book's events, and the prevailing theme of rotting and corruption isn't treated with any particular originality. Similarly, Baker's sad-sack characters don't bring a whole lot to the table other than a kind of hangdog pathos. However, the lurid subject matter is enough to keep the pages turning rapidly enough.<br />I have to note that the book suffers from a minor but annoying flaw I've come across before when English authors write US characters. Certain words and idioms are not transatlantic, and while this can be more or less forgiven in description, it really intrudes when they pop up in dialogue. A few Anglicisms I came across in this work include: answerphone, trainers, perspex, rota, wank-which in American English would be answering machine, sneakers, plexiglass, schedule, masturbate. Another funny example of why publishers of such titles should have an American read the manuscript occurs on page 251, where in a faux ad, US phone numbers are rendered UK phone numbers (ie. what should have been 212-267-3264 appears as 212-26-73264).	2002-04-01
1597612:US	52254603	R15AZ2PZKAIQ6V	0966712714	844148166	Whiteout	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Great Character, Story &amp; Setting	This cinematic graphic novel rises above the herd with its excellent characterization, gritty crime plot, and the fascinating setting of research bases on the South Pole. The central character is US Deputy Marshal Carrie Stetko, who has been exiled to McMurdo Station after having killed a prisoner in her custody. As a rare year-round woman resident of the pole, Stetko has to be tough as nails to fend off the advances of the rough men. When a body is found, and five other men are missing, she is called upon to investigate. The investigation takes plenty of twists and turns, with plenty of action and suspense. Stetko emerges as a character you want to meet again (fortunately she does, in Whiteout: Melt), and the artwork transports you to a unique setting that oozes with danger.	2002-04-01
1598369:US	52254603	R399MFMWHJ0Y0J	1929998031	331472877	Whiteout: Melt	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good -- But Not Quite as Great as the 1st	The sequel to Whiteout finds US Deputy Marshal Carrie Stetko on vacation in New Zealand, but still stuck in professional exile in McMurdo Station in the South Pole. When a Russian base blows up suspiciously, her bosses promise to bring her back to civilization if she'll cut her vacation short to go poke around the debris. Although Article I of the Antarctic Treaty prohibits any military use of the continent, the Russians are suspected of using their base as a weapons cache and her bosses want her to see if she can find anything out. While the first volume was a suspenseful procedural, this is a more standard thriller with higher stakes. Soon, Stetko finds herself pursing a team of elite Spetznaz troops gone mercenary who are fleeing across the ice with stolen nukes. Upping the clich&eacute; factor, Stetko teams up with a Russian GRU agent to track the rogue Spetznaz and recover the nukes.The art is quite good, and the story is pretty absorbing and filled with tidbits about the South Pole, but isn't quite at the level of the original Whiteout.	2002-04-01
1602169:US	52254603	RK35F66Q9ORFO	0805038752	897145792	The Game of Their Lives	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Interesting, but not the Definitive Story	The US team's 1-0 defeat of England in the 1950 World Cup in Brazil, considered the greatest upset in soccer history, is given a somewhat haphazard treatment here by journalist Douglas. Chapters concerning the flow of the game are dwarfed by much longer chapters on the lives of the eleven players and the ethnic neighborhoods they came from. The preponderance of material is about the five who were still alive in early 1990s, when the author was able to interview them. Douglas spends a great deal of time with these men, devoting great swathes of the book to their reminisces about the neighborhoods in St. Louis, Philadelphia, and Massachusetts they came from and how those neighborhoods have declined in recent decades.<br />While the stories of men who clearly played for the love of the game is sort of interesting, there's not enough about how the team of amateurs and semi-pros was cobbled together and managed to advance to the World Cup. Douglas's description of the flow of the game is able enough, but the analysis is somewhat hazy. Too much-from the miracle US goal, to England's inexplicable inability to finish-is left hazy and unexplained. Interviews with surviving English players might have added a great deal. Clearly, the definitive book on the 1950 upset has yet to be written.	2002-03-28
1602766:US	52254603	R2TNG5HK9SUZBI	1561631604	551766201	Lost in the Alps	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Gentle Story of Discovery	The voyage of discovery is the theme of this graphic novel about a young English novelist who travels to the Swiss Alps in the 1920s to find out what happened to the brother he barely knew. The brother, a composer and pianist, was much older and died in an accident while staying at a grand hotel. In his search, the young man discovers love and has some minor adventures. It's nothing grand, but more of a gently told old-fashioned story of youth. The sleepy village and stolid villagers are beautifully rendered in razor thin black and white lines, as is the vast landscape.	2002-03-28
1602921:US	52254603	R1EB69H907WULX	1561631841	49771453	Orient Gateway	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Lovely to Look At, But Overly Complicated	I first discovered Italian cartoonist Giardino through his series A Jew in Communist Prague. This volume is the first in a series about spy Max Friedman, whose adventures continue in the waning days of the Spanish Civil War in No Parasan! Friedman is a former officer in the International Brigade whose current allegiances are rather murky. Indeed, the whole story, which takes place in Istanbul and concerns a defecting Soviet aeronautics scientist is rather murky. The moves and countermoves of various Soviet intelligence factions, a French intelligence operative, exiled White Russians, and a beautiful Hungarian woman, all gets too confusing. As in his other books, Giardino's strong artwork,vividly captures hustle and bustle of Istanbul and is more compelling than the spy story.	2002-03-27
1603100:US	52254603	R3G2JA92WF3ZS0	0967684781	688701259	Sky Ape	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Cool Art, Absurdist Story	I must freely admit that I don't get this series about a millionaire/freelance detective gorilla who sometimes zooms around on a jetpack. The black and white artwork is pretty sweet, although sometimes the stylistic shifts are a little jarring. But the story-which is nominally about his quest to recover the &quot;suspense jacket&quot; in order to understand his pas-careens so wildly around, jam-packed with absurdity and digressions, that it's hard to maintain an interest. I would say it's worth checking out for the artwork, but don't even try to follow the story.	2002-03-27
1604647:US	52254603	R2QVRM7QF32YLT	0940322730	99918847	Exploits and Adventures of Brigadier Gerard (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A Marvelously Thick-Headed and Gallant Sharpe	For those who only know Conan Doyle via his Sherlock Holmes tales, his second most popular fictional creation may come as quite a revelation. With the eighteen &quot;Brigadier Gerard&quot; tales collected here, he created an affectionately mocking portrait of a swashbuckling French cavalry officer of the Napoleonic era. Gerard is a wonderful comic character, in his own not so humble opinion the foremost rider and swordsmen in all the Grand Arme&eacute;, he's also a favorite of the ladies, a stickler on points of honor, first volunteer for hazardous missions-and unbeknownst to him, marvelously thickheaded.<br />His &quot;exploits and adventures&quot; are presented as reminisces by the old grizzled officer, long into his dotage. Since he doesn't tell these in chronological order, this can be momentarily disconcerting, but only momentarily. Each episode runs approximately 20 to 30 pages and generally concerns some individual adventure he's assigned to or stumbles into. These are uniformly entertaining old-fashioned adventures in which Gerard sometimes triumphs, sometimes fails, but always upholds the honor and glory of the Emperor. He makes an interesting counterpart to Bernard Cornwell's gritty and equally heroic fictional British veteran of the Napoleonic wars, Richard Sharpe.<br />This new edition is to be commended, but it could have been further improved with the addition of a few maps, a general chronology of the Napoleonic era, and a glossary of the frequently used military terms of the era. Still, these are quibbles, and anyone with more than a passing familiarity with Napoleonic history will have no problems enjoying Gerard's tales.	2002-03-26
1611425:US	52254603	R2EXN9YIXN0Y2	0743201663	689423441	The Games We Played: A Celebration of Childhood and Imagination	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Loss of Imagination	As an only child, I had plenty of motivation to use my imagination to create different games to amuse myself with. Most often these involved Legos, Matchbox cars, darts, and tennis balls, depending on the weather and location. Editor Cohen seeks to tap into that time in all of us, in this little stocking-stuffer type book which assembles the brief memories of writers and famous folks in (as the subtitle says), \\"A Celebration of Childhood and Imagination.\\" While some of the entries don't really fit in that well with the overall theme (Jackie Collins and Lou Stovall's come to mind), most do evoke a sense of wistfulness and childhood innocence. The contributors recount in simple prose (and in two cases poems, and another, in illustrated panels) the games of their youth-from paper dolls, to neighborhood Olympics, to Chinaberry wars, and so on. It's the kind of book one wonders if could be done in 50 years now that children have much less unstructured playtime outside the home-something to think about.	2002-03-21
1611766:US	52254603	RB7KKG6W89PXE	1890768383	614013038	The Viper's Kiss	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Hard-boiled in Cyprus	I should note from the start that this is a book I picked up and read solely because it is set in Cyprus. I'm a firm believer in the ability of crime fiction to show the reader a side of a city, country, or any locale, that they will never encounter in guidebooks. And to that end, this hard-boiled tale set Limassol, in the Greek part of Cyprus, is certainly worth reading. The story follows Chrisostomos \\"Tommy\\" Zaras, a middle-aged, but tough as nails PI from Athens who is hired by a smuggler to locate a $200,000 stolen payoff for a load of whiskey. He's a completely traditional Mike Hammer type PI, a hard-drinking, womanizing bastard who takes and dishes out plenty of violence. He's the kind of character that knows that the more you treat women like dirt, the sooner they'll be back for more. He's certainly unlikeable, but no more so than any of the villains and thugs he encounters trying to find the $200,000, and that's more of the less the point. Anyone familiar with noir and hard-boiled fiction will pretty easily identify the femme fatale as the central player at the core of an exceedingly convoluted scheme. The translation from the Greek is excellent, and while the story keeps moving right along, the climax is a bit of a farcical letdown. Cyprus comes across as a kind of simmering Mediterranean backwater, where if you have enough money, you can get away with almost anything-or get killed.	2002-03-21
1618407:US	52254603	R3I4V4XMIDJEBX	0752836765	272668339	Samurai Boogie	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Elmore Leonard in Tokyo	Tokyo-based British writer and financial manager Tasker's third novel to feature PI Kazuo Mori (following Silent Thunder and Bhudda Kiss, neither of which I've read) is a fast-paced insider's trip through modern Japanese society. Following a little job that gets him in bad with a nasty yakuza guy, Mori gets embroiled in a complex case at the behest of the girlfriend of a high-level government official who dies in murky circumstances. The novel cuts between Mori's investigation, the yakuza's various assignments, and a British financial analyst who's staked everything on a video-game company that's tanking. Mori's method is to call upon friends and sources to tap official databases while he uses one of his many fake name cards (kind of like business cards in the US) to demand information from people. The thriller's subtext says a lot about the innate respect for authority in Japan, and the rotten hollowness of authority. Throughout, the police, ministries, and corporations are derided as corrupt and greedy institutions bleeding the common man dry. None of it is very subtle, but Mori's trip through the seedier side of Tokyo and its drab suburbs is sure to open the eyes of anyone who thinks Japan is all teahouses and geisha girls. Eventually everything gets ties up nicely as the yakuza comes gunning for Mori and the British analyst's woes tie in to Mori's investigation.<br />While the setting is pretty interesting, the characters aren't particularly subtle. Mori is a classic old-fashioned rumpled, wearily cynical PI from well within the Western detective tradition. Middle-aged, poorly dressed, and with a love for traditional jazz and constant ingestion of various foodstuffs, he's somewhat reminiscent of the title character in John Harvey's excellent Charley Resnik series. The yakuza guy dresses loud, loves the old traditions, and is bound and has bouts of extreme violence. The women throughout are mostly sexual objects, and even though some of them are \\"strong,\\" they're still not particularly well-rounded. The sum effect is rather akin to reading one of Elmore Leonard's better novels-reasonably entertaining, but not anything that'll stay with you long after you put it down.e still not particularly well-rounded. The sum effect is rather akin to reading one of Elmore Leonard's better novels-reasonably entertaining, but not anything that'll stay with you long after you put it down.	2002-03-15
1621173:US	52254603	R2IDYYU3E2BFHQ	0393042049	311650507	In Pursuit of a Vanishing Star: A Novel	Books	3	0	8	N	N	134 pages long, not 192!	I haven't read the book, but caveat emptor! The book is smallish and only 134 pages, not the 192 listed above. And while it's very beautifully designed and produced, the type is fairly spaced out so that you could read it easily in an hour and half. So, despite the cover designation &quot;A Novel&quot; it's really a novella.	2002-03-13
1621717:US	52254603	R2NZIFBBI0499L	0399147950	185638418	2: What If? II	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Fun, But Not As Good As the 1st Volume	Following the vast success of the first What If collection, editor Cowley returns with another collection with a slightly different subtitle. Instead of \\"The World's Foremost Military Historians Imagine What Might Have Been\\" we now have \\"Eminent Historians.\\" This is presumably to underscore the presence of nonmilitary essays and not a commentary on a decline in the quality of the contributors. It's worth noting that there's a startling lack of women in the two volumes-historical novelist Ceceila Holland appears in both, but apparently counterfactualism is overwhelmingly the brief of male historians. In any event, the twenty-five essays proceed in chronological order, and are supported by outstanding maps.<br />As with the earlier volume, I generally enjoyed the essays that concentrated on the older events more, perhaps because they are more removed from time and consciousness and thus are more plausible. While the essays are all entirely accessible, the are somewhat uneven in quality and on the whole seem a little short. In fact, one criticism is that in many cases, an excellent contextual setup trails off into very little counterfactual speculation. Still, each essay is useful as a minor history lesson if nothing else. A more minor annoyance is editor Cowley's one page introduction to each essay, which summarizes it and gives away the main points.<br />While some of my favorite essays were those which speculated on Pontius Pilate's sparing of Jesus, the continued exploration embarked upon in the 15th century by a massive Chinese navy, Napoleon's invasion of North American, and an examination of how WWII might have proceeded had the Allies not cracked the Enigma code machine-others that looked at the effects of small bureaucratic or political shifts were equally intriguing. For example, Robert O'Connell's fascinating look at how bureaucratic interference \\"torpedoed\\" WWI Germany's exploitation of its massive and potentially devastating submarine warfare \\"gap.\\" James Chace's essay on Henry Wallace's political career, and a presidency following FDR's death that could have been, is so interesting in its own right, that the counterfactual implications are almost incidental to one's enjoyment. Other essays are more clumsily conceived, such as one positing American without Nixon, Johnson, and Kennedy, and one on Adolf Hitler being tried at Nuremberg. While these have interesting historical nuggets, they aren't as imaginative or interesting as most of the collection. Consider if Martin Luther had been burned as a heretic, or if a ragtag Australian unit hadn't held off an overwhelming Japanese force in New Guinea bent on securing the airfield from which to launch an invasion of Australia, or if WWII had started a year earlier. Had Cowley cut the five weakest essays and given the space to expand the remaining essays, it would have been a stronger collection-however, it's still well worth reading.Chace's essay on Henry Wallace's political career, and a presidency following FDR's death that could have been, is so interesting in its own right, that the counterfactual implications are almost incidental to one's enjoyment. Other essays are more clumsily conceived, such as one positing American without Nixon, Johnson, and Kennedy, and one on Adolf Hitler being tried at Nuremberg. While these have interesting historical nuggets, they aren't as imaginative or interesting as most of the collection. Consider if Martin Luther had been burned as a heretic, or if a ragtag Australian unit hadn't held off an overwhelming Japanese force in New Guinea bent on securing the airfield from which to launch an invasion of Australia, or if WWII had started a year earlier. Had Cowley cut the five weakest essays and given the space to expand the remaining essays, it would have been a stronger collection-however, it's still well worth reading.	2002-03-13
1621762:US	52254603	RNCEZCYG0VHKC	158234227X	596116898	The Last Opium Den	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Absorbing, but slight	Before proceeding, I must note that this \\"book\\" is in fact a reprint of an article originally published in the September 2000 issue of Vanity Fair. So, while is a cute and well-designed wee book (it takes a little under an hour to read), those looking to save themselves the cost of a movie ticket and large drink are advised to consult their local library. That said, it is an amusing and exotic travelogue recounting Tosches' quest to locate a real-life operational opium den and sample its wares. While he makes a modest attempt to justify his journey on medical grounds (it is reputed to aid diabetics), he freely admits his enchantment with the orientalist vision of sumptuous opium dens with loose-limbed ladies. Thus, he travels from New York, to San Francisco, to Hong Kong, to Bangkok, to Phnom Penh, to Paris, and finally to a secret location in \\"Indochina\\" where he fulfills his quest. (It should be noted that he could have written an equally interesting essay by going to places like Afghanistan and Iran, where opium has a rich historical tradition.)<br />From the very beginning-a witty dissection of a ... onion dish at a trendy New York restaurant-Tosches' writing is sharp and engaging. His descriptive talents are topnotch, whether describing the various foods he encounters (and there's a lot), the Thai sex shows he's watching, or the actual smell and texture of opium. He's also good at explaining the economics that led to opium's demise (opium derivatives such as heroin and morphine are easier and cheaper to make, and thus deliver higher profit margins to drug dealers). It's an engaging little essay, but it's hard to imagine why anyone would purchase it in book form.<br />One curious note is that while he mentions earlier writers on opium, such as Thomas de Quincy's 19th-century memoir Confessions of an English Opium Eater , Mark Merlin's On the Trail of the Ancient Opium Poppy, Edward Brecher's monumental 1972 study, Licit and Illicit Drugs, and even extolls The Big Smoke: The Chinese Art and Craft of Opium, which is unavailable in America, he fails to mention Barbara Hodgson's recent coffee-table book, Opium: A Portrait of the Heavenly Demon. It's also odd that he fails to mention fiction's most famous opium addict, Sherlock Holmes.g Smoke: The Chinese Art and Craft of Opium, which is unavailable in America, he fails to mention Barbara Hodgson's recent coffee-table book, Opium: A Portrait of the Heavenly Demon. It's also odd that he fails to mention fiction's most famous opium addict, Sherlock Holmes.	2002-03-13
1623049:US	52254603	R2UNL6N14E6KG4	0553470744	757728138	Rum Punch	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Better than most of his stuff.	While this was most enjoyable of the nine or ten Leonard books I've read, I have to confess that I'm pretty sure that's because I was able to visualize the actors from the movie version (1997's Jackie Brown). While Leonard's characters always have great patter, I often have a hard time visualizing them as real people, so to have a mental picture going in helped a great deal. In this book, Leonard revives a trio (cons Ordell and Louie, and eye candy Melonie) from an earlier novel The Switch..., and picks them up 14 years and plenty of hard knocks down the road.<br />The story is pretty basic super convoluted Leonard territory, ex-cons both crafty and stupid, a complicated money laundering operation, double-crosses, less than straight-laced cops, a wide range of women, a big score, and soforth. It has to be said that the way Leonard combines the elements is rather substantially more complicated than in others of his books-and indeed unnecessarily so, as the movie shows. I have to disagree with the majority viewpoint and declare the film superior to the book (a rarity). Tarantino clearly recognized and excised the burdensome subplots and unlikely coincidences, and the resulting script is smoother and more believable. For example, Max's disintegrating marriage and his sparring with her busboy lover/painter adds nothing and doesn't go anywhere. Similarly, Ordell and Louis's robbery and killing of some neo-Nazis is set up early on, disappears for a long time, then plays out rather foolishly, but never leads to anything. Most importantly, the notion of Louis working briefly with Max Cherry is dropped. In any event, in both book and film, the focus is on stewardess Jackie, and her playing both sides against each other in order to walk off with half a million. That's the fun stuff, and while the book has too many distractions from this, it's still more enjoyable than most of his work.	2002-03-12
1623372:US	52254603	R37J90R58ARZUT	0553470744	757728138	Rum Punch	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Better than most of his stuff.	While this was most enjoyable of the nine or ten Leonard books I've read, I have to confess that I'm pretty sure that's because I was able to visualize the actors from the movie version (1997's Jackie Brown). While Leonard's characters always have great patter, I often have a hard time visualizing them as real people, so to have a mental picture going in helped a great deal. In this book, Leonard revives a trio (cons Ordell and Louie, and eye candy Melonie) from an earlier novel The Switch (which I have not read), and picks them up 14 years and plenty of hard knocks down the road.<br />The story is pretty basic super convoluted Leonard territory, ex-cons both crafty and stupid, a complicated money laundering operation, double-crosses, less than straight-laced cops, a wide range of women, a big score, and soforth. It has to be said that the way Leonard combines the elements is rather substantially more complicated than in others of his books-and indeed unnecessarily so, as the movie shows. I have to disagree with the majority viewpoint and declare the film superior to the book (a rarity). Tarantino clearly recognized and excised the burdensome subplots and unlikely coincidences, and the resulting script is smoother and more believable. For example, Max's disintegrating marriage and his sparring with her busboy lover/painter adds nothing and doesn't go anywhere. Similarly, Ordell and Louis's robbery and killing of some neo-Nazis is set up early on, disappears for a long time, then plays out rather foolishly, but never leads to anything. Most importantly, the notion of Louis working briefly with Max Cherry is dropped. In any event, in both book and film, the focus is on stewardess Jackie, and her playing both sides against each other in order to walk off with half a million. That's the fun stuff, and while the book has too many distractions from this, it's still more enjoyable than most of his work.	2002-03-12
1624533:US	52254603	RWWI8MBHU5T2G	0743201280	46635028	Trieste and the Meaning of Nowhere	Books	4	28	29	N	N	A Beautiful Ending...	Trieste is a city I knew nothing about, but always had a vague impression of. That impression, of faded grandeur, old-Europe cosmopolitanism gone to seed, and melancholy, is largely confirmed in this, the first of Morris' books I've read. The fishing village at the top of the Adriatic was a sleepy burg until the Austro-Hungarian empire transformed it into it's only seaport and HQ for its imperial navy in the early 1700s. It rapidly became one of the leading seaports of the world, and an international center of commerce. Following the defeat and dissolution of the Austro-Hungarian empire, Trieste was handed over to Italy, which already had plenty of ports, and thus it quickly reverted to sleepy backwater. Over the last century it was occupied by the Nazis, Allied forces, was a UN free territory, and eventually reverted to Italian rule. Nowadays, as Morris writes, \\"It offers no unforgettable landmark, no universally familiar melody, no unmistakable cuisine, hardly a single native name that anyone knows.\\"<br />And while Morris ably rambles through the city's history (which she first visited in 1946), the book is a bit of a metaphor for human aging and memory. She has vowed this is her final book in a prolific career, and the melancholy tone echoes the melancholy of a city whose glory days lie a century in the past. She writes, \\"Trieste makes one ask sad questions of oneself. What am I here for? Where am I going?\\" That's not to say the book is depressing or sad, because her love for the city is evident throughout, as she grapples with its place in her own psyche. While she clearly enjoys recreating in her mind's eye the hustle and bustle of the imperial era, she also finds, \\"For me, Trieste is an allegory of limbo, in the secular sense of an indefinable hiatus.\\" So while the narrative is studded snippets of history, amusing and telling anecdotes from her own visits, and evocations of past residents such as Richard Burton and James Joyce, it's also rich in introspection. Above all, Morris' meandering prose is beautiful and has inspired me to delve into her past work. I do wish the publishers had included a few historical maps, some photos, and a bibliography of other works on Trieste.Above all, Morris' meandering prose is beautiful and has inspired me to delve into her past work. I do wish the publishers had included a few historical maps, some photos, and a bibliography of other works on Trieste.	2002-03-11
1626955:US	52254603	RW0JS0SVI4YHM	0791446360	898710849	Dancing in Damascus: Stories (Suny Series, the Margins of Literature)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Valuable Glimpse Into Modern Syria	Anthropologist Lindisfarne spent a total of eleven months from 1988-1990 in Damascus researching gender and marriage in upper class Damascene society. However, rather than present her fieldwork in a dry academic paper-as with her earlier research in Afghanistan, Iran, Turkey, and other Arab countries-she chose to write the nine short stories here. In her 30+ page postscript, she explains that she was motivated to do this partly in order to expose a wider audience to the reality of Arab women's lives, partly because she didn't feel she could capture the full picture of life in Damascus in a standard case study format, and partly because she felt it would be &quot;inexcusably arrogant and patently absurd&quot; to treat the Damascenes she met as ethnographic subjects. While the first aim is certainly valid, the latter two are somewhat questionable as, according to the bibliography in the back, these dilemmas either haven't been present or haven't stopped her before. Casual examination leads one to wonder if the only difference is that this time her research subjects are urban elites instead of tribal or lower class subjects, and if that is the case, why are urban elites &quot;absurd&quot; as subjects?<br />But all that is neither here nor there to the casual reader-because for the most part the stories are quite readable and do convey something of the nature of Damascus life. Three of the stories exist to display the hard life of women. &quot;The Tortoise&quot; is a sly little story about an everyday lower-class women dealing with the demands of her nasty family. &quot;Jellyfish&quot; rather unsuccessfully takes the reader into the mind of an unmarried thirty-year-old. And &quot;The Box (1959)&quot; is the somewhat clich&eacute;ed reminisces of an old Circassian woman recalling her few years of happiness as a newlywed in the '20s. &quot;Fresh Apricots&quot; is a swift and effective little study of a newly released political prisoner making his way home. &quot;Not One of Us&quot; displays the tension between a thoroughly Westernized woman and her sister who stayed in Damascus, exposing the insularity and small-mindedness of a certain type of upper class woman. &quot;Lovely Tits&quot; showcases the confusion of a Syrian man on a business trip to England interacting with a thoroughly Anglicized Syrian woman colleague. These last two stories convey what they're supposed to, but are a little forced. The other three stories (&quot;True Love,&quot; &quot;Hyena Piss,&quot; and &quot;Ghalia's Wedding&quot;) are the ones most closely related to the author's research, and showcase urban elite marriage rituals, both in the matchmaking and actual planning of the ceremony. To the outsider, they will be the most unexpected and enjoyable of the lot. All in all, the stories are a valuable glimpse into modern Syria for the Western reader.uot; displays the tension between a thoroughly Westernized woman and her sister who stayed in Damascus, exposing the insularity and small-mindedness of a certain type of upper class woman. &quot;Lovely Tits&quot; showcases the confusion of a Syrian man on a business trip to England interacting with a thoroughly Anglicized Syrian woman colleague. These last two stories convey what they're supposed to, but are a little forced. The other three stories (&quot;True Love,&quot; &quot;Hyena Piss,&quot; and &quot;Ghalia's Wedding&quot;) are the ones most closely related to the author's research, and showcase urban elite marriage rituals, both in the matchmaking and actual planning of the ceremony. To the outsider, they will be the most unexpected and enjoyable of the lot. All in all, the stories are a valuable glimpse into modern Syria for the Western reader.	2002-03-08
1627312:US	52254603	R23K3RPYPAY0D1	1563895455	980528467	The House On the Borderland (Adaptation)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Great Art, Hokey Tale	This graphic novel adaptation of William Hope Hodgson's 1908 gothic horror novel, while absolutely stunning visually, suffers from the hokeyness of story I find in almost all gothic horror. The graphic novel starts off with two young boys hiking in Ireland and discovering overgrown ruins and an old diary. The diary relates how a bachelor and his sister moved to the lonely estate, only to be preyed upon by horrific swinelike beast-men one night. They barely hold them off, and then the beast-men disappear without a trace. The sister goes slowly insane while the man explores the caverns and tunnels below the house. There, he opens a portal to a dimension in which supernatural evil lurks, and things get a bit trippy. We're not sure what's real and what's in his head, and we're not supposed to know. Like a lot of gothic horror, evil lurks just on the other side of our world and we are left alone (ie. ain't no God going to bail you out!) to fight a hopeless battle against it. If you've ever read any H.P. Lovecraft or even played the Call of Cthulu RPG based on his writings, you'll find a lot of the themes very familiar. And indeed, Lovecraft cited Hodgson's book as the seminal influence on his own work. Hodgson wrote it when he was 35 and died ten years later on a WWI battlefield (a horrific terrain not unlike that he wrote about), so in many ways, Lovecraft filled the void left by his death. While aficionados of gothic horror will love this, I can't really recommend it to others except that it is a wonderful piece of art. The deep somber colors and rich textures are well worth spending half and hour poring over.	2002-03-08
1627874:US	52254603	R169HFB32MRDER	014038572X	249148416	The Outsiders	Books	4	5	8	N	N	A Little Dated, But No Less Valid	Viewed some 35 years down the line S.E. Hinton's \\"can't we all just get along\\" youth-targeted novel can certainly come across as a bit dated, especially in the wake of events like Columbine. However, one has to bear in mind that she (yes, it was written by a woman) was 16 when she wrote it, and its message is a timeless one, regardless of how cynical and knowing we have all become. The story is fairly straightforward, in a small town in Ohio, there are the \\"greasers\\" (lower-class teenagers from broken up households who are a step below being \\"hoods,\\" that is to say, actual criminals) and the \\"socs\\" (middle-class teenagers with nice clothes and cars who are headed for college). The two literally live on different sides of the tracks and are locked in a long-standing running battle against each other. Their background and the story of what happens when a greaser kills a soc in self-defense is narrated by Ponyboy, a bookwormy, head in the clouds greaser who slowly comes to realize that while there are bad elements on both sides, greasers and socs are more alike than they both think. There's a dishy and awfully wise cheerleader girl thrown in the mix, and you can see the Romeo & Juliet and West Side Story influences shining through at times. And while it's a plea for peace and \\"we are the world\\" type of message, it's still a valid one, and one worth trying to expose kids to. Some have disparaged the book for portraying youth violence and drug use, which is kind of ridiculous because while the levels of violence and drugs (drinking and smoking) might have been shocking (although probably not) in 1967, they are fairly tame by today's real life standards. Others criticize the book for glorifying or excusing criminal behavior and violence, which seems to be missing the main point of the book.	2002-03-08
1635875:US	52254603	R3BK9GMHCLUYG4	1561632619	620830541	No Pasaran! Vol. 1 (Max Friedman)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Nice Start	I first discovered Italian cartoonist Giardino through his series A Jew in Communist Prague and was thrilled to see him tackle the Spanish Civil War in this new volume. Apparently it continues the story of spy Max Friedman from earlier volumes, which I have not seen. Set in the waning days of the Civil War in 1938, disillusioned former International Brigade officer Friedman returns to Barcelona to track down an old friend who's gone missing. Whether this is at the hands of Franco's secret police, Communist apparatchiks trying to control the anti-fascist forces, or some other unknown force is not disovered by the end of the volume. More interesting than the plot is Giardino's strong artwork, which beautifully captures the battle-scarred art noveau buildings of 1930s Barcelona. I look forward to the plot thickening in the next volume.	2002-03-01
1636166:US	52254603	R2A1H9P1KPK0I	0151005346	180344806	The Nautical Chart	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Engaging, but not Amazing	Perez-Reverte's literary mysteries, as wonderful and entertaining as they tend to be, all follow a somewhat similar template, one that is faithfully reproduced here. It all starts with a somewhat highbrow subject-chess and painting restoration in The Flanders Panel, antiquarian books in The Club Dumas, the Vatican and Catholicism in The Seville Communion, fencing in the Fencing Master-which is represented here by cartography and sailing. Then he adds a hero who is an expert in the subject, and somewhat of a loner, removed from the mundane world around him or her. The expert/hero is activated by powerful persons whose interest in the hero's area of expertise is ultimately revealed to be linked to some murky historical episode which proves vital to the story. And finally there is a ending that is often surprising or ambiguous. That this template works over and over is a testament both to the skill with which P&eacute;rez-Reverte weaves his plots, and to his ability to carry the reader deep into the details of whatever subject happens to be the focus of that book.<br />In this book, P&eacute;rez-Reverte presents a fairly compelling hero, Coy, a born to the ocean, jazz loving sailor at loose ends. He's quickly embroiled in a treasure hunt led by the beautiful and always in control Tanger, who's in a race with a slimy Gibralterian professional treasure hunter and his sadistic Argentine dwarf enforcer. Simpler than any of his previous books, the story both directly and indirectly references the Dashed Hammett classic, The Maltese Falcon. As in that tale, most of the suspense is created by lack of information, which is slowly released to Coy in dribs and drabs, as well as the question of who's double-crossing who. This makes the main characters conversations a shade too melodramatic at times to be realistic, but this is balanced by his naunced capturing of Coy's total attraction to Tanger and her manipulation of it.<br />As so much of the book involves Coy and Tanger crouched over old maps, or discussing them, one wishes the publisher would have included some reproductions to help the reader out. Similarly, it would have helped a great deal to have an illustration of the two maint ships being hunted for, as there are pages upon pages describing their duel. This is rather frustrating, as without some basic knowledge of sailing and its terms, the reader is unlikely to be able to follow chunks of the writing. The book takes a bit too long to get going, although when it does, it is quite suspenseful, although the clues are a little more visible than usual in P&eacute;rez-Reverte's work. Unfortunately the ending doesn't live up to its buildup, and one suspects this eminently filmable thriller will have its climax tweaked for the big screen. All in all, it's not among his best, but still entertaining and highly readable.maps, or discussing them, one wishes the publisher would have included some reproductions to help the reader out. Similarly, it would have helped a great deal to have an illustration of the two maint ships being hunted for, as there are pages upon pages describing their duel. This is rather frustrating, as without some basic knowledge of sailing and its terms, the reader is unlikely to be able to follow chunks of the writing. The book takes a bit too long to get going, although when it does, it is quite suspenseful, although the clues are a little more visible than usual in Prez-Reverte's work. Unfortunately the ending doesn't live up to its buildup, and one suspects this eminently filmable thriller will have its climax tweaked for the big screen. All in all, it's not among his best, but still entertaining and highly readable.	2002-03-01
1639817:US	52254603	R2HZE6G99OLZUK	0715630156	832168340	Never Trust A Rabbit: Stories With a Twist	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Poignant, Ruthless, and Sinister	With this twelve story collection of mostly unpublished short fiction, Dyson exhibits a decided bent for cosmic justice with a more than a twist of the supernatural. The closest comparison I can make is to some of Roald Dahl's short (adult) fiction, but with an added fantastical element. Dyson tackles primal themes of lust, sex, love, jealousy, temptation, and greed with a deft touch that is both poignant, ruthless, and like the rabbit on the cover, sinister. Many of the stories treat similar themes with slightly different approaches. In three of the stories, \\"A Slate Roof in the Rain,\\" \\"The Engine of Desire,\\" \\"All in the Telling\\", nasty exploitative men get their just deserts in almost revenge fantasy narratives. Two stories, \\"City Deep\\" and \\"The Maze,\\" feature neurotically obsessive lone men who are consumed by their manias and disappear into the bowels of the earth. Another two stories, \\"We Who Walk Through Walls\\" and \\"Love In the Time of Molyneux,\\" feature antagonists whose hubris is dealt with appropriately.<br />Almost every story is tinged with an element of sadness or despair that, on the whole, makes the book a bit gloomy-indeed half the stories end with their central figure either crying, dead, mad, or in total despair over their lives. It's possible Dyson (or his editor) recognized this cumulative weight, and purposely placed the one story with a conventionally happy ending (\\"The Cash Point Oracle\\") in the middle. In any event, anyone who enjoys short fiction should check out this promising debut collection.	2002-02-26
1641319:US	52254603	R30PPX4E2IA2NS	0803259395	601628690	Assassination! July 14	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Literature and Politics Collide	Originally published in 1963 (ten years before The Day of the Jackal), this thriller written under a pseudonym by two English graduate students was originally conceived as a reaction to Ian Fleming's wildly popular James Bond series. However, it also drew upon the extremely volatile contemporary French political scene for plot inspiration, notably using real name and identity of Jacques Soustelle. The book's rediscoverer and champion, James Le Sueur, rightly notes in his accompanying historical essay that the book was at the cutting edge of the new political thriller genre which blurred fact and fiction, but perhaps overstates the matter somewhat in saying that it could have started a important literary rebuttal to the Bond series.<br />In any event, the novel itself, which occupies 178 pages in this edition, is a fairly entertaining and engrossing caper revolving around the planned assassination of French leader de Gaulle by the OAS. After one ingenious attempt by trained bomb carrying dogs is thwarted in the opening pages, a policeman's widow summons Max Palk, secret agent to help bring down the OAS. Curiously, this ubderspy is an anonymous Englishman office drone, living alone in a dull rooming house on the fringes of London, who, when called forth, transforms rather like a superhero. Next thing you know he's driving powerful sports cars, flying his own plane to his French farm estate, and displaying extreme erudition and Holmesian reasoning and cunning. The never explained disconnect between these two sides of him is a rather jarring and unsatisfactory element of the story, especially if the authors intended him to be the anti-Bond.<br />The plot hums right along with all the usual reversals and revelations, however its flaws are those of many a potboiler: Max is captures and escapes in entirely unbelievable (albeit comic) way, the damsel in distress is too easily rescued, and the plot foiled with too silly a trick. Still, it's not unenjoyable, and there are some real gemlike moments, such as when Max must correctly identify selections from the Oxford Book of Quotations or be taken to the basement and shot.<br />In his 60+ page afterword, James Le Sueur describes the novel's publishing history and the legal battle mounted against it by Soustelle, who claimed libel. This gets deeply into France's internal and colonial politics and history, especially the Algerian war and the OAS. While he does an excellent job of synthesizing and explaining, the essay is still likely to be mainly of interest to those who already are somewhat familiar with the issues at hand. However, for those who plow through it, it is a remarkable episode in the collision of literature and politics. For more on the subject, try and find Philip Dine's Images of the Algerian War: French Fiction and Film, 1954-1992.e real gemlike moments, such as when Max must correctly identify selections from the Oxford Book of Quotations or be taken to the basement and shot. <br />In his 60+ page afterword, James Le Sueur describes the novel's publishing history and the legal battle mounted against it by Soustelle, who claimed libel. This gets deeply into France's internal and colonial politics and history, especially the Algerian war and the OAS. While he does an excellent job of synthesizing and explaining, the essay is still likely to be mainly of interest to those who already are somewhat familiar with the issues at hand. However, for those who plow through it, it is a remarkable episode in the collision of literature and politics. For more on the subject, try and find Philip Dine's Images of the Algerian War: French Fiction and Film, 1954-1992.	2002-02-25
1641447:US	52254603	R2NQ74Q3QVN1NK	0140284125	563009353	The Inimitable Jeeves	Books	5	44	49	N	N	Wodehouse is a timeless treasure	One of the earlier Jeeves and Wooster collections, this is a series of very loosely linked short stories generally following the same template: young, wealthy airhead Wooster or his pal Bingo Little gets in some sticky situation, and it is up to his genius butler Jeeves to devise an ingenious solution to the quandary. Here, the somewhat repetitious misguided amorous ramblings of Bingo make for the lion's share of troubles, although the high spirits of Bertie's cousins Claude and Eustace also make plenty of work for Jeeves. The stories can fairly be compared to contemporary TV sitcoms, as they to reply on recurring (often over the top) characters, a rarefied setting, a single type of humor, and recurring situations. Simply put, if you like one Wooster story (and don't get sick of them), you're going to like them all. Much of this can be explained by Wodehouse's mastery of the language and constant deft turns of phrase, period slang, and comic timing. Those who deride the shallow subject matter and milieu of the Jeeves and Wooster series need to recall the context in which these stories appeared. Only a few years removed from the horrors of World War I-an event barely alluded to in the series, despite the loss of an entire generation of British young men-the stories can be viewed as a bandage of sorts, an attempt to transport the reader to a world far removed from the traumatic recovery from the Great War. Not to mention Wodehouse's clear depiction of the upper classes as wastrels and idiots of the highest order when compared to the street savvy of the servants (as exemplified by Jeeves). Of course, one doesn't read Wodehouse for social commentary or as a salve these days, but for his dry wit and keen command of the written word.	2002-02-25
1641564:US	52254603	R9K18161NYKKX	1563893916	183736827	Terminal City	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Zany Retro-Futurist Fun	Kind of noirish, kind of retro-futurish (think Art Deco and Streamline design), Terminal City is loose but entertaining story of aging daredevils and a mysterious briefcase. The city is a vividly reimagined New York (complete with Coney Island) with beautiful lines, a monorail, zeppelins, and all manner of lovely to look at decay-here, flyers and newspapers are always billowing in the wind at the edges of panels. The plot is a zany half-baked affair involving a crooked mayor, crooked industrialist, land schemes, a mysterious cases, missing legendary crown jewels, a naive newcomer to town, an old boxer, and too many others to mention. While the hero is nominally Cosmo Quinn, former &quot;Human Fly&quot; daredevil turned window washer, the Grand Hotel-like plot jumps between multiple stories and people. Readers will catch references and homages to Kiss Me Deadly (the pinnacle of noir film), Fawlty Towers (John Cleese's hilarious post-Python British screwball comedy), Tintin (the European comic series), Abbott and Costello, Orwell and Huxley (although this futurist vision is much more benign than theirs), Casablanca, and many others. The art is straightforward and easy to look at, while the colors and vivid and expressive, a very fun experience overall-although the punning gets too cutesy at times.	2002-02-25
1644169:US	52254603	R2ZJW2WFMJUOWJ	0062502182	472619578	The Alchemist: A Fable About Following Your Dream	Books	2	61	86	N	N	Disguised Self-Help Hucksterism	This cloying little fable (actually, isn't it too long to be a fable?) can perhaps best be summarized with those famous words from the immortal Casey Kasem: \\"Keep your feet on the ground and keep reaching for the stars!\\" Through the quest of the Andalusian shepherd boy Santiago, the author exhorts the reader to pursue their own \\"personal legend,\\" the ultimate message being that failure to achieve that either means you're not devoting your heart to that goal, or you've misinterpreted what your personal legend is. If this sounds a lot like self-help guru hucksterism, a la Tony Robbins, et al, it's because that's more or less what it is, dressed up as charming literature. Of course, it doesn't address what happens if two people's personal legends happen to conflict-in the New Age world this fable inhabits, presumably some benevolent force is making sure this doesn't happen. In any event, Santiago's personal legend, as revealed in a dream, concerns buried treasure in Egypt. Along the way he meets all manner of folks who dollop out the wisdom as only is possible in fables. While it's kind of hard to trash stories that suggest one follow their heart, this doesn't offer any new or particularly skillful spin on the theme. Neither as hilariously dated as Jonathan Livingston Seagull, nor as charming as Le Petit Prince, it's slickly written eminently skipable.	2002-02-23
1644731:US	52254603	R3TBGZI8MSFK92	0385493002	911059821	The Intuitionist: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Utterly Enjoyable Abstract Allegory	Whitehead's debut novel signals the arrival of talent one can look forward to reading for many years-a talent displayed as learned, playful, and enigmatic in this melange of genres. This book demands close scrutiny and examination to uncover it's layers of meaning. Aside from some backstory in the South, the book is set in a stylized New York sometime in what seems to be the 1920s-40s. Like Magnus Mills' rural settings for his wonderful black comedies All Quiet on the Orient Express, and The Restraint of Beasts, this is a place both recognizable to us and slightly askew. The story concerns a city elevator inspector, Lila Mae, who is the first black woman to hold such a position. In this setting, the civil service position holds a level of prestige and authority, and one must graduate from a Ivy Leaguesque school to get a plumb New York job. Lila Mae is also an &quot;intuitionist&quot;, part of a small minority of elevator inspectors who intuit problems rather than carry out mechanical inspections. When an elevator she's recently inspected goes into a freefall, she's forced underground to try and discover who sabotaged it and why, or else she'll take the fall (no pun intended).<br />Whitehead then starts riffing with many traditional pulp/noir mystery elements: crusading journalist, wisecracking mob heavies, duplicitous love interest, taciturn deadpan hero, big money interests, a maggufin, etc.-but clearly there's more going on. It appears to be some kind of racial allegory, but one that's far to abstract and sophisticated for me to take more than a stab at. One intriguing review described the book as &quot;a sophisticated picture of the Science Wars and the Academic Left.&quot; I'm in no position to comment on that characterization, but apparently you can check out a book called Higher Superstition: The Academic Left and Its Quarrels With Science for more information on that battle. In any event, whatever the deeper meaning, the novel is quite enjoyable on its surface level as Whitehead fashions a fascinating and entirely convincing elevator inspector culture, an entirely human protagonist, and a page-turning intrigue.ace level as Whitehead fashions a fascinating and entirely convincing elevator inspector culture, an entirely human protagonist, and a page-turning intrigue.	2002-02-22
1645736:US	52254603	R37HVI801WLNXO	0930289528	333940954	V for Vendetta	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Radical Democracy  Vendetta Style	Back in1981, Moore imagined a post-apocalyptic 1998 in which Great Britain has become a racist, anti-Semitic, homophobic, and Christian fascist state, all run by \\"the leader\\" who sits at a bank of video monitors run by a central computer. (For some reason, many readers have the mistaken impression that the setting is one in which the Nazi's won WWII, even though it's clear from flashbacks that that's not what happened). While it's a clear reaction to the Thatcher regime, the setting draws directly from Orwell's 1984, and other dystopian literature.<br />However, standing against this bleak world is the anarchist vigilante \\"V\\". Modeled roughly on Guy Fawkes, who attempted to blow up Parliament back in 1605, V is empowered by superhuman physical and mental attributes acquired while the subject of Mengle-like medial experiments in a now derelict state concentration camp. He's now using his abilities to methodically kill all the government personnel associated with his torture. And when he's not killing people, he's sneaking around blowing landmarks and generally bringing the state to its knees. An important theme Moore hammers home here is that the state is not solely to blame, but the people who place their popular power in the hands of the state are equally to blame. (Those who are interested in this particular streak of political philosophy would be well advised to check out C. Douglas Lummis` book, Radical Democracy.) Instead of a superhero saving the populace, we are given an ambiguous vengeful killer instructing the populace to save itself.<br />There's a whole subplot involving a teenager V rescues from the streets. However, she's largely used as a subject for him to talk at, and for the reader to get the backstory of the setting. There are a number of other subplots as well, involving the shady state functionaries, and Moore does a lot of cinematic intercutting between the various storylines. The story gets somewhat too theatrical at points, and drags at other times, and V's constant quoting (Rolling Stones and Velvet Underground lyrics to Shakespeare) gets old fast. The art is generally pretty nice, although the color isn't really to my taste, it might have looked better in simple black and white. However, it's a pretty decent quick meditation on what it means to be free and how each individual must look within themselves for the answer rather than assigning that freedom to someone else to safeguard.times, and V's constant quoting (Rolling Stones and Velvet Underground lyrics to Shakespeare) gets old fast. The art is generally pretty nice, although the color isn't really to my taste, it might have looked better in simple black and white. However, it's a pretty decent quick meditation on what it means to be free and how each individual must look within themselves for the answer rather than assigning that freedom to someone else to safeguard.	2002-02-22
1648630:US	52254603	RSZMIBGRTGIJU	0312283555	306046407	Three to See the King: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Playing with Parables	Mills' first two novels, \\"The Restraint of Beasts\\" and \\"All Quiet on the Orient Express\\", were both masterpieces of absurdist black humor firmly grounded in a rural landscape both recognizable and slightly akilter. In his latest work, Mills again sets up a decidedly odd situation, but this time in a terrain so briefly sketched that it moves beyond the bounds of the \\"real\\" world and becomes fable. Here, an unnamed narrator lives alone in a tin house in a desert, separated from his nearest neighbors (also tin house-dwelling bachelors) by several miles. He apparently once harbored dreams of living in a canyon, but now is content to live alone; listening to the wind play against his tin house and sweeping sand clear from his house. If this hermetic existence sounds vaguely biblical, what with solo mediations in the desert and all, it's probably because Mills is riffing on the Book of Genesis.<br />This is further developed when a sharp and shrewish woman arrives on his doorstep unannounced and declares her intention to stay a while. This, quite naturally, upsets the order of things as the narrator is forced to alter his lifestyle in exchange for sex-which is about all he seems to find worthwhile in this new woman. Presumably the reader is here supposed to recognize Adam and Eve. The plot thickens when the narrator's neighbors, Simon, Philip, and Steve, visit and start to talk about a wonderful and mysterious newcomer to the area named Michael. He is apparently the bee's knees, and more and more people start showing up on the horizon, making their way to see Michael. From here, one doesn't want to give too much away, but the plot seems to serve Mills' desire to comment allegorically on the nature of religion, fanaticism, the search for faith and the meaning of life, free will, civilization, and a parcel of other concerns. The parable of the man who builds his house on a foundation of sand (i.e. no faith), only to have it crumble, appears to be the book's main touchstone, but Mills' playfulness makes the exact nature of his take on the parable somewhat ambiguous.<br />Those who enjoyed Mills' two previous novels will certainly find much to recommend this one, however it's a bit more distilled and indirect than those, and thus perhaps less striking. It also seems to be one of those books that rely to a certain degree on the reader being fairly conversant with the contents of the Bible.  In the end, one has to be impressed by how many ideas Mills' economical prose can pack into a slim novella., but Mills' playfulness makes the exact nature of his take on the parable somewhat ambiguous.<br />Those who enjoyed Mills' two previous novels will certainly find much to recommend this one, however it's a bit more distilled and indirect than those, and thus perhaps less striking. It also seems to be one of those books that rely to a certain degree on the reader being fairly conversant with the contents of the Bible.  In the end, one has to be impressed by how many ideas Mills' economical prose can pack into a slim novella.	2002-02-19
1649593:US	52254603	R2K11PINQV7AQ5	0312874871	43609868	The Blue and the Gray Undercover: All New Civil War Spy Adventures	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Pleasing Change of Pace	Editor Gorman has compiled eighteen original short stories for this fairly entertaining anthology of Civil War spy stories, likely to appeal primarily to the Civil War fiction readers looking for a change of pace, or to mystery fans looking for a change of setting. Each of the authors (none of whom I've read before) contributes a story of 15-25 pages, some of which are fictional treatments of historical incidents or persons, the rest of which are straight fiction. Most of the stories are fairly basic short tales, with a reversal near the end that showcases the spy's skill or trickery. Common protagonists are bewitching and cunning women who shockingly turn out to be spies, and blacks and children who are inevitably smarter and craftier than suspected. As befits the depressing reality of the Civil War, many of the stories are rather bleak and depressing, in their setting if not always in their outcome. There are a few, however, that are a little more swashbuckling and James Bondish in their approach, such as Robert Randisi's &quot;The Knights of Liberty&quot;, James Cobb's &quot;Monica Van Tefflen&quot; and the one true throwaway entry, Bill Crider's &quot;Belle Boyd, The Rebel Spy,&quot; which is a silly treatment for a cliffhanger serial film. What each author has done well is inject obscure period details and history into their stories, with the result, that even if the story fails to entertain, it will inform. All in all, the collection strikes a fairly good balance of suspense, tragedy, horror, romance, politics, and of course, history-however, if the stories have greater impact if you read them one a day instead of all in one sitting. Another reason not to read it in one sitting is that the typeface is set incredibly small. Even for someone with young (30 year old) eyes like myself, reading it for more than 30 minutes at a time was a strain.	2002-02-19
1654428:US	52254603	R1T2N1VPQG1BV3	1560974702	686955598	Safe Area Gorazde: The War in Eastern Bosnia 1992-1995	Books	5	32	36	N	N	Whatever happened to "never again"?	While graphic novels have been around for quite a while, graphic journalism or history has not. Sacco is a pioneer of this extremely humanistic new genre, and here he bears witness to the horrors of the war in Bosnia. Sacco visited the so-called \\"safe area\\" four times in late 1995 and early 1996, and his portrait of a devastated city and its survivors is more affecting than any newspaper account could hope to be. His black ink panels capture in vivid detail not only the scars left on the landscape, but on the people themselves. Sacco alternates between detailing his own visits to Gorazde, a straightforward history of the war, and letting his friends and interviewees recount their own terrible experiences.<br />His own visits are fairly basic, everyone is frightened and devastated by the war and he experiences the guilt of one able to come and go as he pleases. The history of the war is very clearly told, with maps and pertinent statements from UN leaders, Clinton, Milosavich, et al. Sacco clearly highlights how ineffective and downright cowardly the UN approach was, singling out British Lt. General Rose and French Lt. General Janvier for lying and dissembling in order to avoid conflict, and the Clinton administration for being inept and vacillating toward the Serbs. The history is a stark reminder that in the absence of a superpower with a vested interest, one cannot expect loose multinational efforts to deter genocide. Throughout the war, due to a total lack of leadership and moral will from above, UN forces were pushed around, held hostage, and at times fled into the night rather than protect the civilians they were supposed to. Which brings one to the most compelling and disturbing parts of the book. Sacco supplies images to the testimonials of survivors and witnesses to execution, rape, nonstop civilian shelling, snipers, and even poison gas. Most of the voices from Gorazde are those of Muslim inhabitants or refugees \\"cleansed\\" from other areas, and while the stories are chilling enough, what also disturbs is the confusion and pain these people feel because in many cases, it was their former Serb neighbors who participated in it.<br />Sacco's artistic style may not be to everyone's taste, and certainly this is only a slice of the larger war, but he bears witness and hopefully makes the reader more conscious of the failings of leadership in preventing what was supposed to be \\"never again.\\" American loves to pat itself on the back for kicking [...butt] in the \\"good war\\" against the Nazis, but somehow we've managed to avoid any responsibility for allowing genocide to continue, even when it's been clearly within our ability to do so.tories are chilling enough, what also disturbs is the confusion and pain these people feel because in many cases, it was their former Serb neighbors who participated in it. <br />Sacco's artistic style may not be to everyone's taste, and certainly this is only a slice of the larger war, but he bears witness and hopefully makes the reader more conscious of the failings of leadership in preventing what was supposed to be \\"never again.\\" American loves to pat itself on the back for kicking [...butt] in the \\"good war\\" against the Nazis, but somehow we've managed to avoid any responsibility for allowing genocide to continue, even when it's been clearly within our ability to do so.	2002-02-14
1655810:US	52254603	R2KHPZQ6CQYX2B	0743201590	204032046	It's What He Would've Wanted: A Novel	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Too Much...	Irish comic Hughes' second novel (following The Detainees) is so packed with problems for its protagonist Shea that one ends up feeling like it's trying too hard to achieve a delicate mix of poignancy and black humor. Shea is yet another of those just-turned-30 English slackers who haven't quite done anything with themselves yet, and when his weatherman father commits suicide, it propels him on a quest for meaning. The story consists of Shea's attempt to understand why his father killed himself (which is aided by coded diaries and disturbing pictures), while also trying to patch up his relationship with his brother, get over his old girlfriend, deal with the hairdresser he impregnates, and do the proverbial \\"one last job\\" for a loose cultural guerrilla organization dedicated to bringing down bigwigs.<br />If it all sounds like a bit much and a bit silly, it is. There are too many big events going on in his life at once for any one of them to be fully explored. Shea is highly unlikeable for much of the tale, with whiny internal monologues, a sarcastic and glib approach to life, and sexual fixations, he comes across like an even more self-indulgent Nick Horbny protagonist, but his self-discovery at the end comes much too late and too easily. There are some funny moments, and some genuinely good bits about familial love, but too many contrivances, coincidences, and cheap jokes get in the way of things.	2002-02-13
1656653:US	52254603	RTLM640VEJHS9	1886913498	329623437	An Algerian Childhood: A Collection of Autobiographical Narratives	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Five of Sixteen	Having spent my childhood years (1976-81, when I was 5-10) in Algeria, I rushed out to get this handsome book of sixteen essays by Francophone writers reflecting on their own childhood spent in Algeria. Having read the book in one sitting, I have to confess a certain disappointment. While several of the essays are quite good and evocative, a number suffer from a kind of overwrought impressionism. The selections are to be commended for the wide range of contributors (male, female, Arab, Kabyle, Jewish, pied noir), and mainly focus on the era from the end of the first World War to independence.<br />My favorite essays were Malek Alloula's recounting of the springtime joy of tekouk; Albert Bensoussan's straightforwardly telling of getting lost in the market and making friends with an Arab girl who naturally disappeared to him at age eleven; Roger Dadoun's celebration of cuisine and a trip to the bathhouse; Fatima Gallaire's adventures in the house with her little brother; and Mohamed Kacimi-el-Hassani's essay on the arrival of independence and the confusion it caused in he and his classmates. The other essays do have merits scattered amongst them, most notably a solid vision of how multiethnic and multireligious Algeria has been in the past, but too often the authors forego the opportunity to present a straightforward reflection on their childhood in favor of a hindsighted metaphorical or allegorical scene. Still, those interested in Algeria would be well advised to spend the few hours it takes to read the entire work and find their own touchpoints.	2002-02-13
1658367:US	52254603	R3NOY457LWZLLY	1566491541	801305123	As Night Follows Day	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Interesting, but not Thrilling	A double murder in a small French village in 1949 are provides the opportunity for Moinot to delve into the bloodstream of rural life and present character studies of the old and young still there. Moinet expertly recreates the sounds, smells, and textures of a pastoral life which is cloaked in pettiness and the oppression of everyone knowing the other's business. The murders serve only a catalyst for the older villagers to reflect on their own lives and try and come to terms with what it means to have lived. And for the young Adrien, they spark the imagination to an almost unthinkable degree-somewhat reminiscent of Emmanuel Carrere's novel, Class Trip. What goes almost unnoticed by the reader is the absence of anyone from 16-45 years old, those who presumably were swept elsewhere by the recent war. It's a somewhat interesting psychological novel, but its primarily appeal will be for those intrigued by rural France. The murders themselves are rather banal-as, of course, most murder is in real life-and the label thriller doesn't really capture the book's true nature.	2002-02-11
1662378:US	52254603	R2WZBWAOKPK7U7	0715630180	586465735	Layer Cake	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The best British crime novel I've ever read	I first came across Connolly through a short story of his I quite liked in the Britpulp! anthology. With his fist full novel he delivers on that early promise with the best British crime novel I've ever read. While I often enjoy traditional procedurals like John Harvey's Charlie Resnik series, have been known to enjoy Agatha Christie in my younger days, Jake Arnott's The Long Firm and He Kills Coppers, and quite like a lot of the pulpy/noirish stuff put out by The Do Not Press these days-this leaves them all in the dust. The book follows an unnamed narrator over two weeks in 1997 as he plots to end his criminal days and retire on his thirtieth birthday-of course there's just that one last job to take care of...<br />The thing you notice right away is the language. Nonstop patter, stories, and more slang than you can shake a stick at. The rhythms of the language, both descriptive and dialogue, is perfect and unique. The best comparison I can make is with some of Irvine Welsh's stuff-it's English, but unlike any English you or I speak. And like Welsh's stuff, it can be hard to follow for those not up on the argot (especially cockney rhyming slang), so be warned. But if you like the language, you fall in love with the characters. Finally, some honest to god smart criminals who understand that being low-key is the smoothest path to riches. There must be at least fifty characters in the novel and Connolly gives each one a distinctive voice, even if they're only around for a page.<br />Once you've absorbed the amazing language and characterization, you'll be swept away by the authenticity. The entire book takes place in the criminal underworlds of London and Liverpool, with details on international drug trafficking, porn shops, killings, and on and on. The book immerses the reader in that world more so than any crime novel I've come across, and you have to wonder what Connolly's been up to in his life to be able to conjure such a setting from his head. It's not a world for the faint of heart, but one that's compelling to read about-more like The Long Good Friday than Lock, Stock, and Two Smoking Barrels. Finally, there's the expert plotting. Built on that classic premise of a gangster looking to get out of the game, Connolly's plot twists and turns with complications that keep boxing in the narrator until the inevitable climax. From start to finish, it's the best novel about British organized crime around.or the faint of heart, but one that's compelling to read about-more like The Long Good Friday than Lock, Stock, and Two Smoking Barrels. Finally, there's the expert plotting. Built on that classic premise of a gangster looking to get out of the game, Connolly's plot twists and turns with complications that keep boxing in the narrator until the inevitable climax. From start to finish, it's the best novel about British organized crime around.	2002-02-08
1662400:US	52254603	R39S9MNXADCGY3	0375724834	352044771	Motherless Brooklyn	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Brilliant.	Lethem's writing seems to be totally hit or miss for me: I loved &quot;Gun, With Occasional Music,&quot; I hated &quot;Amnesia Moon&quot; and had similar reactions to stories in his collection &quot;Wall of the Sky, Wall of the Eye.&quot; Fortunately, this falls on the love side of my Lethem fence. Lethem's protagonist, Lionel Essrog, was raised in an orphanage in Brooklyn and suffers from Tourette's syndrome. Since becoming a teenager he has been a &quot;Minna Man,&quot; part of a group of orphans turned into wanna-be wiseguys operated by a low-level hood. Things get going with a bang as Minna is murdered right off the bat, leaving the four Minna Men to try and figure out what happened and if they can trust each other. The mystery isn't all that special in it's own right and the climax spins a little out of control-but Lethem's deft humanization of a Tourette's sufferer is brilliant and affecting, more than making up for any plot deficiencies. Lethem is a writer who fires off literary pyrotechnics which sometimes blow up in his face, fortunately here they light up the page in a most delightfully unexpected way.	2002-02-08
1664361:US	52254603	R2EN7CE38ZW4DH	0802135420	93515102	The Assault on Tony's	Books	3	3	9	N	N	Great Premise... So-So Characters	As in his first, and more well-known novel, Leaving Las Vegas, O'Brien plumbs the depths of alcoholism in this vision of societal meltdown. Inspired by the 1992 riots in LA, O'Brien's unfinished manuscript (completed by his sister) imagines a not-to-distant future in which everyone carries guns and mass race rioting and anarchy has spread like wildfire and the entire US is going up in flames. But rather than examine what happens to humanity when there are no rules (Nobel prizewinner Jose Saramago does an amazing job of this in Blindness), O'Brien gives the reader the claustrophobic bunker of Tony's Bar and its alcoholic denizens (plus waitress and busboy). The title nods its head to John Carpenter's excellent 1976 film The Assault on Precinct 13 (itself a loose modernized remake of Howard Hawks' western Rio Bravo), and as in that film, the men holed up in the bar must defend themselves-and more importantly the liquor-from all outside forces.<br />It's a really interesting idea, undermined only by the fact that alcoholics aren't really very interesting people in general. O'Brien writes from their perspective with a true insider's grasp of what makes them tick, but after about fifty pages or so, their ramblings get kind of old. And unfortunately, the only three non-alcoholics in the book are mere ciphers and much less convincing characters. The waitress and busboy are caricatures of sorts whose actions are exceedingly hard to understand. Later, when the bar takes in a hunted liberal outsider, its as a device for O'Brien to have characters debate. Meanwhile, the ticking clock of the dwindling liquor supply is a neat device on its own, it can't sustain the book on its own. None of this is to say that O'Brien can't write, because in general the prose is quite nice. However, the premise is never fully realized and one could interpret the book as being quite racist. Clearly the guys in the bar are bigots, But in the end the actions of the rioters and busboy serve only to confirm their fears-and presumably O'Brien's own internal demons. It's quick reading, but definitely heavy and not for the faint of heart.onfirm their fears-and presumably O'Brien's own internal demons. It's quick reading, but definitely heavy and not for the faint of heart.	2002-02-06
1664540:US	52254603	RPC9VTRTQ6XC1	0312204779	498296358	Silent Extras: A Novel	Books	1	5	9	N	N	Lost in Translation	Although apparently a literary whiz-kid in his native Netherlands, Grunberg's charms definitely lose something in either the translation to English or in being read by non-natives. This, the second of his novels to appear in the US (preceded by Blue Mondays), is a choppy, meandering, tedious amble around Amsterdam with three awfully annoying and enigmatic characters. The narrator, Ewald, is a weedy teenager who follows his wildly exuberant and impetuous trust-fund friend around like a puppy dog. The hapless slacker duo are soon joined by an apparently alluring Argentine actress. Their adventures are meant to be farcical, but fall flat, as do the many eccentric supporting characters introduced along the way. I read this book because I wanted to read a Dutch novel, and it had gotten a stellar review in Publisher's Weekly. I place it alongside two other translated novels that were completely overhyped and are to be avoided, Benjamin Lebert's Crazy and Enrico Brizzi's Jack Fruciante Has Left the Band.	2002-02-06
1665157:US	52254603	RJMK2FFUAZEBE	0312204779	498296358	Silent Extras: A Novel	Books	1	0	4	N	N	Lost in Translation	ALTHOUGH APPARENTLY A literary whiz-kid in his native Netherlands, Grunberg's charms definitely lose something in either the translation to English or in being read by non-natives. This, the second of his novels to appear in the US (preceded by Blue Mondays), is a choppy, meandering, tedious amble around Amsterdam with three awfully annoying and enigmatic characters. The narrator, Ewald, is a weedy teenager who follows his wildly exuberant and impetuous trust-fund friend around like a puppy dog. The hapless slacker duo are soon joined by an apparently alluring Argentine actress. Their adventures are meant to be farcical, but fall flat, as do the many eccentric supporting characters introduced along the way. I read this book because I wanted to read a Dutch novel, and it had gotten a stellar review in Publisher's Weekly. I place it alongside two other translated novels that were completely overhyped and are to be avoided, Benjamin Lebert's Crazy and Enrico Brizzi's Jack Fruciante Has Left the Band.	2002-02-06
1667764:US	52254603	R14X4Q5W75YO2L	038550151X	189199704	Edgewater Angels: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An Instant Classic	Less of a novel that a series of coming of age vignettes, Meallet's debut is an instant classic. The book follows narrator &quot;Toomer&quot; as he makes his way though life in the tough streets of LA's San Pedro neighborhood. Like his friends, Toomer's father is an absent abstraction, and the only men around are the neighborhood thugs, cops, cowards, and those who pass through his mother's bedroom. Even though his environment is a constant menace and a breeding ground for crime, there is some odd sense of community in many ways. And although he is no saint, Toomer is a highly appealing and sympathetic presence, very much like the kid in the 1994 film &quot;Fresh.&quot;<br />Meallet's writing is clean and vivid, with a real writer's ear for dialogue and slang. Toomer's narration carries a number of inventively strung together words which form new descriptive phrases. The only off note is a slightly fantastical section in the middle which attempts to portray his father's life, and doesn't really fit with the rest of the book, but other than that, every note is pitch perfect. Even though the different vignettes aren't directly linked-they read more like someone telling stories-they blend to form an unforgettable portrait of a young man struggling to grow up in the ghetto.	2002-02-04
1675309:US	52254603	R1M0WG5MI4TBKQ	080506012X	872452675	The Appointment: A Novel	Books	2	25	39	N	N	Too Impressionistic and Internal	I must confess that I only read this novel because it was by a Romanian author, and I had never read anything by a Romanian before. The story is nominally about a woman in an unnamed Eastern European country who has run afoul of the authorities and must report for questioning periodically. On her way to one such \\"appointment,\\" she recounts her past (and though it the oppressive conditions of trying to simply stay sane while living in an authoritarian state) via a series of jumbled flashbacks. The flashbacks veer all over, from the deeds that landed her in trouble, to her first marriage, to her adulterous father, to a beautiful friend shot trying to flee the country, to past interrogations, and most compellingly, to her current relationship with an alcoholic and it's birth in a flea market where she was trying sell her wedding ring. While these sound interesting, their actual presentation in the book is too impressionistic and internal to really grab the reader. As Muller herself was the harassed by Ceausescu's secret police until her flight, the bitterness and hopelessness of it all rings particularly true. That said, the book doesn't really do much other than show the reader the bleakness of communist Romania, which doesn't seem particularly different from that of many other authoritarian regimes. It's certainly not a fun read (not that books need to be easy or fun reads), nor one I would recommend to anyone without a particular abiding interest in Romania.	2002-01-29
1682211:US	52254603	R2ZUXD1Y11R33G	0060188235	209744940	The Execution: A Novel	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Well-written, But Lacks Payoff	Wilken's debut novel excels as an example of a certain kind of crisp, emotionally detached style that for some reason seems to be particularly prevalence among modern British male writers. So it's just as well that the story centers on an emotionally empty, self-absorbed human rights worker who gradually self-destructs over the course of the slim book. At work, Matthew Bourne is given stewardship of a campaign to free a dissident African poet facing execution in his homeland, while at home his French girlfriend becomes pregnant with their second child. However after he's called upon to ID the body of his colleague Christian's wife, something slowly start to eat away in him and he casually falls into a torrid affair and neglects his work.<br />Wilken creates a lot of mystery and tension in a limited space, but the payoff isn't quite there. His on again, off again guilt certainly rings true, but his spiraling descent is more annoying than it is disturbing. Why is Matthew's girlfriend acting increasingly odd, why does their three-year-old daughter fear &quot;the man with glasses&quot; who attacks her teddy bear, why does his colleague's dead wife's face haunt him, why does his fate suddenly seem inextricably bound to that of the poet? Some of these are answered, and some aren't. While I often like films that don't explain every last detail, here there are too many unexplained threads. (This may be because the narrative constraints of film's 120 minutes make such absences more necessary and thus palatable, whereas novelists have all the space they need to explain anything they wish to.) For example, a number of times Christian tries to tell Matthew something important, but is never able to. Why repeatedly stage such a scene only to never reveal its meaning? Another time, Matthew and Christian see each other in a train station, pause, and then walk past each other wordlessly. Again, as if we are in a David Lynch film, the reader is left wondering what that was all about.<br />All this is not to say the book is not well-written, because it is-however, it suffers from a kind of &quot;is that all there is?&quot; ending. Indeed, I could see it making a much better film than novel.<br />All this is not to say the book is not well-written, because it is-however, it suffers from a kind of &quot;is that all there is?&quot; ending. Indeed, I could see it making a much better film than novel.	2002-01-24
1686951:US	52254603	R3D56V7XTXELO8	1899344640	929364223	Noise Abatement	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Middle-Class Vengeance	Davis's third Edinburgh-set novel (preceded by Safe As Houses, which I haven't read, and Shrouded, which I have), is a quick-reading exploration of middle-class vengeance. The story of a happy young married couple tormented by the nonstop noisiness of their new upstairs neighbors was apparently inspired by the author's own awful experience and other similar cases in the UK. Davis straightforwardly sets up the situation, as the couple tries to first amicably deal with their thoughtless neighbors, then has to pursue the matter through &quot;proper&quot; channels (the police, the Environmental Health authorities), only to realize that the system is totally unable to handle such a matter. As the loud music, parties, and indoor football antics continue, the wife develops a debilitating stress-related ailment while her dentist husband grows too tired to operate properly.<br />The husband starts to fantasize about taking the law into his own hands, and of course, does in escalating fashion. Although the storyline is somewhat predictable, and the twist at the end is far too obvious, the book is sustained by the ease with which the reader is able to imagine themselves in the couple's shoes. Davis's world is both everyday and unnerving. A similar &quot;what would you do&quot; scenario was presented in the 1990 film, Pacific Heights, in which a young upscale couple finds it impossible to evict the psycho basement tenant who torments them.	2002-01-20
1707386:US	52254603	RW6HZY4AFCNKI	0006544754	908650537	True Believers	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Thirteen Tales of Ireland	I came to this collection of thirteen short stories after devouring O'Connor's brilliant novel of revenge, The Salesman. Three of the stories here (&quot;Last of the Mohicans&quot;, &quot;Mothers Are All the Same&quot;, and&quot; Ailsa&quot;) will ring familiar to those who read his first novel, Cowboys and Indians (a coming of age tale with a bit less depth, but still worth a read). In general, the stories range from 10 to 25 pages and as a whole, provide a brief glimpses of everyday modern Irish people- the one exception being &quot;Glass Houses,&quot; a story about a taxi driver which appears to be set in America. A prevalent theme running throughout is the forming and/or aftermath of relationships, both marital and extramarital, straight and gay. And the final two stories (&quot;The Greatest of These is Love&quot; and &quot;True Believers&quot;) effectively combine themes of spiritual faith and loss. My favorite, however, is &quot;The Long Way Home,&quot; which stands out as a creepy, surreal, and ultimately poignant tale of a man leaving his wife, who then picks up a hitchhiker who may or may not be dangerous.	2002-01-04
1724003:US	52254603	R175TRN2NUL1RH	038526349X	736261255	A Fire in the Sun	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Slightly Less Fun than the first	This sequel to When Gravity Fails finds former lowlife gumshoe Marid Audran suddenly becoming the right-hand man of futuristic Cairo's godfather, Friedlander Bey. Marid's transition from near-destitute scum to wealthy and powerful is more than a little awkward for him, since he had always prided himself on his independence. It's also somewhat awkward for the reader, since after a while, it gets old watching him get treated like a marionette. Friedlander Bey reorders Marid's world to separate him from his former friends and life by placing him on the police force, giving him his friend's bar, and giving him a Christian slave. Of course, you can't really refuse gifts from Friedlander Bey, so Marid toils at his job investigating various intrigues against his master. Thus, even more so than in the first book, he's the reluctant hero with a conscience of sorts.<br />The story starts with Marid in Algiers, searching for his mother and his roots. It doesn't quite work out as well as expected, and soon he's back in Cairo under the thumb of Friedlander Bey, working for the police, running around trying to figure out who's murdering little children and prostitutes. The killings may or may not be linked to Abu Adil, a rival to Friedlander Bey, but Marid doesn't really get going until an obviously corrupt officer keeps thwarting him and his reluctant partner gets killed. This element gets a little hokey, as his relationship with the partner goes through all the phases familiar to us from buddy-cop movies. The action gets a little convoluted as Marid bounces around, and the setting's novelty isn't as compelling as in the first book. Still, it's an interesting mix of Chandler and Dick, and if you like it, you should definitely check out Jonathan Lethem's Gun, With Occasional Music. Followed by The Exile Kiss.	2001-12-21
1724069:US	52254603	R3HW72BLEC0CN6	0385414242	312791439	The Exile Kiss	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Adrift in the Desert	In this sequel to When Gravity Fails and A Fire in the Sun finds Marid Audran and his patron Friedlander Bey, framed for murder and sentenced to exile in Rub al-Khali in the Arabian Desert. As in real life, the Rub al-Khali (&quot;The Empty Quarter&quot;) is a vast, uninhabited sand sea, from which no one emerges alive. The bulk of the book takes place there, as they are rescued by a tribe of Bedouin and undergo deep self-examination. The change of setting makes for a nice difference from the previous two books, and there's a bit more character development as well. As is to be expected, the duo make it back to Cairo to unmask the person who set them up and exact vengeance (rather like Stevenson's Kidnapped). Things work out a little too easily for them upon their return, but on the whole, it's another solid entry in the series.	2001-12-21
1727864:US	52254603	R3SPROBQ2C4RQX	0385720955	850910906	The Blind Assassin: A Novel	Books	1	60	88	N	N	Totally Overrated and Tediously Gimmicky	Here is yet another overrated award-wining book from yet another big name in modern literature that utterly failed to entertain, enlighten, or at least provoke me. Not having read any Atwood before, one might think her Booker Prize winner might be a good place to start, right? Well, only if you enjoy a very good writer engaging in an unnecessarily complicated exercise in layered storytelling-minus any compelling story or interesting characters. The book is narrated by Iris Chase, an elderly Canadian who recounts her wealthy upbringing, familial decline in the Great Depression, arranged marriage to a wealthy industrialist, and sisterhood to a younger, dreamy sister who commits suicide. This sweeping, sprawling story covers plenty of topics that might have made it interesting, such as class issues, socialism, the impact of two World Wars on a small town, sisterhood, and more. However, none of these is explored in any new or insightful way, and not a single character is engaging or sympathetic. Iris, especially, is a protagonist of singular inaction and passivity, rendering her enormously frustrating.<br />But lest one think this is a simple narrative, wherein Iris switches between flashbacks and her present old age, we are also given the story of an unnamed woman and her penniless lover. Their identities are supposed to be unknown and tantalizing until the end, but it's awfully obvious early on who they are, which rather ruins the overall effect. And within this story, the lover periodically tells the woman a pulpy science fiction story about young maidens destined to be sacrificed as virgins, and a blind male assassin who rescues one. Regrettably, this science fiction story is the most vivid and intriguing part of the whole book, and is only presented in small, incomplete chunks. Of course, the characters in the story represent the woman and her lover, just as the unnamed woman and lover are revealed to be people from Iris's life. Throw in a few faux news articles offering another view on the novel's various events, and ta da! Prize-winning narrative gymnastics! Never mind that it's fractured and tedious stuff, with revelations telegraphed far in advance of Atwood's denouements...<br />Indeed, only Atwood's reputation, and the silent peer pressure of my book group led me to finish the book. You can certainly write a book with unlikeable characters, but to have this dislike spring from their passivity, rather than their actions (yes, yes, taking no action is, in effect, acting, I know), spells disaster for a rambling tome of 540 pages.fering another view on the novel's various events, and ta da! Prize-winning narrative gymnastics! Never mind that it's fractured and tedious stuff, with revelations telegraphed far in advance of Atwood's denouements...<br />Indeed, only Atwood's reputation, and the silent peer pressure of my book group led me to finish the book. You can certainly write a book with unlikeable characters, but to have this dislike spring from their passivity, rather than their actions (yes, yes, taking no action is, in effect, acting, I know), spells disaster for a rambling tome of 540 pages.	2001-12-18
1734412:US	52254603	R25TH12G534FAS	0151006474	979464952	The Confessions of Mycroft Holmes: A Paper Chase	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Another Witty and Gentle Tale from Theroux	Theroux follows up his gently charming, and well-received debut, A Stranger in the Earth, with another witty and touching slim novel. As in his first book, the story revolves around a man starting a new life in a new place. Here, Damien March is a thirtysomething American who's lived most of his life in England and now works as a nightshift drone for the BBC. His Uncle Patrick, a prize-winning author turned odd recluse, stuns the family by leaving his New England home and its content to Damien, whom he hasn't seen since he was a child. The home sits on the fictional island of Ionia, a kind of Martha's Vineyardish place off of Cape Cod. The bequest is conditional on Damien living in the house, and so he makes the momentous decision to leave his dead-end life in London and head to America to live in the house for the summer.<br />As he gets accustomed to island life, his deaf neighbors, and living in a house filled with random bric-a-brac, he also muses on his upbringing, his family history, and the meaning of family in general. Mostly he ponders the question of who his uncle was and why his writings grew increasingly bizarre, why he sequestered himself on the island, and why Damien's father and Uncle Patrick had an odd relationship. These internal musings are interrupted by various odd occurrences, such as the disappearances of some of Uncle Patrick's files, a later burglary, and the general oddities of life on the island. Then, about 2/3 of the way into the book, Damien discovers a manuscript of his uncle's called &quot;The Confession of Mycroft Holmes.&quot; It's a pastiche of sorts, based on Sherlock Holmes's enigmatic elder brother. The story itself is faithfully rendered in faux-Victorian prose, and characters in it appear to parallel some on the island. Damien starts to think there's a connection between the story and his uncle's odd life, and the investigation leads to a surprising (to him, if not to the reader) discovery. The book ends rather disappointingly abruptly after this revelation, but is nonetheless extremely enjoyable. Lightly written in a musing tone, and dolloped with sly wit, Theroux's second book makes the reader anxious for more. In a time when accolades are mainly gathered by sprawlingly undisciplined tomes like The Poisonwood Bible and The Blind Assassin, Theroux's slim work proves that yes, sometimes less is more.abruptly after this revelation, but is nonetheless extremely enjoyable. Lightly written in a musing tone, and dolloped with sly wit, Theroux's second book makes the reader anxious for more. In a time when accolades are mainly gathered by sprawlingly undisciplined tomes like The Poisonwood Bible and The Blind Assassin, Theroux's slim work proves that yes, sometimes less is more.	2001-12-13
1734982:US	52254603	R2L9CIBCMHKGDP	0805065830	982606019	The Adversary: A True Story of Monstrous Deception	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Lies, Madness, and Tragedy	I'm not usually one to delve into the true crime genre, but my admiration for Carerre's novel \\"Class Trip\\" in conjunction with the slimness of this volume, inspired me to read this French one. The book concerns Jean-Claude Romand, a seemingly well-liked and respected research scientist at the World Health Organisation who one day killed his wife and children, and his parents. He survives a fire lit to clumsily mask the murders and in the ensuing investigation, it quickly becomes clear his professional life has been a lie. After a somewhat sheltered childhood, he attended medical school and quietly dropped out after missing an exam that he most likely would have passed. Instead of completing his studies (which he seemed perfectly able to do), he instead embarked on a lifetime of lies designed to perpetuate the myth of a rapidly ascendant career. Carerre is intrigued by the case and researches Romand's life of deception, hoping to arrive at some kind of understanding.<br />The book was a bestseller in France, partly due to Carerre's name, and partly due to the O.J.-like publicity surrounding the case. Removed from that context, to an American audience it becomes a disturbing portrait of how a life can momentarily go off course and lead to madness. Romand the real person is totally subsumed to Romand the compulsive liar, seeking approval and validation in a normal married with kids and mistress Euro-yuppie life. To maintain this false life over fifteen years or so, he swindled family and friends out of huge sums of money, and in the end, when a simple phone call to his nonexistent office, brought his house of false walls down, he chose to spare those closest to him the pain of discovering his lies by killing them. Carerre tries unsuccessfully to mold this tragic tale into a deeper meditation on human identity, and the ethics of forgiveness and understanding, but in the end, the reader is left with the simple impression of a mind and life gone madly awry. As in \\"Class Trip,\\" Carerre's writing is elegant in a simple, stark way that some may find off-putting, but I personally enjoyed.rip,\\" Carerre's writing is elegant in a simple, stark way that some may find off-putting, but I personally enjoyed.	2001-12-12
1735979:US	52254603	R2SX6U2OOEKUDH	0609608533	218013048	Piranha to Scurfy: And Other Stories	Books	2	4	10	N	N	A Weak Collection of Character Studies and Tired Devices	Never having read Rendell, who is widely thought of as being amongst the best contemporary crime writers, I figured this new collection might be the place to start. I was rather disappointed to find that the six short stories and two much longer novellas are character studies that are more intent on evoking mood than delivering an interesting plot or story. The short stories are particularly weak, with the possible exception of &quot;The Professional,&quot; This latter story tells of a shoeshine boy who witnesses a murder and stays quiet, rather than rock the boat and risk his job. It's a little more interesting than the others if only for the class issues it touches upon. &quot;The Wink&quot; and &quot;Walter's Leg&quot; both revisit ancient crimes and bestow predictable, if long overdue, justice. &quot;Catamount&quot; is a simple story of a woman and mountain lion, entirely unremarkable and reading like a writing exercise. &quot;The Beach Butler&quot; is a perfectly awful story about a single woman without much money on vacation, and the dusky local she falls for. &quot;The Astronomical Scarf&quot; follows a scarf through the hands of various owners over the years (much like E. Annie Proulx's novel Accordion Crimes), and paints quick sketches of each. Rendell's icily detached narrative voice runs throughout the stories, making them even less interesting.<br />The title story is a long and predictable authorial revenge-fantasy that veers off into supernatural horror. Mostly consisting of an extended character study, it follows a clich&eacute; of a maternally dominated middle-aged pedant whose madness consumes him. Living alone since his mother's death (he killed her, duh!), he spends his days reading books and writing letters to their authors and publishers pointing out mistakes. His comeuppance-as if there was any doubt there would be any-arrives in the form of a new bestseller by a Stephen King type. It's a tired story, and takes far too long to tell. The same could be said of the even longer final story, &quot;High Mysterious Union.&quot; In it, a lovely small English village isn't all it seems to be, as two outsiders recount their experiences there to each other. It's as if Rendell had read Magnus Mills's droll Kafkaesque novel All Quiet on the Orient Express and decided to do something similar, with a Stepford Wives twist. In any event, it's neither original nor compelling, and the collection won't inspire me to read any more Rendell.said of the even longer final story, &quot;High Mysterious Union.&quot; In it, a lovely small English village isn't all it seems to be, as two outsiders recount their experiences there to each other. It's as if Rendell had read Magnus Mills's droll Kafkaesque novel All Quiet on the Orient Express and decided to do something similar, with a Stepford Wives twist. In any event, it's neither original nor compelling, and the collection won't inspire me to read any more Rendell.	2001-12-12
1744001:US	52254603	R3S338AQXGQO0P	0140434011	502025919	Kidnapped (Penguin Classics)	Books	2	4	12	N	N	It's Nae Treas're Isle	I am a big fan of Stevenson (especially Treasure Island), swashbuckling adventure (especially Rafael Sabatini) and Scottish literature (especially Irvine Welsh and James Kelman), but I have to say that rereading Kidnapped is a bit of a letdown. Not for the reasons others have cited, such as language (if you think Stevenson's use of Scots dialect is tough, try reading Trainspotting!) or obscure history (the book is set in Scotland circa 1750, just after the failure of the Jacobite rebellion against the British), but rather because the book is rather boring. It starts off promisingly enough, as orphaned 16-year-old Dvid Balfour sets off to the big city to track down his never-seen Uncle Ebeneezer. It doesn't take long for the miserly uncle (is the sharing of name with that other famous miser, Ebeneezer Scrooge, just a coincidence?) to cheat the boy out of his inheritance, try to murder him, and then sell him into slavery in the American colonies. As he is taken out to sea, the ship collides with another in the dark, and the sole survivor is taken aboard. The shipboard tension and the action as he throws his lot in with the doughty Highlander rebel Alan Breck to defeat his captors is all quite enjoyable. After both make their escape they are reunited in the Highlands, which are being scoured by British redcoats in search of traitors like Alan Breck). They decide to band together and travel to a place of safety. Unfortunately at this point, the book becomes a tiresome episode of The Odd Couple, as they bicker and banter and evade the British. It's rather chivalric, as concern over honor and friendship overwhelms any real story or action. The insights into Highlander culture and history are somewhat interesting, but not enough to carry it. The climactic confrontation as David confronts his uncle returns the book to its fun, adventurous roots. Stevenson write a sequel, variously known as David Balfour or Catriona, which is not supposed to be as good.	2001-12-06
1744963:US	52254603	R37BRTC91F1Z91	0440234689	622480769	The Runner	Books	1	6	8	N	N	Weak Beach Reading	Nothing in this thriller distinguishes it from countless other airplane/beach conspiracy potboilers by authors like Robert Ludlum, Ken Follet, Jack Higgins, et al. Hang on, I take that back, it does have one of the most awfully written sex scenes I've ever come across-I wish I had the book here so I could transcribe some of it. Set in July 1945, as Germany is being carved up by the Allies, the story concerns Erich Seyss, an SS officer (and former Olympian) who breaks out of POW camp and embarks on a desperate scheme to assassinate the Allied leaders when they meet in Potsdam. He is pursued by the heroically named Devlin Judge, an American lawyer (and former NYC cop) who's in Germany to prosecute Nazi war criminals. And, as so often happens in these types of books, Devlin's brother happens to have been one of the victims of a mass murder ordered by Seyss! From there, things get pretty paint-by-numbers: villain is always just barely one step ahead, beautiful women enters and becomes caught up in chase, no one can be trusted, tables get turned, hunter becomes hunted, etc.<br />None of the characters rise veer from their basic motivation-they come across as clich&eacute;s, despite Reich's attempt to provide a detailed backstory for each. Seyss's portrait as the lethally cunning Nazi machine is particularly weak. As noted elsewhere there are a number of minor gaffes in the details that cry out for more rigorous editorial attention, not to mention mangling of spelling and grammar in both German and English. Despite these flaws, Reich manages present a reasonably plausible portrayal of Germany just after surrender. Indeed, the novel's only somewhat intriguing theme is Reich's deliberate portrayal of the callousness of the average American occupier toward German civilians. However readers looking for a more sophisticated and well-written look at postwar Germany might try Philip Kerr's A German Requiem, the last volume in his &quot;Berlin Noir&quot; trilogy. Finally, it should be noted that while this is a work of fiction Reich's use of U.S. General George Patton and OSS chief &quot;Wild&quot; Bill Donovan would be completely libelous were they not dead and thus fair game for fictional reimagining. Those intrigued by Patton should check out Carlo D'este's biography, Patton: A Genius For War. For the story of Donovan and the origin of the OSS, check out Thomas Troy's book, Wild Bill and Intrepid.noted that while this is a work of fiction Reich's use of U.S. General George Patton and OSS chief &quot;Wild&quot; Bill Donovan would be completely libelous were they not dead and thus fair game for fictional reimagining. Those intrigued by Patton should check out Carlo D'este's biography, Patton: A Genius For War. For the story of Donovan and the origin of the OSS, check out Thomas Troy's book, Wild Bill and Intrepid.	2001-12-05
1744965:US	52254603	R16TF0S9V0NB02	0618015841	437745521	Word Freak: Heartbreak, Triumph, Genius, and Obsession in the World of Competitive Scrabble Players	Books	4	24	28	N	N	Fascinating Portrait of a Subculture	As a living room player of Scrabble who only drags out the board about ten times a year or so, I have only a passing interest in the game itself-however I am fascinated by subcultures of all kinds, and the kooky word of competitive Scrabble was just too alluring to pass up. For the most part Fatsis succeeded in writing a compelling and vivid story of the game and its lovers, while detailing his own growing obsession/addiction to it. His feat of juggling Scrabble's corporate and sociological history, basic and high strategic theory, arcana, intimate portraits of top players, along with his own amazing rise to expert level rating, is what makes the narrative successful and compelling to even the non-Scrabble players.<br />There are a couple of caveats to this endorsement. Casual players such as myself must accept that Scrabble played at the competitive level described in Fatsis's account is almost a completely deferent game from what gets played in living rooms amongst family members. First of all, it's generally one on one, with a 25-minute timer. Secondly-and most importantly-the words played with often bear little relation to standard English as you and I know it. Indeed, as his lengthy discussion of the compilation of the official Scrabble dictionary makes clear, almost no word is too obsolete or archaic, and no transliteration too ridiculous to play. Oh yeah, and by the way, the rest of the world uses the British version dictionary with about 20,000 other words. In other words, looking at an expert level Scrabble board can often be like looking at gibberish. Once one gets over this, one learns along with Fatsis that the only way to get into the upper ranks of the Scrabble world is to memorize words... for years...<br />Of course, how you memorize the words matters, and Fatsis makes sure to explain how a number of the top players accomplish this (hint, you need 4-10 free hours a day, which might explain why so many top Scrabble players don't hold down regular jobs). Along with sheer memorization is anagramming, which trains one to pick words out of jumbled letters, and then there's all the strategy involved in managing the rack (ie. your tiles), the board, and soforth. This naturally drifts into the realm of probability and game theory and such, which gets rather detailed and may not hold the attention of some readers (although I quite liked these discussions).<br />The book could have done better in cutting the history of tedious and petty feuds between top players and Scrabble management and corporate ownership. They don't bring anything to the story other than to emphasize the pettiness of maladjusted adults and a desire on Fatsis's part to leave no stone unturned. It's amazing enough that he makes us care about a number of social misfits who find solace and meaning in their Scrabble obsessions, there's no need to push the envelope and quote their lengthy e-mail flames to oneanother. The book's other main weakness is it's treatment of women. Fatsis quickly gets in with a number of the guys devoting chapters to a number of them, but he only spends three pages talking to the top women players! It's an area in which his journalistic training seems to have failed him, since there are a number of interesting difference between woman and men players that he only skims the surface of. It's as if in dealing with his own efforts to claw his way up the ratings and hang with his buddies, he didn't have the energy left to deal with the women. Still, these are relatively minor quibbles for what is a mostly fascinating window into an oddball subculture.). Along with sheer memorization is anagramming, which trains one to pick words out of jumbled letters, and then there's all the strategy involved in managing the rack (ie. your tiles), the board, and soforth. This naturally drifts into the realm of probability and game theory and such, which gets rather detailed and may not hold the attention of some readers (although I quite liked these discussions). <br />The book could have done better in cutting the history of tedious and petty feuds between top players and Scrabble management and corporate ownership. They don't bring anything to the story other than to emphasize the pettiness of maladjusted adults and a desire on Fatsis's part to leave no stone unturned. It's amazing enough that he makes us care about a number of social misfits who find solace and meaning in their Scrabble obsessions, there's no need to push the envelope and quote their lengthy e-mail flames to oneanother. The book's other main weakness is it's treatment of women. Fatsis quickly gets in with a number of the guys devoting chapters to a number of them, but he only spends three pages talking to the top women players! It's an area in which his journalistic training seems to have failed him, since there are a number of interesting difference between woman and men players that he only skims the surface of. It's as if in dealing with his own efforts to claw his way up the ratings and hang with his buddies, he didn't have the energy left to deal with the women. Still, these are relatively minor quibbles for what is a mostly fascinating window into an oddball subculture.	2001-12-05
1746997:US	52254603	R7FSN7N6OYSVW	0156008661	927784160	Ladies' Night at Finbar's Hotel	Books	3	17	17	N	N	Not As Good As the Original	This is the second &quot;Finbar's Hotel,&quot; collection edited by Bolger, and this one is given over to seven Irish women writers: Maeve Binchy, Clare Boylan, Emma Donoghue, Anne Haverty, Eilis Ni Dhibhne, Kate O'Riordan and Deirdre Purcell. As in the first one (which had only two women, Anne Enright and Jennifer Johnston), each writer is given a &quot;room&quot; of the hotel, and creates a guest and a story to explain their presence at the hotel. And as in the first one, the writer of each story is not identified. One has to wonder at the point of such cleverness, as it is a directly impedes any attempt on the reader's part to discover a new writer to seek out in the future. For example, say I find two of the seven stories to be amazing, what am I to do? Buy one book by each of the seven writers and read all seven to figure out whose writing it was that I liked? Since there's no real purpose to keeping the authors secret (other than editorial conceit), why do it?<br />The strongest stories reside in rooms 101 and 106, which contain stories that revolve around marital infidelity, but have gentle reversals. Room 104 also concerns infidelity, but in this case, to God-and is much less interesting. Rooms 102, 103, 105 and the penthouse all contain guests coming from abroad and their stories all revolve around encounters with their past. Room 105, which concerns a mother meeting her son for the first time is perhaps the best of them, although the penthouse story is worth reading for the ending if nothing else. One sort of odd running thread is the clumsy mocking of Americans that appears in each story, which is in contrast the generally gentle tone of the collection. All in the all, the collection is inoffensive, but not quite as strong as the original Finbar's Hotel.	2001-12-04
1747922:US	52254603	R1RYKNWVR5DUQF	0786708395	838231813	Garnethill: A Novel of Crime	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Brilliant Debut	One of the best crime novels I've read in quite a while, this book takes the reader deep into the tough world of sexual abuse survivors in Glasgow. A year ago Maureen O'Donnell suffered a breakdown after repressed memories of her childhood sexual abuse came flooding back. Now, eight months out of Northern Psychiatric Hospital she holds a dull (albeit steady) job as a movie ticket seller and has been having a rather unsatisfactory affair with a married therapist. Resolving to dump him, she gets blotto drunk with her pal, stumbles home and passes out. Unfortunately, when she wakes up the next morning, her boyfriend is tied to a chair in the living room with his throat slit. The police naturally suspect her, or her drug dealer brother, of the murder, and lean heavily on both. Matters aren't helped by Maureen's alcoholic mother who's liable to say anything, and is in total denial (along with Maureen's two sisters) about Maureen's being abused by their father-who fled after Maureen's breakdown. With little support from that end of her family, Maureen and her brother bond together, along with her legal student friend Benny, and tough social worker Leslie.<br />Spurred by a small initial suspicion, Maureen starts digging into the murder herself, and finds out all kinds of things the police haven't. As she bounces between her dysfunctional family, threatening police, friends, and local psychiatric facilities, she starts uncovering more and more secrets, spurring the killer to take further action, upping the stakes. She's a realistically haphazard and inept amateur sleuth, but her familiarity with the mental health care system and it's people allow her access to areas the police can barely fathom. She's also an extremely compelling character, flawed in many ways, but with a slowly simmering desire to discard her vicitmhood and take action. She's not unlike Alan Warner's Scottish women in Morvern Callar or The Sopranos. All the supporting cast burst from the pages with life, and Mina has that rare talent of creating fictional characters you miss when the book is done. (Fortunately, you can tell that in setting up Maureen with a new man and a new job, she's laid the groundwork for a sequel, which is Exile.) Mina has written a gripping and expertly plotted account of how things can go badly wrong in mental healthcare, how little protection sexual abuse survivors have, but with an oddly empowering ending. The Glasgow of her book is not the out and out ghetto Scotland that one finds in some other Scottish fiction, but rather a tough, lower-class environment where people struggle to make a life for themselves despite the world around them. Similar in tone to John Harvey's Nottingham, John William's Cardiff, or George Pelecanos's Washington, DC.<br />By the way, the CD that is mentioned several times is by the '80s British ska revival band &quot;The Selecter&quot; not &quot;Selector.&quot; I'm not sure why Mina chose to change the name, but with Pauline Black at the vocals, The Selecter still make for great listening. One last note, Maureen orders one of the nastiest sounding drinks, I've ever heard of: half whiskey, half lime cordial...and Mina has that rare talent of creating fictional characters you miss when the book is done. (Fortunately, you can tell that in setting up Maureen with a new man and a new job, she's laid the groundwork for a sequel, which is Exile.) Mina has written a gripping and expertly plotted account of how things can go badly wrong in mental healthcare, how little protection sexual abuse survivors have, but with an oddly empowering ending. The Glasgow of her book is not the out and out ghetto Scotland that one finds in some other Scottish fiction, but rather a tough, lower-class environment where people struggle to make a life for themselves despite the world around them. Similar in tone to John Harvey's Nottingham, John William's Cardiff, or George Pelecanos's Washington, DC.<br />By the way, the CD that is mentioned several times is by the '80s British ska revival band &quot;The Selecter&quot; not &quot;Selector.&quot; I'm not sure why Mina chose to change the name, but with Pauline Black at the vocals, The Selecter still make for great listening. One last note, Maureen orders one of the nastiest sounding drinks, I've ever heard of: half whiskey, half lime cordial...	2001-12-03
1753676:US	52254603	R1ZN6EL2NHLCQI	0671252917	769443055	Fast Times at Ridgemont High	Books	4	22	27	N	N	Better Than the Movie	I bet you didn't even know this was a book before it was a movie, did you? The first thing to know is that the book is much better than the movie. The definitive novel about early 80s Southern California high-school life, it is actually based on real events, as its subtitle &quot;A True Story&quot; tells you. Cameron Crowe apparently actually attended high-school for a year to do a &quot;portrait&quot; of contemporary high-school life. Fast Times is what emerged. While fairly faithful to the story, the movie diminishes the roles of Mark &quot;the Rat&quot; and Brad, and pumps up the role of Spicoli (who is a freshman in the book). It's a quick read, and well worth it if you want a light-hearted period book. It can be a little hard to find though.	2001-11-28
1755589:US	52254603	R2UI6KXD91BH3D	0340693096	8136611	The Talk of the Town	Books	2	2	5	N	N	Uninspired	Irish comic O'Hanlon has written a largely unmemorable coming of age novel starring the entirely unsympathetic and creepy 18-year-old Patrick. He works as a security guard in Dublin and periodically takes the bus to his home hamlet on weekends, allowing the reader a glimpse into both city and small town life in early '80s Ireland. While certain set pieces and milieus are descriptively evoked, the overall story of the ethically confused boy and his relationship with college student Francesca doesn't really hold together. The novel is more effective when it breaks off into excerpts from Franceca's diary, detailing her side of their relationship. However, this too, is problematic, as you know that eventually Patrick will be reading it, and only bad things will result. All in all, it lacks the humor I had expected, and is very bleak. Elements of it are highly reminiscent of The Butcher Boy.	2001-11-27
1756433:US	52254603	RH48YBXBB8RVB	0312420366	119057404	The Debt to Pleasure: A Novel	Books	4	11	13	N	N	The Monster Within	One's reaction to this book will, in large part, be predicated on how one reacts to cleverness and dark humor. For, while written with indisputable skill, Lanchester's novel is more than anything an exercise in droll, urbane, (dare I say smug) cleverness-at it's best (or worst, according to one's taste). Within the deliciously witty, snide, nasty, condescending, and rambling meditations of one Tarquin Winot lie dark kernels of truth regarding his true nature and past. Tarquin is both genius and gourmand, so his writings are loosely arranged around a seasonal menu, with tangential discourses on the various ingredients and much more. While his descriptions of food are certainly evocative, there's much more going on than a simple foodie travelogue. It's obvious quite early on that he's a pampered egomaniac, and indeed, after a while, his self-absorbed ramblings begin to grow wearisome. However, mingled with these are broad clues as to true megalomania and psychopathy. All of this emerges as he recounts an interview he grants his brother's biographer.<br />That some reviewers found the book disturbing or unsettling seems rather odd. Well-cultured and well-spoken psychopaths are hardly a new phenomenon in either literature or real life, and that's essentially what Tarquin is. It's possible that this disquiet comes from the reader becoming enamored of Tarquin and then finding out his true nature at the very end, but this seems exceedingly unlikely. For all Lanchester's skill, Tarquin's &quot;secret&quot; is fairly evident quite early on, via a number of extremely broad hints, so that readers who are paying any kind of attention will quickly realize that all is not as it might seem. In the end, it's a fairly clever and certainly well-written character study, with a dark secret that is unearthed rather too soon for the book to be entirely satisfactory. Still, it is clear Lanchester is a writer worth watching.	2001-11-27
1757217:US	52254603	R2MSZH92O3S46M	1582341451	41266640	Cardiff Dead	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Simply Brilliant	In his third work of fiction, Williams returns to the colorfully seedy neighborhood and characters of Butetown in Cardiff, as seen previously in his collection Five Pubs, Two Bars, and a Nightclub, for a crime novel that draws heavily upon the themes of his first novel, Faithless. That story featured Jeff, former punk saxaphonist who is drifting along trying to figure out what to make of his life in the wake of punk. Here, we have Mazz, guitarist for hire and former leader of a Welsh one-hit-wonder ska band from 1981, the Wurriyas. It's now 1999, and Mazz is making his way back to Cardiff for his bandmate Charlie's funeral, where he will encounter everyone from the &quot;good old days&quot; (including a number of characters who appear in Five Pubs, Two Bars, and a Nightclub).<br />Was Charlie's death an accidental cocaine overdose, or is there something more to it? And what about the mysterious disappearance of Emyr, formerly the Wurriyas' skinhead drummer, and now a brooding alt-rock god? Mazz ends up getting involved in both questions, but only in a meandering way, because what he's really wondering is how his life has gotten so off track, and what-if any-changes he can make. Mazz's struggle with the past is inexorably tied to that of Tyra, his former bandmate, girlfriend, and Charlie's daughter. Williams propels their story with flashbacks to the early '80s showing the formation of the band, their rise and fall, and the relationships between them all. Initially it's a little hard to feel too much sympathy for hard-drinking Mazz, who seems to be able to pull any woman he wants, but as the novel progresses, it becomes sad how these are the only things he can try and fill his emptiness in. What he really wants, he's not made for, and perhaps saddest of all, he knows it.<br />This is a great book, mixing crime, pulp, tragedy, grim humor, surfing, ska, urban renewal, nostalgia, and desperation. All the characters pop from the page, especially vivid are lesbian singer turned pimp Bobby, and laid-back former footballer turned surfer bum Colonel. Contrary to at least one review, there is very little slang in the book, and it's quite easy to understand from the context. A brilliant look at non-tourist Cardiff. in addition to his his two books mentioned above, also check out Williams' non-fiction tour of American crime writing, Into the Badlands.r turned pimp Bobby, and laid-back former footballer turned surfer bum Colonel. Contrary to at least one review, there is very little slang in the book, and it's quite easy to understand from the context. A brilliant look at non-tourist Cardiff. in addition to his his two books mentioned above, also check out Williams' non-fiction tour of American crime writing, Into the Badlands.	2001-11-26
1757812:US	52254603	R3Q489KME2GJB5	0684862220	435859494	American Skin: A Novel	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Plastic Gangster	Although nominally set within the skinhead subculture, at its core this debut novel is the fairly elementary and melodramatic story of a confused teenager looking for something to belong to. In the mid-1980s Alex Verdi's parents get sent to prison on drug charges, so he runs away to Chicago, where he eventually falls in with a group of anti-racist skinheads who live in a seedy nightclub. De Grazia's portrayal of this community of young skins and punks reads as if he lived amongst them for a while and then based all the characters on people he met. If nothing else, he accurately depicts how boring and idiotic most of the people on the scene tend to be, with little to do but drink, pose, fight, and scam (how is this different from any other clique?). The anti-racist skinhead angle may be surprising to some readers, but anyone with more than a passing knowledge of the subculture won' t find anything new here.<br />The novel is generally well-written but suffers from a number of contrivances and coincidences that are shoehorned in to allow the author to try and make larger thematic points and simply advance the plot. For example, the idea that Alex could &quot;pass&quot; as a Northwestern student to his girlfriend is rather silly-it would be pretty obvious to her that his schedule doesn't involve going to classes, writing papers, or studying. Similarly, the US Army doesn't run bootcamps for delinquents. Some states do have these programs, but they are locally run. The coincidence with the Mafia guy knowing his father from back in the day is pretty weak, but not nearly as ridiculous as Marie's secret, which should have been left back in the soap-opera world, from whence it came!<br />Throughout the story Alex struggles to find some kind of identity for himself, as he swings between confused rage and thoughtful sensitivity. He's annoyingly passive, drifting from influence to influence-first the charismatic uber-skin Tim, then the meritocracy of the Army, then the writings of Ayn Rand. It's a moderately intriguing look at one guy's drifting confusion, but it's hard to maintain sympathy for a character who's passivity is interrupted only by fits of rage. On the whole, it's hard to see why people have gotten so worked up about his book, other than the novelty of having a skinhead protagonist as the &quot;lost boy.&quot; I'm all for literature that provides a window into the subcultures that interest me (check out &quot;Sawdust Caesars&quot; for a novel about mods), especially when they show the true roots of skinhead culture, and so I must commend the book for that-however, as a novel, it's packs too many issues and tragedies into too small a space and thus fails to do justice to any of them.of Ayn Rand. It's a moderately intriguing look at one guy's drifting confusion, but it's hard to maintain sympathy for a character who's passivity is interrupted only by fits of rage. On the whole, it's hard to see why people have gotten so worked up about his book, other than the novelty of having a skinhead protagonist as the &quot;lost boy.&quot; I'm all for literature that provides a window into the subcultures that interest me (check out &quot;Sawdust Caesars&quot; for a novel about mods), especially when they show the true roots of skinhead culture, and so I must commend the book for that-however, as a novel, it's packs too many issues and tragedies into too small a space and thus fails to do justice to any of them.	2001-11-26
1761902:US	52254603	R290RLHZWHMXVR	0571212506	123817069	The Man Who Wasn't There	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Another Solid Script	Even in their less succesful films, the Coen brothers never fail to deliver something interesting. TMWWT-their latest film, and areturn to the neo-noir territory of Blood Simple-is no exception. Even though it goes slightly off the rails in the last twenty minutes, the film is full of the entertaining oddballs one expects from them. The book is the shooting script, which upon first read doesn't appear to have any deviations from the finished film, along with a three page introduction by their film editor, Roderick Jaynes, in which he discusses the genesis of the title. Good reading for aspiring screen (and other) writers.	2001-11-22
1765324:US	52254603	RCNC1AVKF8LIF	0345356837	173812742	He Died With His Eyes Open	Books	2	3	6	N	N	A Ho-Hum Groundbreaker	Credited with being one of the earliest and most influential examples of noir gone British, this first of the &quot;Factory Series&quot; didn't work for me. The nameless policeman who works in the &quot;Department of Unexplained Deaths&quot; is a loner who lives for his work in the classic sense of the fictional detective. His investigation into the brutal murder of a apparently poor man is given depth and resonance when he finds the dead man's rambling audio journals. The tapes slowly reveal a series of clues and serve to help the detective identify with and empathize with the victim. It's not particularly convincing, nor is his method of getting close to the murderer, and the ending is totally weird and over-the-top. This did not encourage me to sample further books in the series.	2001-11-19
1769109:US	52254603	RZL5OF2EPOPAJ	0156106809	350258102	The Baron In The Trees	Books	5	42	48	N	N	A Brilliant Fable	Calvino is another of those writers I'd heard of, but would never have read had it not been for our book group's selection of this book. I'm glad to say that this is a tale enjoyable by children and adults alike, skillfully operating on several levels. The story concerns Cosimo, a noble born boy in late 18th-century Italy who one day defies his parents by climbing a tree and refusing to come back down. His life story is narrated by his younger brother, and Cosimo's adventures in the trees work both as charming tale for children, and as a metaphor for the Enlightenment for adults. Living among the treetops, Cosimo is seeking to distance himself from social traditions and norms while creating his own world and relationships. It obviously requires a little suspension of disbelief, but even those who normally hate magical realism (like me) will find it palatable. The cast of supporting characters are quirky and vividly entertaining, including his dog, militarist mother, disaster-in-the-kitchen sister, and exiled Spanish nobles. It's one of the most enjoyable (and short) piece of utopian literature I've encountered, and would make ripe reading for high school students.	2001-11-16
1770691:US	52254603	RMLUMWJWC3QEN	1573227331	602052020	About a Boy	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Another Winner from Nick	Since Nick Hornby is the author of one of my favorite novels (High Fidelity) it should come as no surprise that I very much liked this, his second book, as well. True, it doesn't rock my world in quite the same way as High Fidelity, but it is stylistically and temperamentally similar. The story follows Will, a young (mid 30s) idle Londoner who drifts through life thanks to his inheritance, never really getting deeply involved in anything or anyone. Overconcerned with maintaining his hipness in the face of impending middle-age, Will is rapidly approaching a point where he is alienated from all his married, &quot;adult&quot; friends. Unwilling to engage in more than fleeting relationships, Will insinuates himself into a single-parents support group in order to meet beautiful needy women.<br />While wacky hijinks ensure, his life also becomes entwined with that of Marcus, a 12-year old boy desperately in need of a father figure. While Will is a cad in terms of the women, he's more or less a decent fellow, with some deficiencies recognizable in a lot of men, the most significant being his inability to grow up. Both he and Marcus are naive and wise In their own ways, and through their odd relationship they become better adjusted. Funny and sometimes bittersweet, many young men will recognize parts of themselves in Will, and while his method of coming to terms with the world and aging isn't particularly useful as a guide, the book may lead to moments of introspection on one's own life.	2001-11-15
1772392:US	52254603	RY9T1W9JIYTDA	0399141286	151271013	Supporting the Sky	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An Exhausting Slice of DC	The trials and tribulations of the well-meaning, liberal single mother of a wild teenage daughter are on full display in this exhausting novel set in early 1990s Washington, DC. While Griffith does an admirable job of showing the lives of everyday middle-class Washington residents, the main thrust of the story is to explore the difficulties of single motherhood and middle-aged romance. When Rosemary's daughter brings home a black &quot;rapper&quot; boyfriend, she triggers an overload of white guilt to complement Rosemary's already ample supply of liberal guilt. The constant mother/daughter skirmishes are partly a function of teenagerdom, but are also obviously linked to the unspoken divorce. As Rosemary struggles to reach her daughter, she also wrestles with her empty job and tentative romance with a Czech journalist. Her mid-level job at a small public relations firm is a quintessential (white) Washington job, and while her crush/friendship with a black co-worker hits all the right notes, a subplot in which she organizes an exhibit for a Caribbean painter degenerates into farce. The romance is nicely rendered, showing all the awkwardness, need, and tenderness one would expect from such a relationship.<br />The climax unfolds in an unnecessarily dramatic event, one that is rather obviously foreshadowed throughout. In fact, one of the weaknesses of the book are the presence of too many dramatic incidents: the events of the climax, an assassination attempt on a prime minister, the (inevitable) drive-by murder of a young black man, a minister's breakdown on the pulpit, a false murder charge, and a running away from home. While one is totally sympathetic with the put-upon Rosemary, after a while it gets hard stomach her picking up after her ungrateful daughter, her caving in on all arguments, and her general lack of confidence. These are true qualities one sees around us all the time, but somehow reading about them for 300 pages gets exhausting.<br />Though not quite on the level of Edward Jones's Lost in the City, the book is a good fictional account of the Washington, DC in which people live, as opposed to the corridors of power. There are small details here and there that will ring false to native Washingtonians however. Trashcans are called &quot;dumpsters&quot; instead of &quot;supercans&quot; as they are known to most. A taxi driver is described as getting out of his cab to yell at a bike messenger-this never happens, they always stay in the cab because they are afraid of retaliation. The Czech repeatedly parks his car the wrong way, saying that in Mexico the parking is so relaxed. It only takes an hour driving around to see that parking is different in the U.S., and he's not stupid. These minor distractions aside, it's a well-written book, if somewhat exhausting.the level of Edward Jones's Lost in the City, the book is a good fictional account of the Washington, DC in which people live, as opposed to the corridors of power. There are small details here and there that will ring false to native Washingtonians however. Trashcans are called &quot;dumpsters&quot; instead of &quot;supercans&quot; as they are known to most. A taxi driver is described as getting out of his cab to yell at a bike messenger-this never happens, they always stay in the cab because they are afraid of retaliation. The Czech repeatedly parks his car the wrong way, saying that in Mexico the parking is so relaxed. It only takes an hour driving around to see that parking is different in the U.S., and he's not stupid. These minor distractions aside, it's a well-written book, if somewhat exhausting.	2001-11-13
1773376:US	52254603	R1DS8F7FAKAMWM	0140184937	588275666	Our Man in Havana: An Entertainment (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	4	28	28	N	N	His Best and Most Humorous Entertainment	More successful than most of Greene's &quot;entertainments,&quot; this comic spy tale set in pre-Castro Cuba concerns an insignificant little man-a vacuum cleaner salesman to be precise-who, against his better judgment, becomes MI6's &quot;man in Havana.&quot; A longtime Havana resident, Englishman Jim Wormold is divorced, but the custodian of his beautiful, Catholic teenage daughter, Millie. One day he is approached by Hawthorne-a hilariously daft MI6 agent, whose speech is littered with upper crust slang-who shanghais him into becoming a spy. Although he is resistant to the whole notion, his best friend (a German named Hasselbacher), suggests he simply manufacture his sources and intelligence and take the ample money. Millie's expensive tastes and his own devotion to her result in his succumbing to this temptation, and he spends a few happy weeks inventing subagents and fake intelligence. For the first time in years he's doing something interesting, and no longer has money worries-in the funniest bit, he submits drawings of vacuum cleaner parts as sketches of a new Cuban weapons installation.<br />Of course, this being Greene, complications arise. He is sent reinforcements from the London office, and must scramble to keep them in the dark as to his deception. At the same time, his inventions seem to be taking on a life of their own as people start dying around him, and somebody seems to think he's a real spy. Integral to all this is the ever-present Captain Seguras, a policeman of some renown as a sadist who seeks Millie's hand in marriage. Although a deep melancholy and tragedy lurks in the background, and there's a rather lame love injected, it remains a delightfully absurd tale, one of Greene's better efforts. One is rather reminded of Joseph Conrad's classic, The Secret Agent, in which an ordinary shopkeeper receives payment as a spy for doing nothing-payments which allow him to keep the company of a beautiful woman-and whose misguided scheme ultimately crumbles around him.les around him.	2001-11-13
1778443:US	52254603	R1H9W1BYWO5LQJ	0811208478	148567452	Journey to the End of the Night (English and French Edition)	Books	2	21	47	N	N	Historically Notable But A Stale Read Today	One of the problems with reading revolutionary books long after their initial publication is that they often don't seem so, well... revolutionary. Such is the case with C&eacute;line's semi-autobiographical masterpiece-a 440 page behemoth that despite lively scenes here and there is very often tedious and boring. I gather that much of the controversy around it at the time was with regards to its use of &quot;naturalistic&quot; and &quot;vulgar&quot; language and slang (perhaps akin to the love/hate critical reaction to Scottish authors like James Kelman and Irvine Welsh in the late part of the century). While it may have represented a profound stick in the eye of literary conventions back in 1932, it certainly hasn't retained any capacity to shock or surprise in that regard. If you're a fan of the dark side of 20th century popular literature as represented by those such as Henry Miller, Bukowski, Kerouac, Burroughs, Vonnegut, Joseph Heller, et al (notice that you'll find no women on this list), you find it an interesting read just to see where they got some of their sensibilities, but otherwise it gets old fast.<br />The problem with the book is not that there aren't commendable sentiments expressed at times. The opening section where the hero Bardamu enlists in WWI provides many ripe target for C&eacute;line to skewer. Similarly, the subsequent section on his adventures in colonial Africa are tailor-made to set up long bouts of righteous ranting and farcical satire (Although everything is based on his own experiences, at times one gets the feeling C&eacute;line read Conrad's &quot;Heart of Darkness&quot; a few too many times). Throughout the adventures, the hero Bardamu rants continuously about how<br />everyone is engaged in selling themselves and being false in order to prosper-that modern life is a lie, underneath it all, it's disgusting, that people are disgusting. It should be noted that the only two characters who aren't subject to Bardamu's withering scorn are the two truly selfless ones: the prostitute in Detroit who tries desperately to help him, and the guy at the end who does everything to send money to an orphaned niece. C&eacute;line acknowledges that these people exist (barely), but seems unable to know what to do with them-other than not sneer at them.<br />Yes it's a dark, black read that holds nothing sacred. Is it life-changing? Certainly not for me, and I'd be hard pressed to understand how it could be for any reasonably intelligent, critically thinking person today. In the 1930s maybe, but today? In the end the book reminded me of nothing so much as The Catcher in the Rye, another book I find dated and overrated to the extreme.lfless ones: the prostitute in Detroit who tries desperately to help him, and the guy at the end who does everything to send money to an orphaned niece. Cline acknowledges that these people exist (barely), but seems unable to know what to do with them-other than not sneer at them.<br />Yes it's a dark, black read that holds nothing sacred. Is it life-changing? Certainly not for me, and I'd be hard pressed to understand how it could be for any reasonably intelligent, critically thinking person today. In the 1930s maybe, but today? In the end the book reminded me of nothing so much as The Catcher in the Rye, another book I find dated and overrated to the extreme.	2001-11-09
1780261:US	52254603	R13653BVQ7H76J	0375724400	388721998	When We Were Orphans: A Novel	Books	2	72	84	N	N	How not to use The Unreliable Narrator	This is the first Ishiguro book I've read, and while it contains the precise elegant prose I had anticipated, the story itself collapses under the strain of Ishiguro's awkward and inept use of the unreliable narrator. The unreliable narrator is a familiar narrative technique, perhaps more so in film (eg. The Usual Suspects, Memento) than in literature, and for whatever reason, many readers seem to have missed the obvious-and oftimes clumsy-clues Ishiguro provides. However, it's clear early on in this faux mystery that not all Christopher Banks tells the reader is entirely to be trusted.<br />The novel revolves around events in Banks's childhood in the International Settlement in Shanghai, a few years after the turn of the century. This is an idyllic time, as the days drift by while he plays with his Japanese neighbor Akira. In a bizarre turn of events, his father, who works for one of the large British opium importers disappears-kidnapped according to Banks (although we never hear of a ransom note). Soon after this, his mother disappears as well, also kidnapped we are told. When neither reappears, the boy is sent to England, where he tries to fit into British schools and society. This portion is rather interesting, as it no doubt reflects the author's own experience as a young boy transplanted to England. He continues his tale of growing up to become a famous detective by recounting certain episodes, and his developing friendship with a beautiful, but rather pathetic, society girl.<br />Banks is clearly not well adjusted-existing in a semi-delusional state where he is in many ways still a child. From his profession as detective to complete lack of sexuality, he is the epitome of self-repression. His adoption of Jennifer, an orphaned British girl living overseas, offers all kinds of possibilities but ultimately leads nowhere, leaving the reader wondering what purpose the subplot serves other than to reinforce the titular theme. When he abandons her to return to Shanghai in the mid-1930s to &quot;rescue&quot; his kidnapped parents, one wonders why he offered his guardianship at all. The scene in Shanghai upon his return is fairly well-wrought, with the International Settlement a small protected enclave as Japanese invaders try to capture the city from Chinese defenders, If you've read J.G. Ballard's memoir, Empire of the Sun or seen the film, you'll recognize the situation.<br />However, it is at this juncture that the novel starts slipping into the mire. For some reason, Banks seems to think his presence and the resolution of his parents' disappearance will somehow lead to a resolution of the Sino-Japanese conflict-and by extension, world tensions. While we understand at this point that he is deluded, for some reason Ishiguro has the characters around him reinforce this delusion, especially the embassy protocol official Mr. Grayson. At this point, we are confused-for in the first part of the book, Ishiguro uses the discrepancies between statements by supporting characters and Banks recollections to clue us in that his narration is not completely reliable. So, in the second half, when supporting characters apparently support his by now obvious delusions, it goes against the structure Ishiguro's established and renders the narrative a complete muddle. This gets particularly out of hand when in the climactic race to the house where he believes his parents are being held, he encounters Chinese soldiers who both know who he is and eventually agree to help him at the expense of their own orders and safety. At this point the novel loses any hope of redemption, and indeed, when the true circumstances of his parents are made known, it's a revelation worthy of 1950s pulp magazines, not a world-class author.<br />From the standpoint of pure use of language, the book is lovely and quite readable, what remains mystifying is how Ishiguro could have allowed his use of the unreliable narrator to slip its lead and destroy any sense of sympathyand interest we had invested in the characters and outcome.and interest we had invested in the characters and outcome.	2001-11-07
1781797:US	52254603	R10VAC537D2US7	0241140439	239646689	Fortune Hotel (tpb)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Travels From the Other Side	Interesting idea at work here, as editor Champion has assembled seventeen stories, most fiction, but some true, based on the idea of travel. That is to say, writing about how travel affects people, as opposed to traditional travel narrative-almost all involve drugs, sex, or violence. My favorite stories were Helena Mulkerns' &quot;Shiprock,&quot; Toby Litt's &quot;My Cold War,&quot; Douglas Coupland's &quot;She Swallowed Her Pearls on the Day of the Revolution,&quot; Geoff Dyer's &quot;Horizontal Drift,&quot; and Emer Martin's &quot;Sacrificial Shoe.&quot; None of these, however, beats William Sutcliffe's true tale, &quot;The Institute.&quot; John King's &quot;The Beast of Marseille&quot; is based on the English fans visiting Marseille for the 1998 World Cup. While it is mostly in keeping with his excellent books (The Football Factory, Headhunters, England Away), his portrayal of two exploitative journalists is totally over-the-top clumsy and mars the tale. As a whole, this collection is an interesting take on what travel means to people of my generation, as well as good way to sample some England and Ireland's most interesting young writers.	2001-11-06
1783505:US	52254603	R1U20BDCNYQ5KN	0312280106	545414963	Playing the Moldovans at Tennis	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Well Intentioned Comedy That's Well Worth Reading	To enjoy this book, you must first accept the notion that something worthwhile can result from a bet in which a British comedian must play and defeat the starting 11 of the Moldovan national soccer team at tennis. While this admittedly silly bet arose from and attempts to settle an argument (concerning the superiority of natural athleticism with no technique vs. technique with much less natural athleticism), Hawkes suggests it may represent a more important clash, that between those who try and those who do not.<br />Here, his foolish bet takes him to Moldova (a small former Soviet republic sandwiched between Romania and Ukraine, just north of the Black Sea), where he encounters an atmosphere of despondency unlike any he's encountered. As in many former Soviet republics, the transition from communism to capitalism has benefited a small elite, leaving the average citizen without basic services and without much hope. His task there is to overcome not only the obvious problems, such as bureaucratic red tape and language barriers, but the general sense that not much one sets out to do can be accomplished. Of course Hawkes is generally at his funniest when describing his own difficulties, so it's hardly noticeable that the book is halfway done before he finally manages to play his first match. And while his bet is frivolous and pointless, it is to his credit that he realizes this and is still able to use it as a framework in which to show a part of the world that is hardly known to the West. Granted, his cultural, political, and economic observations are not on the highest plane, but they are better than no insight at all. His section on the separatist region of Transnistria is especially worthwhile. A quick search ... will reveal nothing on Moldova save the Lonely Planet guide and a handful of specialist history and political books and monographs. Amazingly, this may be the only general travelogue of Moldova currently in print.<br />Those familiar with his earlier drunken bet-initiated journey (Round Ireland With A Fridge) will find the same good humor (mostly self-deprecating), affection for fellow humanity, willingness to try almost anything, and belief in the kindness of strangers as in his that book. In this case however, his help is much less effective, and he is forced to rely on inner reserves of positivity and good humor to see him through the rough spots. Eventually his quest takes him to Northern Ireland for a quick spell, and then to Israel for a nail-biting climax. I will not reveal the ending, but rest assured, it will astonish you. Overall, Hawkes has his heart in the right place (usually on his sleeve), and only the most cynical will find fault with his self-aware bumbling through Moldova in search of footballers to dismantle on the tennis court.nken bet-initiated journey (Round Ireland With A Fridge) will find the same good humor (mostly self-deprecating), affection for fellow humanity, willingness to try almost anything, and belief in the kindness of strangers as in his that book. In this case however, his help is much less effective, and he is forced to rely on inner reserves of positivity and good humor to see him through the rough spots. Eventually his quest takes him to Northern Ireland for a quick spell, and then to Israel for a nail-biting climax. I will not reveal the ending, but rest assured, it will astonish you. Overall, Hawkes has his heart in the right place (usually on his sleeve), and only the most cynical will find fault with his self-aware bumbling through Moldova in search of footballers to dismantle on the tennis court.	2001-11-05
1787900:US	52254603	R6EV9UWG3T2YA	0897334841	268506778	Cutter's Island: Caesar in Captivity	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Read it in 2 Hours	Taking two lines from the historian Suetonius (&quot;At the age of 25 he sailed for Rhodes and was captured by pirates off the island of Pharmacussa. They kept him prisoner for nearly forty days to his intense annoyance.&quot;), Panella has crafted a novella length exploration of Julius Caesar's mental transformation from politician/poet to great leader. His captivity by the pirate lord Cutter, and subsequent ransom negotiations allow glimpses into both the development of his &quot;command&quot; abilities, as well as his classically educated poetic side. The idleness of being in captivity becomes a device allowing for Caesar to ruminate on his young life. Thus, there are flashbacks throughout the book showing the political climate leading up to his capture, his marriage to Cornelia, and his sensuous (and graphically described) affair with Servila (Brutus's mother). A fair bit of this backstory tries to present him as a man of destiny, a spin that somehow never quite feels right. Toward the end we get Cutter's life story, which is full of the cruelty and gore of ancient Rome, but never really rises above archetype. The lean and precise prose is quite readable, and there are a few rousing moments in the ship-to-ship battles, but it's not really the swashbuckling adventure tale the jacket blurbs would lead you to believe. A cautionary note that has nothing to do with the quality of the prose- the publishers have done their best to create a novel, but be warned, it's really a novella length story. Although the book is 192 pages long, the text doesn't start until page 15, and once you count up all the blank pages and half pages at chapter changes, there's another 60 pages of dead space!	2001-11-01
1789779:US	52254603	R1CI5U0EKL9D1Y	0380794934	156322016	The Calcutta Chromosome	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Overstuffed Fare	This whirling mix of science fiction, medical thriller, satire, historical fiction, and supernatural is both dazzling and ultimately disappointingly confusing. Indeed, it's one of the few books I've come across that essentially requires two readings to approach comprehension. Like myself, the average reader is likely to enjoy the compelling atmosphere and swerving plot Ghosh serves up-but not enough to go back a second time to decipher exactly what was going on throughout it all. Especially after an altogether infuriating ending that has one checking to make sure the last 20 pages didn't fall out of the book!<br />The story is so convoluted that summarizing it is tricky at best. We start in Manhattan of the not too distant future, where computers sort through endless data streams, requiring human attention only when something does not compute. Through a clue generated by his terminal, a computer technician gets immersed in the mysterious disappearance of an Indian colleague of his in Calcutta back in 1995. The Indian vanished while on trying to track down the truth behind Ronald Ross's discovery of the cure for malaria back in 1902. It seems the real-life Ross wasn't trained in medicine, yet his independent research led to a Nobel prize. Ghosh offers the explanation of shadowy cabal who seek to use the malaria virus in their schemes to transfer personality and thus gain immortality. It's a neat concept but becomes unnecessarily complicated and ultimately lost in the mishmash of subtexts on identity, empire, and culture-not to mention the labyrinthine structure of the telling. To Ghosh's credit, the descriptions of rundown future Manhattan, the teeming life of contemporary Calcutta, and turn of the century colonial India are all first rate. It's just a shame that the complicated narrative, with multiple time frames and flashbacks never manages to coalesce into a worthwhile payoff.	2001-10-31
1790520:US	52254603	RL67XT5OJDB9L	0688160964	249213514	Freaky Deaky	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Slightly Better than Usual	I'd have to rate this one marginally better than most of Leonard's stuff, which is to say decent, but not outstanding. Set in Detroi, the story centers on the schemes of a pair of former student radicals from '69-70 or so who meet up again some 15-20 years later. The nastier of the two is Robin, who seems to be dying to recapture the excitement of those heady days, so she convinces former lover, and explosives whiz, Skip to help her blackmail the rich brothers who got them put in jail for three years long ago. Meanwhile, a former member of the police bomb squad is helping a woman trying to bring rape charges against one of the brothers. Mixed into it all is a former Black Panther who is now bodyguard/chauffeur/butler to one of the brothers. Lots of double and tripple-crossing ensues, and in typical Leonard fashion, the criminals are simultaneously clever in planning, and sloppy in executing their schemes. Of course no one speaks normally, as wisecracking and attitude color every line of dialogue. One downside is that there is a subplot the book leads off with that has too much of a coincidental connection with the rest of the characters, and serves to introduce the main character, Chris, is an entirely unnecessary way. Also, the offhand treatment of Gretta/Ginger's rape strikes one as rather awkward and clumsy, if not downright offensive to some. Still, it's better than most of his other books I've read, and a pretty safe bet for a few hours on the plane or beach.	2001-10-30
1791342:US	52254603	R2796AZHLCLLB9	0553575384	291987598	To Say Nothing of the Dog	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Wonderous Melange	This is one of the most interesting literary mixes I've ever come across, all the more surprising as it appears in the form of a science-fiction time-travel book. The book itself is a mix of hard sci-fi, Victorian comedy of errors and manners, and cozy mystery. Literary homages (most notably to Three Men in a Boat) and references abound, including P.G. Wodehouse's Jeeves books, Gibbon's Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, not to mention Tennyson's poetry and Herotodus (who are both quoted throughout). The story has to do with a project in 2057 to rebuild the Coventry Cathedral, and time-traveling historians sent back to study its contents prior to the bombing of 1940. The story is set in motion when one of the historians somehow brings a Victorian-era cat through the time-travel &quot;net,&quot; contravening the natural laws governing time-travel. The heroes must then return the cat in order to correct any &quot;anomalies,&quot; but this gets them enmeshed in a matchmaking fiasco with loads of fun and well-drawn archetypes of the era (the ditzy girl, the absentminded Oxford don, the seance-loving matron, and miscellaneous butlers). And of course, by the end, all mysteries are revealed, everyone is paired off, and everything neatly dovetails. Truly a wondrous feat of writing and imagination.	2001-10-30
1791478:US	52254603	RB2DFR27Y8QPL	0688160964	249213514	Freaky Deaky	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Slightly Better than Usual	I'd have to rate this one marginally better than most of Leonard's stuff, which is to say decent, but not outstanding. Set in Detroi, the story centers on the schemes of a pair of former student radicals from '69-70 or so who meet up again some 15-20 years later. The nastier of the two is Robin, who seems to be dying to recapture the excitement of those heady days, so she convinces former lover, and explosives whiz, Skip to help her blackmail the rich brothers who got them put in jail for three years long ago. Meanwhile, a former member of the police bomb squad is helping a woman trying to bring rape charges against one of the brothers. Mixed into it all is a former Black Panther who is now bodyguard/chauffeur/butler to one of the brothers. Lots of double and tripple-crossing ensues, and in typical Leonard fashion, the criminals are simultaneously clever in planning, and sloppy in executing their schemes. Of course no one speaks normally, as wisecracking and attitude color every line of dialogue. One downside is that there is a subplot the book leads off with that has too much of a coincidental connection with the rest of the characters, and serves to introduce the main character, Chris, is an entirely unnecessary way. Also, the offhand treatment of Gretta/Ginger's rape strikes one as rather awkward and clumsy, if not downright offensive to some. Still, it's better than most of his other books I've read, and a pretty safe bet for a few hours on the plane or beach.	2001-10-29
1791882:US	52254603	R2GA1EQ3K4BMDI	0743406222	236139271	Grift Sense (Tony Valentine Novels)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Decent Stroll Down the Strip	if you're looking for a passable convoluted crime caper a la Elmore Leonard, set amidst the flashing lights of Vegas, look no further. This first in a projected series introduces Tony Valentine, a 62-year-old ex-cop who now works as a security consultant to casinos. His weapon is experience, his computerized database of hustlers, some judo, and the &quot;grift sense&quot; of the title-the ability to sense a scam. All of these serve him well as he gets called in to figure out how one the strip's seediest casinos keeps getting taken at blackjack by one man. A somewhat clumsy prologue foreshadows the discovery that the hustler is in fact renown in the casino world-and thought to be dead. From there it's a fairly average tale of rip-offs, tip-offs, and double crosses as Valentine tries to help his scuzzy employer get hit for a big score. The characters are one's we've all seen before-mostly from Vegas movies like Casino, Hard Eight, and Ocean's Eleven-a veritable lineup of idiosyncratic goons, scummy lawyers, women on the make, bent cops, reformed hustlers, sloppy lieutenants, wisecracking bartenders, and soforth. That's not to say it's not entertaining, because for the most part it is, it's just nothing particularly new. Swain tries hard to inject a subplot, with Valentine and his estranged son, but it never achieves any resonance of consequence. What is ffresh about the book is the behind the scenes casino security and scam stuff that he builds into the plot. If you're into that kind of thing, it's worth reading just for that.	2001-10-29
1792159:US	52254603	R2S5D1C0O300SG	0679779175	687421275	The Consolations of Philosophy	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Inspired but not Inspirational	I came to this book via de Botton's novels and How Proust Can Change Your Life, his previous effort at distilling a dense literary morass into something fresh and alive. As with that previous book, de Botton takes writings I would probably never approach on my own, and mines them for bon mots and ideas to console the modern reader. In seeking to return philosophy to the masses and demonstrate it's relevance to everyday life he takes six of life's dark areas and finds a philosophically-based &quot;consolation&quot; for each. It's an interesting approach, one de Botton compliments and flavors with his own delicate and understated humorous prose.<br />For unpopularity, be offers Socrates, who suggests we look at the logic behind others dislike for us, and if we find it flawed (as we likely will if we are good and honest people), we shall be consoled. Of course, since we often inexplicably crave the approval of people who aren't particularly stable, this approach may not be very useful. But that's another problem altogether. For poverty, de Botton has us consider Epicurus, who believed one needed nothing more than to be surrounded by good friends, decent food, shelter, intellectual stimulation, and-most importantly and problematically for the modern reader-to remove oneself from a position of having to work for someone. In this last condition, one meets the rub of the consolation that many of us may find problematic in a modern capitalist economy (although not one de Botton need worry about, as he apparently just inherited something like half a billion dollars from his father's estate). Schopenhauer's consolation for a broken heart doesn't work as well as the other sections, especially if one starts to add same-sex relationships to the discussion. Montaigne on inadequacy is kind of funny but unmemorable. Seneca on frustration is probably holds up the best: if you have more realistic expectations of life (or at least lower them), you'll face less frustration. Basic, obvious, but somehow lacking in many, many people. The final bit on Nietzche ties in to this somewhat, where he tells us we should be prepared for suffering. The two are somewhat complementary, if rather different in application.<br />The book has been attacked as some sort of &quot;philosophy for dummies&quot; diminution of great thinkers, which is not at all what de Botton is doing. For example, he's not saying that everything Socrates had to say can be boiled down to a consolation for unpopularity, what's he's doing is showing how we can find consolation for a great many problems in the works of great thinkers. The book is meant to provide examples, to entice one into further examination, but not as a substitute. As if there were any doubt, at the back of the book de Botton cites the sources for all his quotes, and suggests further reading, a section more than one critic seems to have missed. Rather, he should be commended for his brevity and clarity in writing about philosophy, and bringing it toward the mainstream. I should say that nothing in book particularly forced me to reexamine my own views toward life or inspired me to change, but I can say I'm better for having read it.ious, but somehow lacking in many, many people. The final bit on Nietzche ties in to this somewhat, where he tells us we should be prepared for suffering. The two are somewhat complementary, if rather different in application.<br />The book has been attacked as some sort of &quot;philosophy for dummies&quot; diminution of great thinkers, which is not at all what de Botton is doing. For example, he's not saying that everything Socrates had to say can be boiled down to a consolation for unpopularity, what's he's doing is showing how we can find consolation for a great many problems in the works of great thinkers. The book is meant to provide examples, to entice one into further examination, but not as a substitute. As if there were any doubt, at the back of the book de Botton cites the sources for all his quotes, and suggests further reading, a section more than one critic seems to have missed. Rather, he should be commended for his brevity and clarity in writing about philosophy, and bringing it toward the mainstream. I should say that nothing in book particularly forced me to reexamine my own views toward life or inspired me to change, but I can say I'm better for having read it.	2001-10-29
1792775:US	52254603	R3OF4GJQIDOEZL	067975833X	289325498	Confederates in the Attic: Dispatches from the Unfinished Civil War	Books	5	2	5	N	N	History that is still very much alive...	I previously encountered journalist and former foreign correspondent Horowitz via his intermittently interesting book on travels in the Middle East, Baghdad Without A Map. Having only a passing interest in the Civil War, I hadn't really considered reading this until a friend of mine strongly recommended it in the course of talking about a mutual friend who is a Civil War reenactor. In any event, once I started reading Horowtiz's exploration of the legacy of the war in the South, I was quickly drawn in. He starts by asking himself why he, as a Jewish kid growing up in Washington, D.C., was so fascinated with the Civil War, and why he had instinctually been drawn to the Confederates as a child. This leads him to deeper questions as to what the war means-particularly to Southerners, and this means doing some extensive traveling through the South and talking to people.<br />The book's strength is that like any good journalist, he gets around and gets people to talk to him-and not self-censor themselves. It starts with him getting to know some reenactors he meets by his house, slowly building a friendship with their leader Rob. As he soon learns, there are two kinds of reenactors, &quot;hardcores&quot; and &quot;farbs.&quot; The first are so authentic that when in character, they refuse to eat anything but period food, and eschew such modern conveniences as tents and the like. They also generally prefer to avoid the battle reenactments, as there is no really authentic way to replicate the experience of being wounded and killed. One gets the sense these guys would kill their mothers for a chance to time travel back to 1861. The latter group, the so-called &quot;farbs&quot; are the more mainstream and harmless variety of reenactors. Horowitz's adventures with the reenactors form a kind of comic respite from the fairly serious tone of the rest of his narrative. At one point he and Rob go on a Civil War road trip of epic proportions, dubbed &quot;The Civil Wargasm,&quot; in which they try and visit as many Civil War historical sites as possible in a 10-day mad dash.<br />Other portions of the book are less carefree, and may prove downright shocking and disturbing to non-Southerners. In the north, the Civil War is history, whereas in the south, it's living history. Most of the war was fought in the south, and, as history bears elsewhere in the world, the losers are more apt to harbor memories than are the victors. Horowitz shows how the memories become mythology, and how this mythology is drawn upon-and often twisted-for all manner of causes. In a number of cases, his follow-up fact checking on various statements reveal a truth divergent from popularly held myth-the legend of Sherman's March being one prime example. On the whole it's a rather depressing portrait of the south, where history is used as an excuse for current problems and where both blacks and whites are both willing to openly badmouth Jews to passing reporters. It's essential reading for anyone in America or elsewhere who thinks the Civil War is a settled issue in our history.which they try and visit as many Civil War historical sites as possible in a 10-day mad dash.<br />Other portions of the book are less carefree, and may prove downright shocking and disturbing to non-Southerners. In the north, the Civil War is history, whereas in the south, it's living history. Most of the war was fought in the south, and, as history bears elsewhere in the world, the losers are more apt to harbor memories than are the victors. Horowitz shows how the memories become mythology, and how this mythology is drawn upon-and often twisted-for all manner of causes. In a number of cases, his follow-up fact checking on various statements reveal a truth divergent from popularly held myth-the legend of Sherman's March being one prime example. On the whole it's a rather depressing portrait of the south, where history is used as an excuse for current problems and where both blacks and whites are both willing to openly badmouth Jews to passing reporters. It's essential reading for anyone in America or elsewhere who thinks the Civil War is a settled issue in our history.	2001-10-29
1793541:US	52254603	RDUWTO136N6ZW	1885418213	56562821	The Hereafter Gang	Books	2	8	13	N	N	Not My Thing...	I went to some effort track this book down, and 'gotta say, it didn't do much for me. The novel follows Doug, a 50+ Texan who hasn't done much in life (except lots of different ladies), as he tries to quit his job and marriage and hit the road. He keeps running into a odd characters who spin him odd tales about their lives. At times these can be funny and compelling, but mostly the book just drifts along as Doug dreams odd dreams and slips into the afterlife. The characters tend to be rather enigmatic, and other than being generally good-natured and ready to enjoy life, it's hard to get much of a sense of them. Doug's afterlife is a paradise in the form of a friendly small town filled with his childhood toys, treats, and heroes (cowboys and WWI German aces) as well as his adult foods and the lovin' of his fantasy woman. Things get progressively less interesting as he tries to figure out what he's supposed to do next. There's some nifty use of language and turns of phrase, but on the whole, it's not m cup of tea and it's not a trip I'd recommend to any of my friends.	2001-10-28
1796991:US	52254603	RMD79P0PVJNDI	0374525455	796176824	Irons in the Fire	Books	3	14	25	N	N	Two Great Essays &amp; Five ... Others	Although I've long heard of the prolific essayist McPhee, I'd never actually read anything by him until now. While I admire his curiosity about the world around him, only of two of the seven essays (all of which were previously published in some form in The New Yorker I believe) really captured my attention. &quot;The Gravel Page&quot; is in fact seventy pages about the compelling subject of geological forensics. It holds together somewhat better than some of the other pieces because McPhee uses several high-profile cases (the kidnapping/murder cases of beer magnate Adolph Coors III in Colorado and DEA agent Enrique Salazar in Mexico) to show how soil analysts can play a key role in solving a crime. Equally compelling (perhaps because it's a topic that has a broader impact), is his foray into the world of auto tire disposal. There are a number of amazing facts he brings to light, the number of tires discarded, the rejection of retreads in the US despite no difference in safety, shredding and recycling entrepreneurs, and most impressive, the amount of recoverable petroleum in each tire. For example, according to McPhee, burning tires yield more energy than lignite coal, with similar emissions. So, let's see, we could be recycling tires for fuel instead of trying to rip more coal of the ground. Hmm, tough call... In any event, these two essays are worth checking the book out of the library for.<br />The other five essays are as follows: &quot;Irons in the Fire&quot; starts out promisingly enough as a behind the scenes look at modern-day brand inspectors in Nevada, complete with rustlers. Unfortunately, unless you have some particular interest in cattle, digressions and its 50+ pages of length may render it rather numbing after a while. The second piece, &quot;Release,&quot; is an entirely mawkish-and thankfully brief-portrait of an author who uses voice-recognition software on his computer to assist his writing. It might have been remarkable fifteen years ago, but we've all seen umpteen of these stories on the local news since then. He tries to milk some humor out of it via the computer's awkward pronunciation, but its just not funny. &quot;In Virgin Forest,&quot; is another brief entry, this time about a bit of primordial deciduous forest just across the river from Manhattan in New Jersey. It's kind of neat to discover how it came to survive in pristine form in such an unlikely place, but there's not a whole lot more to it. &quot;Rinhard at Manheim&quot; is perhaps the oddest piece-it's basically the transcribed ramblings of a friend of McPhee's who's a scout at a &quot;exotic car&quot; auction, as he describes the merits and deficiencies of various luxury sports cars. There doesn't seem to be much point-or even humor-to it. The final essay, on the history, repair, and geological origins of Plymouth Rock is rather tedious on the whole, although geologists, stonemasons or history buffs might find it more worthwhile.'ve all seen umpteen of these stories on the local news since then. He tries to milk some humor out of it via the computer's awkward pronunciation, but its just not funny. &quot;In Virgin Forest,&quot; is another brief entry, this time about a bit of primordial deciduous forest just across the river from Manhattan in New Jersey. It's kind of neat to discover how it came to survive in pristine form in such an unlikely place, but there's not a whole lot more to it. &quot;Rinhard at Manheim&quot; is perhaps the oddest piece-it's basically the transcribed ramblings of a friend of McPhee's who's a scout at a &quot;exotic car&quot; auction, as he describes the merits and deficiencies of various luxury sports cars. There doesn't seem to be much point-or even humor-to it. The final essay, on the history, repair, and geological origins of Plymouth Rock is rather tedious on the whole, although geologists, stonemasons or history buffs might find it more worthwhile.	2001-10-25
1798699:US	52254603	R2PI2TWI4JOPRT	0275966852	616907219	Hitler's Secret Pirate Fleet: The Deadliest Ships of World War II	Books	4	8	9	N	N	An Odd Slice of WWII History	Until picking up this rather sensationally titled book, I'd never heard of the German naval scheme during WWII to arm some old freighters and turn them into camouflaged&quot;commerce raiders.&quot; preying on unsuspecting Allied and neutral cargo ships. It's a fairly interesting story in Duffy's hands-at least for a while. Ship by ship, he takes the reader through the operational history of each of Germany's nine raiders, apparently relying on three earlier histories of the German raiders and a slew of first hand accounts by those who served on them. It's one of the book's weaknesses that Duffy eschews footnotes in favor of a general bibliographical essay at the end, leaving readers to wade through the primary material themselves if so inclined. While there are some fascinating stories to be told (the sinking of the Australian light cruiser Sydney, the capture of prime Allied intelligence on the Pacific, two name two examples), the chapters tend to run together in their blow-by-blow detailing of each ship captured or sunk, it's cargo, tonnage, number of survivors, etc. Still, it's worth dipping into by anyone interested in the history of WWII, or naval history in general.	2001-10-24
1800670:US	52254603	R3APFJ30OC033S	0395437806	836911555	Night Soldiers	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Excellent Book 1 of Furst's WW2 Espionage Output	First of all, no writer can approach Furst's ability to convey the oppressive atmosphere of Europe in the years leading up to WWII and the war years. What LeCarr&eacute; did for the Cold War, Furst does for the fifteen years preceding it. Here, in the first of his six novels so far on the covert intelligence wars of the era, he establishes his style and tone. The book starts in a small fishing village in Bulgaria in the early 1930s, where a teenager in forced to watch a fascist militia beat his brother to death. Furst carefully shows how a Soviet agent eventually comes to his town and recruits him to the NKVD, starting him down a long journey into the darkness of espionage. The book then proceeds in a somewhat fractured episodic manner, as the Bulgarian Khristo grows up as a night soldier (spy), struggling to stay alive and return to a normal life, in his own personal (to borrow the phrase from Celin&eacute;) journey to the end of night.<br />The book takes Khristo from terrifying training in Moscow, to the sad lost cause of the Spanish Civil War (where he sees first hand how Germany used the alliance with Franco as a proving ground for new weapons and tactics), to occupied France, and eventually back through the Balkans. Khristo is a sympathetic character, but like many of Furst's leading men-indeed, this may be a feature of all spies and not Furst's fault-he is a little too enigmatic and withdrawn to fully capture the reader's heart. At the core of the book is a small cadre of friends from his training days, who, despite shifting allegiances and loyalties over the fifteen years or so, try as much as possible to help each other survive. Unfortunately, one of the weaknesses of the book, in it's episodic construction, is that in covering such a large swath of time and locations, it's hard to keep track of who in who (especially once you introduce cover identities and aliases), who they are working for (agencies and factions proliferate), and under what motivation.<br />Despite these difficulties, the book is certainly worth reading for its amazing level of detail and tension in set piece sequences, as well as it's ability to convey a sense of Europe gone mad-trapped between the equal horrors of fascism and Stalinist communism.these difficulties, the book is certainly worth reading for its amazing level of detail and tension in set piece sequences, as well as it's ability to convey a sense of Europe gone mad-trapped between the equal horrors of fascism and Stalinist communism.	2001-10-22
1804521:US	52254603	R1Q05YJL9A5OWB	0345433068	819121026	Mangrove Squeeze	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Moderately Enjoyable	Shames once again puts together a passable-but hardly noteworthy-South Florida thriller in the vein of Carl Hiassen, Elmore Leonard, et al. This time he trots in the tired specter of Russian mafia types running tawdry tourist t-shirt shops as a money laundering operation for the big bucks they make as brokers for ex-Soviet art and weaponry. Against these cardboard villains are arrayed an ex-Wall Street type who left it all to forget about his divorce, take care of his father, and renovate an old hotel; a Jersey transplant called Suki who's stuck in a dead-end job, two creaky old men, and two nice semi-homeless guys. Through it all there's a kind of stumbling, bumbling good naturedness-which serves to heighten the nastiness of the Russians. The outcome is hardly surprising, but it passes the time and is slightly more successful than two other of his books I've read, The Naked Detective and Scavenger Reef,	2001-10-18
1805443:US	52254603	R188TF4K5R0D7R	9998125200	567807025	This Gun for Hire	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Not What I'd Hoped For	Given Greene's world-class reputation, I assumed I was in for a treat -- or at least a solidly diverting yarn. Unfortunately I found myself aching to put this book down and pick up something else. The story is about an assassin working for munitions suppliers who kills an influential British anti-war figure in the days leading up to WWII. He is betrayed and races to confront his betrayers before the police catch up with him. Sounds like good stuff, but for some reason it isn't. Part of the problem is that Greene gets sidetracked into painting little portraits of every peripheral character encountered. While well-fleshed out characters are required ingredients for any good story, Greene goes overboard and the story drags and suffers as a result. Next time I'll try one of his more famous books.	2001-10-18
1805521:US	52254603	R2LHITPMAGSRIL	185367446X	999618445	Rising Sun Victorious	Books	3	7	7	N	N	A Tad Too Technical for This General Reader	In general, counterfactual (aka &quot;alternate&quot;) history tend s to revolve around military engagements, and thus military history. This can range from over-the-top novels in which time-travelers go back to help the Confederacy win the Civil War, to obscure technical monographs by experts delving into the most obscure corners of the past. The best of these reimaginings tend to fall somewhere in between, for example the collection &quot;What If: The World's Foremost Military Historians Imagine What Might Have Been.&quot; Given that most of the authors of this particular volume are current or former military personnel, it understandably resides more in the specialist's camp. The essays all seek to examine alternate Japanese strategies in the Pacific, while maintaining as much similarity to reality as possible, in terms of weather, personalities, available forces, etc. Unfortunately, the writing is often a shade too technical to be of interest to the general reader, and when the authors do try and break out of the dry history mode, the prose gets rather hackneyed. The most interesting scenarios were editor Tsouras's look at what might have occurred had the Japanese focused on attacking the Soviet Union instead of the U.S., and Frank Shirer's look as the ramifications of a third wave attack on Pearl Harbor. A number of the other essays were too technical in a maritime sense for me to get into. All in all, if you're deep into naval military history, it's definitely worth a read, but for the general reader, it's probably too detailed a collection.	2001-10-18
1807572:US	52254603	R2ZG3FXQN4KV1L	0786866802	290198458	Goats	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An Amazing Coming of Age Novel	A few years back I stumbled over and loved Poirier's excellent short story collection, Naked Pueblo, and I'm glad to report his debut novel displays the same strong writing and sympathetically quirky offbeat characters as his short stories. Like his short stories, the book is set primarily in Tucson, although there are chapters in Pennsylvania, and a few short visits to Washington, D.C. The story centers around Ellis, a 14-year-old who is leaving his odd domestic life with his mother in Tucson for a stuffy East Coast boarding/prep school. His upbringing has been somewhat haphazardly managed by Wendy-his hippie turned New Age mother whom he addresses by her first name, of course-and a quiet pothead relic of the early '70s called \\"Goat Man,\\" who raises hybrid marijuana and goats while living for free in the pool house. His father...), lives out east and hasn't played much of a role in Ellis's life, so he's mostly relied on Goat Man as his male role model. Goat Man, on the other hand, is mainly a wiser, older brother figure to him, setting him up with all the herb he needs, turning him on to Peter Tosh, and going on goat trekking trips.<br />Poirier sets this up odd background and proceeds to show Ellis's transformation as he enters the no less bizarre environment of his first year of boarding school. While he finds out that his father isn't as bad as he thought, and that there's more to life than pot, Goat Man engages in a low-intensity war with Wendy's smarmy new boyfriend, Bennet, who wants Goat Man gone. The narrative switches back and forth as both have little adventures, building to a climactic trip to Mexico and goat trek back across the border that highlights the changes Ellis has undergone and the cowardice behind Goat Man's laid-back persona.The story brims with authenticity throughout, from the crew team's erg sessions at prep school to the ornery goats in the desert. Poirier perfectly captures quintessential teenage boy moments like Ellis's first romantic interest and subsequent crushing disillusionment.<br />As with many coming of age novels, Ellis is often remarkably mature and sensible for his age, but Poirier shows us how came to be this way, living with his space cadet mother (he pays all the bills for her). Indeed, all the characters pop from the page as fully recognizable and sympathetic individuals, from Ellis's father's genuinely nice and bright new girlfriend, to Bennet's wanna-be-slacker...niece, to Ellis's priggish roommate and his booze-soaked older brother. The pace is languid but compelling, with a sort of deadpan, wry humor coursing throughout. Somehow, Poirier manages to be poignant and charming without being mawkish or sentimental. The three closest books I can think of are Jervey  Tervalon's \\"Living For the City,\\" Chris Fuhrman's \\"The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys,\\" and Tom Perrotta's \\"Bad Haircut.\\"nterest and subsequent crushing disillusionment.<br />As with many coming of age novels, Ellis is often remarkably mature and sensible for his age, but Poirier shows us how came to be this way, living with his space cadet mother (he pays all the bills for her). Indeed, all the characters pop from the page as fully recognizable and sympathetic individuals, from Ellis's father's genuinely nice and bright new girlfriend, to Bennet's wanna-be-slacker...niece, to Ellis's priggish roommate and his booze-soaked older brother. The pace is languid but compelling, with a sort of deadpan, wry humor coursing throughout. Somehow, Poirier manages to be poignant and charming without being mawkish or sentimental. The three closest books I can think of are Jervey  Tervalon's \\"Living For the City,\\" Chris Fuhrman's \\"The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys,\\" and Tom Perrotta's \\"Bad Haircut.\\"	2001-10-17
1814532:US	52254603	R4UU0L1Q3ENQL	1883513006	446096482	Costa Rica: A Traveler's Literary Companion (Traveler's Literary Companions)	Books	3	38	42	N	N	A Fleeting Impression	BEFORE TRAVELLING overseas, I always try and read some literature from the places I'm visiting, so I certainly applaud the spirit of the &quot;Traveler's Literary Companion&quot; series. As there doesn't seem to be much in the way of Costa Rican literature available in translation, this anthology is invaluable. However, I'm afraid I didn't find it as illuminating as the reviewers below. While the idea of grouping the 26 short stories by geographical region sounds like a good idea, in practice, I didn't find regional differences embodied in the stories to be distinctive enough to warant such arrangement. Perhaps a better grouping would have been coastal, inland, mountainous, and urban, I'm not sure. Another possible reason I might not have found the selections very evocative is their length. There are 26 stories by 20 authors (six have two stories in the collection) over 220 pages, so one gets more a sense of vignettes with fleeting impressions than a solid sense of what the people or places are like. The one aspect that does appear in the many of the stories is the importance of nature in Costa Rica, both as a source of beauty and as something to struggle against.	2001-10-10
1814534:US	52254603	R384ARYV9CWWI0	158234132X	906848148	Sherlock Holmes: The Missing Years; The Adventures of the Great Detective in India and Tibet	Books	3	16	20	N	N	A Winning Effort Stumbles at the End	Most people who know a little about Arthur Conan Doyle's Sherlock Holmes series know that at one point Doyle got sick of the detective series and killed off his star character, only to be forced into &quot;resurrecting&quot; him after a two year absence. Here, in one of the many, many, many, modern takes on the Holmes series, eminent Tibetan author Norbu details Holmes adventures incognito in India and Tibet during those two years. The role of Dr. Watson (both as bumbling sidekick and chronicler) is here assumed by Hurree Chandar Mookerjee, a Bengali spy lifted from yet another work of fiction, Rudyard Kipling's &quot;Kim&quot; (and just to be totally clear, he was based on a real Indian who spied for the British!). The adventures initially consist of a plot by the henchmen of Holmes' now-dead nemesis, Moriarity, to avenge their leader's death. Holmes ends up hiding out and getting the notion to make a pilgrimage to Lhasa to meet the Dalai Lamasomething strictly forbidden for Westerners. This leads to the second main adventure, which involves helping the young 13th Dalai Lama (a man critical to real-life modern Tibetan history) evade the deadly machinations of the powerful Manchu Imperial agents in Lhasa.<br />Norbu should first and foremost be commended for being able to almost perfectly capture the correct period speech for each character (there is a lengthy glossary at the back for all the Hinustani phrases and period slang). I say&quot; almost&quot; because I found Hurree's speech to be just a little too over the top, even for the type of educated servant of the Empire he isit's just a shade too forced at times. Norbu has also captured the period perfectly and manages to seamlessly insert his own agenda by portraying early Chinese imperialism in Tibet. The portrayal of Holmes is excellent (enthusiastic, abrasive, arrogant, drug abuser) up to a point. That point is the final quarter of the book which starts melding the Holmesian world of deduction and reason with the Tibetan world of mysticism and occult powers. Up until then, I had been having great fun, but once people started throwing around hellfire and erecting mental shields and whatnot, I lost faith and interest in the whole exercise. It's not that I'm prejudiced against such things (I've played sword and sorcery role-playing games for 15 years), I just don't think they belong in the hyper-deductive world of Sherlock Holmes. It's well known that Conan Doyle had a strong belief in the occult and was fascinated with the spirit world, but to mix that in with Holmes just rubs me wrong.n with the Tibetan world of mysticism and occult powers. Up until then, I had been having great fun, but once people started throwing around hellfire and erecting mental shields and whatnot, I lost faith and interest in the whole exercise. It's not that I'm prejudiced against such things (I've played sword and sorcery role-playing games for 15 years), I just don't think they belong in the hyper-deductive world of Sherlock Holmes. It's well known that Conan Doyle had a strong belief in the occult and was fascinated with the spirit world, but to mix that in with Holmes just rubs me wrong.	2001-10-10
1815010:US	52254603	R13RTBCLYA4TIY	0312874030	937446490	The Pickup Artist	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Neat Premise &amp; Details, but Weakish Trip	Sure to be compared to the Ray Bradbury classic, Fahrenheit 451, Bisson's satirical romp posits a future in which 20th century works of art (books, films, records, paintings, etc.) are being systematically deleted to make room for new artists. Hank Shapiro works for the Federal Bureau of Arts and Information as a &quot;pick up artist,&quot; (kind of a repo man/IRS auditor) employed to make house calls to confiscate items that have been &quot;deleted.&quot; The story follows what happens when he confiscates a Hank Williams record and has the urge to play it before destroying it (strictly against the rules). It seems his father, who abandoned him, named him after the singer, and Hank hopes to catch a glimpse of his father through the music, which he has never heard. This leads him to an illegal underground &quot;Misdemeanor Cafe&quot; where he tries to buy a record-player but ends up losing the record, and eventually on a surreal cross-country quest with a long-pregnant woman, his ailing dog, an amazingly resilient homing bug, and a dead clone Indian as companions.<br />Oddly enough, once the road trip starts, the book starts to rapidly loose steam. Bisson has a knack for great little details like various futuristic drugs, including Half-Life, which allows the dead to speak (Hilariously, they tend to say things like, &quot;Oh no! I'm dead aren't I? Tell me I'm not dead!&quot;). Or the giant landfill being burrowed through by miners on a drug called &quot;Dig&quot; who retrieve old ephemera that gets sold in &quot;flee&quot; markets that straddle state borders. Vehicles generally run on a massive electrical grid, and Indian casino chips function as a currency franca. But even with these nifty details, the tripin which Hank is trying to recover the album, and the woman is trying to reunite with an old lovenever really goes anywhere interesting.<br />Fortunately, every other chapter is a history of how the deletion system came into being, starting with terrorist acts against art and museums, and continuing with the support of the shadowy software giant &quot;Mr. Bill&quot; (Bill Gates, duh), and a celebrity trial. This history shows how the production of art has outpaced the world's ability to absorb it, placing new artists at a stifling competitive disadvantage. It's a kind of interesting satirical concept that Bisson riffs on rather well, but it can't completely conceal the tepidness of the road trip chapters.t acts against art and museums, and continuing with the support of the shadowy software giant &quot;Mr. Bill&quot; (Bill Gates, duh), and a celebrity trial. This history shows how the production of art has outpaced the world's ability to absorb it, placing new artists at a stifling competitive disadvantage. It's a kind of interesting satirical concept that Bisson riffs on rather well, but it can't completely conceal the tepidness of the road trip chapters.	2001-10-10
1815126:US	52254603	R3PZHCJNRIPQAY	8172233698	346702746	Mandala of Sherlock Holmes	Books	3	13	15	N	N	A Winning Story Stumbles at the End	Most people who know a little about Arthur Conan Doyle's Sherlock Holmes series know that at one point Doyle got sick of the detective series and killed off his star character, only to be forced into &quot;resurrecting&quot; him after a two year absence. Here, in one of the many, many, many, modern takes on the Holmes series, eminent Tibetan author Norbu details Holmes adventures incognito in India and Tibet during those two years. The role of Dr. Watson (both as bumbling sidekick and chronicler) is here assumed by Hurree Chandar Mookerjee, a Bengali spy lifted from yet another work of fiction, Rudyard Kipling's &quot;Kim&quot; (and just to be totally clear, he was based on a real Indian who spied for the British!). The adventures initially consist of a plot by the henchmen of Holmes' now-dead nemesis, Moriarity, to avenge their leader's death. Holmes ends up hiding out and getting the notion to make a pilgrimage to Lhasa to meet the Dalai Lama-something strictly forbidden for Westerners. This leads to the second main adventure, which involves helping the young 13th Dalai Lama (a man critical to real-life modern Tibetan history) evade the deadly machinations of the powerful Manchu Imperial agents in Lhasa.<br />Norbu should first and foremost be commended for being able to almost perfectly capture the correct period speech for each character (there is a lengthy glossary at the back for all the Hinustani phrases and period slang). I say&quot; almost&quot; because I found Hurree's speech to be just a little too over the top, even for the type of educated servant of the Empire he is-it's just a shade too forced at times. Norbu has also captured the period perfectly and manages to seamlessly insert his own agenda by portraying early Chinese imperialism in Tibet. The portrayal of Holmes is excellent (enthusiastic, abrasive, arrogant, drug abuser) up to a point. That point is the final quarter of the book which starts melding the Holmesian world of deduction and reason with the Tibetan world of mysticism and occult powers. Up until then, I had been having great fun, but once people started throwing around hellfire and erecting mental shields and whatnot, I lost faith and interest in the whole exercise. It's not that I'm prejudiced against such things (I've played sword and sorcery role-playing games for 15 years), I just don't think they belong in the hyper-deductive world of Sherlock Holmes. It's well known that Conan Doyle had a strong belief in the occult and was fascinated with the spirit world, but to mix that in with Holmes just rubs me wrong.th the Tibetan world of mysticism and occult powers. Up until then, I had been having great fun, but once people started throwing around hellfire and erecting mental shields and whatnot, I lost faith and interest in the whole exercise. It's not that I'm prejudiced against such things (I've played sword and sorcery role-playing games for 15 years), I just don't think they belong in the hyper-deductive world of Sherlock Holmes. It's well known that Conan Doyle had a strong belief in the occult and was fascinated with the spirit world, but to mix that in with Holmes just rubs me wrong.	2001-10-10
1815566:US	52254603	R1Z330QU858QKC	0060187239	630454514	April 1865: The Month That Saved America	Books	3	16	22	N	N	Interesting History but Overlong and Overblown	Anyone interested in American's transition from Civil War to modern nation would be well-advised to slog through this weighty volume-even with all its deficiencies. Winik's premise is that the month of April 1865 was a pivotal moment in American history (one of the &quot;tipping points&quot; that are currently in vogue in the field of popular history) in which the nation could have plunged into further chaos. His thesis is that only the sound and statesmanlike judgment of a few men (Lincoln, Lee, and Grant, primarily) resulted in a lasting peace and the country we are today. This of course mandates that you buy into the &quot;great man&quot; school of thought-one that asserts that history is made by &quot;great men&quot; making &quot;important decisions.&quot; Winik interweaves this notion with another currently popular strain of inquiry, counterfactulaism (better known as &quot;What If? scenarios). What emerges is an overblown book-length treatment of what have been an interesting dinner conversation or magazine piece.<br />Winik excels at recreating on there ground,&quot;you are there&quot; moments, especially the evacuation of Richmond, the surrenders of Lee and Johnson, and the death of Lincoln. Unfortunately this comes at at a cost, as Winik indulges in breathless, overstated prose throughout the book, never using one adjective when three will do the same work. The sloppy writing results in many of his ideas being repeated several times throughout the book. Winik appears to have done an excellent job of research, although he's clearly writing outside his field of expertise (as the errors othes have pointed out attest to). In order to bolster the &quot;counterfactual&quot; side of his argument, he seems to have exaggerated the Confederate capability for prolonged guerilla warfare. And to bolster his &quot;great man&quot; ideas, he seems to have largely bought into the Robert E. Lee mythos. To fill out the book, he includes lengthy sketches of important men of the time, such as Lincoln, Grant, Sherman, Lee, Jefferson Davis, Joe Johnston, Nathan Bedford Forrest, Booth, and so on. While interesting, they interrupt the flow of the narrative and more properly belong as sidebars. There are all kinds of other digressions throughout the book, that, while interesting, have no direct bearing on Winik's thesis.<br />In the end, the book must be commended for bringing some lesser-known events of the time to light, fleshing out some of the better known ones, and generally emphasizing their chronological proximity. One only wishes Winik was better able to restrain himself in recounting the history (throughout the book, people and events are the &quot;most,&quot; &quot;best,&quot; &quot;worst,&quot; &quot;unequaled&quot; and so on), and less prone to accepting the Lee mythos at face value. A kind of interesting book to read along with it would be Tony Horowitz's Confederates in the Attic.he time, such as Lincoln, Grant, Sherman, Lee, Jefferson Davis, Joe Johnston, Nathan Bedford Forrest, Booth, and so on. While interesting, they interrupt the flow of the narrative and more properly belong as sidebars. There are all kinds of other digressions throughout the book, that, while interesting, have no direct bearing on Winik's thesis.<br />In the end, the book must be commended for bringing some lesser-known events of the time to light, fleshing out some of the better known ones, and generally emphasizing their chronological proximity. One only wishes Winik was better able to restrain himself in recounting the history (throughout the book, people and events are the &quot;most,&quot; &quot;best,&quot; &quot;worst,&quot; &quot;unequaled&quot; and so on), and less prone to accepting the Lee mythos at face value. A kind of interesting book to read along with it would be Tony Horowitz's Confederates in the Attic.	2001-10-10
1815938:US	52254603	R3I1QX1RV7JEKY	0375756604	357219704	Pipe Dream: A Novel (Strivers Row)	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Crack -n- Clich&eacute;s	Former addict Jones takes you deep into the world of Philadelphia crack junkies with his debut thriller, but this dark trip is somehwat weakened by a clich&eacute; plot that fails to support the pain and suffering of his characters. He's a writer clearly at ease in describing the evils of the crack world, but has to resort to a pretty standard police corruption plot to propel the story and build sympathy for four pipeheads on the run from the police. It all starts when a popular Latino city councilman is shot dead in a crackhouse (this already strains credulity to the limit, as if any politician on note would be stupid enough to put themselves in such a situation in the post-Marion Barry era). A pipehead is falsely ID'd as the killer, and goes on the run with his pipehead woman, his smart pipehead buddy, and his buddy's pipehead woman friend. The first three are all at the bottom of the crack chain, living day to day, just to squeeze enough money together to get the next hit. The fourth is a still-respectable nurse desperately trying to cling to her middle-class life, but steadily being sucked in by the pipe.<br />While the foursome scramble to stay one step ahead of a corrupt police dragnet, they spill their guts to each other between sessions of smoke and sex. Clearly Jones wants the reader to understand and sympathize with these people, and recognize how even the best people can derail themselves through drugs. However, many of the &quot;confessional&quot; speeches are just that, speeches. They don't sound natural, which is in sharp contrast the rest of the book, where Jones ably captures the rhythms of dialogue between real people. Meanwhile, the cops (corrupt and noble alike) who pursue the foursome are fairly cardboard creations. It doesn't help things that the corrupt cops get unbelievably trigger-happy and stupid as their plans start to unravel, further straining the already played corruption plot. It might actually work better on film, as there's less time to notice such flaws in a well-paced and well-acted movie.<br />In the end, we do care what happens to the four pipeheads, but when they refuse to do the easy thing and leave the city, Jones sets up an entirely predictable climax. It's definitely worth reading if nothing else to gain some insight into the devastating world of crack. I liked Nichelle Tramble's book (also published by Striver's Row) &quot;The Dying Ground,&quot; quite a bit better, and also the latest George Pelecanos book, &quot;Shame the Devil&quot; which is set in D.C. An excellent (but entirely different style) of book about the devastating world of addiction is Irvine Welsh's portrayal of heroin addicts in &quot;Trainspotting.&quot;tice such flaws in a well-paced and well-acted movie.<br />In the end, we do care what happens to the four pipeheads, but when they refuse to do the easy thing and leave the city, Jones sets up an entirely predictable climax. It's definitely worth reading if nothing else to gain some insight into the devastating world of crack. I liked Nichelle Tramble's book (also published by Striver's Row) &quot;The Dying Ground,&quot; quite a bit better, and also the latest George Pelecanos book, &quot;Shame the Devil&quot; which is set in D.C. An excellent (but entirely different style) of book about the devastating world of addiction is Irvine Welsh's portrayal of heroin addicts in &quot;Trainspotting.&quot;	2001-10-09
1819361:US	52254603	RYN2NLXDO2XLT	0312863535	333801391	The Wall of the Sky, The Wall of the Eye	Books	3	7	8	N	N	2 Great Stories, 5.... Aren't	With this collection of seven stories (three of which are reprints from Asimov's) Lethem continues to befuddle me. I loved Motherless Brooklyn, Gun With Occasional Music, and a short story in the Best of Crank anthology&Ntilde;but I hated Amnesia Moon and another story in Best of Crank. While all the stories in this collection benefit from brilliant premises and Lethem's dexterous prose only the two best two (\\"The Happy Man\\" and \\"Vanilla Dunk,\\" both from Asimov's) have true \\"endings.\\" The other five trail off into nothingness or incomprehensible weirdness that make me wonder if Lethem's subconscious is bound by the old writer's adage that no ending is better than a bad ending.<br />\\"The Happy Man\\" features a dead man who is raised from the dead so he can financially support his family, the catch is that his consciousness must reside in hell part of the time. There he has bizarre nightmares that lead to an unfortunately predictable denouement. In \\"Vanilla Dunk,\\" professional basketball players are issued suits giving them skills of former greats. From this interesting idea, Lethem fabricates one of the best sports stories I've ever read, as an obnoxious white kid wins the \\"draft lottery\\" and gets to be the next Michael Jordan and racial tensions ensue. \\"Light and the Sufferer\\" follows a crack addict, his brother, and the mysterious alien who follows them around New York. The humans' story ends rather obviously, but the significance of the aliens is left somewhat obscure. \\"Forever, Said the Duck\\" is about a cocktail party inhabited by clones of everyone who's had sex with the two hosts. It's promising enough at first, but degenerates into a psychedelic nonsense. The nifty notion of \\"The Hardened Criminals\\" is that convicts are physically hardened and used as bricks for a massive prison tower. Lethem seemed totally unable to make anything out of the premise, however, and when a young criminal meets his father in the wall, the result is rather forced. \\"Five ...\\" presents the mystery of a woman who has sex with a man and \\"loses\\" two weeks of her life. Unfortunately, the story implodes rather than leading anywhere interesting. The final story, \\"Sleepy People\\" is simply odd and makes you wonder why it was included.<br />Lethem is certainly a creative genius, however, he's still pretty hit or miss in harnessing his creativity. Sometimes he doesn't seem to know what to do with it and ends up writing himself into a bizarre corner. Still, I'll continue to read him to catch the sparkling stuff.mystery of a woman who has sex with a man and \\"loses\\" two weeks of her life. Unfortunately, the story implodes rather than leading anywhere interesting. The final story, \\"Sleepy People\\" is simply odd and makes you wonder why it was included. <br />Lethem is certainly a creative genius, however, he's still pretty hit or miss in harnessing his creativity. Sometimes he doesn't seem to know what to do with it and ends up writing himself into a bizarre corner. Still, I'll continue to read him to catch the sparkling stuff.	2001-10-04
1833424:US	52254603	R3LU2A1VBAW2FM	0140185011	37294671	Travels with My Aunt	Books	3	23	31	N	N	A Bittersweet Tale of Middle-Age	Finally, a Graham Greene book I sort of liked (following disappointing experiences with Stamboul Train and This Gun For Hire)! That said, it's not great stuff, but it's at least fairly entertaining, diverting, and sad. The tale is of Henry, a middle-aged bachelor (and presumably virgin) who has been forced to retire from his bank job after 30 years. He's a total zero, dull and timid, with nothing to look forward to but 30 years of watering his dahlias. At his mother's funeral he meets his Aunt Augusta for the first time since his baptism, and she immediately rocks his world by announcing that his mother was in fact not this biological mother. She then proceeds to disrupt his empty life by insisting on his accompaniment for a various trips, notably a ride on the Orient Express to Istanbul, and a furtive trip to Paraguay. She's old, but with way more zest than her nephew, and their interplay is a clear call for everyone to live life and not let it drift by (carpe diem and all that). Of course, her interpretation of this involves smuggling a gold ingot, running around with a young Sierra Leonian pot merchant, and tracking down her Italian war criminal lover-all while spinning tales of her life and loves. Of course, it's obvious to everyone except Henry that his &quot;aunt&quot; is his real mother, but that the one story which goes untold. In the end, it's hard not to feel sad for the pitiful Henry, whose passive approach to life is characterized as being a product of his upbringing.	2001-09-21
1834551:US	52254603	R3E58JMWVQI6PJ	0374226024	716195650	Highlanders : A Journey to the Caucasus in Quest of Memory	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Excellent Material on the Northern Caucuses	Israeli journalist Karny has assembled a massive and somewhat rambling book attempting to capture the history and spirit of the &quot;Highlanders&quot; who dwell in the Caucuses. Part history, part memoir, part travelogue, part contemporary reportage, the book would have benefited from slightly more focus. What we get is 70 pages on the Circassians, who are three tribes spread across several provinces and regions to the north of Georgia (and much of the Middle East and Western world). Then come 125 pages on Daghetsan, which borders the Caspian Sea, Azerbaijan, and Chechnya. Part three is 150 pages on Chechnya, which would have brought things to a nice climax. However, Karny leaves the Northern (currently Russian) Caucuses and presses on for a further-comparatively skimpy-55 pages on Armenia and Azerbaijan. This last section is troublesome in that by including it, Karny's book discusses all the major players in the region except Georgia! (Perhaps he felt that country had already been well-covered in Peter Nasmyth's recent book, Georgia: In the Mountains of Poetry) One is left with the impression that he has included it because the Azeri-Armenian conflict is such a vivid illustration of his thesis concerning the use and manipulation of history and memory in the region that he couldn't resist putting it in.<br />The subjectivity of history and memory in the Caucuses is one of Karny's main themes, as is the fact that many of the unique cultures and languages are dying out, victims of modernization and Russian schools. Karny exhibits a marked ambivalence about the highlander desire to never forget the past. While he admires this trait for its role in maintaining culture, and resisting invaders, he also sees it as a force of division in contemporary times-sometimes leading to self-destruction (in the case of Chechnya). Of course the history he shares gives plenty of justification for continued anger against the Russians, who invaded first in the 1830s, occupied the area, and under Stalin engaged in mass relocation and killings against many Caucasian nationalities.<br />The book emerged from a number of trips Karny took to the region from 1993-1999, and he writes with a steady knowledge of history and contemporary events. He is perhaps a little too fond of reproducing conversations with various officials he meets with, but his flair for describing the everyday people he meets makes up for it. The book is peppered throughout with photos taken on his travels which aren't always the best, but are invaluable for putting a face on the people and places he talk about. If nothing else, one should read the section on Chechnya for a better understanding on why they continue to resist rule from Moscow. Particularly enlightening is his discussions of the various strains of Sufism most Chechens follow, and how they influence the resistance.and under Stalin engaged in mass relocation and killings against many Caucasian nationalities.<br />The book emerged from a number of trips Karny took to the region from 1993-1999, and he writes with a steady knowledge of history and contemporary events. He is perhaps a little too fond of reproducing conversations with various officials he meets with, but his flair for describing the everyday people he meets makes up for it. The book is peppered throughout with photos taken on his travels which aren't always the best, but are invaluable for putting a face on the people and places he talk about. If nothing else, one should read the section on Chechnya for a better understanding on why they continue to resist rule from Moscow. Particularly enlightening is his discussions of the various strains of Sufism most Chechens follow, and how they influence the resistance.	2001-09-20
1836559:US	52254603	R2BAS85DXXOZC3	1852422068	54188382	Murder in Memoriam (Mask Noir)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Interesting History, Bad Mystery	Daeninckx is apparently a very prolific mystery writer in his native France, and this book won the &quot;Grand Prix de litt&eacute;rature polici&egrave;re&quot; in 1984. Unfortunately for the non-French reader, much of it depends on a knowledge of-or at least a strong interest in-domestic French politics and infighting following WWII. I had originally picked this up because I had liked another of his books in translation, A Very Profitable War, and this one revolves around a murder that takes place during pro-Algerian demonstrations in 1961 (which sounded intriguing). When the murdered man's son is himself murdered some 20 years later in Toulouse, a local police inspector starts trying to figure if there's a connection between the two killings. Mostly this is an excuse for Daeninckx to highlight some of the lowlights in French civil history, mainly bureaucratic zeal in assisting German occupiers with rounding up Jews, and later the massacre (and subsequent cover-up) of unarmed Algerian demonstrators on October 17, 1961 by French paramilitary police. There's actually quite a lot of interesting political history here, but there are no well-drawn characters, nor decent writing to carry it along. A noble effort at exhuming history that many French, one suspects, would rather leave forgotten, but not the most engaging story.	2001-09-18
1837672:US	52254603	R27SKQIRA76TEY	0140284087	345200515	Carry On, Jeeves (A Jeeves and Bertie Novel)	Books	5	40	42	N	N	Corking Stuff	These ten short Jeeves and Wooster tales originally appeared in 1925 and three-quarters of a century later provide an excellent entry point to Wodehouse's comic series. The Jeeves and Wooster stories generally follow the same template, the young, wealthy airhead Wooster or one of his upper-crust pals gets in some sticky social situation, and it is up to his genius butler Jeeves to devise an ingenious solution to the quandary. Often the stories involve some manner of deception, misunderstanding, or often, mistaken identity-and sometimes, Jeeves' scheme backfires, resulting in even greater hilarity (although as with every comic tale, all is set right by the end). The stories can fairly be compared to contemporary TV sitcoms, as they to reply on recurring (often over the top) characters, a rarefied setting, a single type of humor, and recurring situations. Simply put, if you like one Wooster story (and don't get sick of them), you're going to like them all. Much of this can be explained by Wodehouse's mastery of the language and constant deft turns of phrase, period slang, and comic timing. Those who deride the shallow subject matter and milieu of the Jeeves and Wooster series need to recall the context in which these stories appeared. Only a few years removed from the horrors of World War I-an event that is never alluded to in the series, despite the loss of an entire generation of British young men-the stories can be viewed as a bandage of sorts, an attempt to transport the reader to a world far removed from the traumatic recovery from the Great War. Not to mention Wodehouse's clear depiction of the upper classes as wastrels and idiots of the highest order when compared to the street savvy of the servants (as exemplified by Jeeves). Of course, one doesn't read Wodehouse for social commentary or as a salve these days, but for his dry wit and keen command of the written word.	2001-09-17
1850164:US	52254603	R1JMZCQ32X8D37	0140298517	367419940	The Basque History of the World: The Story of a Nation	Books	3	8	13	N	N	Strong on Culture &amp; History, Weak on Politics	By the end of this generalist history of the Basque people I was of two minds. On the one hand, Kurlansky has written a warm compendium of things and people Basque, filled with interesting little tidbits to store away (eg. the Jesuits were founded by two Basques), enlivened with traditional recipes. On the other hand, in trying to also deliver a readable account of Basque political history, he overextends his abilities, resulting in an unabashedly sympathetic portrayal of Basque nationalism, particularly the ETA terrorist group. And while most of the book focuses on Basque culture (especially language), it all leads up to a dissapointing treatment of their place in the new millenium. The detailing of mistreatment throughout Spanish national history- epecially under Franco-is extremely vivid and provides plenty of justification for sympathy and certainly legitimates the Basque desire to &quot;let us be what we are.&quot; What it does not do it allow anyone to gloss over the uglier side of that desire, as perpetrated by a small minority of extremists who terrorize even thir fellow Basques. Kurlansky certainly deserves kudos for bringing the culture of this somewhat obscure nation to broader attention, but one wishes he'd left the modern political history to a more astute analsyst. This weakness is further undermined by the lack of footnotes or citations of any kind that might allow interested readers to dig a little further.	2001-09-04
1856118:US	52254603	R1L75051K2OHPW	0061097497	113337875	Other Worlds	Books	2	0	1	N	N	Two Tepid Ghost Stories	I've never read anything by Michaels (who also writes under the name Elizabth Peters), but this seemed mildly interesting (although I gather this book is nothing like her other works). The premise here is neat enough, we are taken to an old-fashioned gentlemen's club somehere in time and allowed to eavesdrop on a convocation of experts on trickery, pschology, and the paranormal, including Harry Houdini, Sir Arthur Conan-Doyle, a veiled Sigmind Freud, Nandor Fodor, and one or two others. They gather to share their research on unexplained paranormal events and propose solutions based on their own theories. The first tale is about the &quot;Bell Witch&quot; hauntings in Tennessee (which I had never heard of). The &quot;ghost story&quot; just barely maintained my interest, but when the sleuths started proposing their solutions, the writing got overly clever in trying to replicate the mannerisms of each. The second story &quot;The Phelps Case&quot; failed to hold my interest and I moved on to other things. If you're into ghost stories you might like this, but otherwise I'd suggest giving it a miss.	2001-08-30
1857445:US	52254603	R15XQZZARY0KJ3	0767903862	430278994	In a Sunburned Country	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Too Rushed	Once again Bryson has produced a frothy, lightweight, amusing, and eminently readable travelogue-albeit one that feels a bit rushed (perhaps in order to get out in time for the Sydney Olympics?). Having now read four of his books, I find that Bryson is at his best when he's on a fixed agenda, such as in A Walk In the Woods or Neither Here Nor There, rather than grand tours such as this and Notes From A Small Island. Bryson's approach to Australia is to go arrive with a pile of books and combine a route which allows him to hit all the major attractions for a day with a schedule that allows him few digressions. He's a big fan (as am I) of walking around to get a sense of a place, frequenting pubs, museums, and used bookstores. Armed with smidgens of history and awfully interesting biology factoids, his constant sense of wonder at Australia is bound to send oodles of tourists there in the coming years. What's lacking is any sense of the Australian people, other than general impressions, since he rarely interacts with them except in service situations. And while he gives a synopsis of the mistreatment of Aborigines, and concludes that they've been hard done by, they never show up as people in his travels. This is rather like the entire book actually, brief impressions that often exhibit genuine insight (often combined with affection and amusement) despite fleeting contact, but no real depth. Still, there are plenty of great discoveries within its pages (I especially liked the 12-foot long earthworms).	2001-08-29
1861354:US	52254603	R31A7ULNRO2TF5	0151006393	357119457	One Man's Justice	Books	4	14	15	N	N	...aka The Fugitive	PUBLISHED IN JAPAN in 1978, this is the third of Yoshimura's provocative novels to appear in translation. Set over the decade following the end of WWII (and with flashbacks to the final days of the war), the novel explores themes of patriotism and war though Kiyohara Takuya, a Japanese officer on the run from occupying American forces. He is wanted as a war criminal for his role in the execution of American POWs in the waning days of the war. The story is a fairly gripping \\"The Fugitive\\"-like story, as he tries to figure out who he can trust and what part of Japanese society he can hide himself in. As he tries to survive while staying anonymous, the hardships of postwar Japan are vividly evoked, especially the specter of starvation. All the while Takuya watches the newspapers for stories on war criminals and any former comrades.<br />The book is apparently based on historical incidents-a number of flashback sequences detail the ordering of executions by high-ranking officers. What American readers might find unsettling however, is the rationale for the executions, that the bomber crews were deliberately targeting civilians, and thus not subject to POW rules of treatment. Indeed, while the Allied firebombing of Dresden is well known, the firebombings of Japanese cities are relatively forgotten episodes of the war which Yoshimura plainly seeks to remind the reader of. The atomic attacks on Hiroshima and Nagasaki are portrayed as massive exclamation points on the indiscriminate bombings, and it becomes disturbingly easy to understand the retaliatory executions. At times the prose gets a little wooden, especially over a few pages that list the numbers of bomber sorties and subsequent casualties, but on the whole the sparse style perfectly captures Takuya's internal terror. In the end, the true subjectivity and relativity of justice are exposed.	2001-08-27
1866005:US	52254603	RYYS4YG7AM6J0	0192834770	283328506	The Secret Agent: A Simple Tale (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	3	2	7	N	N	A Mixed Classic	Many classics of literature seem destined to be either loved or hated by modern readers, as the many of the surrounding reviews attest. Personally, I fall somewhere in the middle on this one, while I can appreciate the book's satirical qualities and commentary on the ugliness of humanity and a morally bankrupt world, I found it choppy, at times tedious, and only occasionally funny. Conrad helped start the thriller genre (and apparently inspired Unabomber Theodore Kaczynski) with this tale of a small group of ineffectual anarchists and revolutionaries, their pseudo-leader Verlock and his family, and the attempt to destroy the Greenwich Observatory in London. Verlock is a small time pornography dealer who enjoys his uneventful family life as well as his personae as secret agent for a foreign power. His existence is thrown into turmoil when a new Russian control officer orders him to take some action or lose his status (and paycheck) as agent. Unable to convince any of his circle to take action, he rather predictably enlists his mildly retarded brother-in-law to carry a bomb to Greenwich. Conrad based the outlines of his plot on a real-life unsuccessful attempt to blow up the Observatory by a French anarchist, who apparently duped his dimwitted brother-in-law into carrying the bomb, which then exploded prematurely.<br />The story was first published as a serial in the New York weekly Ridgeway's during  1906-07 and did not appear in book form until 1907. Its origin as a serial perhaps accounts for some of the choppiness in pacing, although some of the descriptive sequences are quite nice. The tone throughout is one of despair and bleakness (in this area one can see the seeds of noir style), as Verlock's wife is ensconced in a loveless marriage designed to provide her retarded brother and elderly mother with a stable and secure life. When the bombing goes awry, Conrad's cynical family unit implodes, as betrayals lead to murder and then suicide, the innocents are swept away in a tide of injustice. The story seems self-consciously melodramatic at the end and it's hard to feel any true sense of tragedy.ay in a tide of injustice. The story seems self-consciously melodramatic at the end and it's hard to feel any true sense of tragedy.	2001-08-23
1868652:US	52254603	R3JHMXN6HUFSJ2	0684825546	688704432	Zorba the Greek	Books	3	32	49	N	N	A More Critical Perspective	I find myself in the minority opinion with regards to this classic of world literature, I found it neither a compelling portrait of a friendship nor an instructive primer on getting the most from life, and certainly not as one reviewer put it \\"a secular Bible for living.\\"  Being 1/4 Greek, I figured I owed it to myself to read one of Kazantzakis' works, but this almost plotless work, which aims to contrast two philosophies of living through Boss and Zorba failed to touch me in the way so many other readers seem affected. Women in particular may find this book offensive. The three women I know who've tried to read the book have all abandoned it halfway through because they found Zorba so distasteful a character.<br />The narrating \\"Boss\\" is a bookish Englishman who impulsively hires the older Zorba to be his chef, traveling companion, and foreman in a offhanded coal mining venture on Crete. The Macedonian Zorba bursts with life, and is a total hedonist, denying himself no pleasures when they are available, and scorning the existence of a God who would punish him for enjoying life. On the other hand the Boss prefers to experience life through observing the experiences of others such as Zorba. There is something of the voyeur about him, and his past friendships bear hints of homosexuality within them, The mining venture is clearly meant to represent the Boss' desire to tangibly connect with the physical world (as opposed to the world of books, where he feels comfortable), but notably, it is Zorba who really engaged with the mining operation-mirroring his connection to the physical senses and possibilities of life.<br />For a book which at times seems to be a Socratic dialogue on whether to live a free-spirited life or an introspective one, the debate is too one-sided to be truly provoking. Yes, the elderly Zorba does have a lust for life anyone would wish for (one can almost imagine the \\"Carpe Diem\\" tattooed across his broad chest), but his actions leave something to be desired. He admits to having killed and tortured Muslim men in the past (something he is ashamed of), and of abandoning his family. In the course of the book he incites an angry young man to try and burn down a monastery so that none of the monks could escape. He uses the Boss' money to finance a brief spree with a young woman, even though it would bring ruin to the mining operation. Most notable of course is his misogyny. For Zorba, women exist for momentary carnal appreciation and pleasure, and outside of that, solely as subjects for scorn (\\"women are stupid\\" and \\"women are greedy\\" are two sentiments that are often repeated). His attitude toward women may be rooted in time and culture, but that does not make it any more palatable. Indeed, before one gets all giddy about Zorba as model for living, one should consider that much of his pleasure comes at the cost of using other people. The Boss may not lead the most exciting life, but neither does he leave a swath of destruction and broken hearts behind him either.be desired. He admits to having killed and tortured Muslim men in the past (something he is ashamed of), and of abandoning his family. In the course of the book he incites an angry young man to try and burn down a monastery so that none of the monks could escape. He uses the Boss' money to finance a brief spree with a young woman, even though it would bring ruin to the mining operation. Most notable of course is his misogyny. For Zorba, women exist for momentary carnal appreciation and pleasure, and outside of that, solely as subjects for scorn (\\"women are stupid\\" and \\"women are greedy\\" are two sentiments that are often repeated). His attitude toward women may be rooted in time and culture, but that does not make it any more palatable. Indeed, before one gets all giddy about Zorba as model for living, one should consider that much of his pleasure comes at the cost of using other people. The Boss may not lead the most exciting life, but neither does he leave a swath of destruction and broken hearts behind him either.	2001-08-21
1873353:US	52254603	R3075IQZN6E5LS	0060184884	15335763	Outcast	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Decent Thriller, Great on Cuba	One might easy lump Latour's gritty thriller in with the plethora of serviceable South Florida crime fiction on the shelves, but that would be overlooking its' value as a window into modern Cuban society. Set in 1994, the book starts with Elliot Steil, a Cuban English teacher and apathetic Marxist who ekes out a dreary existence in a Havana where food is scarce, and the state's omnipresence stifles expression. His life is thrown into turmoil when an American tourist shows up, claiming to be a friend of his long-vanished father, and offering to help him escape to America. However, in a stunning reversal, Elliot is left to die in the waters off Florida. Rescued by fellow Cuban rafters, he makes it to Miami, where he must learn a whole new way of living in the land of the almighty dollar.<br />The book is at its' best in showing the unpleasant reality of life in modern Cuba (one completely absent from Daniel Chavarria's Cuban crime caper \\"Adios Muchachos\\"), and the bewilderment of a refugee adjusting to life in America. As Elliot gets his measure of America and manages to scrape some cash together, he starts to wonder who would try to kill him and why. His fairly straightforward investigation is broken up with lengthy flashbacks and backstory which are a little awkward, but not overly so. An engaging supporting cast helps him in his quest, from the car thief Hairball, to former student Tony, to a tough Jewish businessman. Less well-conceived are the villains of the piece, who suffer from weak characterizations and unlikely actions. The outcome is not overly surprising, but the book is well worth reading for Latour's thoughtful contrast of modern Cuban and American societies, and the flaws of each.	2001-08-17
1875834:US	52254603	R3HQWGVKGHSHHD	1884532322	844146737	Gun Camera Footage Of World War II	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Worth a Look	This 10 x 10 inch book contains 180 photos &quot;from Allied fighters and bombers over Occupied Europe,&quot; some taken by actual photographers, and some taken with Gun Alignment and Sighting Photography (GASP) equipment. Divided into &quot;Bombers,&quot; &quot;Air to Air,&quot; and &quot;Air to Ground&quot; sections, the photos are accompanied by captions identifying the various planes' makes, as well as deciphering the action in each shot. As might be expected, the GASP photos are of the lowest quality, and are fairly repetitive due to their technical  constraints. Much of the &quot;Air to Ground&quot; photos are also of less interest, with a few notable exceptions (on pages 110 and 116). Indeed the most arresting photos are almost all from the &quot;Bombers&quot; section, capturing planes--often spectacularly--in the midst of being destroyed. Despite Keeny's repeated use of the word &quot;heartbreaking&quot; in describing the photos, they come across more as surrealist portraits of machinery gone wrong. Despite the book's amateurish design and layout, the photos are worth a look, and a handful are truly spellbinding.	2001-08-16
1876524:US	52254603	R2E0X42HN6Q9UJ	0312274920	425833090	Round Ireland with a Fridge	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Drunk + Fridge = A Good Craic	This very amusing book can be summarized as follows: British comedian gets sloshed at party, makes drunken wager that he can hitchhike around the circumference of Ireland with a refrigerator within one calendar month, wakes up, agrees to follow through on drunken wager, wacky antics ensue. Given that the mini-fridge with which to fulfill the bet costs 130, and the bet is for 100, it&#8217;s becomes clear that the book is not so much about winning the bet as it is about how the bet is won. It&#8217;s certainly not meant to be any kind of guide to Ireland. If anything, it&#8217;s a guide to embracing actions that have no point, to every now and then live outside the sensible boundaries we construct in out lives.<br />Hawks strikes it lucky at the very beginning, as his silly bet is championed by a RTE2 (Irish national radio station) radio personality, giving him instant notoriety, which eases his path around Ireland. Hawks&#8217; comedian background enables him to kind-heartedly poke fun at everything and everyone he encounters, with large doses of self-depreciation mixed in. He&#8217;s constantly amazed at the generous and warm receptions he receives throughout the country, and finds something positive in almost everyone and every place he visits (buoyed no doubt by the numerous free meals and beds bestowed upon him). The book is a silly good time, and the embodiment of easy reading. Toward the end the quirky characters he meets on the road and in bars start to run together a little, and it might have benefited from being fifty pages less or so. But still, it&#8217;s not every day you can read about a fridge surfing, a fridge baptizing, a fridge blessing, a fridge party (with requisite New Order cover band),&#8230; well, you&#8217;ll have to read it to believe it.	2001-08-15
1882592:US	52254603	R1F8O7YEIMB39C	1561631809	607907279	A Jew in Communist Prague: Loss of Innocence (v. 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Wonderful Begining	The first in Italian cartoonist Giardino's series about a Jewish boy growing up in Communist Prague introduces us to Jonas Finkel and his pleasant middle-class life in Prague. His professor father is arrested for allegedly being a counterrevolutionary, although the unstated truth is that he's the victim of unofficial state anti-Semitism. The book is at its best in showing Jonas and his mother gradually sliding into poverty while they try to penetrate the state beauracracy to learn of the father's whereabouts and sentence. When Jonas is not admitted to high school due to his father's alleged crimes, he enters the workforce and awkwardly encounters the stirrings of hormones. The art is done in the lovely realistic style I tend to associate with European cartoonists, with appropriately washed out coloring. It'll be great to see all the books together.	2001-08-10
1883603:US	52254603	R156QR6LCLCVA5	044023610X	309457317	Mr. Majestyk	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Novelization Passes the Time	This brief little story started off as a screenplay commissioned by Clint Eastwood. However, when Eastwood decided to make the uberdark High Plains Drifter instead, Leonard's script got sold to someone else and was turned into a movie starring Charles Bronson in 1974. Leonard subsequently novelized the screenplay, which accounts for its relative brevity. The story is pretty basic and, upon reflection, typically ridiculous. The title character is an Vietnam special forces vet who just wants to lead a quiet life farming melons. An altercation with a small-time hood lands him in jail with a notorious hitman, and things get sillier from there, as the he struggles to get back to his melons and get them in on time. There's a subplot involving a relationship with a Latina union organizer who seems really smart and together, that is, until she goes along with his harebrained plans. As always, Leonard's prose passes the time, but only barely.	2001-08-10
1886814:US	52254603	R26IH6E5XMUWNG	0312156081	346949454	Night over Day over Night: A Novel	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Teen Angst in WWII	In appropriately sparse prose, Watkins tells the story of Sebastian, a Hitler Youth member who signs up for the SS in 1944, when Germany is reeling and the war's outcome appears obvious. His offhand reason for doing so is that when you reached a certain age, you either signed up for the Army, Navy, Air Force, or SS. The Air Force and Navy are nonexistent at this point, and when he heads to the recruiting office, it happens to be the SS recruiter's turn to be there. One gets the feeling that he joins the SS for lack of anything better to do, and perhaps a general case of teenage angst. His father was killed in the war, his mother's gotten a bit weird, he's got an older lover, a proper girlfriend, his best friend is crippled, and we get the sense that like Holden Caufield, he just can't stand anything any more.<br />At SS training camp, Sebastian makes a few friends, a big doofus of a farmer boy, and a cool upper-class kid. They all sort of drift through a training regimen overseen by two grizzled veterans who survived Normandy and have nothing but derision for the new recruits. Even non-military readers will realize that their training is virtually useless, and they are being prepared as cannon fodder for the final offensive in the Ardennes (aka The Battle of the Bulge). When Sebastian visits home on leave, his emotional distance from everything and everybody is even starker, and it's clear he is even more adrift than when he left. There's a minor subplot of sorts, as Sebastian is tracked down by his older lover, and he tries to run from her obsession with him. The final third of the book takes place during this offensive and is a maelstrom of chaos, killing, looting, and murder. By the end Sebastian has been reduced to a survivor, and little else. Some readers may be troubled with Watkins' entirely human portrayal of an SS soldier, however it's clear many were not believers and joined for any number of reasons. Indeed, the question of why he enlists is a recurring one. At one point in the book, Sebastian pokes fun at another boy from his town who enlists, saying he saw the \\"Meet Your Comrades in the SS\\" poster and thought it would be a surefire way to finally make friends. While this may be true, it's no worse than Sebastian's own lack of concrete reason.<br />If you're interested in this book, I recall reading another book as a kid called \\"The Black March\\" written in the late `50s. It purported to be the memoir of an SS recruit's training and service on the Eastern front, and as a kid it was gripping. I don't know if I'd still find it so, and I've since heard it was all a fake by a French pulp writer, but you might want to check it out.one. At one point in the book, Sebastian pokes fun at another boy from his town who enlists, saying he saw the \\"Meet Your Comrades in the SS\\" poster and thought it would be a surefire way to finally make friends. While this may be true, it's no worse than Sebastian's own lack of concrete reason.<br />If you're interested in this book, I recall reading another book as a kid called \\"The Black March\\" written in the late `50s. It purported to be the memoir of an SS recruit's training and service on the Eastern front, and as a kid it was gripping. I don't know if I'd still find it so, and I've since heard it was all a fake by a French pulp writer, but you might want to check it out.	2001-08-08
1892313:US	52254603	R29SOC7OOSKKXA	1559705809	146577595	Sorcerer's Apprentice	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Bodysnatchers, Con-Artists, Dueling Magicians? YES !!	This is narrative nonfiction youll want to read aloud, tell people about at parties, and generally recommend to anyone with an inquisitive mind and a sense of humor. It starts 20 years ago, when, as a young boy living in England, Shah is visited by Hafiz Jan, the burly Pushtun caretaker of Shahs ancestors mausoleum in Burhana (northern India). Hafiz Jan spends several weeks in England, in which he bonds with the boy and teaches him many feats of magic before returning to India. Fast-forward 20 years as Shah tracks down Hafiz Jan with the intention of resuming his studies in illusion. After a joyous reunion, complemented by comically monumental feasts, Shah is sent to learn from Hafiz Jans master, the famous sorcerer Hakim Feroze.<br />From this point on, Shah encounters scams and cons to put any American grifter to shame, and a busload of outlandish characters. Predictably, after confidently announcing that one has to beware on the infamous Farakka Express train, he gets slipped a mickey and is robbed of everything. In Calcutta he finds Hakim Feroze and finds him to be a fully Westernized and sartorially splendid person. After agreeing to follow Ferozes regime to the letter, he discovers the despotic nature of the man, who seems to suffer from an obsessive-compulsive disorder. Soon, Shah is regurgitating on command, reading ten books a day on illusion, and performing minor feats of legerdemain. While in Calcutta, Shah talks to the countrys foremost hangman and learns a few tips, visits a shanty restaurant that serves food prepared solely from garbage, In one of the best chapters, he spends an evening with bodysnatchers. While in the West many have the vague impression that Indians are all cremated and scattered in the Ganges, Shah takes us to a field outside the city where corpses are dumped by those unable to afford proper rites. There, he encounters a small industry engaged in stripping the flesh off bodies, cleaning the skeletons, and exporting them to medical schools overseas. Another fine Calcutta sequence is his detailing of the ghamelawalla industry. Ghamelawallas pay for the privilege of sweeping out goldsmiths shops. They then wash and treat the dirt with chemicals to extract gold. Then they sell the remaining dirt to a poorer bunch who do the same thing. Then they sell the dirt to people who pan for any remaining dust, and then they sell the remaining dirt to brick-makers And of course there are the guys who rent babies to women beggars, and the women who rent cows and charge people to feed them<br />At the midpoint of the book, after passing his initial tests, Shah is sent to wander India on a journey of observation, during which he will mail weekly reports to Feroze. He is soon joined by a 12-year-old con artist he accurately describes as a walking crime wave,&quot; who becomes his fixer and translator in the madcap journey to follow. The duo bounce from city to city to witness various miracle workers, healersand other tricksters why prey on superstitionsply their trade all over the country, ending in Bombay. Shah is quick to reveal the props, trickery, and chemistry behind all he observes. He relates the journey not in the breathless or overwrought style common to many travelogues, but with an amused and skeptical wonder. Theres a great chapter in which he and the boy adjudicate in the trial of witch in a small town. Another one is when he meets the worlds ostensibly richest man. He discovered three gemstones larger than any known to man, so large no person has the wealth to buy them. So he remains relatively poor, with his sole consolation being his gems entries in the Guinness Book of Records. Then there is the duel of miracles between to magicians Shahs journey amongst Indias practitioners of illusion is great stuff, warmly and engagingly told, and sure to delight.rting them to medical schools overseas. Another fine Calcutta sequence is his detailing of the ghamelawalla industry. Ghamelawallas pay for the privilege of sweeping out goldsmiths shops. They then wash and treat the dirt with chemicals to extract gold. Then they sell the remaining dirt to a poorer bunch who do the same thing. Then they sell the dirt to people who pan for any remaining dust, and then they sell the remaining dirt to brick-makers And of course there are the guys who rent babies to women beggars, and the women who rent cows and charge people to feed them<br />At the midpoint of the book, after passing his initial tests, Shah is sent to wander India on a journey of observation, during which he will mail weekly reports to Feroze. He is soon joined by a 12-year-old con artist he accurately describes as a walking crime wave,&quot; who becomes his fixer and translator in the madcap journey to follow. The duo bounce from city to city to witness various miracle workers, healersand other tricksters why prey on superstitionsply their trade all over the country, ending in Bombay. Shah is quick to reveal the props, trickery, and chemistry behind all he observes. He relates the journey not in the breathless or overwrought style common to many travelogues, but with an amused and skeptical wonder. Theres a great chapter in which he and the boy adjudicate in the trial of witch in a small town. Another one is when he meets the worlds ostensibly richest man. He discovered three gemstones larger than any known to man, so large no person has the wealth to buy them. So he remains relatively poor, with his sole consolation being his gems entries in the Guinness Book of Records. Then there is the duel of miracles between to magicians Shahs journey amongst Indias practitioners of illusion is great stuff, warmly and engagingly told, and sure to delight.	2001-08-03
1892410:US	52254603	RZTANCR9FGL3N	0801484510	481355902	Radical Democracy	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Radical meaning &quot;straight from the source&quot;	First things first, Lummis is not going to offer any prescriptions or solutions, and he is using \\"radical\\"  meaning \\"straight from the source.\\" Thus, \\"Radical democracy, taken in this sense...[is] the vital source of energy at the center of all living politics.\\" He spends the first 30 pages discussing this word \\"radical\\" and what it does and doesn't mean, and how many concepts and institutions commonly regarded as \\"democratic,\\" really aren't. The next 30 pages are spent on \\"antidemocractic development,\\" a powerful chapter exposing the power-skewing effects inherent in development economics. Next is 30 pages on \\"antidemocratic machines,\\" which seeks to explain how technology has ordered human work in ways that are inherently undemocratic. Then follows 30 less invigorating pages in which Lummis examines what he calls \\"democracy's flawed tradition,\\" namely Athens in the Age of Pericles, and the Roman Republic. The aim of this chapter is to explore the West's two main exemplars of democracy and reconsider them in light of radical democracy. Basically, all of this is aimed at dispelling contemporary complacent notions (myths) about what democracy really is. Lummis is vehement in telling the reader that democracy is not the presence of this procedure, or that institutions, or any combination thereof, \\"Democracy is essential politics, the art of the possible.\\" It ebbs and flows, but it cannot be contained and sustained, it must be constantly struggled for. This is a powerful notion, one that clearly is at odds with mainstream political philosophy, but one that deserves careful consideration.	2001-08-03
1893196:US	52254603	R10MMT7GW9S1VE	0140144420	891047918	Sharpe's Siege	Books	5	29	31	N	N	Best in Series	Hands down, my favorite of the Sharpe series. Major Sharpe and some of his Rifle regiment are sent to help take a French coastal fort that defends access to a number of small craft the Navy needs to capture to make a huge pontoon bridge for the invasion of France. Of course theres a French spy, a pompous and greedy British Naval officer, an American privateer, Sharpes wife possibly dying from fever, and lurking behind everything, Sharpes nemesis, French spymaster Pierre Ducos. Sharpe has to leave most of his men behind (but not, of course, Harper), and easily takes the fort. However, he is stranded on land with a company of Marines and must suddenly hole up in the flimsy fort and hope for salvation. This is Cornwell at his best, inventing a non-historic situation for Sharpe, taking him out of his natural element, presenting him with overwhelming odds, and then having him improvise his way to victory. The siege is a wonderfully frantic affair, as Sharpe must contend with overwhelming enemy numbers, low ammunition, and a crumbling defense. Great stuff.	2001-08-03
1895002:US	52254603	R2FJH2RNGKZLVD	0140294295	647837947	Sharpe's Rifles (Richard Sharpe's Adventure Series #1)	Books	4	30	31	N	N	Welcome to the Peninsular Wars!	Some nine books into his Napoleonic series, Cornwell pauses here to return to the beginning of Sharpe's association with the 95th Rifles. In 1809 French forces were sweeping the British out of the Spain in a full retreat to Portugal. Sharpe is a Lieutenant, and a lowly quartermaster at that, but through a series of mishaps and skirmishes, he finds himself in command of the tattered remnants of a Rifle Company cut off from the main British army. These men, led by the indominitable Irishman Harper, are demoralized, distrustful of Sharpe, and waver on mutinousness. We see his first clumsy attempts at leading men, as he tries to get them to safety. Their momentary alliance with a Spanish Major who is escorting a mysterious strongbox only leads to more trouble as the combined forces are dogged by a unit of French Cavalry intent on capturing the box. Of course, over time, the contents of the box are revealed and a thrilling city battle is fought. We also see Sharpe's first awkward falling in love, with the niece of some British missionaries (who provide some of the most comic moments in the entire series). It's a good prequel to Sharpe's adventures in the Peninsular Wars, and while it makes a logical place for newcomers to start the series, it might actually be more fun for those who have already gotten to know Sharpe and Harper.	2001-08-02
1898726:US	52254603	R2BFZN3GSWRFC3	0316695262	851439685	Right As Rain: A Novel	Books	5	48	50	N	N	More from the Mean Streets of DC	Oddly, no one from DC has thrown in their 2 cents on the latest Pelecanos book, so I guess I'll give it a shot. I've lived in DC for 20 years, my family is from here, and Pelecanos is only the second author I've come across who writes about the DC that I know and recognize (the other Edward Jones, check out his story collection \\"Lost in the City\\" if you can find it). In this new book, he steps away from his established characters Nick Stefanos and Dmitri Karras, and launches a new duo, black, middle-aged PI Derek Strange, and younger, white ex-cop Terry Quinn. Through them, and the story of Chris Wilson, an off-duty black cop shot by Quinn, Pelecanos displays the racial awkwardness and tension that pervades Washington, D.C. The central message of the book is that everyone, regardless of race, carries preconceptions with them about other groups. That doesn't make them racist-that term is reserved for those who carry hatred in their hearts.<br />Strange is hired to investigate the shooting of her son, Chris Wilson, leading him to Quinn, who works in a little used bookstore in Silver Spring (Like all the locations in the book, the store really exists, it's a few blocks from my office and I sometimes swing by on my lunch break). The two men fall into an uneasy partnership as this discover more about he events that led to Quinn's killing of Wilson. They make an engagingly effective odd couple as they verbally spar with one another about race, underneath their respective flaws, they're good men. At the same time, both men are struggling to make relationships work, Strange with his divorcee secretary, and Quinn with a Latina student/waitress. As with most of Pelecanos's men, they often make selfish or simply clumsy moves in looking for love. And like most of those same guys, they have well-defined tastes in music, cars, movies, and books.<br />Following the tone of Pelecanos's previous work, what is gradually revealed is a sordid tale of drugs and corruption, with some powerful drug pushers, and a few violent rednecks. All this unfolds in a world instantly recognizable to Washington natives, where drug dealers work in the open, neighborhoods revolve around local restaurants, and corruption has spread to even the upscale oases (the well-known high-end restaurant Red Sage being one example). As we have come to expect from Pelecanos, everything comes together in a cinematic violent climax offering some attempt at justice. If you've read and enjoyed previous books of his, you're likely to enjoy this one as well. It's got two great new characters, and is a bit more explicit in examining racism, but is otherwise very much in keeping with his previous work.erful drug pushers, and a few violent rednecks. All this unfolds in a world instantly recognizable to Washington natives, where drug dealers work in the open, neighborhoods revolve around local restaurants, and corruption has spread to even the upscale oases (the well-known high-end restaurant Red Sage being one example). As we have come to expect from Pelecanos, everything comes together in a cinematic violent climax offering some attempt at justice. If you've read and enjoyed previous books of his, you're likely to enjoy this one as well. It's got two great new characters, and is a bit more explicit in examining racism, but is otherwise very much in keeping with his previous work.	2001-07-30
1898811:US	52254603	R3A82TRBSIIQLZ	0767907078	676796668	Dark: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Help Save the Youth of America	This debut novel is a tight story about Thai, a 19-year-old black man with the mind and ability to make something positive of himself, but who is wary of anyone and anything beyond his neighborhood (Shaw, in Washington, D.C.). One evening he kills another young black man in the heat of the moment (they are fighting and he is handed a gun) in retaliation for sleeping with his girlfriend. This step toward thug life shocks him out of his home turf, and takes off for Charlotte, NC to hide out and see his best friend. On the surface this sounds like another basic urban crime story, but its really the entry point for the author to explore how young black men and women get stuck in the ruts of dead-end jobs and living situations, unaware of the possibilities offered by the world.<br />Contrary to what others have written, the book is not about redemption. Jasper makes it clear that there is no path for redemption after murderits an evil one has to live with for the rest of ones life. The only positive path is to change ones life, and the books real story is about Thais struggle to figure out whether his identity is inexorably bound to the people and places he knows, or whether his identity is something he can redefine for himself. During his week in Charlotte, he is shown how life can be better, both by his best friend (who has a j-o-b, a fine ride, and a fine woman), and others he meets who try and convince him that leaving the old neighborhood behind isnt the end of the world. We taken deep into Thais head and shown all his confusion and the conditioning that he struggles with. And in that sense, its a cautionary story.<br />The writing is simple and solid, Jaspers dialogue flows with a natural realistic rhythm, whether it be banter between friends, or serious father-son talks. Each character has a distinct voice, and comes alive as a real person. The one criticism I have is the role women play in the story. Throughout the book, men young and old are shown to be heartbroken by women who cheat on them, play them, die on them, abandon them, or otherwise mess up their lives. More than one character advises Thai not to fall in love, due to the complications it causes. And over the week Thai spends in Charlotte, he meets a white woman who wants to have sex with him within minutes of their meeting, a black stewardess who he has amazing no commitment sex with three times, and another good-looking black woman who seems to want to tease him sexually. Granted, Thai may view woman as purely sex objects, but this is never explored with the same thoughtfulness as the other issues in the book. Even so, its an excellent glimpse into the psyche of a modern black youth looking for a way out of the neighborhood and his own darkness. Jasper leaves it open-ended, and its possible we might see more of Thai down the road.<br />If youre into D.C. stuff, check out Edward Joness excellent collection of stories Lost in the City, and the crime novels of George Pelecanos. Another recent novel with a similar theme (set in Oakland ten years ago) is Nichelle Trambles strong The Dying Ground.g and old are shown to be heartbroken by women who cheat on them, play them, die on them, abandon them, or otherwise mess up their lives. More than one character advises Thai not to fall in love, due to the complications it causes. And over the week Thai spends in Charlotte, he meets a white woman who wants to have sex with him within minutes of their meeting, a black stewardess who he has amazing no commitment sex with three times, and another good-looking black woman who seems to want to tease him sexually. Granted, Thai may view woman as purely sex objects, but this is never explored with the same thoughtfulness as the other issues in the book. Even so, its an excellent glimpse into the psyche of a modern black youth looking for a way out of the neighborhood and his own darkness. Jasper leaves it open-ended, and its possible we might see more of Thai down the road.<br />If youre into D.C. stuff, check out Edward Joness excellent collection of stories Lost in the City, and the crime novels of George Pelecanos. Another recent novel with a similar theme (set in Oakland ten years ago) is Nichelle Trambles strong The Dying Ground.	2001-07-30
1901557:US	52254603	ROZ30EGFPMHAX	1561631973	290191132	A Jew in Communist Prague: Adolescence (v. 2)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Wish it Were Longer!	This second installment of Italian cartoonist Giardino's graphic novel series about a Jewish boy growing up in Communist Prague finds Jonas Finkel unable to attend school due to his father's status as political prisoner. Forced to work, he toils as a laborer on a building site before falling in with Slavek, a fatalistic, drunken storytelling plumber. From this substitute father-figure, he moves on to work in a bookstore, where his love of books can be nourished, and where he meets a club of teenage intellectuals who meet in the park to read forbidden poetry and sing banned songs. Jonas's outsider status is highlighted by his awkward fumblings in trying to attract the attention of Tatiana, one of the intellectual girls. Interspersed with his is some of the political goings-on of the time, the death of Stalin, counter-revolutionary efforts by the secret police, and soforth. These feel rather forced and shoehorned in when contrasted with the simple tale of Jonas growing up without his father. Perhaps the effect is lessened when the series is read in its entirety, instead of in sparse 48-page installments. It'll be interested to see where it'll all lead. As to the art, the story is drawn in the lovely realistic style I tend to associate with European cartoonists, and colored with an appropriately subdued palate of greys and browns.	2001-07-28
1902276:US	52254603	R3L058B9MKK0DY	0060951974	771081045	Sharpe's Triumph: Richard Sharpe and the Battle of Assaye, September 1803 (Richard Sharpe's Adventure Series #2)	Books	4	27	27	N	N	Sharpe's Famous Deed -- Finally Explained	Readers of Cornwell's Sharpe series have long been tantalized by references to infantry Sergeant Sharpe being raised (promoted) from the ranks of the enlisted men to the gentleman's officer corps by Lord Wellington in gratitude for having saved his life on the battlefield at Assaye in India, back in 1803. In this volume, we finally get the full story behind that seminal event in Sharpe's career, one that is mentioned in every volume in the series. At the time, a number of Indian princes (the Mahratta confederation) had banded together to resist further British incursion into their territory, and assembled a massive army of European-led units along with local and Arab mercenaries. As in many of the other books, Sharpe is sent on a small mission and ends up meeting the main villain of the piece, here a renegade English officer who is part of the Mahratta forces. Sharpe is later detailed to help capture the rogue officer, leading him to Wellington's first major set piece battle, at Assaye. And while the book is ostensibly a Sharpe book, it is this battle which Cornwell is clearly most interested in, and with good reason. In defeating an army some 10-20 times its number and equal equipment, Wellington's victory is one the great feats of military history (one which he ranked above his more famous win at Waterloo). Cornwell's recreation of the battle makes it eminently clear that two Scottish Highlander regiments (the 74th and 78th won the day for the British.<br />Many of the usual Sharpe elements are there, bloody fighting, foul villains (including the odious Sgt. Hakeswill), treachery, and climactic massive battle. What's more interesting about this book, however, is how different this younger Sharpe is from the scarred veteran we meet in the Peninsular Wars. He has yet to be in a real battle, and is clearly tentative and bewildered by the fog of battle. He's on his own, with no men of his own to command, and without a sidekick to add any dram of levity to the tale (although the dour, Bible-thumping, vegetarian, Scottish Colonel he's attached to is a somewhat comic figure at times). There is a woman he beds, but shes much more peripheral to the plot compared with the ladies of Spain and Portugal Sharpe later encounters. Perhaps the most interesting part of the book is when he is tempted by the offer to become an officer in the Mahratta army, with men to command, and riches to follow. He is clearly wavering but his true dream is to be able to return to his gutter origins wearing a British officer's uniform, the only one that counts.though the dour, Bible-thumping, vegetarian, Scottish Colonel he's attached to is a somewhat comic figure at times). There is a woman he beds, but shes much more peripheral to the plot compared with the ladies of Spain and Portugal Sharpe later encounters. Perhaps the most interesting part of the book is when he is tempted by the offer to become an officer in the Mahratta army, with men to command, and riches to follow. He is clearly wavering but his true dream is to be able to return to his gutter origins wearing a British officer's uniform, the only one that counts.	2001-07-27
1903637:US	52254603	R35LYRUAXCUGF4	0786866705	69363343	Our Twisted Hero	Books	4	10	11	N	N	A Compelling Classroom Allegory	This tiny novella from a well-known South Korean writer serves as a simple allegory about totalitarianism, and how the intelligentsia who oppose it are first broken and then co-opted by it. Originally published in Korea in 1987, seven years after the massacre of pro-democracy demonstrators in Kwangju-an episode not nearly as well known in the West as Tinnanmen Square-it was made into a film in 1992. The story is narrated by a middle-aged man, recounting his experience as a 12-year-old boy forced to leave his prestigious elementary school in Seoul and move with his family to a provincial town. He expects to be a big fish in the small pond at his new school, but the local kids could care less about his academic achievements in the big city. They are all under the sway of the class monitor and bully, who has also made himself indispensable to the class teacher.<br />The newcomer is aghast at the schoolyard cult of personality created by the monitor and refuses to go along with it, resulting in his ostracization. The class monitor doesn't merely intimidate the others with physical force, rather he relies on more subtle approaches, getting subordinates to take action for him, and cultivating a climate of fear. Of course, when the narrator attempts to report the misdeeds of the monitor to the teacher, there is no hard proof, and none of the other children will support his claims. Eventually the narrator finds the psychological isolation too difficult and decides to go along with status quo. This proves to be a very easy and rewarding path as he is made a crony of the monitor, and he finds life under the monitor's rule to be less distasteful than he had expected. Of course, at the end, a new teacher upsets the applecart and like the arrival of the adults in Lord of the Flies, restores order to the world of the children while chastising them for letting themselves fall into such an arrangement. Here, the narrator is alone in refusing to denounce the monitor, as the class is transformed back into the messy democracy the narrator was used to in Seoul.<br />For a book that only takes an hour to read, it presents a fairly powerful package. The structure of the Korean school system will be of interest to Western readers as Mungol makes the most of the device of using children to illustrate the flaws of the adult world. The story, in its shortness and simplicity, could serve as a valuable aid for educators seeking to teach children about dissent. The one flaw is the rather too pat ending, where we see the class monitor as an adult being dragged away by police for criminal activity. In real life, the dictators either manage to hold on to power or come to decidedly messier ends.s transformed back into the messy democracy the narrator was used to in Seoul. <br />For a book that only takes an hour to read, it presents a fairly powerful package. The structure of the Korean school system will be of interest to Western readers as Mungol makes the most of the device of using children to illustrate the flaws of the adult world. The story, in its shortness and simplicity, could serve as a valuable aid for educators seeking to teach children about dissent. The one flaw is the rather too pat ending, where we see the class monitor as an adult being dragged away by police for criminal activity. In real life, the dictators either manage to hold on to power or come to decidedly messier ends.	2001-07-26
1905514:US	52254603	R3B5JEZ9TSQ8QY	1852427116	365721296	Beneath the Blonde	Books	2	3	4	N	N	&quot;Blonde&quot; is more Bomb than Bombshell	I can't really recall why I picked this up, other than Duffy's name being vaguely familiar from the first in the &quot;Fresh Blood&quot; anthology series and a general interest in cutting-edge crime fiction from the UK. In any event, I soon found myself in a potboiler about a pop star siren who's been getting creepy messages and flowers from a person or persons unknown. Brought in to solve this problem is lesbian PI Saz, who's apparently still recovering from some kind of burn accident that has left her with terrible scarring from her midriff to her knees (I kept waiting for this to be explained, but it's apparently either the remnant of an adventure related in a previous book). Eager to get a little independence from her supportive girlfriend, she becomes a PA to the singer as a cover for her &quot;investigation&quot; and jet-sets around the world with the band as the plot thickens. I put investigation in quotes because she is there more as a entry point for the reader to watch the drama unfold than actually accomplish anything useful. The stalker tale depends greatly on a massive bit of misdirection which never really works because Duffy's narrative technique gives the game away rather obviously. She intersperses chapters written from within the stalker's head that both give backstory, and remove a lot of mystery. In fact, the real mystery is whether or not Saz will cheat on her girlfriend with the bombshell singer. By the end it's hard to care too much what happens as the murders that do occur have unrealistic consequences, and the band members engage in all the usual drugs -n- debauchery one expects in fiction. And between Saz's stupidity and own weaknesses, it's hard to care much about her either.	2001-07-25
1905587:US	52254603	R2VZZ96SZUUCVD	0312274599	144791964	An Unexpected Light: Travels in Afghanistan	Books	4	42	47	N	N	Outstanding	Afghanistan's current inaccessibility to Westerners presents a paradox of sorts: on the one hand, travelogues have a long tradition of providing armchair portraits of countries and people not easy visited, and on the other hand, in extreme cases such as contemporary Afghanistan, the difficulties in moving into and around such a country make such travelogues all the rarer. We should be therefore be grateful for this book, in which Jason Elliot recounts his travels and impressions from a trip made in 1979 as a teenager, and a trip 20 years later when he had learned Persian. It's a very traditional and endearing piece of travel literature, full of evocative descriptions of the sights and sounds, and most importantly, the people. While the book has plenty of the other usual travelogue elements-detailed descriptions of perilous trips in overstuffed decrepit vehicles, beautiful descriptions of obscure but astonishing ancient ruins, digestible tidbits of history, and asides of longing for unattainable women-the book's greatest value comes from Elliot's sensitive treatment of the Afghans he meets and befriends. Far from being the religious totalitarianists commonly associated with the country, virtually everyone he meets-almost every one of whom is male-is unstintingly curious, tough, enduring, and most of all, warmly hospitable. When he does encounter the Taliban, he notes how other Afghans warily regard them as powerful outsiders, with no constituency save themselves. Indeed, Elliot, writing in 1999, seems to scoff at the notion of them ever controlling the entire country, as their brand of Islam is so at odds with the forms widely practiced in Afghanistan over history. Elliot spends a fair amount of time and effort in trying to get to various Sufi shrines, and he does a good job of trying to explain the mystical nature of Sufism.<br />The book does suffer a little bit from Elliot's going back and forth between his two visits, and occasionally one loses track as to which visit an anecdote dates from, but the perspective he gains from having traveled in the country twenty years apart more than makes up for it. Elliot vividly conveys the troubles the Soviet forces had in the war, as well as the classic guerilla tactics used by the Afghans. He takes great pains to point out that the Afghan resistance was not a religiously based one, despite the connotation the word \\"mujaheddin\\" has taken in the West, but another struggle in a long succession of resisting incursions by more powerful states. What also emerges from almost every Afghan mouth is a sentiment of having been \\"abandoned\\" by America following the Soviet withdrawal. He makes no direct judgment on the matter himself, but like any good reporter, lets the people speak for themselves. In the end, one is left lamenting the destruction of Afghanistan during its tenure as proxy Cold War battleground, and the resultant forces that have allowed the Taliban to impose their will-a least for the moment. If only one thing is totally clear from their history, it is that the Afghan people will only live so long under the yoke of oppressors.visit an anecdote dates from, but the perspective he gains from having traveled in the country twenty years apart more than makes up for it. Elliot vividly conveys the troubles the Soviet forces had in the war, as well as the classic guerilla tactics used by the Afghans. He takes great pains to point out that the Afghan resistance was not a religiously based one, despite the connotation the word \\"mujaheddin\\" has taken in the West, but another struggle in a long succession of resisting incursions by more powerful states. What also emerges from almost every Afghan mouth is a sentiment of having been \\"abandoned\\" by America following the Soviet withdrawal. He makes no direct judgment on the matter himself, but like any good reporter, lets the people speak for themselves. In the end, one is left lamenting the destruction of Afghanistan during its tenure as proxy Cold War battleground, and the resultant forces that have allowed the Taliban to impose their will-a least for the moment. If only one thing is totally clear from their history, it is that the Afghan people will only live so long under the yoke of oppressors.	2001-07-25
1910804:US	52254603	R1NRW6RMC3IA71	0345432193	204619529	The Naked Detective	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Not Awful, Not Special, Just OK.	The reluctant hero gets a whole twist in this lightweight Key West romp, in which retired 47-year old Pete Amsterdam is dragged from the comforts of his hot tub, wine cellar, and regular tennis game by a bartender hiding out from a local Mafia type. Pete is technically a detective, but only on the advice of his accountant, who was looking for a way to write off the wine cellar as a business expense. In this homage to (or spoof of?) classic detective tales, Pete is soon embroiled in a number of PI tropes, a sexy femme fatale, a mysterious missing package everyone's looking for, and a dame he's not sure he can trust. For the first half it's a pretty fun little romp, moving quickly along. Somewhere around the middle though, things started to bog down a little and drag, but it's still decent beach reading. As with other Florida writers like Carl Hiassen, there's some clear criticism of South Florida development as well. Not awful, but not special.	2001-07-20
1916107:US	52254603	R334TH5SS82QAG	1888451165	94545038	Adios Muchachos	Books	3	6	9	N	N	A Decent Bit of Pulp Fiction	This punchy little bit of pulp crime follows the schemes of Alicia, a Cuban prostitute looking to rope a millionaire husband, and Victor, a bank-robber turned executive in Dutch conglomerate. The two gold-diggers meet and forge a mutually beneficial arrangement based on her providing live sex shows for him and his wife. Their partnership takes on a new dimension when a Dutch millionaire dies, and they figure out a plan to make a cool $4 million out of it. While Chavarria is reputedly a scholar of prostitution, Alicia's character comes as more of a Hollywood construct than a real person. She's the independent hooker who loves sex, is strictly upscale, and is always in control of her rich men. She's only in it to rope a wealthy husband who will take her and her mother (who is her practical assistant) out of the country. Let's be clear, this is pulp, not noir; the book is lively and farcical, the story flows with many a nod and a wink, with none of the nastiness and evil characterized by noir. And although the book is set in Havana, the setting doesn't figure very prominently, one gets the impression the story could have taken place in any large city in the world. The book is fast-paced, full of explicit sex, and ends with the requisite twist-and is fun, though unlikely to be all that memorable.	2001-07-17
1917518:US	52254603	R1OIW113ELQP5J	0140294368	731618717	Sharpe's Regiment (Richard Sharpe's Adventure Series)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Welcome Break from Portugal and Spain	Cornwell's Napoleonic war series takes a break from the action in Spain to send Major Sharpe, his boon companion Sgt. Harper and two other trusted officers back to England to find out why they haven't been getting any recruits. Without new recruits, the South Essex regiment has fallen to dangerously understrength size and could be disbanded. They arrive in London to discover some shady dealings afoot, pay and provisions are being drawn from the army for men who are neither at the barracks or en route to Spain. Sharpe and Harper are forced to go undercover as raw recruits to discover the whereabouts of the missing men, and who's skimming the money. Along the way Sharpe runs into many characters from past adventures, including a big sister type from his street urchin days, his old commander Lawford who is now in government, his old nemesis Sir Henry Simmerson, and his personal  English Rose, the lovely Jane Gibbons. He also meets and charms the airheaded Prince of Wales, and makes yet another dangerous enemy in Lord Fenner. It's a novel departure from the normal army action we're used to in the series, and Cornwell treats the reader to many neat tidbits about how recruiting worked, and how susceptible the system was to corruption. Of course, since it's a Sharpe book, there is a rousing battle finale as the army pushes into France.	2001-07-16
1917668:US	52254603	R3OT38WGY98TVY	0140243062	731618717	Sharpe's Regiment (Richard Sharpe's Adventure Series #17)	Books	4	11	13	N	N	A Welcome Break from Portugal and Spain	Cornwell's Napoleonic war series takes a break from the action in Spain to send Major Sharpe, his boon companion Sgt. Harper and two other trusted officers back to England to find out why they haven't been getting any recruits. Without new recruits, the South Essex regiment has fallen to dangerously understrength size and could be disbanded. They arrive in London to discover some shady dealings afoot, pay and provisions are being drawn from the army for men who are neither at the barracks or en route to Spain. Sharpe and Harper are forced to go undercover as raw recruits to discover the whereabouts of the missing men, and who's skimming the money. Along the way Sharpe runs into many characters from past adventures, including a big sister type from his street urchin days, his old commander Lawford who is now in government, his old nemesis Sir Henry Simmerson, and his personal  English Rose, the lovely Jane Gibbons. He also meets and charms the airheaded Prince of Wales, and makes yet another dangerous enemy in Lord Fenner. It's a novel departure from the normal army action we're used to in the series, and Cornwell treats the reader to many neat tidbits about how recruiting worked, and how susceptible the system was to corruption. Of course, since it's a Sharpe book, there is a rousing battle finale as the army pushes into France.	2001-07-16
1925279:US	52254603	R1HNFC0JC85R6M	0385323964	465355030	Maximum Bob	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Meandering Elmore	Although Leonard bestowed this book with a great title and two of his more memorable characters, he does none of  them justice in this rather aimless story. Like much of his work, this is a quick-moving piece set in South Florida,  and features a full parade of small-time criminals, cops, one or two truly nasty folks, and a wide array of curious  characters who spout crackling dialogue. The catalyst for the action is hanging judge &quot;Maximum&quot; Bob Gibbs  (who is said to resemble Harry Dean Stanton), a racist, sexist, philandering, cracker, caricature of a fella' who  doesn't mind speaking his mind. Of course, this gets people mad at him, most notably recent sentencee Dale Crowe  Jr. and his ex-con Uncle Elvin, recently returned from 15 years for killing a man. They plot to off him, with the  assistance of a drug-addled doctor under house arrest, and his mincing &quot;houseboy.&quot; All these folks are also in the  orbit of the real protagonist, parole officer Kathy Baker and her love interest, cop Gary. Kathy is one of most  engaging of Leonard's female leads, but her job sort of restricts her ability to influence events. So, enter Gary, a  cool, low key hero type, who has the power to move events along, but also somehow manages to bore one to death.  It all meanders along in Leonard's typical farcical fashion until a somewhat discordant murder or two heralds the  beginning of the end. It's a rather mundane and anticlimactic conclusion for a Leonard novel, and one wonders if  he just got bored by it. Another weakness is the judge's wife, a new-agey type who is sometimes possessed by the  spirit of a young black slave girl, but whose interludes serve only to break the flow of things. There's also the  houseboy, Hector, whose oddity is mentioned repeatedly by several characters, but never explained or explored. It's  not awful, but it's not as crisp as most of his work, hopefully he'll bring Kathy back for a more fully realized  adventure in the future.	2001-07-10
1927355:US	52254603	R24Z5VPJ8PF4D2	0671878867	296950271	Alternate Generals	Books	2	11	13	N	Y	4 or 5 out of 16 ain't good...	This collection of 16 short stories was profoundly disappointing, if only because I expect better from something  with Turtledove's name on it. There is a certain expectation when reading alternate history that either the the events  and/or people being tinkered with are so familiar that they need no introduction, or that a small introduction will be  given to set up the story (not to mention maps). Unfortunately that was not the case here, as a number of the stories  used rather obscure incidents and people as their basis, and there was no corresponding supplementary material. It  also doesn't help expectations when the jacket copy is about scenarios that aren't in the book. Add some rather  tepid writing in a number of cases, and the book got rather tedious.<br />If you're going to borrow it, there are a few stories worth checking out. Lillian Carl's &quot;The Test of Gold,&quot; focusing  on the Romans vs. Boadica, was one of the better stories, albeit somewhat roughly told via the memoirs of an old  Roman. S.M. Stirling's, &quot;The Charge of Lee's Light Brigade,&quot; has a somewhat interesting premise at least: that  Gen. Lee of Civil War fame, instead fights with C.S.A. along with other British forces at Balaclava in a very  different Charge of the Light Brigade. Somewhat slyly, Stirling seems to have inserted George MacDonald  Fraser's legendary scoundrel and rouge &quot;Flashman&quot; in the story as an homage to the great Scottish writer, which  works rather well as Flashman does campaign there in &quot;Flashman at the Charge.&quot; Another of the best stories is  William Sanders' &quot;Billy Mitchell's Overt Act,&quot; in which a military aviation pioneer manages to thwart the attack on  Pearl Harbor. Told as a series of excerpts from books, interviews, and testimony, he manages to weave a very  engaging tale. The final story, R.M. Meluch's &quot;Vati&quot; is probably the best of the bunch, showing what might have  happened had a more imaginative and forceful man taken over German air operations and sped up production of jet  aircraft, thus preventing D-Day. It's something the Germans did manage to do at the end of the war, but by then  was too little, too late.<br />As for the rest: &quot;Tradition,&quot; by Elizabeth Moon (who's &quot;Deed of Paksenarrion&quot; trilogy I love), suffers from an  unknown main character, British WWI Rear Admiral Cradock, a slightly obscure setting, the Mediterranean (more  interestingly treated in the historical fiction of John Biggins), and the need to have detailed maps at hand to follow  the action. Brad Linaweaver's rather silly &quot;And to the Republic For Which It Stands&quot; imagines an alternate Caesar.  Lois Tilton's &quot;The Craft of War&quot; is annoyingly written as a dialogue between Socrates and a student about Sun  Tzu's &quot;The Art of War.&quot; Jody Nye's &quot;Queen of the Amazons&quot; is a terrible Crusader piece fortunately followed by  a competent as usual WWII piece by editor Turtledove. Unfortunately, one then segues into an utter piece of dreck,  Esther Friesner's &quot;An Old Man's Summer&quot; featuring the rambling reminisces of a dying Eisenhower. Bill  Fawcett's &quot;The Last Crusader&quot; establishes the fun premise of Napoleon as a Cardinal, but doesn't take it anywhere.  Even though it didn't particularly engage me, Janet Berliner's &quot;A Case For Justice&quot; is worth mentioning for taking  as it's subject, the South African leader Jan Smuts. William Forstchen's &quot;A Hard Day For Mother&quot; folds a clich&eacute;  &quot;brother vs. brother&quot; Civil War tale into the battle for Round Top Hill at Gettysburg. David Weber's &quot;The Captain  From Kirkbeam&quot; is the first of two seafaring stories, his being about a commander trying to blockade French ships  from sailing into the Chesapeake Bay during the War for Independence. &quot;Vive L'Amiral,&quot; by John Mina imagines  Nelson as fighting on the French side, rather than the British, with rather different results, of course. Brian  Thomsen's &quot;Bloodstained Ground,&quot; is a rather cheezy and weak attempt to show a drunken Samuel Clemens  uncovering the hidden truth about &quot;President&quot; Custer and what really happened at Little Big Horn.<br />So, maybe four or five stories worth reading all told, mixed in with a few more interesting premises, and a lot of  bad and just plain boring ones. You're better off checking out Robert Cowley's &quot;What If?: The World's Foremost  Military Historians Imagine What Might Have Been.&quot;ith rather different results, of course. Brian  Thomsen's &quot;Bloodstained Ground,&quot; is a rather cheezy and weak attempt to show a drunken Samuel Clemens  uncovering the hidden truth about &quot;President&quot; Custer and what really happened at Little Big Horn.<br />So, maybe four or five stories worth reading all told, mixed in with a few more interesting premises, and a lot of  bad and just plain boring ones. You're better off checking out Robert Cowley's &quot;What If?: The World's Foremost  Military Historians Imagine What Might Have Been.&quot;	2001-07-09
1931989:US	52254603	RUV4N8TSQFTOA	096712610X	711313086	Anecdote: Stories from the Road : A Collection of Tour Stories	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Some Good, Some Bad, Some Ugly	This collection of tour stories from some 120 different punk and punk-related bands, is intermittently interesting, disgusting, annoying, and funny. Mostly though, it's kinda boring, I mean after about the tenth time of hearing \\"We were so drunk, we couldn't play, and then so-and-so threw up, and then we drank some more...\\" it gets old. I guess it might have been more interesting if I'd known more of the bands involved, but I'm an old geezer now, so most of them were below my radar screen. Still, a number of the stories are pretty crazy and, as a whole, the book brings the whole DIY underground to life, albeit not in the best light. It's amazing how many band people find it amusing to wreck someone else's space-and then they wonder why the best venue they can get is stupid coffeeshop for [amt]. It's one thing to mess yourself up, and it's one thing to mess with someone who's unjustly hassling you, but it's another thing to randomly be an....<br />In any event, my favorite bit was the juxtaposing of The Union's positive experience meeting the legendary Ramones with The Neighbor's awful experience meeting The Ramones. One wishes more of the stories had been linked that way. The book is really ugly to read, clearly someone who had no basic design skills laid it out. Unfortunately, the same is true of whatever editing there was, there are loads of homonym mistakes (\\"chord\\" instead of \\"cord,\\" \\"principle\\" instead of \\"principal\\" and on and on), and some very basic misuses of apostrophes. I don't mind lack of attention like that in [amt] 'zines, but when you shell out [amt] for a book, you expect somewhat higher standards. Ultimately, I felt like the stories would really almost work better as a cool Web site, with photos of the bands, so you could see who was being talked about, plus discographies, music samples, links, etc... I'd be willing to help!	2001-07-05
1932469:US	52254603	R2PL9F9GAJIRE6	1894020545	822981258	The Concrete Wave: The History of Skateboarding	Books	2	19	22	N	N	Ok History, Wack Design + Organization	This book grew out of author Brooke's work on the SkateGeezer web site, and while it does do a pretty decent job at  recounting the history of skateboarding, it suffers badly from shoddy editing and poor design. The book is divided  into the four &quot;waves&quot; of skating (1959-65, 1973-80, 1983-91, 1993-present), each of which has a one or two page  introduction, followed by a mix of pieces on the technological developments, interviews, random skater stories, and  company profiles and histories. This format makes it easy to pick up and flip through, reading here and there at  random (much like a Web site), but if you read it cover to cover, it's not very cohesive. The book is probably strongest  in detailing the progression and development of various manufacturing techniques and materials in making boards, the  section on urethane wheels is especially good. Where it's weakest is in dealing with some of the &quot;cultural&quot;  components of skating. For example, references are made to tension between &quot;skate and destroy&quot; and &quot;skate to create&quot;  philosophies of skating, but what those terms mean isn't explained very well. The book could use considerable editing,  as some of the pieces seem to be lifted straight from hastily written e-mails, there are a number of typos, and the  apostrophe is consistently misused. I can live with those things in a DIY 'zine, but in a $20 book, it's unacceptable.  The photos are a mixed bag, with the older 70s stuff being pretty interesting, but most of the newer stuff being sub  par. The book's overall design is a joke, it's hands down, the most poorly designed full color book I've ever seen. It's  amazing that a publisher would fork out the considerable money required to print a full color book, and then turn  something out where the typography, use of photos, graphics, screens, and sidebars, looks like a 10-year old was  running the show. If it was properly edited, reorganized, and totally redesigned, then I would consider it a book worth  getting, otherwise I'd suggest snaking a friend's copy if you must read it.ould consider it a book worth  getting, otherwise I'd suggest snaking a friend's copy if you must read it.	2001-07-05
1935618:US	52254603	R2IWN9NA0GH707	0140294333	803394553	Sharpe's Sword: Richard Sharpe and the Salamanca Campaign, June and July 1812 (#14)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	More Intrigue, Less Battle, Still Excellent	This entry in Corwell's Napoleonic Wars series follows the further exploits of Cpt. Sharpe during the Salamanca  Campaign of June and July, 1812. It brings the same ingredients to the tale that can be found in abundance  throughout the series: action, intrigue, a beautiful woman, gory battle scenes, and a lethal villain. This time, the villain is  a French spymaster keen to discover the identity of England's top spy, &quot;El Mirador,&quot; and destroy his network.  Although captured at the very beginning, he later manages to escape and elude capture, almost killing Sharpe and  Harper along the way. The following scenes of Sharpe's journal through the army medical corps is horrific. Cornwell  follows the nastiness with some of the series most sentimental and tender moments, as he shows Harper's devotion in  nursing Sharpe back to health. Interwoven is the now-married Sharpe's temptation by the lusciousness of &quot;La  Marquessa,&quot; a French/Spanish aristocrat at the top of Salamanca's social ladder. Here, Cornwell does exceedingly well  at portraying the opulence of the upper crust, and Sharpe's discomfort in mixing with them. Kudos are also due for  his seamless insertion of two historically based Irishmen as important supporting characters. Less successful is his  sleight of hand at concealing the identity of &quot;El Mirador,&quot; which somewhat weakens the enjoyment. The battle scenes  take up somewhat less space than in some of the other books, but as always, are nicely done. Another fine entry in the  series.	2001-07-03
1936325:US	52254603	R2JIZ1GLZIT2GH	0156180421	546202796	City of Truth (A Harvest Book)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	The Truth Will Set You Free...	This wry and gentle science fiction novella is mostly a parable about truth and its application. In the city of Veritas,  eveyone goes through a coming of age rite which involves elctroshock conditioning (a la &quot;One Flew Over the Cukoo's  Nest&quot; or &quot;A Clockwork Orange&quot;) to both remove the ability to lie and the implant the need to tell the entire truth. This  makes for a fairly amusing setting in which products bear truthful names such as &quot;Ford Sufficient, &quot; how-to books  bear such itles as &quot;You Can Have Somewhat Better Sex,&quot; and summer camp is &quot;Camp Ditch-the-Kids.&quot; Personal  conflict seems to be more or less non-existant as everyone tells the truth and no one gets offended by it. The actual  story is about Jack Sperry, an art deconstructionist and his son Toby, who catches an incurable disease. Jack's job  involves examining works of art and literature from the past, ie. the &quot;Age of Lies,&quot; and physically destroying those that  represent things that aren't true, such as winged angels. Jack has read of the &quot;healing power of the positive thinking,&quot;  and wants to try it with Toby. However, since such a course of treatment is not based on anything factual, and involves  lying to Toby, he must find the secret communicty of &quot;dissemblers,&quot; who have somehow overcome their conditioning  and secretly live among the normal people. This eventually leads Jack to theliteral underground of Satirev (Veritas  backward, get it?), where pigs do fly, money grows on trees, and soforth. The part spent in this phantasmagoria is  decidely less amusing or interesting than the city of Veritas, which is richer territory for mockery. In the end,  Morrow's tale comes to the somewhat mawkish conlusion that while eveyone should have the freedom to choose  whether to lie or not, only the truth can really set you free.	2001-07-02
1937168:US	52254603	R2A3R8FY3M8YC6	0375504281	637747415	The Immortal Class: Bike Messengers and the Cult of Human Power	Books	3	14	14	N	N	Commendable but Contradictory...	This ambitious memoir tries to do two things at once: be a gritty &quot;insider&quot; account of the world of bike  messengers, and a impassioned protest against the dominant presence of automobiles in America. While it  succeeds moderately at both, Culley's overblown, melodramatic prose often interferes with the flow of the great  material he has to work with and undermines its impact. Culley approach is to interweave his own story of moving  to Chicago to pursue theater only to turn to messengering to pay the bills, with the larger story of how cars have  transformed our concepts of public space and community in both disturbing and far-reaching ways. And as befits  his theater background, he saves his most searing material for the end.<br />His stuff on messengering is excellent when he sticks to the nuts and bolts &quot;how to&quot; stuff of negotiating traffic,  battling cold weather, dealing with a cranky bicycle, the camaraderie of messengers, and especially in describing the  &quot;flow.&quot; His explanation of how bike messengers can get into the &quot;flow,&quot; and see how traffic, pedestrians, and  lights, will play out blocks ahead, is the best representation I've come across, and is the best defense possible for  why bike messengers ride so seemingly crazy. His comparison of the differences in sensory input between bike  rider and car driver is striking in its simplicity and impact. His descriptions of riding the streets of Chicago at top  speeds are vivid, cinematic, and a section on a wee hours messenger race through deserted streets is intense.<br />Culley is much less interesting when he starts trying to explain why messengering is so noble, and he veers off  into outbursts against officer &quot;suit&quot; types as he tries to expound on the nobility of work that makes you sweat and  bleed. Indeed, one of the central contradictions (and thus weaknesses) of the book is that while Culley is busy  railing against the corporate world and smirking about how his messenger takings are comparable money to that of  salaried office drones, he fails to fully acknowledge that he's just another part of the corporate machine, delivering  blueprints and contracts from one corporation to another. It's a rather inconvenient paradox in Culley's existence,  one that he is obviously too smart not to recognize, but rather prefers to ignore, hoping that the reader will allow  him to have it both ways.<br />When Culley writes about the American obsession with cars and their negative impact on communities, he  becomes rather more formal and earnest. He gives a quite readable account of the rise of the automobile and its  stranglehold on transportation planning since WWII. While none of this is new or particularly insightful, he does  make a convincing plea for greater attention to and respect for bicyclists. As with much of the book, his attempt to  portray the bike messenger as organically linked to the oppressive beast that is the city is romantically overblown  and borderline parody. However, it's hard not to get swept up in some of his dreaming about car-free cities, and  equally hard not to get angry at local governments who lack the imagination to relinquish at least some portion of  the road to cyclists--or at least protect them.<br />In the end, the books loses 1 star for the editor's failure to reign in the worst excesses of Travis's writing and for  not providing a map of Chicago. It loses another star for failing to address the central contradiction of bike  messenger life: counterculture, free spirit image vs. corporate errand boy reality.t how his messenger takings are comparable money to that of  salaried office drones, he fails to fully acknowledge that he's just another part of the corporate machine, delivering  blueprints and contracts from one corporation to another. It's a rather inconvenient paradox in Culley's existence,  one that he is obviously too smart not to recognize, but rather prefers to ignore, hoping that the reader will allow  him to have it both ways.<br />When Culley writes about the American obsession with cars and their negative impact on communities, he  becomes rather more formal and earnest. He gives a quite readable account of the rise of the automobile and its  stranglehold on transportation planning since WWII. While none of this is new or particularly insightful, he does  make a convincing plea for greater attention to and respect for bicyclists. As with much of the book, his attempt to  portray the bike messenger as organically linked to the oppressive beast that is the city is romantically overblown  and borderline parody. However, it's hard not to get swept up in some of his dreaming about car-free cities, and  equally hard not to get angry at local governments who lack the imagination to relinquish at least some portion of  the road to cyclists--or at least protect them.<br />In the end, the books loses 1 star for the editor's failure to reign in the worst excesses of Travis's writing and for  not providing a map of Chicago. It loses another star for failing to address the central contradiction of bike  messenger life: counterculture, free spirit image vs. corporate errand boy reality.	2001-07-02
1940824:US	52254603	R1NJX68T379P3C	0140294325	899749823	Sharpe's Company (Richard Sharpe's Adventure Series #13)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Siege + Hakeswill = Another Solid Entry	This 1813-set entry in the Napoleonic War series finds Sharpe once again battling two of his most formidable foes:  bureaucracy and the thoroughly evil Sgt. Hakeswill, the man responsible for his flogging in India a decade previously.  The first of these battles is a foregone conclusion, as the Horse Guards finally reject Sharpe's battlefield commission  to Captain, and he is reassigned away from his company as a Lieutenant. The depression this brings about is further  exacerbated by the installation of Sgt. Hakeswill in Sharpe's old company. Early on, Sharpe has a chance to kill his  legendarily unkillable enemy, but chooses not to and lets him go, saying that he prefers to do so in the sight of 1,000  men, so that everyone knows the deed is done. It's one of the unlikelier plot justifications of the series, made all the  more annoying by the long-term implications of that decision. The story continues with Sharpe trying to figure out  how to regain a Captaincy, while dealing with the schemes of Hakeswill. This is all set against the backdrop of the  siege at the fortress of Badajoz. Cornwell excels at imparting the technical and murderous side of siege warfare at the  time, while remaining entertaining. His descriptions of trench-digging, shelling, and futile charges against  overwhelming firepower all eerily foreshadow the horrors of France and Belgium 100 years later. For Sharpe, the  storming of the fortress is a test of his courage and pride, a point which Cornwell hammers home almost to the point  of parody. To top it all off, Sharpe's lover, the guerilla leader Terressa, is holed up in Badajoz, and Sharpe must race to  get to her before raping and looting soldiers do. The post-siege descriptions of wholesale rape are based on historical  fact, and are not for the faint of heart (or young), so be warned. Another strong entry in the series.	2001-06-28
1942289:US	52254603	R6A5G6XY76TUM	0140294317	806837296	Sharpe's Gold: Richard Sharpe and the Destruction of Almeida, August 1810 (#9)	Books	4	7	10	N	N	A Solid Entry, but Where Are the Repercussions?	In this installment in Cornwell's Napoleonic War series, Sharpe and his riflemen are sent by Lord Wellington on a  secret mission to recover a huge cache of Spanish gold deep in French held territory. At this point in the war (August  1810), the British have been driven from Spain, and French armies are marching on Portugal. Meanwhile, the army  has run out of money and without the gold, the British will have to abandon Lisbon, and the war. Sharpe's mission  introduces him (and the reader) to the uneasy diplomacy between England and Spain, as for the first time, Shape  encounters Spanish partisans fighting the French. The partisans currently have the gold, and are loathe to relinquish it  to the English troops, whom they don't trust. In each book in the series there is a main villain, here it is the partisan  leader, a cruel warlord called &quot;El Catholico.&quot; And, in each book in the series there is a beautiful woman, here Teressa,  who will play an important and long running role in the series. True to form, she falls into his bed a little too readily,  but that's par for the course in the series.<br />SPOILER WARNING &lt;&lt; Read no Further: Plot Twists to Be Revealed! &gt;&gt;<br />As usual, even once Sharpe successfully extricates the gold and his company from the partisans, and then French  forces, he still must battle his greatest foe: army bureaucracy. Holed up in the fortress of Almeida, he is ordered by the  garrison commander to relinquish the gold to Spanish representatives. Unwilling to let that happen, he comes up with  a rather drastic way to avoid the command--blow up the garrison, thus dissolving the commander's authority!  Cornwell bases this on the real explosion of the magazine that destroyed Almeida, but it seems a rather extreme  solution, even for the ruthless Sharpe. Pursing his &quot;break a few eggs to make an omlette&quot; plan, Sharpe's explosion  ends up killing around 500 British soldiers--rank and file soldiers just like him. He grapples with his remorse  momentarily, but it's a monumentally guilt-inducing event that seems not to have caused Sharpe many sleepless nights  later in the series (at least the ones I've read so far). Considering Cornwell's has Sharpe's repeatedly recall his  whipping in India, and other traumatic events from his past, it seems a slight misstep that the climax of this book  doesn't affect him in later ones (although perhaps in working my way through the rest of the series, I'll find myself  wrong).<br />In any event, it's a fairly solid entry in the series.grapples with his remorse  momentarily, but it's a monumentally guilt-inducing event that seems not to have caused Sharpe many sleepless nights  later in the series (at least the ones I've read so far). Considering Cornwell's has Sharpe's repeatedly recall his  whipping in India, and other traumatic events from his past, it seems a slight misstep that the climax of this book  doesn't affect him in later ones (although perhaps in working my way through the rest of the series, I'll find myself  wrong).<br />In any event, it's a fairly solid entry in the series.	2001-06-27
1943621:US	52254603	R1F966KBKO532R	0140099212	83170331	Sharpe's Eagle: Richard Sharpe and the Talavera Campaign, July 1809	Books	5	35	37	N	N	Perfect Start to an Engaging Historical Adventure Series.	Set around the Talevera campaign of July 1809, this first installment in the Sharpe saga deploys all the elements found  throughout Cornwell's entertaining Napoleonic War series: the friendship between Sharpe and the Irish Sgt. Harper,  their bravery and cunning, the ignorance and arrogance that pervaded the foppish upper class officer corps, a beautiful  woman, and rousing battle scenes. Cornwell uses this first book to firmly establish the absence of meritocracy in the  British army of the time, as armchair commander Simmerson needlessly leads the South Essex (including Sharpe and  his Riflemen) into a debacle in which they lose the King's Colours, thus disgracing the whole army. Also clearly  established is the tension between Cpt. Sharpe, who was promoted from the enlisted ranks for an act of heroism, and  the upper class officer corps, who paid for their rank, irrespective of any actual military knowledge or ability.  Simmerson and his toadying nephew Lt. Gibbons attempt to place the blame for the rout on Sharpe, and his only hope  to save his rank is to perform an outrageous act of courage in battle at Talevera. Meanwhile, there's a beautiful Spanish  woman he rescues from Gibbons and a crony, whose honor he must avenge. All is resolved at the Talevera, as  Cornwell clearly and crisply recounts the military maneuvering on both a macro and micro level without getting overly  technical. Also introduced in the book are Major Hogan, the Irish engineer who develops over the series into Lord  Wellington's spy, as well as Lord Wellington himself, who is fond of Sharpe, but not hesitant to use his deadly skills.  Above all, Sharpe is presented as a full action hero, strong, smart, roguishly handsome, honorable, deadly and ruthless.  A perfect start to an engaging historical adventure series.	2001-06-26
1944015:US	52254603	RQK38BTQ2P45D	0679463046	79158641	Ghostwritten: A Novel	Books	3	6	10	N	N	A Few Great Stories Lost in an Overly Ambitious Debut	The subtitle to David Mitchell's debut, &quot;A Novel in Nine Parts,&quot; hints at both its strengths and weaknesses. The nine  parts are in fact nine interrelated short stories ranging from 30 to 60 pages, each set in different locales (Okinawa,  Tokyo, Hong Kong, rural China, Mongolia, St. Petersburg, London, remote Ireland, and Manhattan), each with  different narrative voices. The book's strength comes from Mitchell's ability to convincingly create distinctive voices  for each of his narrators, and to a lesser extent, render their surroundings. The weakness is that the stories are linked  tangentially by various events, objects, and characters, in a way that is somewhat entertaining, but ultimately  fragmented and ephemeral. First published in the UK in 1999, it's a true pre-millenial work, chasing themes of the role  of chance and fate, and spiritual rebirth in the face of a new era. By the end, one wishes he'd weeded out the weaker  stories, and not tried to tie them all together in an attempt to bring the global village to life.<br />Every reader will have their own favourites among the various stories, mine were actually the opening two. The first is  the delusional ramblings of &quot;Quasar,&quot; an Aum Shinrikyo cultist who is hiding out on Okinawa after having released  Sarin nerve gas on the Tokyo subway. This is followed by a beautiful portrait of a slacker Tokyo jazz buff working in  a specialist jazz record shop. It's a perfect piece, highly evocative of one of filmmaker Wong Kar Wai's more gentle  moments. Then, after a somewhat basic foray into the decline of a corrupt British lawyer in Hong Kong, we switch to  the life story of a woman working at a tea shack at the bottom of a remote Holy Mountain in China. Her life spans the  entire depressing history of modern China, as she suffers at the hands of feudal warlords, Japanese invaders,  Nationalist Chinese, Communists, the young cadres of the Cultural Revolution, and finally the indignities of the  capitalist reformation. It gets a bit clich&eacute; at times, but mostly works.<br />This is followed by a piece you'll either love or hate, the story of a transmigrating spirit/soul in Mongolia. It switches  host bodies through touch, as it seeks out the origin of a folktale which it hopes will explain the nature ot its existence.  I personally found it entirely hokey and New Agey, but I'm sure others will disagree and find it charming. The  subsequent story of an art heist from the Hermitage Museum, perpetuated by New Russian gangsters with the aid of  an ageing Kim Philbyish British spy is an initially pleasant change of pace, but grows more and more tiresome as the  characters fail to rise beyond stereotype. It's also the one story where Mitchell's ability to capture place and people  fails. It finally gives way to the story of an amiable womanizing musician/ghostwriter in London, which is both droll  and engaging in an awfully Hornby-esque way, However it's somewhat undermined by its overt referencing of the  Paul Auster novel &quot;The Music of Chance&quot; both in name (the narrator's band is so named), plot (as in the Auster book,  the narrator meets two rich men and spends an evening gambling with them), and theme (the role of chance in life).<br />The final two chapters are especially weak, as they build to an apocalyptic global nuclear exchange. The first tracks a  brilliant Irish scientist who is disillusioned by her work and its military application in the Gulf War (that she should  be surprised by this is rather silly). She attempts to escape to her tiny home island of the coast of Ireland so that her  knowledge of &quot;quantum cognition&quot; won't fall into military hands. While Mitchell's depiction of the island and its  inhabitants is charming (especially her relationship with her husband and son), the story descends into a rather silly  pseudo-thriller story with a ridiculous ending. Still, it's better than the final piece, the transcriptions of radio broadcasts  of New York late night DJ who stays on the air during what may or may not be WWIII, unleashed (or not) by  possibly artificially intelligent weapons systems. He takes calls on the air, and most of the story is a running dialogue  with either a high-end hacker, which may actually be  the artificial intelligence itself. It's not a particularly successful  foray into sci-fi and is especially unfortunate given the high quality of some of the writing earlier in the book. When  Mitchell stays away from the ephemeral and spiritual, his talent in capturing the human condition are a joy to read,  unfortunately, in this book he too often succumbs to the desire to make a larger point--whereupon the prose grows  tedious and trite. Hopefully, he'll try sticking to the more intimate pieces next time.o broadcasts  of New York late night DJ who stays on the air during what may or may not be WWIII, unleashed (or not) by  possibly artificially intelligent weapons systems. He takes calls on the air, and most of the story is a running dialogue  with either a high-end hacker, which may actually be  the artificial intelligence itself. It's not a particularly successful  foray into sci-fi and is especially unfortunate given the high quality of some of the writing earlier in the book. When  Mitchell stays away from the ephemeral and spiritual, his talent in capturing the human condition are a joy to read,  unfortunately, in this book he too often succumbs to the desire to make a larger point--whereupon the prose grows  tedious and trite. Hopefully, he'll try sticking to the more intimate pieces next time.	2001-06-26
1952758:US	52254603	R3OSRNDYXQUYDP	0684818442	885058787	From Time to Time	Books	1	47	58	N	N	Historical Fiction At Its Mind-Numbing Worst	Some 25 years after the publication of his classic &quot;Time and Again,&quot; Finney succumbed to that storytellers temptress--sequel. Finney brings back the hero of that book, Si Morely, from his cozy existence in 1880s New York for an entirely unentertaining stroll through 1912 New York in an awfully dull attempt to prevent WWI. It should be noted from the get go that this is no sci-fi, time travel extravaganza, rather it's solidly a piece of historical fiction--and if you're not interested in the minutiae of 1912 New York, don't even pick it up. Somewhere in the 25 years between the two books Finney apparently lost all ability to plot: the first chapter of the book (which is actually rather intriguing) has next to nothing to do with the rest of it, Morely is given no real motivation to come back to the present and then return to the past to carry out this mission, but then at the end, he is given a really excellent motivation! Why not just give him the plausible motivation from the beginning?<br />In the meantime, the reader must wade through lengthy descriptions of clothing verbatim reportage from period newspapers, and aimless set pieces that have much less to do with the plot than they do in displaying Finney's ample knowledge on the time and place. A tiresome, lengthy interlude involving a dance demonstration is even more infuriating when it becomes apparent that it's been set up to provide a cameo for a young Al Jolson. Similarly, when Si becomes baffled by the description of a building, he decides he must take an aerial tour of the city, piloted by a new friend. This is a convenient way for a lengthy exploration of the progress of aviation at the time. Never mind that the description of the building he's been given to work with is obviously the Flatiron Building--only one of New York's most famous pieces of architecture. Most egregious is the mind-numbing foray into the world of vaudeville, which Si undertakes in order to grab a glimpse of his father as a child. One part of this has a vaudevillian (who is completely unrelated to the plot) spend six pages recounting his less than interesting life story! Oddly despite expending great effort to glimpse his vaudeville antecedents, he never even thinks of looking up his 1880s wife and son, who live in, oh, Manhattan...<br />Let's not even get started on the &quot;Jatta&quot; girl, who pursues him. She's clearly a time-traveler as well, something he either fails to recognize (is he retarded?), or purposefully ignores (why?). Oh yeah, the climax comes aboard the (sigh) Titanic, on it's rendezvous with an iceberg. I love historical fiction, but in the end, one wishes Finney hadn't been so keen on period detail to the exclusion of any semblance of storytelling. E.L. Doctrow's &quot;Ragtime&quot; covers the same rough time period and place, but manages to tell a good story while doing so.child. One part of this has a vaudevillian (who is completely unrelated to the plot) spend six pages recounting his less than interesting life story! Oddly despite expending great effort to glimpse his vaudeville antecedents, he never even thinks of looking up his 1880s wife and son, who live in, oh, Manhattan... <br />Let's not even get started on the &quot;Jatta&quot; girl, who pursues him. She's clearly a time-traveler as well, something he either fails to recognize (is he retarded?), or purposefully ignores (why?). Oh yeah, the climax comes aboard the (sigh) Titanic, on it's rendezvous with an iceberg. I love historical fiction, but in the end, one wishes Finney hadn't been so keen on period detail to the exclusion of any semblance of storytelling. E.L. Doctrow's &quot;Ragtime&quot; covers the same rough time period and place, but manages to tell a good story while doing so.	2001-06-19
1959837:US	52254603	R18KM7V0UOAX1L	0380807238	387349639	Tina in the Back Seat: Stories	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Time Runs Out For All Of Us...	This collection of 13 short stories was published posthumously, following Raweley's death from AIDS in 1998. Six of the stories were previously published in various journals (Story, Harper's, etc.). All are set in California, and a number of them feature gay characters and touch upon AIDS (however, in nine of the stories, the protagonists are women). &quot;The Bible of Insects&quot; tells of middle-aged Inez, who marries elderly rich men and provides them with comfort and love until they die, leaving her their fortunes. It's an interesting portrait, showing both her sensitivity and harsh realism, but it's not clear why she would keep on the  golddigger track so long. &quot;Baby Liz&quot; is an odd snippet about a midget Liz Taylor impersonator and her new next door neighbour friend. &quot;The Tiger's Tooth&quot; takes us into the addictive world of high-stakes Pai-Go, via Gloria Wong, who risks everything for her weekly thrill. It's not a particularly remarkable story except that one rarely reads of women gamblers, or of Pai-Go.<br />&quot;The Closest Thing to God&quot; is a touching story of Iris, a middle-aged butch lesbian hoping to find love in her local bar. It's a gentle reminder that in every realm of society, there exist unobtainable beauties. &quot;Mother of Pearl&quot; is somewhat less interesting, detailing a tryst between a middle-aged white homosexual and a young stud Chicano boxer. &quot;Saigon&quot; is another enigmatic story, this time about the friendship between a  young homosexual and a gruff Vietnam veteran. &quot;Vaudeville&quot; and &quot;Iguana Boy&quot; are somewhat weak stories of mostly interior monologue, one by a woman lawyer, the other an elderly woman. &quot;At the Four Seasons&quot; seems slightly out of place, consisting of an overheard conversation between two hit men at a hotel bar.  &quot;Tim&quot; is told from the perspective of the ghost of a little boy observing his own funeral and his mother's mourning. &quot;The Spells of an Ordinary Twilight&quot; is another story about mourning and grief, this time from a mother's perspective. The final two stories are about women seeking to live life to the utmost. &quot;A Rumour of Prayer&quot; is about a woman who picks up teenage boys on the beach for one night stands so she can live on in their memories, and &quot;Tina in the Back Seat&quot; is about a young woman who lives from day to day, trading sex for shelter. In the end, while the writing is generally top-notch, there is a sense of time running out that pervades the collection. One gets the feeling many of the stories were written knowing death approached.Ordinary Twilight&quot; is another story about mourning and grief, this time from a mother's perspective. The final two stories are about women seeking to live life to the utmost. &quot;A Rumour of Prayer&quot; is about a woman who picks up teenage boys on the beach for one night stands so she can live on in their memories, and &quot;Tina in the Back Seat&quot; is about a young woman who lives from day to day, trading sex for shelter. In the end, while the writing is generally top-notch, there is a sense of time running out that pervades the collection. One gets the feeling many of the stories were written knowing death approached.	2001-06-14
1960290:US	52254603	R1F1TS9UY6LCLK	1899344543	610457699	On Tenderness Express	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Sex Scenes Overwhelm What Little Mystery There Is	Jakubowski is well known as an editor and writer of both erotic and crime fiction (see the Fresh Blood anthologies), but this is his first full-length crime novel. That said, it oozes sex at every pore-not just the obligatory plain vanilla sex found in many thrillers, but rather all manner of fornication is rendered in very explicit detail (including anonymous bathhouse and extreme S&amp;M torture scenes). Indeed, the sex somewhat overwhelms what little mystery there is. P.I. Martin is engaged by two clients to find different missing women. His story is alternated with that of Cornelia, a stripper/book-collector/hitwoman first introduced in the short story &quot;Femme Fatale Blues&quot; in Fresh Blood 2. This narrative construct guarantees their eventual meeting, dispelling some of the suspense. More unfortunately, the giant &quot;twist&quot; revealed in the final chapter is telegraphed far too obviously from the very beginning, and fails to surprise at all. Still, it's hard not to feel a little sympathy for all the lonely characters Jakubowski trots out in this rather bleak novel.	2001-06-13
1961702:US	52254603	R22577FUMRMK8F	031202620X	867564136	Hitler's Undercover War: The Nazi Espionage Invasion of the U.S.A.	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Great Overview of Nazi Spying in America	Despite it's choppiness and a tendency to fall into clich&eacute;ed prose, this book is a remarkable recounting on Nazi espionage efforts in the United States, during, and well before WWII. Beginning in the 1920s, and proceeding in brief, 5-10 page, chapters, the book provides an exhaustive overview of the individual spies and their methods, as well as the American response.<br />From the very start, modern readers will be amazed at how unsecured American industrial and military sites were at the time. Throughout the book, virtual amateur agents are able to bluff their way onto military bases, aviation plants, and the like, and are able to extract the most detailed information to pass along to Germany. Not until the FBI got fully organized in counterespionage and the U.S. entered the war, were such transparent ploys regularly detected and thwarted. A simple, but effective ploy was for the Gestapo to pick up a German-American visiting in Germany and threaten the safety of his family still in Germany unless he returned to the US and acted as a spy. Often, these unwilling agents were men who worked in industries vital to war efforts, and would thus have access to valuable data. Another avenue for espionage was through the main Germanic cultural organization in the US, the German-American Bund. Bruer recounted how the Bund was a ready-made support apparatus for Nazi espionage. More alarming is his detailing of covert Nazi propaganda efforts in the US domestic debate to keep America out of the war for as long as possible and portray Roosevelt as a warmongering lackey of the British. Another somewhat surprising revelation (to this reader at least), is the prominent role Nazi agents had in supplying information to Japanese intelligence about Pearl Harbor as far back as 1938. In addition to the exploits in America, the book does a decent job at explaining how different elements within the Third Reich had their own spymasters, agents and agendas for espionage in America.<br />Bruer does admirably in drawing from FBI files, but certain episodes too often feel like condensations of other people's material. Former FBI agent Leon Turrou's 1969 book, &quot;The Nazi Spy Conspiracy in America&quot; and Ladislas Farago's 1971 book &quot;The Game of Foxes&quot; being two such examples. And while the writing moves things along at a rapid pace, one wishes for a bit more of a rigorous historical and social framework. Many of the episodes recounted would be interesting in greater detail, and there's fodder for many an article or movie in these pages. Well worth the time of any reader with an interest in WWII.uer does admirably in drawing from FBI files, but certain episodes too often feel like condensations of other people's material. Former FBI agent Leon Turrou's 1969 book, &quot;The Nazi Spy Conspiracy in America&quot; and Ladislas Farago's 1971 book &quot;The Game of Foxes&quot; being two such examples. And while the writing moves things along at a rapid pace, one wishes for a bit more of a rigorous historical and social framework. Many of the episodes recounted would be interesting in greater detail, and there's fodder for many an article or movie in these pages. Well worth the time of any reader with an interest in WWII.	2001-06-12
1961771:US	52254603	R11MZJ58UV7J3Y	9991832459	585243040	Hitler's Undercover War	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Great Overview of Nazi Spies in America	Despite it's choppiness and a tendency to fall into clich&eacute;ed prose, this book is a remarkable recounting on Nazi espionage efforts in the United States, during, and well before WWII. Beginning in the 1920s, and proceeding in brief, 5-10 page, chapters, the book provides an exhaustive overview of the individual spies and their methods, as well as the American response.<br />From the very start, modern readers will be amazed at how unsecured American industrial and military sites were at the time. Throughout the book, virtual amateur agents are able to bluff their way onto military bases, aviation plants, and the like, and are able to extract the most detailed information to pass along to Germany. Not until the FBI got fully organized in counterespionage and the U.S. entered the war, were such transparent ploys regularly detected and thwarted. A simple, but effective ploy was for the Gestapo to pick up a German-American visiting in Germany and threaten the safety of his family still in Germany unless he returned to the US and acted as a spy. Often, these unwilling agents were men who worked in industries vital to war efforts, and would thus have access to valuable data. Another avenue for espionage was through the main Germanic cultural organization in the US, the German-American Bund. Bruer recounted how the Bund was a ready-made support apparatus for Nazi espionage. More alarming is his detailing of covert Nazi propaganda efforts in the US domestic debate to keep America out of the war for as long as possible and portray Roosevelt as a warmongering lackey of the British. Another somewhat surprising revelation (to this reader at least), is the prominent role Nazi agents had in supplying information to Japanese intelligence about Pearl Harbor as far back as 1938. In addition to the exploits in America, the book does a decent job at explaining how different elements within the Third Reich had their own spymasters, agents and agendas for espionage in America.<br />Bruer does admirably in drawing from FBI files, but certain episodes too often feel like condensations of other people's material. Former FBI agent Leon Turrou's 1969 book, &quot;The Nazi Spy Conspiracy in America&quot; and Ladislas Farago's 1971 book &quot;The Game of Foxes&quot; being two such examples. And while the writing moves things along at a rapid pace, one wishes for a bit more of a rigorous historical and social framework. Many of the episodes recounted would be interesting in greater detail, and there's fodder for many an article or movie in these pages. Well worth the time of any reader with an interest in WWII.uer does admirably in drawing from FBI files, but certain episodes too often feel like condensations of other people's material. Former FBI agent Leon Turrou's 1969 book, &quot;The Nazi Spy Conspiracy in America&quot; and Ladislas Farago's 1971 book &quot;The Game of Foxes&quot; being two such examples. And while the writing moves things along at a rapid pace, one wishes for a bit more of a rigorous historical and social framework. Many of the episodes recounted would be interesting in greater detail, and there's fodder for many an article or movie in these pages. Well worth the time of any reader with an interest in WWII.	2001-06-12
1962513:US	52254603	R2DKS73XTHFQOH	0312202792	239391714	Body Politic	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Intriguing Setting Doesn't Hold Up Flat Story	The debut in Johnston's series set in Edinburgh circa 2020 suffers from having a more interesting setting than plot-which is a rather banal serial-killer number. In this world, the UK has dissolved and Edinburgh exists as a kind of repressive city-state run according to Plato's Republic. The &quot;Enlightenment&quot; led to the elimination of crime, along with individuality, resulting in a combination Stalinist/Puritan society rife with rules, regulations, fines and work camps. The city's primary economic driver is tourism, which the city achieves by combining the gambling of Las Vegas with the sex trade of Amsterdam. Unfortunately, while Johnston does a good job showing how corruption undermines this dystopian society, he never develops the city and its people enough to fully convince. The lives and status of &quot;guardians&quot; (police) are well-depicted, but we never see much of the average citizen and how the rest of the city functions (perhaps this developed later in the series).<br />The book's nominal hero, Quint, is a standard issue haunted former policeman hero who is recalled from disgrace by the city officials who decide he is the only one with the knowledge/skills to solve the murder of a public guardian-the city's first murder in years. He's typically reluctant, nosy, lustful, burdened with old guilt, and all those other noir detective traits, but his character never quite fully develops. It doesn't help that Quint's parents were both founding members of the Enlightenment, and that his mother is the head of the council. In any event, he is assigned to track down a grisly killer before any damage is done to the tourist industry. This part of the book (ie. the story) is pretty standard stuff, and the few red herrings are easily recognized for what they are. If you're looking for a mystery with an unusual setting, thus might fit the bill, just don't expect the story to live up to the milieu. Future entries in the series may be more fulfilling.	2001-06-12
1962542:US	52254603	R2S5CCE08NPXBO	0312921500	703610593	Nazi Spies in America: Hitler's Undercover War	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Great Overview of Nazi Spies in America	Despite it's choppiness and a tendency to fall into clich&eacute;ed prose, this book is a remarkable recounting on Nazi espionage efforts in the United States, during, and well before WWII. Beginning in the 1920s, and proceeding in brief, 5-10 page, chapters, the book provides an exhaustive overview of the individual spies and their methods, as well as the American response.<br />From the very start, modern readers will be amazed at how unsecured American industrial and military sites were at the time. Throughout the book, virtual amateur agents are able to bluff their way onto military bases, aviation plants, and the like, and are able to extract the most detailed information to pass along to Germany. Not until the FBI got fully organized in counterespionage and the U.S. entered the war, were such transparent ploys regularly detected and thwarted. A simple, but effective ploy was for the Gestapo to pick up a German-American visiting in Germany and threaten the safety of his family still in Germany unless he returned to the US and acted as a spy. Often, these unwilling agents were men who worked in industries vital to war efforts, and would thus have access to valuable data. Another avenue for espionage was through the main Germanic cultural organization in the US, the German-American Bund. Bruer recounted how the Bund was a ready-made support apparatus for Nazi espionage. More alarming is his detailing of covert Nazi propaganda efforts in the US domestic debate to keep America out of the war for as long as possible and portray Roosevelt as a warmongering lackey of the British. Another somewhat surprising revelation (to this reader at least), is the prominent role Nazi agents had in supplying information to Japanese intelligence about Pearl Harbor as far back as 1938. In addition to the exploits in America, the book does a decent job at explaining how different elements within the Third Reich had their own spymasters, agents and agendas for espionage in America.<br />Bruer does admirably in drawing from FBI files, but certain episodes too often feel like condensations of other people's material. Former FBI agent Leon Turrou's 1969 book, &quot;The Nazi Spy Conspiracy in America&quot; and Ladislas Farago's 1971 book &quot;The Game of Foxes&quot; being two such examples. And while the writing moves things along at a rapid pace, one wishes for a bit more of a rigorous historical and social framework. Many of the episodes recounted would be interesting in greater detail, and there's fodder for many an article or movie in these pages. Well worth the time of any reader with an interest in WWII.uer does admirably in drawing from FBI files, but certain episodes too often feel like condensations of other people's material. Former FBI agent Leon Turrou's 1969 book, &quot;The Nazi Spy Conspiracy in America&quot; and Ladislas Farago's 1971 book &quot;The Game of Foxes&quot; being two such examples. And while the writing moves things along at a rapid pace, one wishes for a bit more of a rigorous historical and social framework. Many of the episodes recounted would be interesting in greater detail, and there's fodder for many an article or movie in these pages. Well worth the time of any reader with an interest in WWII.	2001-06-12
1966659:US	52254603	R2TE3S23MQL7Q9	0375708316	94111824	Crazy: A Novel	Books	2	6	8	N	N	What's &quot;crazy&quot; is the amount of hype...	Let's be up front about one thing right now, if this novella (it's short enough to be read in two hours) hadn't been written by a 16-year old, it wouldn't have gotten the hype it has, and very well might not have been published period. While it is an impressive achievement for someone so young, this coming of age work from Germany is highly derivative of that most famous of coming of age novels, &quot;The Catcher in the Rye.&quot; In what must be a highly autobiographical tale (this is a fair assumption given that the narrator is given the same name as the author), Lebert recounts &quot;Benjamin's&quot; months spent at his fifth boarding school. He's partially crippled, and academically suspect-and his parents use this as an excuse to pack him off while their marriage crumbles. Always regarded by his peers as either an object of contempt or weakness, not to mention strange, at this new school he instantly falls in with a group of five other misfits (it's not clear where the bullies are in this school, only the gang of six and a some girls they party with are ever mentioned).<br />There are two main set-piece episodes: the sneaking up to the girl's floor for a late-night party, complete with drunkenness, awkwardness, and the losing of virginity, and the running away to the big city (New York... oh wait, no it's Munich...). Throughout these reasonably well-written, but generic &quot;adventures,&quot; the gang engages in some rather unlikely and insipid philosophizing which severely undermines what charm the book has. Lebert is at his best in capturing small intimate moments (the description of his dog's death, the scene where he reads &quot;The Old Man and the Sea&quot; to his friends), as opposed to grand statements on life. In general, the writing is pretty minimalist and straightforward (which is good), and Benjamin emerges as a sympathetic and engaging character, although his pals (with the exception of ultra-romantic Jamosch) remain ciphers. In the end, it's very difficult to understand the breathless German media hype for this book, which travels down down exceedingly well-worn paths without adding anything fresh to the landscape.<br />More interesting coming-of-age novels include: Meera Syal's &quot;Anita and Me,&quot; Chris Fuhrman's &quot;The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys,&quot; Bett Williams' &quot;Girl Walking Backward,&quot; Jervey Tervalon's &quot;Living for the City,&quot; and Alan Warner's &quot;The Sopranos.&quot;y difficult to understand the breathless German media hype for this book, which travels down down exceedingly well-worn paths without adding anything fresh to the landscape.<br />More interesting coming-of-age novels include: Meera Syal's &quot;Anita and Me,&quot; Chris Fuhrman's &quot;The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys,&quot; Bett Williams' &quot;Girl Walking Backward,&quot; Jervey Tervalon's &quot;Living for the City,&quot; and Alan Warner's &quot;The Sopranos.&quot;	2001-06-09
1970468:US	52254603	R7KVP8TPO5ICP	0374525560	430131833	Who Killed Palomino Molero?: A Novel	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Good but Minor Work from a Major Writer	Eminent Peruvian novelist Llosa tries his hand at the crime story with this police procedural set in 1950s Peru. He doesn't stray too far from the tropes of the genre, as a crafty Guarda Civil Lieutenant and his sentimental Sergeant run afoul of powerful military types as they investigate the torture and murder of a  young airman from a nearby Air Force base. Still, in this novella length story, he manages to produce a remarkable amount of character development with the two policeman, including an offbeat subplot about the Lieutenant's infatuation with a pudgy married cook. Unsurprisingly, as they slowly unfold the circumstances  surrounding the young man's killing, issues of race, class, and corruption come to the fore. And, with such a buildup, it should come as no surprise that the resolution is more bitter than sweet. In sum, this is a relatively minor work from a major writer.	2001-06-06
1973386:US	52254603	R2QIXUOMQ03BIT	0425170640	655159091	Murder on Route 66	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Milage May Vary	Kind of a nifty idea at work here, an anthology of sixteen murder stories set along America's most famous--and mythologized--road. To further the conceit, all the authors lived in towns along the road at one point in their lives, and thus presumably bring a little more of themselves to the stories. Of course most of the stories are set in the past, prior to the pervasiveness of the modern interstate system, and tend to fetishize various old cars.<br />As with most anthologies, the quality is fairly variable, and favorites are highly dependent on personal tastes. I found &quot;Rappin' Dog,&quot; by Dick Lochte to be the best of the lot, featuring a smart and precocious adolescent girl detective-in-training. A close second is Barbara D'Amato's predictable, but still highly effective, &quot;Motel 66.&quot; Les Roberts' post-WWII tale, &quot;Willing To Work&quot; is a deftly nasty story, although the murder's undoing is a bit too obvious to make the reversal totally satisfying. Carolyn Hart's WWII-era story about a couple of nosy kids and some black-marketeers is kind of neat in a strictly period piece way. David August's &quot;Blind Corner&quot; is yet another period story featuring a nosy kid who thwarts the bad guy. David August's Vietnam-era set story takes a basic noir story of adultery, murder, and double-crossing and situates it so that it fits the anthology. Doris Merideth's &quot;Incident on 6th Street&quot; features a clich&eacute; crotchety old woman narrator whose Depression-era story is somewhat undone by her annoying delivery.<br />As for the rest, Judith Van Cieson's &quot;Dead Man's Curve&quot; plods along rather boringly to a kind of tame payoff, while J.A. Jance, Eleanor Taylor Bland, Lillian Roberts, Michael Allen Dymmoch, Gary Phillips, Earlene Fowler, John Lutz, and editor Wheat all deliver fairly unmemorable stories. Your mileage may vary.	2001-06-04
1981145:US	52254603	R1G6XK3BR9QH9L	067102471X	427512567	A Five-Year Plan	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Derivative Dreck From A Talented Writer	Philip Kerr is a gifted writer, as anyone who's read his brilliant Berlin Noir trilogy (March Violets, The Pale Criminal, A German Requiem) can attest to. Unfortunately, he completely abandons the tight plotting and deep characterizations he capable of in this derivative South Florida hiest-at-sea thriller. Kerr ventures into  territory already well covered by crime luminaries such as Elmore Leonard, James Hall, Carl Hiassen, and Lawrence Shames, and fails to add anything new. Protagonist Dave Delano is a stock character (as is everyone in the book), the guy who went to jail for five years and came out well-read and ready with a big score to take down. He enlists the aid of a cast of comic-book Florida mobsters in his scheme to steal $20-$60 million in cash being sent by sea to Russia to be laundered. Also on the boat is FBI agent Kate  Kury and two other law enforcement types, who are tracking a shipment of cocaine. Kerr sets this up so that it's clear that Dave is intent on simply stealing from other thieves, and doesn't wish to hurt anyone, which makes it OK when he and Kate predictably hook up. From then on, the main tension is not whether the score will go off OK (that's pretty obvious), but whether workaholic Kate will turn her back on the FBI and join Dave in carpe-dieming as partners. Hmmm, thief and FBI agent fall for each other.... where have I read that before... oh, maybe in Elmore Leonard's Out of Sight, which pulls it off with a much more delicate touch. It's basic airplane/beach reading garbage, with not an ounce of originality, and is even more disappointing  coming from a talented writer like Kerr.	2001-05-29
1983604:US	52254603	R5Q1MLL1IDU2F	0385486669	817877166	The Man Who Tried to Save the World: The Dangerous Life and Mysterious Disappearance of an American Hero	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Heartnbreaking and Fascinating -- but Ellusive	Even though I'd heard of Fred Cuny from a PBS Frontline show about him, I wouldn't have been likely to pick up this biography and account of his dissapearance except that friend had strongly reccomended it. He was a man with a huge compassion toward people in need, and had a comparably huge ego. Anderson makes it clear that Cuny had large dreams, and sometimes altered details about his background and accomplishments to maintain his own mythology. A revolutionary in the field of disaster relief, he was one of the first to recognize the challenges in designing and implementing relief strategies in the post-Cold War era of regional conflicts that would devestate civil societes around the globe. When he dissapeared in Chechnya in 1995 with three colleagues, it eventually triggered a manhunt that escalated to the presidential level between the US and Russia. It's this mystery that drives the book.<br />Anderson's account begins in standard journalistic fashion, with a &quot;teaser&quot; opening chapter relating the basics of Cuny's mysterious dissapearance. He then goes back to construct a biography of this remarkable man and the disaster relief wolrd he shouldered his way into. There are some interesting episodes along the way, such as Cuny's precience about what would unfold in Somalia, his dominant role in Operation Provide Comfort in Iraq, and his ingenuity in Bosnia--but eveything builds toward Chechnya. Here, Anderson is particularly strong at capturing the horrifying randomness of the war between the Russian army and Chechen sepratists. The vital point about this war, which is made perfectly clear, is that there are a plethora of groups with subtle alliances and unfathomable agendas. There are units of Russian army conscripts (who would rather be anywhere else), elite professional soldier units (who are frightenly autonomous), commando units, Russian intelligence agents (remarkably inept), relief workers, Chechen guerillas, Chechen mafia, regular bandits, politicans in neighboring provinces, refugees, and in the midst of this malestorm of interests strode Fred Cuny.<br />In detailing this confusion of interests, and the multitude of rumor and disinformation concerning Cuny's dissapearance, Anderson does tend to repeat himself. This gets kind of old, and one wishes for a bit more rigerous editing throughout. His technique of building up various theories only to be able knock them down later also gets somewhat tiresome, but is understandable. In the end, Anderson travels to Chechnya and endangers his life to try and track down the truth and must be commended for that. Unfortunately, as one might expect, many of the people who might have known something of the truth about the matter are killed along way. Anderson's hypothesis that Cuny was dissapeared on the order of Chechan President Dudayev is reasonably convinving, but ultimately ephemeral and unprovable. While Dudayev is obviously unapproachable on matter, one wishes Anderson had spent some time trying to track down Cuny's driver, a man who melted away.ns in neighboring provinces, refugees, and in the midst of this malestorm of interests strode Fred Cuny.<br />In detailing this confusion of interests, and the multitude of rumor and disinformation concerning Cuny's dissapearance, Anderson does tend to repeat himself. This gets kind of old, and one wishes for a bit more rigerous editing throughout. His technique of building up various theories only to be able knock them down later also gets somewhat tiresome, but is understandable. In the end, Anderson travels to Chechnya and endangers his life to try and track down the truth and must be commended for that. Unfortunately, as one might expect, many of the people who might have known something of the truth about the matter are killed along way. Anderson's hypothesis that Cuny was dissapeared on the order of Chechan President Dudayev is reasonably convinving, but ultimately ephemeral and unprovable. While Dudayev is obviously unapproachable on matter, one wishes Anderson had spent some time trying to track down Cuny's driver, a man who melted away.	2001-05-26
1983619:US	52254603	R2X6W86K7WR4VG	157806290X	168307328	Out of the Past: Adventures in Film Noir	Books	4	20	20	N	N	Punchy Prose to Motivate any Film Buff	Novelist, playwright, essayist, and screenwriter (Lost Highway) Gifford here presents a newly titled edition of his 1988 book The Devil Thumbs A Ride. The book is a guide to approximately 120 films &quot;about corruption and crime,&quot; which, if not exactly noir, are at least noirish in their bleak and melancholy outlook. These range from 1933's The Island of Lost Souls to 1988's House of Games, although the majority of the films are from the '40s-'50s. That particularly rich period of the early '70s is also well-covered, with essays on Badlands, Chinatown, The Getaway, Get Carter, and Mean Streets. The chief joy, and distinguishing feature, of this book is that Gifford writes about each movie with the enthusiasm and expertise of a real fan and the crisp prose of an accomplished writer. Rarely does he indulge in the obvious observation or criticism, rather he's at his best when he gives it to the reader straight, capturing the tone of the film in a punchy paragraph. He'll also motivate you to take a second look at apparent junk (Elvis' 1958 King Creole is the best example) with a new perspective, and rent forgotten or overlooked gems like 1978's Straight Time, and 1980's Tom Horn. Each entry gives you an incentive to watch the movie, although be forewarned--he does tend to give the entire plot. Sometimes the essays focus on the careers and roles of leading and supporting actors rather than the film itself, subjects Gifford makes as compelling as the actual films. The one pity is that this new edition doesn't include any films released since its original publication (films like One False Move, Reservoir Dogs, and The Limey come to mind, as well as recent remakes of classics like The Getaway and Cape Fear). Gifford does toss in a few British and French films to make things a little more inclusive, but it would be nice to see him move further afield with something like Kurosawa's 1949 film, Stray Dog or even Chungking Express. But this is perhaps more a case of being greedy than an actual criticism of what is there.greedy than an actual criticism of what is there.	2001-05-26
1983916:US	52254603	R30HNDSA8OTJW4	0586090185	454635997	Into the Badlands: Travels Through Urban America	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Grand Tour of American Crime (circa 1989)	This unpretentious literary travelogue provides an excellent window into a number of top American crime writers and the (mostly urban) areas they inhabit. Williams' 1989 circuit of the U.S. is a kind of crime fiction grand tour, as he visits thirteen established and up-and-coming authors (only one of whom is female) in ten locations, each of which gets about 20-25 pages or so, as follows:<br />Miami &gt;&gt; Carl Hiassen (Lucky You, Stormy Weather), James Hall Louisiana &gt;&gt; James Lee Burke New Mexico &gt;&gt; Tony Hillerman Los Angeles &gt;&gt; James Ellroy, Gar Anthony Haywood San Francisco &gt;&gt; Joe Gores (32 Cadillacs) Missoula, MT &gt;&gt; James Crumley (Bordersnakes) Chicago &gt;&gt; Sara Partesky, Eugene Izzi Detroit &gt;&gt; Elmore Leonard (Be Cool, Cuba Libre, Pronto, Pagan Babies, Riding the Rap) Boston &gt;&gt; George V. Higgins New York &gt;&gt; Andrew Vachss<br />Williams is clearly a believer in detective fiction as social portraiture and commentary, and like myself, he's most interested in what is generally classified under the catchall terms &quot;hard-boiled&quot; or &quot;noir.&quot; That is to say, crime novels about the everyday criminal world, as opposed to semi-mythical world of &quot;The Godfather,&quot; the serial-killer world of Hannibal Lechter, or the cozy world of crime-solving cats or little old ladies. Williams tends to stay in the cheaper, and thus seedier, parts of the places he visits, and tries to get the writers to show him around, show him their world. In addition to touring the seedy side of America, Williams often takes side-trips of a musical nature--as befits his music journalist career. His contrasting of a (white) cajun fete with a (black) zydeco dance is one of the truly telling parts of his journey. The conversations with the writers are intermittently interesting, although it's interesting to note that many of them came from impoverished backgrounds and came to writing by accident. Another similarity is their rough treatment at the hands of Hollywood. Most of the writers are extremely forthcoming and open with Williams, the most notable exception being Higgins, who comes off as a pompous ass in comparison to the rest of the book's subjects.<br />Some twelve years after Williams' trip, it's rather amazing to find that 12 of the 13 writers are still going strong, with a string of books to their credit from the intervening years. Indeed some, like Carl Hiassen, James Lee Burke, James Ellroy, and Elmore Leonard have gotten considerably more famous. The one writer who isn't still producing is Eugene Izzi, who was found dead in 1997, hanging from his 14th-story office window in what was ruled a bizarre suicide...<br />Since writing this book, Williams has gone on to write crime fiction himself, including the 1983-set London novel Faithless, and a collection of stories set in the Cardiff underworld, Five Pubs, Two Bars and a Nightclub.treatment at the hands of Hollywood. Most of the writers are extremely forthcoming and open with Williams, the most notable exception being Higgins, who comes off as a pompous ass in comparison to the rest of the book's subjects.<br />Some twelve years after Williams' trip, it's rather amazing to find that 12 of the 13 writers are still going strong, with a string of books to their credit from the intervening years. Indeed some, like Carl Hiassen, James Lee Burke, James Ellroy, and Elmore Leonard have gotten considerably more famous. The one writer who isn't still producing is Eugene Izzi, who was found dead in 1997, hanging from his 14th-story office window in what was ruled a bizarre suicide...<br />Since writing this book, Williams has gone on to write crime fiction himself, including the 1983-set London novel Faithless, and a collection of stories set in the Cardiff underworld, Five Pubs, Two Bars and a Nightclub.	2001-05-26
1984405:US	52254603	RK4H7F5H3R491	0312182716	141298978	Warrior: The Legend Of Colonel Richard Meinertzhagen	Books	1	22	31	N	N	Possibly the Worst Biography I've Ever Read	Unfortunately, this is one of the most poorly written and edited non-fiction books I have ever read. I say unfortunately, because the subject of this book is first rate biography fodder, having been deeply involved in British colonial wars of East Africa, leading commando actions against the Germans during WWI in East Africa and the Middle East, and working as an OSS agent in WWII--as well as being a hunter of epic proportions and something of an ornithologist.<br />Capstick chooses to concentrate on the &quot;legend,&quot; eschewing any research, preferring to simply cite from Meinertzhagn's own diaries at length rather then take the time to provide any corroborating documentations. This is a shame since it is left to to the reader to decide what part of the tale is true and what is not--no small task given that Meinertzhagen destroyed a large portion of his diaries in 1942, which raises the possibility of revisionism on his part in the later years of his life. Not to mention the remarks in his diaries regarding T.E. Lawrence which have been ably refuted by historians, nor the recent news that at least one of his major ornithological &quot;discoveries&quot; was in fact a fraud on his part.<br />Capstick clearly was unable to organize information in any sensible manner, and his editor (if there actually was any), certainly didn't bother to help. For example, tacked onto the end of a lengthy paragraph about Meinertzhagen's dislike for other races is the only mention of his first marriage!<br />No, instead Capstick presents a rambling accounting the juiciest of events from the diaries, detracting from these by interjecting his own barely coherent diatribes against &quot;greens&quot; as well as numerous instances of the &quot;I know just how Dick felt, I too...&quot; variety. Clearly Capstick has an almost hero-worship of his subject, and thus totally waffles around Meinertzhagen's clearly racist views and blood lust. On page 220 he states as much: &quot;This complex man's psychological makeup is not the point of this book. His glorious adventures and cunning bravery are.&quot; This is all well and fine except that his subject's &quot;adventures&quot; including loads of killing, including an Indian for mishandling his horse.<br />Meinertzhagen's life was certainly fascinating, but I'd suggest waiting to read about it in a competently researched and written biography, not in this homage.an's psychological makeup is not the point of this book. His glorious adventures and cunning bravery are.&quot; This is all well and fine except that his subject's &quot;adventures&quot; including loads of killing, including an Indian for mishandling his horse.<br />Meinertzhagen's life was certainly fascinating, but I'd suggest waiting to read about it in a competently researched and written biography, not in this homage.	2001-05-26
1984422:US	52254603	RN3WXNTB63L56	1571780858	492704374	Prince Borghese's Trail: 10,000 Miles over Two Continents, Four Deserts, and the Roof of the World in the Peking to Paris Motor Challenge	Books	1	7	14	N	N	Great Subject--Poor Execution	Obert's account of the her trip of \\"10,000 miles over two continents, four deserts, and the roof of the world in The Peking to Paris Motor Challenge\\" is both compelling and disappointing. It is compelling in that it would be hard to write about a classic car rally which goes across China, Nepal, India, Pakistan, Iran, Turkey, and on to Paris without it being interesting. It is annoying in that freelance magazine writer Obert doesn't do [much] with the great material. The purpose of the rally is to recreate a 1907 race which was documented by an Italian journalist who rode with Prince Borghese. Obert cribs the interesting bits from that account, but is [doesn't add] in integrating them into her own trip. Ditto for the local history, which appears to be largely...from Lonely Planet and other basic guidebooks. Once certainly learns a great deal of interesting stuff about the rules and manners of rallying. She's good on the car stuff, but weak on the people. The vast number of contestants results in Obert's inability to really give more than a quick character sketch of any. It would have been more interesting if she'd stuck with tracking a few fellow contestants all the way through and gotten more in depth on them. Much of the book is marred by a whiny tone with respect to her driving partner, the race organizers, poor accommodations, food, and especially the wearing of a headscarf when traveling through Iran. All in all, despite Obert's claim to be a big traveler, I didn't get the feeling she really enjoyed the world she drove by, or was making much of an effort to understand it. Indeed, she revels in the rally's arrival in Italy--ah the West! And finally, her attempt to justify the huge expense of the whole undertaking--to her...self and the reader--at the very end is laughable. She...claims, \\"Our long drive was an act of connection,\\" no, such events are purely about the self. She didn't hear about the rally and think. \\"Wow, what a great way to connect with less fortunate parts of the world,\\" she thought (as I would) \\"Wow, how cool would that be to do!\\" This lack of honesty at the end was the final sour footnote for me to a book which would have benefited from better physical design (it's an ugly book to read), a much more rigorous editor, and a more prepared and perceptive narrator. Certainly the rally comes across as interesting, and Obert's personal achievement is quite an accomplishment, I just wish a better book had come of it.nate parts of the world,\\" she thought (as I would) \\"Wow, how cool would that be to do!\\" This lack of honesty at the end was the final sour footnote for me to a book which would have benefited from better physical design (it's an ugly book to read), a much more rigorous editor, and a more prepared and perceptive narrator. Certainly the rally comes across as interesting, and Obert's personal achievement is quite an accomplishment, I just wish a better book had come of it.	2001-05-26
1989327:US	52254603	R15QVZPVVY6RO8	1899344527	243134151	Fresh Blood 3 (Bloodlines) (No. 3)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	FB3 &gt;&gt; Another Solid Anthology	Fifteen more stories comprise this third instalment in editors Ripley and Jakubowski's effort to promote the best of &quot;new&quot; British crime writers. Three of the authors (the two editors plus Paul Charles) have appeared in earlier &quot;Fresh Blood&quot; anthologies, and the other twelve have all published at least one novel. The stories almost seem to come in pairs, Minette Walters and Denise Mina's stories both concern abuse of the elderly, and both end with justice served. Two of the stories are constructed as confessionals, Maxim Jakubowski's subpar (for him) &quot;The Day I Killed Tony Blair,&quot; and HR MacGregor's &quot;The Confession.&quot; Mike Ripley's &quot;Angel Eyes&quot; and Paul Johnson's &quot;Frankie and Johnny Were Lovers?&quot; are both kind of funny, bawdy, and harmless tales. Martin Waites and Manda Scott both feature genuine psychopaths, the first story being a rather predictable tale of a frustrated actor, the second, a stunningly nasty encounter with a vile dog owner.  Scott's tale is even more foul considering it's entirely based on either personal experience or first-hand accounts from trusted sources. Two rather conventional stories contain last paragraph twists that undo their criminal protagonists Paul Johnson's throwaway &quot;Crime Fest&quot; and Peter Guttridge's somewhat out of place  and cutely titled &quot;The Postman Only Rings When He Can Be Bothered.&quot; For once, all three stories set in the US are believable and don't bear the mark of an outsider. Rob Ryan's &quot;S**t Happens&quot; is a fairly basic story of a couple of minor hoods messing up bad along the Jersey Turnpike. Adam Lloyd Baker's &quot;Atlantic City&quot; is a rather banal quickie about a falling out between two hoods. Lee Child's &quot;James Penney's New Identity&quot; is a very good fugitive story&quot; set in the southwest and California, and he is the one writer in this anthology I definitely intend to keep an eye out for.	2001-05-22
1989709:US	52254603	R246R33OEHTBRL	0877958513	835533545	When Gravity Fails	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Narrative Misstep Mars Amazing Setting &amp; Characters	In this novel Effinger takes Marid Audran, a reluctant, layabout, fiercely independent gumshoe straight out of Raymond Chandler, and sticks him in a Cairo of the future that is both brilliantly and economically rendered. In this cyberpunkish future, pretty much everyone who can, has their brain &quot;wired&quot; for modifications. These modifications take the form of personality &quot;modules&quot; that turn the user into whatever the particular module is programmed as--this can take the form of virtually any real or invented personality  imaginable (James Bond is a favourite, as are many pleasure-optimized models). In addition to modules, there are &quot;add-ons&quot; which are little plug-ins which can grant instant knowledge of a language or skill. This technology, plus the vast improvement of, and subsequent proliferation of sex change operations makes for  a world where few people are as they were born. Unlike many sci-fi writers, Effinger manages to convey this technology quickly and simply, making instantly plausible, and part of the landscape.<br />Audran's stubborn refusal to wire his brain is what sets him apart from more of the other denizens of the &quot;Budayeen&quot; (old city--think casbah), he prefers to alter his mental state through heavy drinking and drug use. Most of his days are spent sleeping off hangovers and then drifting through the red-light district,  sitting around with friends and series of bartenders. However, when a series of seemingly unrelated murders attracts the attention of Freidlander Bey (the local godfather figure), he is prodded into investigating the murders and coming up with answers. Audran's interactions with Freidlander Bey masterfully capture the elaborate verbal dances and coffee ritual that accompany traditional Arab business dealings. Unfortunately, once Audran is hooked, the plot starts to betray the great setting and characters  Effinger has established.<br />It's established that the murderer is using some sort of bootlegged module to assist in committing their crimes. Therefore, in a somewhat suspect leap of logic, it is decided that in order to track the murderer down, Audran will need to be wired with experimental brain implants. This narrative misstep not only abandons the one trait that made Audran unique, independent, and likeable, but also pushes the technology to the fore of the story at the expense of character. Once this is done, the mystery is solved relatively quickly, and in a rather pedestrian way. Of course, there's more to the mystery than a simple psychopath  gone amok, but the whys are only partially convincing. It's still a great book, but the last third is a bit of a letdown after the amazing beginning.bootlegged module to assist in committing their crimes. Therefore, in a somewhat suspect leap of logic, it is decided that in order to track the murderer down, Audran will need to be wired with experimental brain implants. This narrative misstep not only abandons the one trait that made Audran unique, independent, and likeable, but also pushes the technology to the fore of the story at the expense of character. Once this is done, the mystery is solved relatively quickly, and in a rather pedestrian way. Of course, there's more to the mystery than a simple psychopath  gone amok, but the whys are only partially convincing. It's still a great book, but the last third is a bit of a letdown after the amazing beginning.	2001-05-22
1996056:US	52254603	R3R80W0BCZA5H0	0156005484	646413366	The Name of a Bullfighter	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Masterpice of Sparse Suspense	Sepulveda's sparse but gripping story combines noir's thematic treatment of the past as an inescapable albatross with the noir trope...being made offers they can't refuse. When the Berlin Wall comes down, the race is on to trade in secrets from the past and retrieve long-hidden treasures. A mysterious man in a wheelchair enlists an exiled former Chilean revolutionary/guerilla/terrorist to return to his homeland and recover a cache of gold coins stolen by, and then from... Meanwhile, an  ex-Stasi officer convinces a down-and-out former underling to do the same. For both men , this is a chance to break free their depressing conditions and make a new start, albeit a carrot with a  considerable stick in the wings. As others have pointed out, Sepulveda has the same gift as the French writer Emmanel Carrere for being able to build tension with a bare minimum of plot and exposition. The settings are vivid and contrasting, from a gritty and racist modern Germany reminiscent of Jakob Arjourni's books, to the remote tip of Chile, which has whispers of \\"Smilla's Sense of Snow.\\" Underlying the basic thriller plot is a somewhat wistful and bitter questioning of the relevance and meaning of radical movements of the 70s and 80s in the post-Cold War era. Indeed the central metaphor of the race for the gold is that everyone in the book is trying to forget the past and make do in a world decidedly more interested in money than ideology.	2001-05-17
1996194:US	52254603	R1FMKOCFX5HM59	068484818X	56007210	LOVE IN A BLUE TIME: SHORT STORIES	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Solid Introduction to Kureishi's World	For those (like me) familiar with Kureishi only via his film work, the stories here will not surprise, as they exhibit his usual sensitive approach to the themes of cross-cultural difficulties and men completely adrift in their middle-age. The ten stories--most in the 5-15 page range with three 40+ pagers mixed in--are fairly mixed in quality, there are a few failures, but what is good is exceedingly good. In the cross-cultural difficulties category are three workmanlike, but unremarkable stories: &quot;We're Not Jews,&quot; &quot;With Your Tongue Down My Throat,&quot; and &quot;My Son the Fanatic.&quot; The latter offers an excellent example of how a somewhat offhand short story can be turned into a quite compelling and powerful film. The other seven stories all deal in one way or another with men struggling to come to terms with marriage, responsibility, commitment, and sheer growing up--or more often, not struggling but trying to simply avoid it all. Two of these, &quot;The Flies&quot; and &quot;The Tale of the Turd&quot; wander off into Gogolish territory to no great effect. Kureishi's writing is inarguably strong, and he's able to make his characters come alive with a minimum of words, and often with a fair dose of humor. But while it's fun to read the stories just to enjoy good writing, too many of these men start to feel like they're living under the same desperate cloud, which gets tiresome.	2001-05-17
1996258:US	52254603	RPWFWLTJ9OFHT	1899344209	791192617	Fresh Blood II (Bloodlines) (No. 2)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Strong, but More Mainstream than FB1	While these fifteen stories representing &quot;the cream of Britain's new wave of crime writers&quot; comprise a stronger collection than the standard mixed-bag anthology, they are decidedly more mainstream and less edgy than the stories in the first &quot;Fresh Blood&quot; collection. The only ones worth totally skipping are John Tilsley's San Francisco-set tale and the throwaway coda contrivance by RD Wingfield. The cream of the crop (somewhat surprisingly given the mainstreamedness of his novel Not the End of the World) is probably Christopher Brookmyre's &quot;Bampot Central,&quot; a hilarious tale of two idiotic Scottish bank robbers. Phil Lovesy's &quot;Stranglehold&quot; is a tight little story, done in real-time. Both the editors turn in strong stories, although it would be nice if Jakubowski could weed out the Anglicisms from his U.S.-set stories. For some reason I quite liked John Baker's &quot;Defence,&quot; even though it's not apparently a crime story until the last two paragraphs. John Williams provides another quality story in his ongoing series on the Cardiff underworld (the story was later reprinted in his collection, Five Pubs, Two Bars, and a Night Club). Mary Scott and Lauren Henderson's stories fine, though nothing special, and Ken Bruen (Rilke on Black, The Hackman Blues) once again doesn't do anything for me. Two homages, (Charles Higson's to &quot;The Tell-Tale Heart&quot; and Christine Green's to &quot;Psycho&quot;), are quite effective, as is Carol Anne Davis's (Shrouded) typically creepy &quot;The Ghosts of Bees.&quot; Iain Sinclair's &quot;No More Yoga at the Night Club&quot; is an East End number whose appeal will largely lie in the reader's own affinity for that particular place (cf. Jake Arnott's The Long Firm).	2001-05-17
2007285:US	52254603	R2PJ3UGWXTDDRH	0312867395	590388162	The Best of Crank!	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A Mixed &quot;Antigeneric&quot; Bag	I should preface this by saying I'm only a dabbler in science fiction, and had never heard of Crank prior to reading this anthology. However, I'm always interested in trying out fiction that's attempting to push the edges of genre. Of course, it should be noted that in his somewhat whiny and facile introduction, editor Cholfin rails against the concept of genre (which I'm actually rather in agreement with) and presents this anthology as &quot;a deliberately antigenric selection&quot; of stories. In any event, the 17 stories range from a few pages to 40+ pages in length and, as with any anthology, vary considerably in quality. Like many short stories, many are built upon gimmicks--some of which work, and some of which don't. Lisa Tuttle's &quot;&quot;Food Man,&quot; about the intertwining of anorexia, food, and sex is a gem, easily the best of the stories. &quot;The Matter of Seggri.&quot; Ursula Le Guin's description of a world where women live normally and men are raised as breeders, explores many of the gender themes her novels do, and with equal success. Robert Devereaux's tale about Tinkerbell and her human-sized boyfriend is another notable contribution, albeit a little cutesy. With his two and half stories here, Jonathan Lethem continues to befuddle me. I loved his books Motherless Brooklyn and Gun, With Occasional Music and hated Amnesia Moon. Similarly I quite liked his story &quot;Mood Bender,&quot; and very much didn't like his story &quot;The Happy Prince,&quot; or his cowritten piece, &quot;Receding Horizon.&quot; In the end, I can't say I feel reading this &quot;Best of&quot; was time well spent, but I'm sure others with different tastes will find much to enjoy within.	2001-05-08
2008433:US	52254603	R2XG13VI18N3XH	1582340242	37224455	The House of Whacks: A Novel	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Disappointing Muddle	This is a book whose premise I liked better than the actual execution. The idea of 1950s Chicago, an actress turned S&amp;M model (think Betty Page), mobsters, a dying tough-girl editor, hack pulp writers, a struggling screenwriter, and a heist of Nazi gold, sounds great, but fails to hold together in the end. Branton expends so much effort on recreating the hard-boiled setting and slang that the plot zigs and zags all over the place with annoying time shifts and a disappointing denouement. It might have been more compelling had Branton stuck with one or two main characters and went a little deeper into their lives, and paid a little more attention to plot (for example, the various heist plans are bafflingly stupid). While comparisons with LA Confidential aren't totally off base, Leonard's book is big league material, and this is strictly wanna-be. The 1950s dialogue is occasionally marred by 1990s expressions, and more irritatingly, by Anglicisms that the editor should have easily caught.	2001-05-07
2010121:US	52254603	R101YOS9CRG2WL	0140185321	204127765	Stamboul Train: An Entertainment (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	2	5	11	N	N	An Unentertainment!	Contrary to other reviewers I found this slim &quot;thriller&quot; (Greene's fourth book, and first &quot;entertainment&quot;) to be rather lacking in suspense. Fortunately, I know I'm not alone, because the majority of my book group felt similarly (with one passionate exception). Basically, Greene throws a lot of semi-interesting characters onto the famous Orient Express, and lets them bounce off each other for a while. The main characters are a young, rich Jewish currant tycoon, a young chorus girl, a Communist exile returning to lead an uprising in Belgrade, a narcissistic thief and murder, a lesbian newspaperwoman, her disinterested companion, and a popular novelist. None of the characters emerges as particularly sympathetic, and the treatment of the Jew and the lesbian are particularly distasteful. It's debatable as to why they portrayed this way, but whatever the reason, it distracts from what little plot there is. This is the second Greene entertainment (This Gun For Hire being the other) that's utterly failed to entertain me.	2001-05-05
2011865:US	52254603	R364ZBJYGIV03V	0375707239	879408147	Miss Wyoming	Books	2	0	1	N	N	A Weak First Date with Douglas	This was my first experience with a Douglas Coupland book, and to be quite honest, probably my last. I kept reading and reading and reading, hoping to find something redeeming in this completely stale satire--sadly, it feels dashed off, all the way to the bitter end. Weaknesses? Try the cardboard characters to start with. Any time an author lifts a persona from real life, you have to wonder if they're really trying any more. Here you have real life Hollywood producers Don Simpson (now dead) and Jerry  Bruckheimer in the cardboard forms of main character John Johnson and his pal Ivan--Hollywood director and producer of big budget garbage. The other main character is a former teen beauty queen, turned moderate sitcom star, turned rock star wife, turned druggie--talk about clich&eacute;.<br />Both come near to dying and subsequently run away from the sad lives they've constructed, trying to reimagine themselves and start life fresh. But they've been living such self-destructive lives in rarefied circles few of us will ever encounter, which makes it hard to feel much sympathy for them. This has all been done before, with characters that actually feel real, and with writing that actually sparkles. The story, such as it is, takes place over a three-day period interspersed with many a flashback. The convoluted non-linear structure feels wholly contrived, as if Coupland realized he'd have to perform some legerdemain to distract from the stale soap opera material.<br />The notion that this book is some kind of masterpiece of satire is ridiculous the moment you look at what is being satirized: Hollywood, beauty pageants, celebrity, pop culture? All have been skewered ten times over and ten times better by a raft of books and films--we are given nothing new or fresh to chew on here. A fairly disappointing book, considering Coupland's reputation. Oh yes, one last editorial annoyance: Why are there Anglicism scattered  throughout the book?	2001-05-03
2014707:US	52254603	R1WDWNHLX9P8DI	0375756531	474970959	The Dying Ground: A Maceo Redfield Novel (Strivers Row)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Brilliant New Voice	This outstanding first novel, set in crack-riddled Oakland of 1989, is one of the most accurate portraits of the friendships and conflicts of young black men in the inner city I've come across.  Although the book is subtitled &quot;A Hip-Hop Noir Novel&quot; it doesn't really have much to do with either (the hip-hop mostly comes from a minor character who speaks in lyrics and a cameo by Too  Short, the noir refers mainly to the importance of the past--a central theme in film noir and in the book), rather, it's a highly inventive twist on the traditional procedural.<br />Cut from much the same cloth as Boyz N the Hood, and indeed greatly in debt to it, the book kicks off with an excellent (and highly cinematic) barbershop confrontation. The killing of local drug baron Billy, propels his two childhood friends, Maceo and Holly, into a quest to find his killer and Billy's missing girlfriend, Flea. Former high school baseball star and recent Berkeley dropout Maceo Redfield makes an unlikely, and very flawed, detective. Until now, he's always managed to stay out of the hustler's drug life, never having to pick sides due to his untouchable athlete status. However once his old friend is killed, he decides he must find Flea and avenge Billy as a matter of  honour, even if it means getting involved with people much nastier than he can ever be.<br />Tramble exposes the empty codes of honour for what they are through the outsider character of Alixe, who challenges Maceo to walk away from it all. And just as Maceo couldn't face a tough  challenge in college, he can't face this one, &quot;Despite my family, my talent or even myself, all any of us felt we had was the game.... invented manhood.&quot; Even though he's got everything to lose, and little to gain, one reads on, hoping Maceo will manage to squeak through against the odds and come out clean. This book (just like Boyz N the Hood) makes a vivid point about how even the those with solid upbringing and potentially bright futures can still get caught up in all kinds of nonsense.<br />The book's biggest strength is Tramble's remarkable ability to reach into each character's head and come up with just the right voice and make that come alive on paper. Her skill is evident in that she accomplishes this across all ages and both sexes. The use of local slang and pronunciation is blended effortlessly in every conversation. The book's other real strength is the vivid depiction of time and place--Tramble makes Oakland come alive. If you like this book, check out Jervy Tervalon's &quot;Living for the City&quot; or pretty much anything by George Pelecanos. Tervalon's short stories about growing up in LA, and Pelecanos' D.C. crime novels have the same strengths in voice and setting as this book.ures can still get caught up in all kinds of nonsense.<br />The book's biggest strength is Tramble's remarkable ability to reach into each character's head and come up with just the right voice and make that come alive on paper. Her skill is evident in that she accomplishes this across all ages and both sexes. The use of local slang and pronunciation is blended effortlessly in every conversation. The book's other real strength is the vivid depiction of time and place--Tramble makes Oakland come alive. If you like this book, check out Jervy Tervalon's &quot;Living for the City&quot; or pretty much anything by George Pelecanos. Tervalon's short stories about growing up in LA, and Pelecanos' D.C. crime novels have the same strengths in voice and setting as this book.	2001-05-01
2019109:US	52254603	R1NSMXT8SY53KI	0380789620	483289343	I Sing the Body Electric! And Other Stories	Books	3	4	13	N	N	Well-written, but maybe dated?	The edition I read had 18 stories, but by the end that felt like plenty to me. Bradbury's certainly a fine writer, but like that other renown master of the short form, Borges, he totally fails to engage me. I guess it's all a matter of taste, but the stories in this collection felt rather dated, and that's probably why I didn't enjoy them that much. Many of the stories raise questions about what it is to be human, and the intersection of humanity and the technology humans create to mimic humanity. And while they're  moderately effective (especially the one about the robot grandmother), once you've read Dick's &quot;Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep,&quot; everything else tends to pale in comparison. So, not my cup of tea, but that's just me.	2001-04-27
2023734:US	52254603	RERWSAUTQXR32	0812535197	580313181	The Other End of Time (Eschaton)	Books	2	1	1	N	N	A Disappointing Abduction	Pohl is one of the masters of the genre, but here he delivers a disappointing riff on the alien abduction theme. Things begin promisingly enough in a near-futuristic New York, where crime and  hyperinflation are a plausible part of daily life, but daily life is still recognizable. We are introduced to Dan Dannerman (awful name), who is an agent for a futuristic FBI/CIA hybrid trying to penetrate a high-tech observatory run by his cousin. Things starts to grind to a halt when he, his cousin, and three others blast off into space to combo Spacelab/Hubble/MIR thingy that's stopped working and might somehow be related to alien broadcasts that have been recently received on Earth. Like many genre characters, none of the five are particularly interesting, and Pohl's occasional POV switching is somewhat pointless. More annoying is the overheated and poorly written sexual &quot;tension&quot; between various characters, which undermine the entire work and lead it off into the land of late-night cable. This is becomes even more silly when the five are captured by the aliens and made to live in a cell for observation by the aliens. The intriguing possibilities promised by the aliens' introduction of &quot;copies&quot; of the characters to the originals (they have some sort of replicator technology) doesn't lead anywhere particularly interesting or thought provoking. The ending is particularly weak, and seems rather hastily concluded and deliberately open to a sequel.	2001-04-23
2026700:US	52254603	R1NKUIVCYJXV3Q	1565846141	552628618	Life Isn't All Ha Ha Hee Hee	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Disappointing compared to &quot;Anita and Me&quot;	Much as I loved Syal's charming debut novel, &quot;Anita and Me,&quot; I was a little leery of this one, which had been described as &quot;an immigrant Indian Waiting to Exhale.&quot; Set amidst the Punjabi community of east London, the book chattily follows the trials and tribulations of three 30-ish lifelong friends and their relationships with each other. Chila is the sweet, innocent, plain girl who manages to bag the most eligible bachelor in town. Sunita is a former law student who dropped everything for love and has now been run ragged by the routine of motherhood and is rapidly heading for middle-age. Tania is the self-assured beauty who's turned her back on tradition and fashioned a media career and a string of non-Indian boyfriends. While the three natter on about the old standards (marriage, sex, friendship,  family, etc), much attention is given to the difficulties of feeling out their cross-cultural existence and  the  moral dilemmas it poses. While these difficulties are ably captured, much of the book reads like a bad movie. In attempting to show various sides of female friendship, Syal veers into great swathes of cheezy, ill-considered writing. The paths all three characters take over the course of the book are entirely predictable, as are their various transformations. It's not particularly awful, but neither is it particularly remarkable or fresh--a big disappointment following &quot;Anita and Me.&quot;	2001-04-20
2032522:US	52254603	R3J9780Y0808MV	0671041401	554020976	The Shot	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Felt Rather Dashed Off	Kerr's WWII-era Berlin Trilogy (March Violets, The Pale Criminal, A German Requiem) is some of my favourite historical fiction, so I figured I'd give one of his more recent thrillers a chance. This one is set in 1960, mainly in Havana, Miami, New York, with side trips to Vegas and Chicago and takes place over the course of the Nixon/Kennedy election and the buildup to JFK's inauguration. Kerr weaves a fairly elaborate plot around the JFK assassination conspiracy mythos, involving a top assassin, the mob, Cuban intelligence, crooked CIA and FBI agents running amok, inept Secret Service, and a bevy of sexpots, building up to an attempt to kill Kennedy prior to the inauguration. There are two major, major reversals (ie. unexpected plot twists), and many reviewers are inexplicably revealing the first of these in their summaries. I will not, but suffice to say, it's these two reversals that keep the pages turning. Of course, we all know what happened in Dallas, several years later, and Kerr manages to produce an ending to explain that as well.<br />Some reviewers have complained that since we know the assassination doesn't take place, there's no suspense. Personally, I found that creating and building the suspense in the face of such knowledge is Kerr's most impressive achievement in this case. Much like Frederick Forsyth's &quot;The Day of the Jackal,&quot; the reader is drawn into the world and methodology of the killer and those tracking him. Unfortunately, plot seems to be occurring at the expense of character. There's no one to really root for or care about, which is fine in a lot fiction, but doesn't usually work so well in thrillers. Not only is there no one to care about, there's scant characterization to begin with, the male characters all have the same tired tough-guy patter, and the women are exclusively characterized as sex objects (and not amazingly banal ones at that). Kerr's attention to cultural icons and detail, which was a wonderful element in his Berlin Noir trilogy, proves to be far less interesting when applied to America in the 1960s (perhaps because it is so much more familiar). When you combine these weaknesses with several linguistic anachronisms, and a total absence of the wonderful turns of phrase in his earlier work, you get the feeling this was a rather dashed off bit of fluff for Kerr.n Noir trilogy, proves to be far less interesting when applied to America in the 1960s (perhaps because it is so much more familiar). When you combine these weaknesses with several linguistic anachronisms, and a total absence of the wonderful turns of phrase in his earlier work, you get the feeling this was a rather dashed off bit of fluff for Kerr.	2001-04-16
2039193:US	52254603	R1M8DJU6RDY1ZH	1852426241	722742375	Vox 'n' Roll: Fiction for the 21st Century	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good Intro to Modern Writers	The eighteen original stories here represent a decent cross-section of youngish, hip writers from England, Ireland, the U.S., Scotland, and Canada. Although the title suggests that the stories are thematically linked to music, it is actually the name of a literary night held several times a week at Filthy McNasty's  pub in North London since 1996. The idea is that authors alternate 10 minutes of reading their work with 10 minutes of music they select, to make it a little more homey and personal than your  average reading. These stories haven't been published elsewhere, and are intended to be representative of what you might find at one of the &quot;Vox n' Roll&quot; nights. Of the eighteen writers, I've read books by seven, and heard of all except four, so I knew what I was getting. The stories by Nick Blincoe, Paul Charles, Patrick McCabe, Ben Richards, Kevin Sampson, Irvine Welsh, and John Williams, were all more or less in keeping with the novels of theirs I've read, bearing the same signature flourishes.<br />Welsh, Williams, and Sampson all deliver solid stories per usual. Welsh's is an increasingly uncomfortable story about an angry man at his family Christmas dinner. Williams provides another  Cardiff tale, this one about a loser trying to create a new Spice Girls clone. Sampson's is a nice riff on a sex-obsessed youth making his first date. Richards, Blincoe and McCabe's are all fine, if not as interesting to me. Charles provides a &quot;Detective Christy Kennedy&quot; story that is the only true throwaway story of the bunch, it's clear from the beginning what happened and how. Will Self, I keep trying to get into, but his story did nothing to encourage me to try any harder, although the premise is kind of neat. As for writers I'd not yet dipped into, the stories by Sparkle Hayter, Tanya Glide, Lynn Tillman, Selena Saliva Godden, Jim Dodge, and Stella Duffy didn't do anything to encourage me to pick up their work. On the plus side, Matt Thorne intrigued me with his delicate, almost old-fashioned, touch in &quot;Bridge Class,&quot; a story about marriage. Lana Citron's &quot;Changing&quot; is a simple, but charmingly effective tale of hitting puberty. Vicki Hendricks caught my attention with &quot;Rebecca,&quot; a bizarre story about siamese  twins with a happy ending. And finally, Christopher Fowler takes the prize for best story with the creepy &quot;At Home in the Pubs of Old London.&quot; All in all, a fairly satisfying sampler of writers and stories. If you like this, check out the Disco Biscuits, Disco 2000, or Shenanigans collections, all edited by Sarah Champion.with his delicate, almost old-fashioned, touch in &quot;Bridge Class,&quot; a story about marriage. Lana Citron's &quot;Changing&quot; is a simple, but charmingly effective tale of hitting puberty. Vicki Hendricks caught my attention with &quot;Rebecca,&quot; a bizarre story about siamese  twins with a happy ending. And finally, Christopher Fowler takes the prize for best story with the creepy &quot;At Home in the Pubs of Old London.&quot; All in all, a fairly satisfying sampler of writers and stories. If you like this, check out the Disco Biscuits, Disco 2000, or Shenanigans collections, all edited by Sarah Champion.	2001-04-10
2044718:US	52254603	R1SHJO0OAN3FCB	0679740678	67210777	The Man in the High Castle	Books	2	10	17	N	N	Dated Dick	I had heard that this slim novel, in which Germany and Japan have divided up American, after winning WWII, was one of the best alternate history books ever. Being a moderate counterfactual history fan, I was excited to such a book by someone as respected as Dick. Unfortunately, while the setup is excellent, there's almost no plot to hold the reader's attention. The story, such as it is, hovers around San Francisco and a few people trying to work within this postwar system, where everyone has &quot;place&quot; or rank. There are some interesting incidents and characters, but ultimately they get bogged down in meaningless mystic nonsense. I can see how in 1962, when the book first appeared, the combination of alternate history and I Ching-babble must have been revolutionary, but both have been been done so much better since, that this ends up feeling quite dated and inadequate. Most disappointing of all is the obscure non-ending.	2001-04-04
2044851:US	52254603	R15OLGFC8ZLZSJ	0312262884	906030078	Damned If You Do: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Wistfully Surreal Slapstick	Set in Oxford, this first-person account of a week in the (after)life of a zombie is by turns slapstick, surreal, and wistful. Corpse #72 18 9 11 12 13 49 is dragged out of his grave by Death (yes Death, he of the 4 Horsemen of the Apocalypse--only now they are the 4 Car Drivers of the Apocalypse), who is looking for a replacement for Hades. It seems Hades was recently ripped apart by Cerebus, but it's not really clear who masterminded the attack. The zombie has a week to prove himself a capable assistant, or else he gets re-offed and returned to the grave.<br />Most of the humor comes in the portrayal of Death, Disease, Famine, War, and underling Skirmish, as petty bureaucrats who bickerer and whine their way through the week. Pestilence is constantly experimenting with new plagues to unleash, if only he got approval from &quot;The Chief.&quot; War and Skirmish revel in bar-room brawls and instigating playground fights. Death, on the other hand, is kind of bored and fed up with everything. It has more than a slight whiff of Monty Python about it all. The narrative alternates between recounting the day's activities (each day brings with it an &quot;accidental&quot; death to oversee), and ruminations on the zombie's life before his death at age 28. Although we know he died falling off a roof, he slowly unveils his life story leading up to that moment. Old relationships are rehashed, and he reflects on having squandered his life. Some moderate tension is built as we learn more and more about his final hours, and he realizes he desperately wants to give life a second chance--which of course means cheating Death...	2001-04-04
2045383:US	52254603	R2PU8ELL2QHIRS	0393315630	749481430	Marabou Stork Nightmares	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Different &gt;&gt; But Excellent	A little more offbeat that the other Welsh works, this one goes into the head of coma-beset thug, Roy Strang. He's passing time in his coma by inventing a fantasy world where he is on a mission in Africa to eliminate the evil predator marabou stork. This world is depicted in a old-fashioned boy's own adventure-style language, however, it keeps getting interrupted by real-life visitors talking to him. This sets him off on reflections on his dysfunctional upbringing and the horrific Scottish slums he comes  from. Over the course of the book, Roy reveals his maturation and a transformation from bullied kid to violent &quot;casual,&quot; culminating in an awful crime. If it sounds whacked-out, it kind of is, but it all makes some terrible kind of sense when you read it... Welsh demonstrates his usual written pyrotechnics in switching voices back and forth between the upper-crusty tones of the African story with the gritty realistic ramblings he's displayed elsewhere.	2001-04-04
2045460:US	52254603	R2O0655QAQ95NC	0684853159	2967327	The WASP FACTORY: A NOVEL	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Excellent &gt;&gt; But Not For the Squeamish	I don't know what's in the Scottish water, but it seems like all the fiction I've read from there is messed up (in a good way). This particular book is another in line, as a glance at the Library of Congress Cataloging data for this book shows: &quot;Fathers and sons-- Scotland-- Fiction, Serial murders-- Scotland-- Fiction, Teenage boys-- Scotland-- Fiction, Psychopaths- -Scotland-- Fiction, Murders-- Scotland-- Fiction.&quot; That pretty much tells you all you need to know. It's a first-person account by an insane 17 year-old detailing his life with his father, as well as telling about the three murders he staged as accidents. It's totally sick and messed up, especially if you're squeamish about animal cruelty (and I mean real cruelty). There's a further stunning &quot;twist&quot; at the end, but by then you're prepared to accept pretty much anything that happens... Well written.	2001-04-04
2045578:US	52254603	R35NSM4SWHQD0C	0385319037	863089890	Animal Husbandry	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Simple Fun for the Ladies	For some reason, despite the book's tired and sexist premise that men are dogs who tend to switch partners once they get tired of the &quot;Old Cow,&quot; and its general schlockiness, I still managed to enjoy it on a very simple level. It's very much a fluffy romantic comedy set amidst the same old New York upper middle class that always seem to be the backdrop for books such as this. Unlikely to provoke any minds, it should appeal to fans of Bridget Jones' Diary. One of those books that must have caught me at just the right moment, 'cause I bet if I reread it, I'd toss it.	2001-04-04
2045688:US	52254603	RSJM8OFBVHMC3	1555835546	700038984	Ratz Are Nice (PSP): A Novel	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Might Work Better on Film	What can I say? As a book, this is awful. The &quot;startling multiethnic lyrical phrasing&quot; that the jacket praises, just doesn't do the trick. And unless you're a glutton for wading through experimental writing, and annoying typography (hey, I used to be a book typesetter, I love innovate type work, this is just lame) it's boring. Somehow, I get the impression I might have actually enjoyed it if it had been a movie. There, I could have gotten into the rythym of the language and the lives a bit more, but on print it's a dud. And the story of two rival skinhead crews is fairly banal. I've yet to read any book about the skinhead subculture that rises above cliche or pulp fiction, and this is certainly no exception. The author's notes are sort of interesting, except that there are some errors and typos throughout (for example, the 2-Tone band is The Selecter, not The Selecters, the famous rocksteady producer is Sonia Pottinger, not Portinger), and the bit about hardcore is seriously flawed. I dunno, maybe Canadians, or homosexuals will get more out of it than I did. I'd be interested in seeing a movie of it though.	2001-04-04
2045793:US	52254603	R2FMP7PKKAYDSI	0393318974	329122209	Bucket of Tongues	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Perfect Introduction to McLean's Range	From the author of the totally creepy Bunker Man and the deftly delightful Blackden comes this collection of 23 short stories ranging in length from a half-page to 42 pages. McLean's voice and fine writing is as evident in these short works as in his two novels. If one placed each of his novels at the end of a spectrum of creepiness and wholesomeness, the stories in this collection would fill the gap between them. Indeed, the longest story, &quot;Hours of Darkness&quot; shares many of the creepy and ultimately nasty characteristics of Bunker Man, while others such as &quot;Tongue&quot; or &quot;The Druids S***e It and Fail To Show&quot; hearken to Blackden. As a whole, the collection is a great example of the new Scottish writing, and a perfect introduction to McLean.	2001-04-04
2046620:US	52254603	R1AFIA059QH1O9	1871033535	628340622	Now's the Time: The Complete Resnick Short Stories (Slow Dancer Crime)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Great Series Epilogue (or Introduction for newcomers)	Following the end of Harvey's Nottingham-set Charlie Resnick series, this book collects his eleven (not twelve, as some reviews erroneously state) Charlie Resnick short stories, nine of which previously appeared in anothologies such as &quot;Fresh Blood,&quot; &quot;London Noir,&quot; &quot;Blue Lightning,&quot; &quot;Mean Time,&quot; and &quot;No Alibi.&quot; Unlike most crime short stories, the stories (each named after a Charlie Parker work) don't worry about setting up a conundrum or puzzle, but rather focus on characters. While it's not strictly necessary to have read the entire Resnick series to enjoy these stories, you'll certainly be missing a lot of established background on a lot of the characters and a fair amount of the texture and flavor of the setting.<br />Jazz musician Ed Silver, from the book Cutting Edge, reappears in the story &quot;Now's the Time.&quot; Jerry Grabianski, an art thief who first appears in the book Rough Treatment, shows up here in &quot;Bird of Paradise,&quot; before reappearing later in the book Still Water. The Snape family appear for the first time in &quot;Dexterity,&quot; before their feature in Easy Meat, and later walk-on in Last Rites. However, the most reoccurring group is teenager Ray-o Cooke, his criminal uncle Terry, and various and sundry associates, who are introduced in the book Off Minor, span four stories here, and then return in Last Rites. Indeed, the stories serve as bridges between, and footnotes to, the various Resnick series. Basically, if you're a fan of the series, you'll like the stories. And if you haven't read the series, the stories are a good introduction to Harvey's style.	2001-04-03
2047067:US	52254603	R3STZS93NCY9AR	0374226385	289107622	On the Rez	Books	3	3	9	N	N	Flawed but Worthwhile	Frazier's exploration of life on the Oglala Sioux Pine Ridge Reservation in South Dakota is riddled with flaws, but ultimately the good outweighs the bad and makes this a narrative worth reading. A major problem is one of organization--the book reads like one long, unedited magazine piece. Frazier attempts to shape the book around his friendship with Le War Lance (who is shown in his full spectrum from nasty drunk to generous friend), using that friendship as an entry point to exploring life on the reservation. Using is a key word here because unlike other travel narratives or  anthropological narratives I've read, Frazier is an admitted &quot;wanna-be&quot; and it gets hard to ignore his function as an ATM, dispensing $20 bills hither and yon on the reservation, to keep on every one's good side. To a certain degree, the book is also about Ian Frazier, and what he's looking for--and much of the problems in the book seem to stem from his switching back and forth from an involved, emotional voice, to more distanced, documentary reportage. I kept wishing he'd just stick with one or the other, and get on with it. On a more basic level, the writing is pretty uneven, paragraphs often do not logically lead into one another and narrative momentum is often totally lost as his digressions  spin out of control.<br />On the other hand, the good bits are quite good. Most notably, one whole 50+ page section on teenage basketball star SuAnne War Crow hits on all cylinders, staying on track to hit the reader right in the gut as a human story while encapsulating broader issues of racism and inter-Indian rivalries. On a broader level, Frazier presents a nicely balanced overview of problems facing modern  Indian societies today, problems not dissimilar to those of the inner-city: hopelessness and boredom coupled with poverty and abysmal health care, and the corollaries of alcohol and drugs, gangs, guns. While he dismisses the word &quot;bleak&quot; as having lost all meaning in its overuse with regard to life on the reservation, by the end, it's a word that's hard to escape. He uses history (somewhat haphazardly and perfunctorily) to remind us of past and recent injustices--rightfully heaping scorn on U.S. Government policies. But his goal is not so much to write history as it is to get the reader to a place beyond dry facts, and beyond the &quot;Noble Savage&quot; or &quot;Drunk Injun&quot; stereotypes. For all it's flaws, his candid portrayal of life on the reservation is unflinching and in the end, Frazier has no prescriptions or solutions.eruse with regard to life on the reservation, by the end, it's a word that's hard to escape. He uses history (somewhat haphazardly and perfunctorily) to remind us of past and recent injustices--rightfully heaping scorn on U.S. Government policies. But his goal is not so much to write history as it is to get the reader to a place beyond dry facts, and beyond the &quot;Noble Savage&quot; or &quot;Drunk Injun&quot; stereotypes. For all it's flaws, his candid portrayal of life on the reservation is unflinching and in the end, Frazier has no prescriptions or solutions.	2001-04-02
2047863:US	52254603	R1V4A3YKZ39QDJ	0736603042	847726230	Escape From Singapore	Books	2	0	0	N	N	The Most Boring WWII Book Ever	This is without a doubt the most boring WWII book I've come across. As it starts, it's not really obvious whether it's a novel or narrative, since it's all told third person. Eventually it becomes clear that Skidmore must have reconstructed it all from interviews with and diaries of those involved, but it makes  for an awkward beginning. The book starts by recounting the events leading up to the Japanese conquest of British Singapore. Then it gets more murky because the initial escape from Singapore is made in two boats by the members of an anti-aircraft battery. They get split up en route, but make it to Sumatra, where there are loads of other escapes and refugees. After some boring to-ing and fro-ing, a small band of some twenty or so British officers are selected to escape to Ceylon (Sri Lanka) on a dubious native craft. With only a few Navy men and a Merchant Marine among them, and no navigation gear, they make their way to what they hope is safety, where they are reabsorbed into the military machine. Along the way, the severe class-conciousness of the British Army in WWII becomes quite clear, and not a whole lot happens. They get buzzed by a Zero that inexplicably doesn't fire, they get fired upon by a Zero who inexplicably doesn't finish them off, they meet a drunken Dutchman, they eat poorly (but not _that_ poorly), tempers fray, etc. There's nothing particularly thrilling or gripping in the whole book, and it's time poorly spent. The &quot;1942&quot; appears to have been added to the title to avoid confusion with a book by the same name written by S.C. George in 1946.	2001-04-02
2050142:US	52254603	R1NAISB03GVVMO	096642722X	490949782	Extreme Canvas: Hand-Painted Movie Posters from Ghana	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The Most Unusual Coffee Table Book You'll Ever See	If you're going to insist on having coffee-table books lying around your house, you might as well have one filled with lurid, hand-painted posters for movies like \\"Hell Comes to Frogtown,\\" \\"The Fatal Flying Guillotines,\\" or \\"Confessions of a Window Cleaner,\\" right? Well, you've come to the right place, 'cause here is just such a book-filled with beautiful color reproductions of posters for these, and many other fine movies, straight outta... Ghana. For a period of about ten years, from the mid-'80s to the mid '90s, entrepreneurs in Ghana ran traveling movie screenings, featuring the latest (or not so latest) videos from America and elsewhere. Their agents would pull into town, rent a public viewing space, set up a TV and VCR running off a little generator, unfurl a poster, and voila-instant movie house. Here, presented for the first time in the West are several hundred of the posters, divided into sections with little one-page celebrity introductions, along with a few art expert essays. It depressingly comes as no surprise that of the 230 pages devoted to the posters, 200 are in the \\"action/adventure,\\" \\"war and urban commando,\\" \\"horror,\\" \\"science fiction and fantasy,\\" and \\"martial arts\\" sections, with only 30 pages on \\"comedy and drama.\\" Interestingly, this last section is largely filled with homegrown films from Ghana and Nigeria, with very few American entries. Clearly, this is because American humor and drama don't export as well as guns, blood, and sex, which are universal-although this is left unstated.<br />What is stated in most of the section introductions is fairly bland praise to the tune of \\"look how movies can cross cultures and have meaning even in Africa\\" and \\"see how these movies fit into the rich tradition of storytelling.\\" Screenwriter Walter Hill at least has the honesty to say \\"many of these posters are more interesting than the films.\\" The essays by the art experts attempting to place these posters in a larger historical context of African art manage to utterly fail. Particularly egregious is Deidre Evans-Pritchard's inane assertion that \\"Just as British television dramas are culturally repackaged for American audiences, so the hand-painted movie posters serve to claim the movies for the people of West Africa.\\" The notion that one businessman paying an semiprofessional artist to paint an advertising poster for \\"Leprechaun 2\\" (page 199) so that other people will pay money to watch it somehow \\"claims\\" it, is patently silly. The critical difference with her analogy is that the advertising is slightly repackaged, the content certainly isn't. As I leafed through the book, seeing endless images of guns, bare breasts, blood, Rambo, Van Damme, Delta Force, and the like, I was vaguely unsettled. If, through cultural globalization, this is all they're getting from the U.S., what effect will it have on their cultural production, or on their perception of America? Whatever the answer-this is a great book to leave lying around your coffee table. A great companion to this is What It Is... What It Was, which is a slightly less lavish book on blaxploitation poster art.nage to utterly fail. Particularly egregious is Deidre Evans-Pritchard's inane assertion that \\"Just as British television dramas are culturally repackaged for American audiences, so the hand-painted movie posters serve to claim the movies for the people of West Africa.\\" The notion that one businessman paying an semiprofessional artist to paint an advertising poster for \\"Leprechaun 2\\" (page 199) so that other people will pay money to watch it somehow \\"claims\\" it, is patently silly. The critical difference with her analogy is that the advertising is slightly repackaged, the content certainly isn't. As I leafed through the book, seeing endless images of guns, bare breasts, blood, Rambo, Van Damme, Delta Force, and the like, I was vaguely unsettled. If, through cultural globalization, this is all they're getting from the U.S., what effect will it have on their cultural production, or on their perception of America? Whatever the answer-this is a great book to leave lying around your coffee table. A great companion to this is What It Is... What It Was, which is a slightly less lavish book on blaxploitation poster art.	2001-03-30
2051809:US	52254603	R1WA0KEC8QRP30	0789302586	632782833	Sampler: Contemporary Music Graphics	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Nicely Done Overview of Current Trends	This well-designed paperback provides an overview of the latest in CD design and packaging, with an emphasis on work on English labels. Shaughnessy's introduction provides a brief, but cogent overview of the history of record sleeve design and its various influences. He views music packaging as the only area where graphic arts can flourish and be highly visible, while retaining their artistic integrity (ie. not being subject to the dictates of the product). Similarly, he finds sleeve design to be one of the few areas where graphic designers have traditionally had great freedom of expression--although he notes this is increasingly less the case, with the emergence of multinational media conglomerates and their slavish devotion to the bottom line. Unsurprisingly, he locates the best contemporary work in the realm of independent record labels. Indeed, only the most music-obsessive (think Dick in High Fidelity) will recognize 90% of the pieces collected for display. Personally, the style reflected in the CD sleeve  selections is not generally to my liking (with a few big exceptions, such as the Massive Attack items on page 95). The packaging tends to be far more innovative, for example, the Pan-Sonic Arctic Rangers &quot;Self-Assembly Soundscape Set&quot; (pp. 75-76) is a work of genius. All in all, it's definitely worth a look,  and the bibliography is especially useful.	2001-03-29
2052426:US	52254603	R2W6PLDPMJPCO5	0385315147	373503319	Smilla's Sense of Snow	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Brooding and Building...to Nothing	A postcolonial thriller set in Copenhagen and Greenland? Unlikely, but here it is, in all its broody frigidity. Unlike many others, I found Smilla to be a fascinating protagonist. Half-Inuit, half-Danish, she is rapidly approaching middle age, and although a world-class expert on ice, she can't hold a steady job. Plagued by something approaching self hatred, excessive introspectiveness, and stubbornness, she is either nasty or sarcastic to almost everyone, never allowing people to see inside her. Perhaps one of  the best female characters I've come across that was written by a man, she is not a nice person, nor one would particularly care to know, but she is tough and resourceful heroine. When her one friend, a little neighbour boy falls to his death from the roof, she doggedly pursues the matter as a murder, rather than the accident the police say it is. Her tenacity leads her along a wending path to the Cryolite Corporation, who were involved in mining in Greenland, and eventually to some very powerful, shadowy figures. The semi-procedural tone of this first section works fairly well, as Smilla manages to get others to tell her what she wants to know, without ever kow-towing to them. Her strained relationship to her rich father is ably worked in, as is a potentially burgeoning love affair. Also woven into all this is the tale of Denmark's colonization of Greenland.<br />Having upped the stakes considerably, the second part of the book is a tension-filled high seas affair. She becomes part of the crew on an icebreaker headed way up north in bad weather, in an adventure that she hopes will uncover the reason for the boy's death. The cat and mouse games aboard the icebreaker with the crew and passengers are outstanding, as she tries to uncover the ship's mission. Unfortunately, the final act is the undoing of all that preceded it, as the book veers off into X-Filesish, sci-fi threats to the world, and then fails to end altogether! It's book rich in both human and natural detail, in an interesting, harsh setting, but due to the awful ending, I can't say that I'd recommend it.ural detail, in an interesting, harsh setting, but due to the awful ending, I can't say that I'd recommend it.	2001-03-28
2052881:US	52254603	R1RRDF026D64XD	0375503064	94745060	The Clothes They Stood Up In	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Nice Little Fable -- But Wildly Overpriced	I first read this story back in 1996, when it appeared in the London Review of Books and was somewhat surprised to see it as a tiny book some five years later! Let me just say at the outset that it's well designed, but small, and should cost about half of what it does. With dry British satire, Playwright Bennett recounts the story of the Ransomes, who return from the opera to find their flat stripped totally bare--even the wires are clipped flush with the wall. They are middle-aged, middle-class, childless, and  totally fail to connect with each other. Life has obviously been quite empty for both of them as they have their little routines (hers seem to revolve around pleasing him), but no friends or family. Once the shock of the bizarre burglary wears off, they must attempt reinvent their home from scratch. Fortunately this does not become a new agey lesson on how our possessions actually possess us, but rather a fable about starting over. Mr. Ransome looks to recreate his previous existence (albeit with higher-end stereo equipment), while Mrs. Ransome is forced to frequent daring new shops (a Pakistani grocer's, a thrift shop!). As she takes these small steps into the broader world, she is reawakened to  life's possibilities. The bizarre mystery of the theft is finally revealed, and things end happily, if rather predictably. A neat little tale that takes about an hour to read--shame the publisher so wildly overpriced  it.	2001-03-28
2054597:US	52254603	R1R0XJALPPSUQR	0385333927	951729133	Pagan Babies	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Noble Intentions	Yet again, Elmore Leonard has written a solidly diverting slice-o-crime novel populated with a vast cast of slightly offbeat, and mostly sleazy characters busy trying to screw each other over and a number of reversals. This one is slightly different in that it starts in Rwanda, introducing Terry, a Catholic priest who's been there five years and lived through the worst of the genocide. It's pretty clear Leonard has set it up this way in order to call his vast fanbase's attention to the atrocities that happened in Rwanda (and could reoccur at any time). It's a laudable aim for him to use his popularity to try and raise awareness about the genocide--even namechecking Philip Gouretich's seminal journalistic account &quot;We Wish To Inform You That Tomorrow We Will Be Killed With Our Families&quot;--however it must be said that it somewhat detracts from the tightness of the book. For some reason the book is a little flat and lifeless in places, and I suspect it has something to do  with shoehorning in the Rwanda stuff (actually the same thing happened in Cuba Libre). That said, I'm glad he did, 'cause it's still pretty entertaining.<br />Things kick off when Terry returns to Detroit to settle a cigarette smuggling indictment against him. The scheming begins almost immediately, and revolves around Debbie, a friend of Terry's brother, who's trying to get even with the con artist who ripped her off for $67,000. It all ripples out from there and includes some cunning old-school Detroit mobsters, and some not so cunning ones, as well as a hick hitman who's a sure thing to reappear in another Leonard work at some point.<br />SPOILER ALERT &gt;&gt; Stop Reading Now If You Don't Want To Know The End!! &gt;&gt; The denouement is somewhat weak, as Debbie undergoes an unconvincing transformation at the end and Terry makes an asinine move. The mob forces him to return to Africa, and he goes back to the village where he shot and killed four guys just 11 days previously! It seems highly unlikely he would actually return to that village, since it would be a safe bet that the family or friends of the four men who come looking for him with machetes. Indeed, in trying to make the feel-good ending work, Leonard seems to have forgotten that even apparently noble actions carry unpleasant consequences--especially in Rwanda.hly unlikely he would actually return to that village, since it would be a safe bet that the family or friends of the four men who come looking for him with machetes. Indeed, in trying to make the feel-good ending work, Leonard seems to have forgotten that even apparently noble actions carry unpleasant consequences--especially in Rwanda.	2001-03-27
2054829:US	52254603	R2VIXTZDDTCMS3	1860461670	369275603	MISS SMILLA'S FEELING FOR SNOW	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Broody Thriller Undone By Weak End	A postcolonial thriller set in Copenhagen and Greenland? Unlikely, but here it is, in all its broody frigidity. Unlike many others, I found Smilla to be a fascinating protagonist. Half-Inuit, half-Danish, she is rapidly approaching middle age, and although a world-class expert on ice, she can't hold a steady job. Plagued by something approaching self hatred, excessive introspectiveness, and stubbornness, she is either nasty or sarcastic to almost everyone, never allowing people to see inside her. Perhaps one of  the best female characters I've come across that was written by a man, she is not a nice person, nor one would particularly care to know, but she is tough and resourceful heroine. When her one friend, a little neighbour boy falls to his death from the roof, she doggedly pursues the matter as a murder, rather than  the accident the police say it is. Her tenacity leads her along a wending path to the Cryolite Corporation, who were involved in mining in Greenland, and eventually to some very powerful, shadowy figures. The semi-procedural tone of this first section works fairly well, as Smilla manages to get others to tell her what she wants to know, without ever kow-towing to them. Her strained relationship to her rich father is ably worked in, as is a potentially burgeoning love affair. Also woven into all this is the tale of Denmark's colonization of Greenland.<br />Having upped the stakes considerably, the second part of the book is a tension-filled high seas affair. She becomes part of the crew on an icebreaker headed way up north in bad weather, in an adventure that she hopes will uncover the reason for the boy's death. The cat and mouse games aboard the icebreaker with the crew and passengers are outstanding, as she tries to uncover the ship's mission. Unfortunately, the final act is the undoing of all that preceded it, as the book veers off into X-Filesish, sci-fi threats to the world, and then fails to end altogether! It's book rich in both human and natural detail, in an interesting, harsh setting, but due to the awful ending, I can't say that I'd recommend it.tural detail, in an interesting, harsh setting, but due to the awful ending, I can't say that I'd recommend it.	2001-03-27
2061417:US	52254603	R3CNT0RHI2QQNA	0874173469	441375952	Gunning For Ho: Vietnam Stories (Western Literature Series)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Truth	Despite having been born in the latter years of the Vietnam War, and not having read deeply in the field, I am confident this collection of six short stories and a novella by a former Green Beret, is destined to be a classic of Vietnam War fiction. Destined because they resound with the truth--and aren't really concerned with making any political statement. Barnes's stories tell you about the young men who went off to war in an alien landscape, and how they--and those they left behind--were transformed forever. The first three stories are thematically joined by strong surreal elements that speak to the wider confusion and disorientation felt by many who served. More like Kafka than Conrad. The fourth and fifth stories are more straightforward tales of aftermath and picking up the pieces. I found the novella (&quot;Tunnel Rat&quot;) to be somewhat more elusive than the stories, and less forceful. It may take a re-reading or two to really get at it. The final (and title) story is a direct descendant of Heart of Darkness, and succeeds in spite of traveling that well-worn path. As a whole, this collection is a testament to the humanity of the men who went to Vietnam.	2001-03-21
2072035:US	52254603	R286CVV9A83YGU	0393320235	88753219	A Sort of Homecoming: A Novel	Books	2	2	5	N	N	A Tired Take On Man Behaving Badly	Tom is shallow, callous, self-absorbed and recently graduated from Trinity College. Having inherited a goodly sum from his grandfather, he's back in Dublin for Christmas, taking a break from his anti-Odyssey global (well, Western at least) spree of fashion, drugs, and sex. His fundamental problem with &quot;normal&quot; life is that it is bereft of fun. Tom hates the notion that people work hard so that their children can have a good life, and then their children work hard so that their children can have a good life, etc. Thus he lives by his &quot;rules of cool,&quot; ridiculously adolescent maxims that only ever appear in books. Other than being good-looking and good storyteller, he has little to recommend him. That's why it's hard to care as his world of cool disintegrates, as his rules of cool predictably backfire in his attempts to reclaim the only woman he's ever cared about, and as he realizes that family and home might have some value and importance as well. Of course it could all be a parable for millenial Ireland, when the cash runs out, it's time to get back to basics... Either way, it's hard to see why people are comparing Cremins to Hornby or Welsh, because while they also create young male protagonists who act badly and don't necessarily learn from their mistakes, their characters are at least interesting and slightly sympathetic. I'm more inclined to agree with the comparisons to a young Martin Amis. Oh yeh, I nearly forgot, it's not funny.	2001-03-12
2073012:US	52254603	R1G1706VLGEDEM	0805055878	506957321	Two by Carrere: Class Trip/the Mustache	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Class Trip &gt;&gt; A Masterpiece of Psychological Terror	Frist off, I've only read &quot;Class Trip&quot; so I can't comment on &quot;The Mustache,&quot; sorry!<br />This slim novel vividly explores the psychological terror of Nicholas, a sheltered adolescent who is sent to a two-week ski-camp. He is obviously the wimpy outsider, and every encounter with classmates or adults becomes an intense mental test, in which the wrong word could prove fatal. Carerre's understated prose masterfully depicts the terror experienced by an over-imaginative child on his own for the first time, but the suspense really develops when a child from the village near the ski-camp goes missing and is found brutally murdered. While astute readers will easily foresee the conclusion from earlier hints, the inevitable endgame is both gripping and crushing. Someone else compared the book's tone to that of the excellent Dutch film &quot;Spoorloss&quot; (aka &quot;The Vanishing&quot;--not the American remake). That's an apt comparison, although this book has also been made into a movie as &quot;La Classe de neige.&quot;	2001-03-11
2073150:US	52254603	RYHXLIBIK90Z	0375702164	733074294	Armadillo: A Novel	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Another Winner From Boyd	This quintessentially English dark comic novel explores the life of star insurance adjuster Lorimer Black, who has constructed an entire confident persona as a shell to disguise his real self. Among the things he keeps private is his insomnia, his &quot;colorful&quot; immigrant background (his real name is Milomre Blocj) and family, and his expensive antique armor collection. Of course, with Boyd at the helm, there are a number of themes being brought out at once: social satire (people keep assuming he's the son of a Scottish aristocrat), identity (he hides beyond the facade that's gotten him ahead), home (he's secretly bought a small home in suburbs), family (he hasn't quite come to grips with his family), obsession (he falls for a mysterious model and tracks her down). This is all laid against a backdrop of professional entanglements that threaten his job and even his life. Be forewarned, it takes about 40 or 50 pages before things start to get clear, but it's worth it. As usual, Boyd's prose crackles with wit as the notion of identity in the modern Western world is held up for examination. Don't be put off by the big themes though, this is a real page-turner. Not everyone will be satisfied with the ending, which leaves a number of loose ends and on an ambiguous note of hope.	2001-03-11
2073410:US	52254603	R3B43BKQPLN28M	0805046941	843014709	Class Trip: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Masterful Work of Psychological Terror	First of all, let me state that the reviewer below who said this book relies on graphic violence is flat out incorrect. There is no graphic violence described!<br />This slim novel vividly explores the psychological terror of Nicholas, a sheltered adolescent who is sent to a two-week ski-camp. He is obviously the wimpy outsider, and every encounter with classmates or adults becomes an intense mental test, in which the wrong word could prove fatal. Carerre's understated prose masterfully depicts the terror experienced by an over-imaginative child on his own for the first time, but the suspense really develops when a child from the village near the ski-camp goes missing and is found brutally murdered. While astute readers will easily foresee the conclusion from earlier hints, the inevitable endgame is both gripping and crushing. Someone else compared the book's tone to that of the excellent Dutch film &quot;Spoorloss&quot; (aka &quot;The Vanishing&quot;--not the American remake). That's an apt comparison, although this book has also been made into a movie as &quot;La Classe de neige.&quot;	2001-03-11
2076345:US	52254603	R18W47ZH5SPA7B	1568581750	184193376	Atom	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Dizzying--But Worth Trying	This wildly kinetic work of avant-garde sci-fi might be best described as &quot;extreme improv writing&quot; with loads of linguistic convolutions and pyrotechnics that are the end unto themselves. The story, such as it is, is populated by a P.I. and a bunch of outrageous gangsters racing to recover Kafka's stolen brain.  Or at least, I think that's the gist of it... the wordplay moves so quickly and violently in building images up and tearing them down that it's hard to keep track of what's actually going on. Everyone speaks with over-the-top verbal tics and sarcasm. The imagery one gets is sort of a near future Maltese Falcon or  Kiss Me Deadly but with decidedly odder weapons and setting. The inventiveness in language and imagery is truly impressive, check out my favourite passage: &quot;Like most flux technology, the  Syndication bomb hinged on a cheap but ingenious trick. Rather than actually stripping the subtext from the blast site, it converted the wave range into a living Updike novel, the subtext containing information everyone already knew--the end result was a shallow reality in which every move was a statement of the obvious.&quot; As this passage tells you, there are inside jokes by the barrelloads here, and if you don't get one, don't bother to re-read, because there's sure to be another on the next page. After a  while, this hyperkinetic slapsticky style gets wearying, and the lack of story starts to show through. Still, worth checking out if you're looking for something unusual.	2001-03-08
2084491:US	52254603	RPQEZSCZ5VK8A	0679738169	920272664	Whites	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Great Stories of Expatriate Life	Rush is an American who lived in Botswana for a number of years, and these stories about expatriate life there bear the ring the authenticity that can only come from personal experience. The stories are slightly linked through shared characters, characters who find themselves changed by Botswana in sometimes surprising ways. Funny and tender, this book is an excellent window into living abroad.	2001-03-01
2084662:US	52254603	R1J5UXVOD317LR	0316473049	1677156	The Pugilist at Rest: Stories	Books	3	8	11	N	N	3 Vietnam Stories, 8 Skipable Stories	his collection of 11 stories starts with a trilogy of Vietnam war era stories--which are easily the best of the lot. It's also some of the best Vietnam fiction out there. In the other stories, Jones does imagine vivid and distinct characters (some of which reappear), but I personally found it hard to sympathize with many of them--which is probably why I ultimately didn't find this book as fulfilling as many other people did. For all the talk of the stories being &quot;raw,&quot; and &quot;full or rage,&quot; and &quot;dark,&quot; well... maybe if you're only used to reading mainstream fiction. Many of stories link to epilepsy (which I gather Jones has), boxing, and philosophy. It's all too Henry Rollinsish for me.	2001-03-01
2085220:US	52254603	R20Q5ZP5X09RUX	0865476004	453061049	Paris Trance: A Romance	Books	1	0	8	N	N	Weak Start So I Ditched It	The first page of this novel contains the following phrase: &quot;The events recorded here concerned only a handful of people and, quite probably, are of interest only to those people. Especially since 'story' is almost certainly the wrong word. Whatever makes events into a story is entirely missing from what follows.&quot; After reading the first fifth of the book, I'd have to agree. A slackerish Englishman moves to Paris to write a novel and instead falls in with a fellow Brit, falls in love, and bums around the city. It wasn't that interesting and didn't seem to be going anywhere, so I moved on.	2001-03-01
2085371:US	52254603	R3IXYO31NUGB03	0446605913	972782594	Time to Depart (Marcus Didius Falco Mysteries)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Davis + Falco &gt;&gt; Back on Track!	In the seventh Falco book Davis rebounds from the lackluster Last Act in Palmyra to give a wonderfully entertaining pot-boiler set almost completely in Rome. The story picks up with Marcus and Helena just returning from their adventures in Syria while at the same time, a criminal mastermind of Rome is being exiled due to the efforts of Marcus' best friend. Petronius Lucius. Davis takes the domino effect of what happens when an underworld figure is brought down and recreates it in Rome to great success. Sub-plots of police corruption, sex scandals, power plays, and other such matters are lifted from yesterday's headlines and used to great effect in this entry in the series. Of course, there are all manner of other complications thrown in the path of Marcus, just to keep things interesting. Perhaps the most compelling aspect of this entry is the exploration of Marcus and Petronius' friendship, which is laid out to greater scrutiny than ever before. A definite winner.	2001-03-01
2088411:US	52254603	R2DRJ2Q6DNNYB9	1557044058	465325495	The Art of the Matrix (Newmarket Pictorial Moviebook)	Books	4	39	44	N	N	Beautiful.	Undoubtedly this is the most lavish publication of a screenplay in the brief history of published screenplays, and it's hard to imagine it being topped any time soon. The title makes the book's priorities clear, this is a book about the art behind the film, and how it was used to bring the Wachowski Brothers' vision to life. In reading the book, it's made abundantly clear that The Matrix was a film with a vision first, and then a script. And, like it or not, the storyboards did more to tell and sell the vision to the money men and get the movie made, than the script could ever have hoped to. This is a lesson that those in the screenwriting community would do well to file away in the back of their brains. Sometimes (albeit very, very rarely) the story in your head simply can't be fully communicated in screenplay form to those who count, you might have to look to simple storyboarding to tell/sell the whole story. It should be noted that in the case of The Matrix, these were high-end storyboards by professional comic book artists. From the Wachowski Brothers's stick figures, to 700 scene-by-scene storyboards, to conceptual art, it's all in here, including scenes that were never filmed for safety or budgetary reasons, as well as the shooting script and ten pages of script notes and deleted scenes from the script. The one major flaw is the absence of any commentary from the Wachowskis themselves. And naturally, there is a bit of filler near the end, but on the whole, the book's deisgn reflects the attention to detail and high quality of the film-and repeatedly reminds you that there are two more Matrixes to come. Thankfully, unlike \\"Making of\\" film books, the emphasis is on the storyboards and script, and thus the story, rather than the technical effects wizardry that makes it all happen onscreen. This makes it much more appealing to a general audience, rather than simply to those entranced by effects. Sadly, the book is quite expensive and there is no paperback edition in sight, so you might want to wait for next Christmas.in sight, so you might want to wait for next Christmas.	2001-02-26
2089586:US	52254603	R129RKWCXVX645	0156012014	220950434	The Sopranos: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Lives of Wild Desperation	The most recent, and probably most entertaining of Warner's three books (see also Morven Callar and These Demented Lands) set in a small town on the Scottish coast, it's probably also the least demanding read and most self-conciouslessly commercial of them. Warner shares two stylistic forms with his more famous countryman, Irvine Welsh: ultra-realistic dialogue with a rhythm and vocabulary all its own, and a tendency to write in fragments, scenes, and flashbacks to build the overall narrative. As in his previous books, the narrative here is about the oppressiveness and boredom of youth living in a small town. The book chronicles the adventures of six foul-mouthed, bawdy, and misbehavin' teenage Catholic choir girls as they take a day trip to Edinburgh to compete in a nationwide choral competition. Released to the big city the girls set sights on booze, clothes and men--with mostly predictable results, rendered in enjoyable episodes by Warner. Fun stuff, but the underlying air of desperation to grasp a good time, makes this more than a mere mildly titillating romp with youth. The dull fate that inescapably awaits these girls in adulthood make this a poignant and memorable tale.	2001-02-25
2089740:US	52254603	R1I80C0AR7WM3E	0380788683	91866805	Pest Control	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good Riff on the Mistaken Identity Plot Device	Based on the classic mistaken identity premise, this little comedy of errors will keep you entertained for a few hours at the beach, but don't expect anything more. Through a series of coincidences, an unemployed exterminator from Queens is mistaken for an unknown master hitman by the international underground and the CIA. The story is really about this humble exterminator's efforts to perfect an all-natural method of pest control by crossbreeding various types of assassin bugs and testing them in various buildings. He must do this to stay afloat financially and win back his wife who has walked out on him with their daughter. It isn't until the final third of the book that krazy killers from around the world converge on New York to knock off the new kid on the block and claim the $10 million bounty placed on him by a drug lord... Fortunately the #1-ranked contract killer in the world, Klaus, comes to realize the mistaken identity and helps the hero stay alive as he runs around New York evaluating the performance of his hybrids. The only surprise is the author's love/hate relationship with New York (the Kitty Genovese incident is related twice, if I recall) which culminates in the use of the city as a weapon by the hero. Fitzhugh is a screenwriter, and it shows in the flip, shallow characterizations and 100% filmable plot. Cute cover.	2001-02-25
2089804:US	52254603	R25JAOREWKAAM	0312263996	164241000	Timbuktu: A Novel	Books	3	9	13	N	N	Forgettable	After finishing this book for my book group, I felt like I'd peeked into one of uster's college notebooks--there's a nice premise, some great moments, but a lot of it felt sophomoric. The book begins with a rambling homeless man and his dog, the man's soliloquies aren't that interesting, and I kept waiting for him to die so the focus could be completely on the dog.Writing from inside the dog's head is appealing and often cute, but somehow unsatisfying as the dog runs the gauntlet of human cruelty. Auster's message overpowers the tale's charm at times, but on the whole it just sort of washed over me.	2001-02-25
2090137:US	52254603	R1GT5QS0GIND77	0786866683	851933744	The Last Samurai	Books	4	23	26	N	N	Slow Starting but Worth It.	This is certainly a hard book to summrrize, and definitely isn't for the impateient reader, with stories within stories, a ten year timespan, obscure scholarly references, and a narrative shift midway from an adult woman to her progidy son. Set in London, the story follows a single mother of wild intelligence who brings up Ludo, a boy of prodigal talents in languages, math, and anything else he puts his mind to. The title comes from Kurosawa's masterpiece &quot;The Seven Samurai&quot; which the mother has an almost obsessive reverence for, watching and rewatching it constantly as a mystic might repeat a mantra to reach enlightenment. She feels the film's characters serve as much better male role models to Ludo than his biological father ever could be, and thus refuses to tell him his identity. The second half of the book concerns his self-directed ramblings, as he follows the example of the movie and seeks out seven men to test their worthiness as possible fathers. Once this switch to Ludo's voice is made, the book becomes far more succesful and enjoyable as it leaves the world of ideas and abstraction (and distraction) for the real world of flawed people and messy lives.<br />Both halves are librally peppered with excerpts and quotations from the languages and subjects Ludo learns, sometimes leading to stories within stories. Some might find this challenging, but the truth is, while the subjects Ludo studies are certainly challenging, the story is not at all so. When this multilayered approach is attempted in fiction, it usually leads to an over-richness of prose, one is bludgeoned with erudition and fancy writing (like, say, A.S. Byatt's Possession). DeWitt manages to avoid this for the most part, keeping each tale enjoyable in its own right and never losing track of Ludo's story. It's an admirable acheivment, especially impressive for a first novel. Be warned however, the first few chapters kind of bounce around, and it takes a while to get into the heart and flow of things.w of things.	2001-02-25
2090376:US	52254603	RI3Z6BF2BZLOB	0141180277	450898563	Three Soldiers (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	56	64	N	N	Minor Work by an American Great	Dos Passos's attempt to expose the reader to the plight of the common American enlisted man in WWI rarely manages to achieve the impact one suspects he must have been seeking. It's not about the horrors of battle at all--the three soldiers of the title encounter no real fighting, and half the book takes place after the armistice. Rather, the book is about the horrors inflicted on the minds and spirits of men by the military machine and its inhuman procedures. Dos Passos does this by bludgeoning the reader with the endless drudgery of the soldiers' existence as they meet in boot camp and make their way to France. His three soldiers as clearly meant to cut across the strata of American society: Italian-American San Franciscan, Midwestern farm boy, Harvard-educated pianist, and he clearly shows how they all get ground down and reduced to nothing by the army. In doing so, the book becomes more of an anti-war, pro-personal freedom manifesto than it is a story with a plot. This isn't necessarily a bad thing, it just isn't done very delicately and thus makes for a rather tedious read. In the end, it's clear why this is considered a rather minor work by an American great.	2001-02-25
2090392:US	52254603	R36VGHDKQ2TZ2H	0679735739	741679065	The Information	Books	2	9	14	N	N	No One to Care About...	Martin Amis is one of those authors I've always been meaning to read, and this book, about a failing novelist who (sort-of) pays the bills by reviewing massive unreadable biographies and working for a crummy little lit magazine, seemed like a good enough place to start on the Amis ouvre as any other. Well, bits of the story do move along nicely, and I was introduced to a new word every ten pages or so, but as a whole I found it terribly unsatisfying. The story follows this hapless writer and his attempt to destroy his oldest friend's career as a amazingly rich and successful novelist of drab utopian garbage. This conflict between art and popular trash sounds promising enough, and there are some bruisers and bed hopping brought in to liven things up. But as the main character is so completely unlikable, and there's no one else in the whole book to sympathize with, it gets rather tiresome by the end. The story exists in rather a hollow world, and I should have been known better to read a book where the main character is a novelist. That's often a tip-off that the writer has momentarily run out of ideas. I might try one more of his books, but quite frankly this didn't get me fired up for the task (although I did find his collection of essays Visiting Mrs. Nabokov rather amusing).	2001-02-25
2090856:US	52254603	RK3TB9JZJWW9B	1573228583	407492360	Speaking with the Angel	Books	4	12	15	N	N	A Great Sampler for A Great Cause	This quick-reading collection of twelve original (ie. unpublished elsewhere) short stories was compiled by editor Hornby (High Fidelity, About A Boy, Fever Pitch) as a benefit book (proceeds going to schools specializing in the needs of autistic children), but don't let that stop you from enjoying it. It's an excellent introduction to a number of the more popular younger writers coming out of the UK and a few from the US.<br />Not surprisingly, my favorite stories were those by authors I already knew and liked, and were very representative of their styles. Editor Hornby's story of a bouncer turned museum guard dealing with a provocative piece of art pokes a stick in the eye of pretentious Saatchi collection art types. Irvine Welsh's &quot;Catholic Guilt&quot; starts as a very basic &quot;two mates and a  bar&quot; story, with his usual command of dialogue, only to veer into something totally unexpected. Roddy Doyle's &quot;The Slave,&quot; is an understated tale of a man who has a minor mid-life crisis sparked by discovery of a dead rat in his kitchen, and it fits in with all his Barrytown novels. Playwright Patrick Marber's &quot;Peter Shelly&quot; is a great little story about teenage love, and I hope to see some more fiction by him soon. Robert Harris's &quot;PMQ&quot; is a very droll statement before Parliament by a Prime Minister trying to account for one bizarre night. I'd only read his thriller &quot;Archangel,&quot; which this is completely different from.<br />I wasn't as taken with the rest of the stories, particularly actor Colin Firth's story &quot;The Department of Nothing&quot; or the Helen Fielding (Bridget Jones's Diary) and Melissa Bank (The Girl's Guide to Hunting and Fishing) pieces. But then again, I suspect that women may find more to connect with in the latter two than I did. All the stories are written from first-person perspective, and none is excessively long, so you're not making a huge investment. If you like the authors, you won't be disappointed, and if you haven't read any of them, this is a great sampler.sappointed, and if you haven't read any of them, this is a great sampler.	2001-02-24
2102726:US	52254603	R28UDF9OHTMHF3	0553377868	735890843	The Flanders Panel	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Decent Spanish Literary Mystery	Originally published in Spain, this translation is what some people call a &quot;literary mystery,&quot; meaning that it follows many of the conventions of the mystery genre and is written to delve into deeper issues than the latest Patricia Cornwall (and presumably is better written). The heroine is a young female painting restorer who gets involved in a very complicated intrigue when she undertakes to restore an old Flemish painting for her art dealer friend. Early into her restoration, she discovers that the painting has an elaborate hidden message about a knight's murder in medieval times. As soon as she discovers this, the stakes skyrocket, with a murder and millions of dollars coming into play. The plot is greatly tied to the game of chess, and an understanding and appreciation of chess is probably necessary for maximum enjoyment of the book. The villain is not hard to guess by the book's midpoint, but the proof and motivation remain elusive 'till the end. Not bad, but not his best.	2001-02-15
2102851:US	52254603	RDPOZEAR8LUPG	0140231706	502785255	Berlin Noir: March Violets; The Pale Criminal; A German Requiem	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Brilliant Historical Trilogy	March Violets (the first of the three books collected in this volume) is set in Berlin of 1936. The title of this wonderful mystery is the slang term used to pejoratively to describe those latecomers to Nazism who managed to rise quickly when the party gained power. The private detective is Bernie Gunther, an ex-cop of some renown who resigned rather than get caught up in the internal political tugs of war being waged by Goerring and the like. The writing is brilliant, nearly every page has a sentence which sparkles and demands to be reread--and Kerr captures the time and place wonderfully by using period phrases and slang and vivid offhand details about daily life. The story is certainly well within the noir genre and what makes it special is the hero's gradual realization that his country is turning into something quite ugly indeed.<br />The second book, &quot;The Pale Criminal,&quot; is set in Berlin of 1938. Bernie Gunther returns to in a another noir thriller involving a serial killer specializing in young German girls. The police are baffled and Gunther is &quot;persuaded&quot; to rejoin temporarily to lead the investigation as some elements of the Nazi party attempt to use the killings to stir up anti-Jewish rioting. Once again, Kerr's research, writing and incorporation of German idioms is brilliant.<br />The final book in the trilogy is set in 1947, some nine years and one World War after our last encounter with private eye Bernie Gunther. The change is dramatic, as Gunther ekes out a living after surviving the war, including a stint on the Eastern Front. The formerly middle-class Gunther lives as most Berliners do, in hard times and in constant fear of the rapacious &quot;Ivans.&quot; In this sad time Gunther must face the passability that his wife is prostituting herself in order to put food on the table, and that his country as a whole is doing much the same. He becomes embroiled in a mystery that takes him to Vienna, a city where Cold War spying is being born. The story gets quite hard to follow, but is certainly worth it--especially if you watch the classic film noir, The Third Man, before reading this book.ing born. The story gets quite hard to follow, but is certainly worth it--especially if you watch the classic film noir, The Third Man, before reading this book.	2001-02-15
2103324:US	52254603	R2YLP77VWG8759	078670554X	621860770	Mr. American	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Gentler Than Flashman, But No Less Fun	Fraser takes a break from the hilarious, over-the-top adventures of the Flashman series with this more sedate and gentle window into Edwardian England (although it should be noted that a very aged Flashman does make several cameo appearances from time to time to deliver straight talk and pinch the serving wenches). The title character is Mark Franklin, a former cowboy and outlaw (he rode with Butch Cassidy &amp; The Sundance Kid as part of The Hole-in-the-Wall Gang), who struck it rich mining silver and is trying to become respectable. He's moved to England in 1909, searching for his ancestral village in an attempt to find himself a place to call home. While he has various adventures, both amorous and perilous, the book is mostly an excuse for Fraser to take the reader on an extended tour of the Edwardian years which bridged the end of Victorian era sensibilities with the rise of the horrors of modern life exemplified by WWI. With his vast riches Franklin quickly makes an entree to the upper classes, and unsurprisingly, what he finds &quot;society&quot; to be mostly selfish, shallow, blind to reality, and indifferent to morality, This is in sharp contrast to other characters from middle and lower classes, who embody more solid values and character, and are competent, productive members of society. Woven into the plot are such items as the &quot;Irish problem,&quot; the suffragette movement, and the buildup to WWI. As usual, Fraser keeps things interesting with vivid characters and rapid pacing. Thankfully (and pointedly), the book ends as Britain mobilizes with appalling naivete for the war that would destroy a generation.	2001-02-14
2103370:US	52254603	RCUVDCUQ55AHJ	080185850X	359288453	Battling the Elements: Weather and Terrain in the Conduct of War	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Fascinating Case Studies	As one might surmise from the title, the twelve chapters and twenty-five case studies in this books all examine the role and importance of weather and terrain in warfare. Most of the chapters are fairly straightforward in what they cover: storms, wet, fog and clouds, seasonal change, forest and jungle, river crossings, peninsulas and coasts, islands, heat and humidity and the desert. These are somewhat less operate independently of each other and occasionally overlap. Each chapter begins with an overview on the science (ie. geography or meteorology) of the chapter's topic, for example, how and why fog forms, before proceeding into two case studies drawn from military history. The non-scientifically inclined can skip these introductory sections to the chapters and not miss anything. Two more broad chapters cover &quot;terrains and corridors&quot; and how &quot;glaciers shape the land.&quot; and are really don't work as well as the other ten. These two subjects are broad and more or less self-evident, making them noticeably weaker than the rest of the book. The case studies are largely drawn from modern Western military history. Eleven of the case studies are from World War II, three from World War I, three from the U.S. Civil War, and three from Vietnam, one from Korea, one from the Sinai/Suez War, one from the Napoleonic era, one from the Mongol invasions of Japan, and one on invading Russia that spans several episodes. The overall lessons are fairly predictable: military planning and logistics must account for weather and terrain, both on a strategic and tactical level. One would expect the explosion in computer weather modeling and terrain mapping in recent years would alleviate many of the problems described in the book, and it would have been nice to have a chapter at the end discussing this. Still, it makes for a fascinating mix of military history and geography. The maps and diagrams are top-notch and the design of the book makes it a pleasure to read.	2001-02-14
2103629:US	52254603	R33A618BEWK7GF	0393317676	331109776	Cold Caller: A White Collar Noir (Norton Paperback)	Books	3	6	11	N	N	Decent but not particularly noteworthy	The book's subtitle &quot;A White-Collar Noir&quot; neatly captures the gist of this decent first novel. A former advertising executive, now working as a wage-slave telemarketer suddenly snaps under the numbing banality of his work and kills someone. Actually, this doesn't happen until over halfway through the book, so there's quite a bit of waiting around. It doesn't help by page 10, anyone with any brains will have picked out the victim. The remainder of the book details his attempt to cover-up his crime and the consequences thereof. It should be noted that this is &quot;noir&quot; only in the loosest sense of the term. Noir is a term which has been appropriated from film criticism and haphazardly used to categorize all manner of books. Certainly there are a few elements of noir in this book (notably the notion that a criminal lurks within us all, and a totally selfish protagonist), but almost any thriller contains elements which could be called noir. In any event, it's a fairly pat story, almost everyone reaps what they sow. There are no real surprises along the way, but it's a fairly diverting read. Not bad, not great.	2001-02-14
2103833:US	52254603	RYCK7P149VQGF	0312858787	906123966	Gun, With Occasional Music: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Chandler + Dick = Great Fun	Excellent melange of hardboiled Raymond Chandler et al. with Philip K. Dick futurist vision. The mystery follows an archetypical hardboiled Oakland PI as he doggedly pursues the truth in a seedy, labyrinthine case. In this dystopic vision of the future, only the police and PI's are allowed to ask questions and everyone carries a &quot;karma&quot; card which the police can add or deduct from as they see fit. Zero karma and you get sentenced--to cold storage for a number of years. Genetic engineering has led to talking animals (who are definitely not first-class citizens) and bizarre gangsterish babies who have their own clubs! An awesome blend of genres which results in something all its own. If you like this, try William Gibson's Virtual Light.	2001-02-14
2103935:US	52254603	R3ROPAWAV7QDIF	038548741X	933692812	Morvern Callar	Books	3	10	13	N	N	A Distant Portrait	Another in the wave of new Scottish fiction that has followed in the wake of Irvine Welsh's success. Like &quot;Trainspotting,&quot; this is a slang-laden, drug-assisted look at a modern Scottish youth--although in the country (Oban) and not the city, and the drug is ecstasy, not heroin. The Morvern of the title is a 20ish supermarket employee whose steady boyfriend has just committed suicide. Instead of reporting the death she covers it all up with great composure so she can use his bank account and pretend that he has left her. At first we get the some rather ordinary exposition of her and her friend partying and whatnot. Then a trip to a youth resort in Spain with all the attendant debauchery--sex, drugs, and raves--is given. It's very clear that her life is bleak, and she's out to grab what little pleasure she can. (A great non-fiction book which gives insight into how people like Morvern come into being is Nick Danziger's &quot;Danziger's Britain.&quot;) It's a bit hard to identify with a character so totally alien to me, especially as the reader is not allowed into her head, and it's a bit hard to tell exactly what its all supposed to accomplish. I suppose the reader is supposed to key into the themes of alienation, confusion, running away, and soforth, but the deadpan prose somehow dulls one to the larger picture. Which is not to say it's bad writing, because it's actually quite good, but somehow the tone creates an emotional distance between the reader and Morvern. It might be one of those books that women are more likely to connect with. If so, the story continued is &quot;These Demented Lands,&quot; which is even less compelling. Best to pick up Warner's &quot;The Sopranos&quot; instead.	2001-02-14
2103944:US	52254603	R1VLTJY2P1T9YQ	0441004229	214054978	Adventures of the Stainless Steel Rat	Books	3	8	18	N	N	A Decent Romp	This paperback omnibus collects the first three volumes of the nine volume (so far) Stainless Steel Rat series: &quot;The Stainless Steel Rat,&quot; &quot;The Stainless Steel Rat's Revenge,&quot; and &quot;The Stainless Steel Rat Saves the World.&quot; Never having read any of this legendary space cowboy series, I found that a little of this stuff goes a long way. The stories feature a charming rouge con-man who gets turned into an agent for the elite Special Corps. The first story is fun and mindless, the second is still fun, but by the end of it I was wondering if the formula was to be repeated in the third, which it was. There are some fun moments to be had, but this is writing by the numbers.	2001-02-14
2103983:US	52254603	R3CW5Q42KRO9UV	0684850575	920071049	The BONE IS POINTED	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Mystery C- / Setting A+	The Inspector Napoleon Bonaparte series spans 29 books written across almost 40 years; this, the sixth entry, was written in 1938. Its hero is a half-caste (white/aboriginal) police detective who operates under his own set of rules and insists on people calling him &quot;Bony&quot; (like the Emperor). He has a 100% success rate, thanks to his belief that given enough time, he can solve any crime (a somewhat dubious assertion). This has led to his being fired a number of times, and then rehired, as he is such an ace sleuth. In this case, he is sent to the outback to investigate the disappearance of a much-hated ranchhand, which occurred 5 months previously. Undaunted by the lack of physical evidence and passage of time, he hangs around long enough to worry people and eventually comes under much danger. The mystery itself isn't very interesting--in fact, it's rather easy to solve on one's own, there are no interesting twists. What does make the book (and presumably the whole series) worth reading is Upfield's treatment of aboriginals and the outback. The landscape is given much treatment, and its vastness and barrenness really come through. More intriguing is the aboriginal magic, the telepathic abilities, and the curses which only work on those who believe in them. The aboriginal patois sparkles throughout as well. Some of the book could be considered racist by contemporary standards (such as the use of &quot;boss&quot; toward the whites for example), but the overall story seems quite progressive for its time, especially considering the abuses suffered by the aboriginals at the hands of official policy.	2001-02-14
2110277:US	52254603	R2AGS8CABRFHUT	0385332904	252631872	Pronto	Books	2	6	9	N	N	Uncharacteristically Weak	Oddly enough, while I enjoyed the followup to this (Riding the Rap), I really didn't like Pronto. I found the prose totally pedestrian and hack. I couldn't really care about the good guys, and the &quot;bad&quot; guys were more interesting, but alas, not funny enough to save the experience. Of the four books of his I've read, this is definitely the weakest.	2001-02-08
2110572:US	52254603	R1ULUVS6X6OUKO	0340712694	52813431	Shenanigans: An Anthology of Fresh Irish Fiction	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The New Ireland	This collection of 19 stories &quot;from the wrong side of midnight&quot; feature a young cadre of writers &quot;from a generation with a different set of rules.&quot; As one might surmise from such jacket copy, the resulting are offbeat stories (many of which feature drugs, music, low level crime) which could be characterized as the Irish equivalent of the Scottish new wave (Welsh, Warner, et al), or as written riffs styled on the Coen Brothers/Tarantino combo of violence and dark humor. In fact, many of the stories are so similar in tone, style, and characterization that one could easily imagine they all came from the same laptop. One word of warning, the book leads off with two of the weakest stories, so don't be put off if you don't get into it right away.	2001-02-08
2110843:US	52254603	R1FBP4HRBLDRJH	0671038656	104679660	Mrs. Million	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Decent, But He's Done Better	As in his previous books, Drawing Dead and the excellent The Mortal Nuts, Hautman brings Carl Hiassan's tradition of wild and wacky characters to small-town Minnesota. When a 30ish single woman wins the Powerball lottery, she offers $1,000,000 for the return of her missing no-good husband, who disappeared six years ago. This is catalyst for shady shenanigans as he and his girlfriend head back to collect the money. Of course there are other people seeking to claim the reward themselves, etc... Everything ends true to formula, and it doesn't have quite the sharp bite that his other books do.	2001-02-08
2110943:US	52254603	R2J7OJOU71BPRU	0316640654	53273275	Not the End of the World	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A Decent Beach Read	This attack on hypocrisy, religion and the mass media masquerades as a millennial thriller, and while enjoyable in a beach-reading kind of way, doesn't really leave much of a mark. Certainly Brookmyre's targets are valid (albeit obvious and easy to demolish), and he does yeoman's work in blasting away at all the self-righteous characters that scheme to destroy LA in a SPECTRE-like operation. His two central heroes (Senator's daughter turned porn-star and Scottish seminarian turned photographer) are fairly adorable, and the rest of the cast is admirably drawn in a Carl Hiassen, Elmore Leonard kind of way. As with most thrillers, it's fairly predictable, the fun is in seeing how the heroes deal with the mayhem. One small thing I found really jarring was the 5 or 6 times he has American characters using a English or Scottish idiom in their speech or thoughts. The editors need to have an American read the manuscript to point these errors out.	2001-02-08
2111041:US	52254603	R19QJRALVHIBTP	0312194722	858699391	Popcorn: A Novel	Books	2	6	10	N	N	Suprisingly Weak	This is certainly a &quot;popcorn&quot; book, i.e. a quick, easy read which instantly fades from memory. Elton is the English TV writer of such series as &quot;Blackadder&quot; and &quot;The Young Ones&quot; (both of which I quite like), but his stab at writing a &quot;tongue-in-cheek thriller&quot; doesn't really succeed, as either a satire, comedy, or thriller. The characters are total cardboard, but writers like Elmore Leonard and Carl Hiassan manage to make their cardboard characters much more engrossing somehow. The lead is an extremely heavy-handed attempt at lampooning Quentin Tarantino--who is really too easy a target for such purposes. There are some rather obvious home truths spoken along the way concerning violence and entertainment in America, but it's all so hamfisted, it's hard to care. The plot involves this rising star director and a killer couple (a la Natural Born Killers) who model themselves of his films. What wacky antics ensue when they show up at his house after he wins the Oscar!! Sigh... it's not as funny as it looks, nor does it do more than skim the surface of the issues, and oh yeah, Elton's grasp of American idioms is surprisingly weak.	2001-02-08
2112456:US	52254603	R25ENU6EVKLEP9	0679735909	627682796	Possession	Books	1	26	60	N	N	Potentially Interesting Story Gets Stifled	I must admit, I couldn't get past page 50 of this behemoth Booker Prize winner... and thank God! Because nothing I heard during my book group's subsequent discussion of it led me to believe I would have liked the remaining 500 pages. Byatt constructs a somewhat imaginative romance hidden within the poems of two obscure Victorian writers. All very nicely done I suppose, but it was putting me to sleep... Somewhere in the dreadful poems, faux letters, and overwritten prose, there is probably a decent story, however I saw little evidence of it, or of any characters to care about. I doubt I'll be spending any more of my precious time on earth in Byatt's tedious academic settings.	2001-02-06
2112557:US	52254603	RHWUBWFT5RMBI	0449910067	661337944	The Oracle Glass: A Novel	Books	3	4	9	N	N	Wacky Historical Fun	17th-century Paris is the setting for this tale of a 16-year-old girl who becomes the protege of the leading female occultist of the time. In an incredibly Byzantine plot, the girl is transformed and rises to a position of great influence in the wackiness surrounding the court of the Sun King. There's all kind of sensational stuff, poison, black masses, abortionists, and the usual stalwarts love and revenge. At times it gets a little overwrought, but it's fairly good fun nonetheless. If one were to be totally honest, probably more likely to appeal to female readers.	2001-02-06
2112563:US	52254603	R375S82XY6UOXM	0815604971	645430241	While the Messiah Tarries (Library of Modern Jewish Literature)	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Never Comes Together For Me	I read the first four of the nine short stories that comprise this book and I just couldn't be bothered to read on. It's not that the stories are poorly written per se, it's more the heavily Jewish themes that pervade them. The &quot;Jewishness&quot; of these stories is integral to each, and doesn't really speak to me, others may enjoy. His novel After is somewhat better.	2001-02-06
2112593:US	52254603	R1CVUDJ1OC69R0	0684859114	371330467	Damascus Gate	Books	2	16	20	N	N	Never Comes Alive	Let it be stated up front that this is a long, long book--one that ultimately does not reward the reader who makes it all the way to the end. Stone has attempted to craft work of ideas about faith and identity on the framework of a pseudo-millennial thriller (the book is set in 1992 or thereabouts), and the result fails in all areas. Firstly, there are a plethora of characters, very few of whom are developed into anything interesting, but almost all of whom have some odd background. Russian jazz club owners, Irish revolutionaries, rich Louisiana mystics, they're all here, along with the cliche cynical Western journalist to record it all. It's as if Stone wanted to create some sort of Graham Greenesque place where the flotsam and jetsam of the post-Cold War world have settled. One gets absolutely no sense that there are any ordinary people living in Israel or the Occupied Territories. Few people in this book speak like normal people, and everyone seems to be involved in some secretive group, cabal, or plot. That said, the thriller aspect of the book is a total disappointment, by the end it's hard to really care what happens. Indeed the best moments of tension come 200 pages earlier in a refugee camp on the Gaza Strip. Stone spends much more time on faith than he does actually creating any kind of interesting story, and that's where the book was a real bore for me. Much of the plot revolves around the semi-organized groups of religious weirdoes who are drawn to Jerusalem for obvious reasons. As an agnositc, it was very take any of the book's endless universalist, cabalistic, speechifing seriously. So many of the characters seem to be exceedingly childishly grasping and unthinking in their quest for spiritual enlightenment, that one is hard-pressed to care about them at all. And the central character's wrestling with his half-Jewishness is pretty stale stuff. His love affair with a jazz singer is telegraphed from miles away, proceeds enigmatically, and ends predictably. Why even bother? Indeed, much of the book seems to wander about to no purpose. Stone does provide detailed visual descriptions of people and places, but they never come alive, much like the book itself.. Why even bother? Indeed, much of the book seems to wander about to no purpose. Stone does provide detailed visual descriptions of people and places, but they never come alive, much like the book itself.	2001-02-06
2112644:US	52254603	R2BOTD61HVBVUY	0140088172	25109845	The Moving Toyshop (Classic Crime)	Books	3	8	16	N	N	Whimsical, but Dated	Sort of what I guess would be called a &quot;whimsical&quot; murder mystery. Set in '30s Oxford, an eminent poet stumbles across a dead woman in a toyshop late at night, but is knocked unconscious. When he goes to the police the next day to report the murder, the body and toyshop are both missing! What follows is a somewhat interesting mystery with a vedy, vedy, dry British wit about it. I gather this is considered something of a classic, however it is so dated I doubt it will not survive my generation (I'm 28).	2001-02-06
2112818:US	52254603	R33WATIVI809LQ	0312858787	906123966	Gun, With Occasional Music: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great Genre Blending	Excellent melange of hardboiled Raymond Chandler et al. with Philip K. Dick futurist vision. The mystery follows an archetypical hardboiled Oakland PI as he doggedly pursues the truth in a seedy, labyrinthine case. In this dystopic vision of the future, only the police and PI's are allowed to ask questions and everyone carries a &quot;karma&quot; card which the police can add or deduct from as they see fit. Zero karma and you get sentenced--to cold storage for a number of years. Genetic engineering has led to talking animals (who are definitely not first-class citizens) and bizarre gangsterish babies who have their own clubs! An awesome blend of genres which results in something all its own.	2001-02-06
2112977:US	52254603	R38DP7RX7YS2IE	1569470359	851251891	The Money Lovers	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Very Ordinary	Hyped as being tip-top hardboiled noir, but I found it nothing special. Ex-Marine comes back to Southern hometown to find old flame married to a swindler. Everybody's greedy, sleeping with each other, and so on. You can guess where it heads from there...	2001-02-06
2113067:US	52254603	R1LJWHA0VATDIC	067976268X	765856776	Anything Considered: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Breezy Fun	Had I realized this book was by the author of the wildly popular &quot;A Year in Provence&quot; I probably would have passed it by, but as it was, I didn't, and the retro jacket caught my attention. This book probably exemplifies light reading to me, an airy comedy with a likable hero and love interest on the run from picaresque international villains. The plot revolves around an unemployed Englishman living in the south of France who gets unwittingly involved in a mastermind's attempt to corner the global truffle market. The book will hold more resonance for those who have traveled in the south of France and are interested in gastronomic delights, but even the rest of us can enjoy the silly story as it floats by.	2001-02-06
2113489:US	52254603	R2VMQ4E1VGALYC	1569714029	38354145	300	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Almost Perfect	This sounded like an awesome idea, Frank Miller's graphic genius takes on the tale of the battle at Thermopylae in 480 B.C., when 300 Spartans met the armies of Persia at a small pass and held them long enough for Greece to mobilize. Be warned however, that while Miller has retained the bare bones of the story, he's recast it in his standard good vs. evil method which oversimplifies both sides in the battle. Indeed, the battle is presented as the climax of the Grecian general's destiny rather than part of a long-running struggle. This is a story about the Spartans and the honor, glory, etc. and not a simple history-as-comic. The Persians are portrayed as exotic barbarians seeking to lay waste to advanced civilization and the rule of law. This is a very stylized vision of the Greco-Persian conflict, and Miller's Persians certainly don't bear any resemblance to the historical Persians. At times, the internal logic doesn't really hold up either, as when the Greek king violates the accepted &quot;rules of war&quot; and kills the initial Persian messengers and then go on to wax poetic about the primacy of law. While a bit problematic in that sense, Miller's visuals are awesome as usual--especially in this coffee-table book format. The panels are beautiful, brilliantly colored in dark tones and lots and lots of blood. It'd be neat to see Miller take a stab at some Persian mythology from the Shahnameh (Book of Kings).	2001-02-06
2113525:US	52254603	R2U8N9JR7Y244W	1573227323	894078534	Hope	Books	1	5	14	N	N	Silly Boy, In Over His Head Again	This is kind of a silly book in which a young Londoner takes his own sweet long-winded time to recount the tale of how his addiction to pornography led to his losing his one true love. Narrator Gabriel Jones explains how his messed-up childhood relationship with Katherine led to his betrayal of the beloved and perfect Alicia six years ago, and thus to his current reliance on prostitute Hope to stave off his crushing despair over his failed life. While there are some nice paragraphs scattered here and there, the musings are just too pretentious most of the time. Ultimately, it becomes somewhat frustrating due Gabriel's annoying self-pity and inability to take action, as well as general predictability. You know there's going to be a reunion scene with Alicia, and you should be able to figure out Hope's story by the midpoint of the book. This takes all the air out of what is meant to be a robust shocker of an ending. This book has nothing particularly new or insightful to say about pornography that I could tell, and unless you're into other people's angst, there isn't a whole lot worth spending time on.	2001-02-06
2113556:US	52254603	R24COURNI5A2AQ	0312867123	272088925	Flashforward	Books	4	3	7	N	N	Free Will vs. Destiny vs.  Space-Time Continuum	Although set in the near future with a wee bit of hard science trappings, this book is really more interested in examining the ramifications of what might happen if everyone in the world was given a two minute glimpse at their lives some 30 years in the future. What happens is that a big particle accelerator experiment in Switzerland somehow coincides with some particles coming from a brown hole in outer space to cause a &quot;flashforward&quot; in which everyone blacks out and has &quot;visions.&quot; At this point, part of the plot diverges into a mystery as one of the scientists tries to figure who is going to murder him in the future and why. The other scientist ties to figure what happened and reconcile his vision of being in bed with a woman who is not the woman he's about to marry. Naturally this all gets into a lot of free will vs. destiny stuff mixed up with space-time continuum stuff. I found the science bits are kind of beat, and some of the international political reactions kind of simplistic, but when the story focuses on individuals, it's interesting.	2001-02-06
2114928:US	52254603	RWVQR21GR0VB	0140117458	908181842	Stars of the New Curfew	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Elusive	So, here are six short stories from one of Nigeria's preeminent modern writers. Okri writes in English, so one is fortunate not to have to read through the skein of translation. However, at the end of each story, I kept wishing that I had read this for a class, or my book group, so there was someone to discuss the symbolism and meaning in each tale. Set in Lagos, and in smaller villages, the stories often veer off into the unexplained (which is so frequently and unwisely labeled as &quot;magical realism&quot;), in ways that left me somewhat frustrated. The stories are decently written, but one gets the feeling that the meaning is more important, and for me, the meaning was somewhat elusive.	2001-02-05
2133147:US	52254603	R3CGKWDO4WRV3U	0767905385	262010179	Catch Me If You Can: The True Story of a Real Fake	Books	3	19	24	N	N	Poorly Written Plausible Cons	This first-person account by one the world's pioneering &quot;paperhangers&quot; (check counterfeiters) is moderately diverting, but eventually gets stale due to the repetitiveness of the author's adventures and the weak, cliche-ridden writing. In a nutshell, as a teenager and young man in the 1960s he passed himself off as a respectable professional (usually a Pan Am pilot) for the purposes of cashing bogus checks and living large off the results. It gets old reading about how he refined his scam this way or that and then partied with yet another lovely &quot;fox&quot; in this or that city. The book is more interesting when he passes himself in other professions (pediatrician, lawyer, sociology professor) and actually manages to bluff his way through actually practicing them for a short time. It's a testament to how anyone with good looks, an air of confidence in what they're doing, a keen sense of observation, and a bit of research can bluff their way through life, although it should be noted that many of his scams would not be nearly so easy in our contemporary world of computer record keeping and instantaneous data transfer. The veracity of his tale is hard to measure, certainly the whole books reeks of exaggeration, but the basic scams sound entirely plausible--whether he was able to pull them off as often or as easily as he makes out is hard to say.<br />His after-the-fact self justifications mixed with his constant reminders that he only fleeced corporations, not honest individuals quickly get annoying. Abagnale does not write with a great deal of introspection either, he seems to have no motive for his crimes other than financing a luxurious lifestyle and getting his kicks. He never examines why he's driven in that way, although he obliquely blames his initial con jobs on the need to have extra cash to woo women properly. Women are perhaps the real losers in his cons, as he bounces from conquest to conquest in his attempt to live out some teenage fantasy, he breaks at least one heart that he tells of and likely many others. The result: &quot;My dalliances, by and large, had all the permanency of rabbits' relationships, and about the same degree of satisfaction.&quot;<br />The book would have benefited from an interweaving of the story of his persuit by the FBI (which is alluded to here and there, but never really fleshed out), and his ultimate transformation from criminal to FBI consultant. Indeed, it's a story that would be more interesting and complete coming from a neutral observer who could paint the whole picture.e breaks at least one heart that he tells of and likely many others. The result: &quot;My dalliances, by and large, had all the permanency of rabbits' relationships, and about the same degree of satisfaction.&quot; <br />The book would have benefited from an interweaving of the story of his persuit by the FBI (which is alluded to here and there, but never really fleshed out), and his ultimate transformation from criminal to FBI consultant. Indeed, it's a story that would be more interesting and complete coming from a neutral observer who could paint the whole picture.	2001-01-20
2141535:US	52254603	R3YZ6PHARA9D0	1569471894	980577831	Shopping	Books	4	5	5	N	N	An Old-Fashioned Story Set in A New Time and Place	Despite its hypermodern setting in the world of English expatriates in present-day Tokyo, this slim novel is somewhat old-fashioned in it's contained tale of the arrival of an English lawyer and his subsequent undoing. It's the kind of story that used to be written about a newcomer to colonial Africa who eventually has a nervous breakdown due to his inability to cope with the new culture. Here, the story is narrated by a English Japophile who fancies himself superior to almost all other expatriates due to his superior knowledge of Japanese language and culture and &quot;takes an interest in&quot; an obscure Japanese poet. When a gangly, socially inept newcomer arrives from England, he is befriended by the narrator, who introduces him to the mysteries of Japanese culture. This newcomer falls in with a social climbing Japanese high-school girl who uses him to fulfill all her high-priced shopping needs (in exchange for what is never reliably established). The story follows as the lawyer becomes more and more obsessed with the girl and has a breakdown. Along the way, the narrator interjects a number of vignettes about Japanese culture which, although interesting in and of themselves, come across as somewhat forced as they are entirely unrelated to the main story. To a certain degree the book is trying to say something about the globalization of culture and economies and how that interacts with consumption and personal senses of the self, but it works better as an old-fashioned tale of the Englishman abroad.	2001-01-13
2141609:US	52254603	R1UNG2ICWLOYPW	0553576399	15854629	Distraction	Books	2	4	9	N	N	Dissapointing	I wouldn't have thought it possible, but here is a sci-fi &quot;Washington&quot; novel. That said, most of it takes place in Louisiana, but nonetheless, the novel is concerned with examining the political future circa 2042 via a Senator's campaign manager cum spin doctor. Unfortunately, this character, though whose eyes the whole novel unfolds is completely uninteresting. He seems to exist solely to drift in and out of more interesting lives and situations which are never really fully realized or tied together. While Sterling's vision of a heavily fragmented America, with crazy technology, uberpowerful nets, and soforth is all very well-crafted, and intriguing, the story itself is rather boring. In fact, so boring, I won't recount it here, nor will I recommend investing any time in this 440 page monster.	2001-01-13
2142004:US	52254603	R1O5KU5D3C36JP	0393314626	613603118	Portrait of a Young Man Drowning: A Novel (Old School Books)	Books	3	2	9	N	N	Nothing New... Even Then.	Considered one of the classics of black pulp fiction by many, this story of a young boy's gradual slide into a life of crime with Brooklyn gangsters owes a lot to Jim Thompson, especially in its Oedipal sexual themes. In fact, I think that if the author had been white, the book would probably not have garnered the praise it has and would be regarded as yet another Thompson imitator. In any event, while the insights into the criminal life might have been new stuff in 1962, there are no great surprises to found within the pages for the modern reader who has probably seen Goodfellas, et al.	2001-01-13
2142069:US	52254603	RXHXTE6UO9WIY	156947169X	428805481	The LONG FIRM	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Must For Britcrime Fans	Arnott uses a variety of first-person voices to tell the story of the rise and fall of a '60s London crime boss in this largely entertaining trip back in time. &quot;Mad Harry&quot; is a charming, but mentally unstable gay East End thug, contemporary to, and sometimes mirroring the famous Kray brothers. His story unfolds though the voices of several people his life has impacted, each of which gets its own section: a kept rent-boy, a debt-ridden fading member of Parliament, an aging washed-up actress, a freelance thug (easily the best section), and a hippie sociologist. Each tells how they became enmeshed in Harry's world, and in telling their tale, reveal a little more about him and his enterprises. The sectional narrative leads to an uneven novel, but compelling nonetheless. There are all kinds of cameo appearances, and according to the Times Literary Supplement, in addition to these, many of the characters are thinly veiled depictions of real people. Arnott does a nice job of recreating some of the seedier side of swinging London (including a bit of mod and skinhead subcultural stuff as well!), along with the argot of the times. Well worth it if you're into British crime movies like 1980's The Long Good Friday, 1971's Get Carter, or even the recent Lock, Stock, and Two Smoking Barrels.	2001-01-13
2142244:US	52254603	R4401KZC5Y281	0679727868	706623155	I Served the King of England	Books	4	1	5	N	N	Another War, Another Picaresque Czech Novel	I guess this falls in that category of picaresque comic novels that is somewhat interesting and sometimes amusing, but somewhat oblique in its tone. This ironic tone taken toward those who just tried to get along with their conquerors strikes me as somehow distinctly Czech (at least I've not run across it elsewhere). The book follows the exploits of a ambitious small busboy with modern Czech history as the setting, concentrated on WWII. His apparent naivete and good humor invites comparisons to The Good Soldier Svejk--especially in the section where he obtains a Nazi girlfriend during the occupation--but there's a fair amount of bawdiness and tragedy as well. It's a novel much more likely to appeal to students of Czech history or Eastern European literature than a general reader.	2001-01-13
2142697:US	52254603	R2TXA09B91V0VO	1852423056	175744100	Jana (A Tale of Decadence)	Books	2	0	3	N	N	A Total Failure	This weak, wanna-be noir, crime novel is undone by weak characterizations and a plot that goes nowhere. The story of Eddie, an American hustler in antiques and whatever else he can turn a profit on, starts with him bumming around Amsterdam, doing hashish, checking out art, and meeting a beautiful and mysterious woman. Though her, he gets involved with a nasty Swiss-German thug and another beautiful woman. Then there's his stunning actress wife back in England... It starts to reek of author wish-fulfillment after a certain point. Veronese throws lots of art history references into the story, but that can't hide the fact that it's never at all clear why these women are drawn to Eddie. There's a lot of crap spouted by almost everyone (bikers and rock stars included) but the story all boils down to drugs and money. There's no reason to care about Eddie or any other characters, and Veronese's writing is unmemorable. If it's a homage to pulp fiction or film noir, it's an utter failure.	2001-01-12
2142733:US	52254603	R1PM37UW6CVKV6	0140269711	689275512	Playing for Thrills	Books	2	2	6	N	N	Don't Believe the Hype	I read some of the hype about this book and picked it up at the library-wish I hadn't. It resulted in possibly the most annoying few hours I've ever spent reading. Make no mistake, I enjoy good surrealism (Gogol for one) and noir (Chandler, et al), and I am reasonably well steeped in Asian pop culture, but this was a total disappointment. It starts confusingly, but I figured things would gradually clear up as I read along, however by the end I was no further along in understanding the book. The aimless plot clearly is meant as a portrait and critique of modern urban Chinese society, with it's attendant cynical wheeler-dealer underworld figures, but that's about it. Stephen King bafflingly blurbed it as &quot;the most brilliantly entertaining hardboiled novel of the 90s.&quot; It might actually work better as film, perhaps in the hands of a master of atmosphere and mood like Wong Kar Wai.	2001-01-12
2142759:US	52254603	RLWJGUDY64HUM	0965590186	339757747	The Moon Maid and Other Fantastic Adventures	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Interesting Collection	Despite the cheezy cover, this collection of eight sci-fi/fantasy short stories are all fairly interesting, if not overwhelming. Robertson has a nice touch for detail, and many of the stories incorporate or are based upon actual events or places in history. The lead story &quot;Gypsy Story&quot; was optioned by a major movie studio, and it's instantly apparent why, as it concerns time-traveling gypsies captured by Nazis in WWII and other interesting adventures. &quot;Four Kings and an Ace&quot; is a rather weak story set in 19th-century San Francisco. &quot;Cast On A Distant&quot; shore is solid alien tale with a nice reversal at the end, somewhat similar in some ways to the more straightforward entertainment of &quot;Werewolves on Luna.&quot; Perhaps the two most solid tales are &quot;The Moon Maid&quot; which has a Central-Asianish Amazon meet Hercules, and &quot;The Wagon God's Wife&quot; which is a retelling of an old Scandinavian tale. Both &quot;Gone to Glory&quot; and &quot;The Other Magpie&quot; are perhaps a little heavy-handed and less effective at entertaining the reader. Even so, this is a collection worth browsing through at the very least.	2001-01-12
2143171:US	52254603	R2VD30VYUCYC9D	1569472122	94286646	Murder in the Marais (Aimee Leduc Investigations, No. 1)	Books	3	31	35	N	N	Pretty Good (if slightly flawed) Debut	Pretty nifty series debut set in the old Jewish quarter of Paris. PI Aim&eacute;e Leduc is unbelievably tough, occasionally foolish, and sometimes weak willed over the course of this mystery which involves events concerning the Nazi occupation, collaborators, survivors, modern day neo-Nazis, and a somewhat unclear EU agreement. The atmosphere is excellent, and the mystery pretty solid, although it's a shade too fantastical for my taste, with too many coincidences and the unmasked villain at the end is kind of unlikely. And despite the premise that the hero and her dwarf partner (Why a dwarf? smacks of trying to be clever in a throwaway manner.) are computer security experts, I found many of the computer hi-jinks unlikely at best, and a weak way of advancing the plot. The other main flaw was that there were a number of French errors throughout, which is a pretty silly mistake to make in a book set in France. Those minor caveats aside, it's a pretty strong mystery that will make you want to visit the Marais on your next trip to Paris.	2001-01-12
2143449:US	52254603	R2S3Y4PDD2DCZS	1569471797	417696766	Moghul Buffet (Soho Crime)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Excellent Debut	This is an interesting part mystery, part travelogue and part droll gentle voice for women's rights in Pakistan. First-time author Benard has written a cute little whodunit whilst employing an usual voice. There is an omniscient third-person narrator telling the story, often digressing into informing the reader on aspects of Pakistani culture. Many of the characters are types, but well-captured ones, and not ones usually seen in everyday reading, much less a mystery. The whole thing takes place in Peshawar, near the Pakistani border with Afghanistan and Benard does a nice job of capturing the different levels of society there (including a nascent Taliban band). The whodunit part is almost by the way, but the characters are easily lovable and hatable, and the whole thing glides along satisfactorily.	2001-01-12
2144005:US	52254603	R3TB214EC1VVC	0385334389	499305285	Gates of Eden	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Typical Coen Bros. Stuff (ie great)	This collection of 14 short stories from half of the Coen Brothers filmmaking team is very solid throughout save one or two entries. They have all the elements and tones you might expect, deft odd humor, nasty hoods, pitch-perfect dialect, and a sort of twisted upper Midwest and California settings. There are a few stories that drift into the autobiographical realm, as they recount some aspect of growing up Jewish in Minneapolis. If you like Coen Brothers' movies, you should definitely dip into these stories.	2001-01-11
2144028:US	52254603	R15OM02W9GI1H6	0966189914	712024038	Hangman's Point; A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Outstanding Historical Entertainment	This monster of a historical adventure takes 1857 Hong Kong as its venue, and places an American tavern-manager/adventurer at the center. Like George Fraser's rogue Flashman (from the series of the same name and set roughly the same era), Andrew Adams is prone to making unwise decisions, and usually has several women on the side. The story is a complicated one, involving a nefarious plot by an English pirate lord to try and take the port of Hong Kong while the bulk of the British force is away shelling Canton, and an unrelated, but simultaneous plot to poison the entire foreign population. There are load and loads of characters, from all classes and parts of society, and Barrett succeeds in making each indelible. The books flags at times, but Barrett is mostly successful in juggling all the plots and players while dishing out loads and loads of daily life detail on his setting. It's a quite impressive--if slightly old-fashioned--historical entertainment. One small annoyance is the fluctuating spelling of one of the main villain's names. A much greater annoyance is the lack of any kind of map!	2001-01-11
2145086:US	52254603	R2YVO5ZQJ1R69S	1900924102	889028324	The Sharper Word: A Mod Reader	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Interesting, but Badly Designed	This collection of 31 excerpts from various works of music and cultural journalism, biography, and fiction seeks to shed light on the little-understood &quot;mod&quot; subculture. Hewitt has done well to seek out the relevant passages from a wide range of sources, although Richard Barnes' &quot;Mods!&quot;, Nik Cohn's &quot;Ball the Wall&quot; and Johnathan Green's &quot;Days in the Life: Voices from the English Underground 1961-1971&quot; are each excerpted three times. The first-hand accounts of living the mod life are fairly uniform in their descriptions and as a whole tend to expose the mod subculture as a fairly empty narcissistic enterprise--albeit a sharp one. Only in &quot;Ace Face&quot; (and former Who crony) Pete Meaden's rambling 1978 NME interview is there any sense of a larger purpose, but then he comes across as a bit of a whacked-out dreamer compared to all the other sartorial hipsters. Still, worth reading if you're interested in the history of the mod subculture. It's a shame the publishers didn't devote any time or effort to the look of the book. From weak cover to atrocious typography, it exhibits none of the attention to detail that characterized the essence of mod style.	2001-01-10
2145982:US	52254603	R2T4900UXDAARW	0679411720	430288631	The Man from Japan	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Divertingly Entertaining	Short and sweet story about a young Japanese man working at a Japanese-language bookshop in London. He is apparently a &quot;rising star&quot; in certain circles in Japan and has been sent to England to polish his English and his interactions with foreigners. This allows the author to simultaneously poke fun at elements of both British and Japanese culture--albeit aiming only at the obvious targets. The main action centers on his involvement with a highly unsuitable&quot;punk&quot; woman, and later, with a more upscale woman. An economical, comic 160 pages.	2001-01-10
2146188:US	52254603	R2I7XM90YRR38R	0312868324	796074142	The Art of Arrow Cutting : A Novel of Magic-Noir Suspense	Books	2	9	15	N	N	Never Really Works	Subtitled &quot;A Novel of Magical Noir Suspense,&quot; the book has stylish aspirations beyond its ability to produce. The plot all revolves around a magical Japanese talisman, and the powers that can be channeled through it. A drifter with the heavy-handed nickname &quot;Mage&quot; unwittingly stumbles into its possession, and from there its a pretty typical story of his trying to find out why the woman who gave it to him was killed, and why he is being chased around. The supernatural element comes from various creepy disembodied undead and monsters from Japanese mythology who are employed by the villains. Fortunately, Mage picks up an ethnic Tontoesque sidekick to defend him and help him understand all these mysterious happenings. There are some good fight scenes, but the whole thing is a rather forced, and the portrayal of the Japanese boss behind it all is very clich&eacute;.	2001-01-10
2150251:US	52254603	R2W5CPXUQWQ056	0316289108	433822352	The African Queen	Books	3	5	11	N	N	Doesn't Quite Work	Forester's novel appears to be a fairly straightforward adventure tale, set in German Central Africa during WWI. Rose is the sister of an English missionary, who dies at the beginning of the novel after the Germans have driven off his &quot;flock.&quot; She is picked up by Allnutt, a Cockney mechanic who works for a Belgian mine, running supplies up the river in the flat-bottomed &quot;African Queen.&quot; He's basically a coward who will follow the path of least resistance, and so allows himself to be browbeat into a harebrained scheme by Rose. She intends to pilot the boat down river, through rapids that are generally agreed-upon to be unnavigable by a boat like the &quot;African Queen,&quot; and onto a lake the Germans dominate thanks to a giant gunboat. There, they will rig some explosives Allnutt has on board and ram the ship, blowing it--and themselves--up, thus striking &quot;a blow for England&quot; and avenging Rose's brother's death. Depending on how you read it, this is either the stuff of great derring-do, or a critique on the futility of heroism in WWI. As an adventure tale, the characters are rather too flat. Allnutt is drawn as too pliable a character, especially for one who has somehow ended up running a boat in the middle of Africa. Rose somehow becomes an expert pilot in a matter of a week, managing to master the nuances of a creaky and unwieldy vessel in extreme poor conditions. Along the way she sheds her proper upbringing and godfearedness with rather unlikely alacrity (unless, that is, Forester was trying to say that such beliefs are rather ephemeral anyway). Their love affair more or less works in the context of the adventure they're on, but it's very hard to imagine it continuing in the outside world. The ending is somewhat more interesting, foreshadowing some of the bleakness of Pierre Boulle's novel Bridge on the River Kwai.	2001-01-06
2150932:US	52254603	R33FMO3ZM3KTKG	0571169503	647296522	East of Wimbledon	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Lackluter	The third in Williams' &quot;Wimbledon trilogy&quot; (following &quot;The Wimbledon Poisoner&quot; and &quot;They came from SW19&quot;), this is a rather lackluster satire of sorts. Robert Wilson an idiot in his mid-20s who has been a complete failure at everything he's attempted in life, thus he still lives with his tolerant parents. He's also a coward and inveterate liar, clumsily lying his way into corners which make his life more difficult than it needs to be. The premise of the book is that he pretends to be a Muslim in order to get a job teaching at a new Islamic boys school in Wimbledon. The school is founded and run by the energetic, good-humored, and decidedly smooth-talking Mr. Malik, who seems not to notice or care that Wilson is obviously not a Muslim and hires him. Robert's poorly executed charade is partly to blame for a flighty female friend getting drawn into this new Muslim world as well. There's a silly subplot involving a young boy who may or may not be the 24th imam as various sects of local Muslims engage in subterfuges around Robert and the school. It's not a bad idea for a farce, but it never comes together as the wacky hi-jinks just aren't that funny.	2001-01-06
2154135:US	52254603	R3KHS0V87JXHOF	0880016086	806075335	The Killer: A Psychological Thriller	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Flat Hard-Boiled Wannabe	From the very beginning this struck me as a movie masquerading as a book. The transformation of a knockabout used-car salesman in suburban Sao Paolo into a respected killer-for-hire takes all of a chapter or so in this deadpan story. The killer starts his newfound career by shooting a local bully in the back, and quickly works his way up in the world (a la Scarface) by be drawn into spearheading a neighborhood protection racket. He's a rather unpleasant guy,..., and pretty much bullying people who get in his way. Although he keeps making noises about wanting to settle down, it's never clear what that means to him, or which women that means being with. The distanced tone makes the whole story sort of flat, and it fails to connect with the reader in any meaningful way. It's a decent attempt at Brazilian hard-boiled-...--but it doesn't quite work.	2001-01-04
2164765:US	52254603	R27QKPFKBKZXEY	0892440163	563964353	Trustee from the Toolroom	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Words to Live By	This was Neville Shute's final novel, and perhaps derives much of its mood due to this. Best known for the depressing nuclear holocaust story On the Beach, Shute wrote this as a celebration of the simple pleasures in life. The protagonist Keith is an unassuming, married, but childless, middle-aged man living in suburban London (Ealing) with his working wife. He has forsaken a more lucrative engineering career in order to pursue his love of miniature modeling and a very meager income as a columnist for &quot;Miniature Mechanic&quot; magazine. When his sister and brother-in-law die in a shipwreck near Tahiti, he becomes the guardian and trustee for his 10-year-old niece. Next thing you know, Keith, who has never left the country, has to find a way to make his way to a remote Pacific island to recover a box of diamonds that was on the wreck. Shute writes convincingly of the things nautical and engineering Keith encounters on his adventure. Along the way he is aided by a somewhat improbable number of people who know him from his reputation in he world of miniature mechanics. It teeters on being trite and corny, but ultimately works as a celebration of karma. Keith has been a good, selfless man, and so other good, selfless  men are willing to help him--and he ends up doing what he loves. At the end of his life, Shute returned to this basic message on how to live and love life, and it works.	2000-12-26
2165219:US	52254603	R1F13AHV6A932I	0441172717	88529599	Dune	Books	3	19	27	N	N	Good, but Overrated	This is one of those sci-fi epics with legions of fanatical adherents, so it's a little daunting to play the role of the heretic...but...it's kind of overrated (there, I've said it). Herbert has certainly done a great job of what is commonly called &quot;world building.&quot; That is, he's created an nicely detailed setting for his story, centering on the desert planet of the title. His rendering of the political and geographical milieu is certainly impressive, however, he has the unfortunate habit of using five words where one will do. This imperial universe is populated by a Byzantine cast of players, all belonging to various factions, with hidden motives, allegiances and so forth. It's kind of a utopia for Machiavellians. Unfortunately, these characters are so bound by adhering to &quot;the form&quot; (i.e. codes of proper address, conduct and comportment), that much of the dialogue is ponderous and borderline silly. When he leaves the scheming aristocracy and concerns himself with the natives of Dune, things improve somewhat. Their desert culture is based somewhat on elements of traditional desert Arab culture, with a some elements of Islam, and more interestingly, post-holocaust Israeli world view. The story is, at its core, a fairly basic one of a good family done an injustice, and a boy becoming a man (and much more) as he seeks his revenge. Around this is built a rather overly convoluted and tedious narrative spanning about 5 years in which many things come to pass, but basically we are waiting for the climax. The book's action and battle sequences are quite good, but there's far too much time spent setting the stage, especially dealing with some of the more mystical aspects. The five sequels are apparently even more tedious than this (and that's according to people who love this!), making it certain this will be only foray into Herbert's world. If you love the lengthy epics, this might be your cup of tea, but if you're like me and like your prose a little cripser, there is much better sci-fi out there (I'd suggest Orson Scott Card's brilliant &quot;Ender's Game&quot; or maybe something by Robert Heinlein or Philip K. Dick).ripser, there is much better sci-fi out there (I'd suggest Orson Scott Card's brilliant &quot;Ender's Game&quot; or maybe something by Robert Heinlein or Philip K. Dick).	2000-12-26
2166007:US	52254603	R38231M9GC4IWT	1852426578	406680281	Snake (High Risk Books)	Books	1	2	5	N	N	Seen it before...	This is a book we've read before, or maybe it's that we've seen it on the screen, or maybe it's both. In any event, there's something rather tired about this collage of noir and road-trip cliches. You read Jim Thompson, Barry Gifford, Charles Willeford, et al? What might (and I use the word very guardedly) distinguish this book is that its protagonist is a woman, and its done from her perspective. That said, she's a cardboard characterization of a girl from a dysfunctional background (free spirit hippy turned bitter housewife mom, guilt-ridden longing looks from stepdad--oooo, haven't read/seen that before...) who runs away to the big city (LA) and wallows in lost identity and false bravado. I should note that the book jacket's claim that she is in &quot;the LA punk scene&quot; is completely untrue. She's in the S&amp;M scene, which is totally different and separate. The book is a bit more surreal than its predecessors, and does have some really nice passages here and there, but it's otherwise completely forgettable.	2000-12-24
2170628:US	52254603	R3MQIXIPUDSRGZ	1898927057	245009994	Skins	Books	2	16	18	N	N	5 good photos out of 144	This collection of 144 black and white photos is, according to the cover, &quot;a collection of potent images... which perfectly captures the essence of the skinhead cult...&quot; of the late '70s and early '80s in Wycombe. The vast majority of the pictures are fairly dull snaps of various skins in either tough or &quot;taking the piss&quot; poses, which probably aren't of interest to anyone who doesn't know them. The few that stand out as quite good pieces of photography are as follows:<br />--&quot;Product of the Environment&quot; on page 15 is a brilliant and chilling composition of two sullen 10-12 year old skinhead boys sitting on wall under &quot;NF Skins&quot; graffiti.<br />--&quot;The Mission&quot; is a cute snap of a young skin in a crombie contrasting heavily against the a group of white-robed black churchladies.<br />--&quot;Part of the Union&quot; on page 58 is a great shot taken from below of one skin holding something and a blurry skin in a Union Jack t-shirt standing above him.<br />--&quot;England Expects&quot; on page 91 is another great show taken from down low, it shows a bulldog's head next to the head of a skin with a tattooed neck, with the tower at Trafalgar Square looming above them.<br />--&quot;Gretch Having None of It&quot; on page 109 shows two skinheads walking away from the camera down a dark, wet cobblestone street with a bulldog contrasting in the foreground.<br />It would have been nice if there were a lot less photos and some more context in the form of notes. Quite a number of the photos show Nazi paraphanalia, graffiti, and salutes, it would have been nice for the author to put this in some sort of context, especially in light of the photos that show black classmates and Asians in the community. Seeing as how it's basically one guy's photo album, it's definitely a book of limited interest. It should also be noted that the printing of the book is pretty low quality.	2000-12-19
2173442:US	52254603	RW1OQZBXI1D0H	1585670138	487265671	The Pied Piper's Poison	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Decent Debut	Much as I expected and wanted to love this book, I didn't. The notion of intertwining the story of a young doctor working with post-WWII refugees in occupied Germany, with a scholarly &quot;true&quot; account of the Pied Piper story was intriguing. Unfortunately, this device of alternating storylines proved inherently predictable. The reader knows the two stories are related and will converge, and when they do so without an interesting twist or unexpected direction, it's ultimately somewhat of a letdown. That's not to say Wallace isn't a quality writer, because he is, and for a first novel, it the prose is very accomplished, and he sets the historical scenes nicely. However, unlike others, I never felt he quite instilled that sense of the human capacity for evil that gripped me as it did in books like Jose Saramango's &quot;Blindness,&quot; or Duncan McLean's &quot;Bunker Man&quot; nor is it as effective a post-WWII work as Melvin Bukiet's &quot;After.&quot; Still, I look forward to Wallace's next book.	2000-12-17
2180546:US	52254603	R3LA2V0H8HSVLY	1573226521	117734468	The Beach	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Mixed up Kids of Today	I avoided this book for several years--despite the plaudits it was getting as an important &quot;voice of a generation&quot; type book--because it sounded really annoying. I did go ahead and read his second book, The Tesseract, and quite liked it, which gave me hope for his first book. As it turns out, what I had thought would be a celebration of the 20-something, end-of-the-century, pan-European,  backpacker/stoner set, is in fact, a fairly broad indictment of them. The narrator is a fairly typical example of this subculture, a semi-jaded, chain-smoking Brit who is disaffected with, and alienated from, the hum-drum life back home, and escapes through travel. Wandering around Southeast Asia, he's searching for an elusive eden that hasn't yet been discovered by others like him. Garland has written a kind of self-conciously hallucinogenic thriller, tarted up with endless pop-culture references, as the narrator makes his way to just such an eden with a French couple, thanks to a map given to him by a suicide case (who keeps reappearing and conversing with the narrator).<br />The eden he discovers is populated by 20 or so others like him in a secret island hideout with free dope nearby. The subsequent portion of the book has gotten a lot of lazy comparisons to &quot;Lord of Flies&quot; when it really has less to do with the break down of societal rules/norms/values, than it does with the perpetual quest for eden (and this generation's search for a meaningful life), and the lengths to which people will go to preserve it. In that sense, it has a lot more to do with Conrad's &quot;Heart of Darkness&quot;--which is given repeated oblique references by way of &quot;Apoclypse Now.&quot; Garland populates this eden with a bunch of recognizable low-rent Euro globetrotters, and makes them all distinct, but somehow not quite human. It's easy to form a mental image and voice for each character, but one never cares about any of them. In that sense, its grimly satisfying to see them self-destruct and destroy their eden. In the end, I applaud how Garland threw a bunch of themes together and managed to make a readable first novel of them, however I can also see why people might love the book, while utterly missing its point.self-destruct and destroy their eden. In the end, I applaud how Garland threw a bunch of themes together and managed to make a readable first novel of them, however I can also see why people might love the book, while utterly missing its point.	2000-12-11
2192363:US	52254603	R2E4UMV0O9FL1E	1852422475	863151642	A Very Profitable War (Mask Noir)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Excellent Postwar Noir	This post-war noir is notable in that it is set post-WWI Paris, as opposed to post-WWII America. That said, it follows the classic detective novel in which a smart-alex PI is hired for what seems like a straightforward blackmail investigation, and ends up embroiled in something way bigger than him thanks to his overcuriosity. Daeninckx does a great job detailing a France reeling from the loss of a generation of young men, and seeing the first hints of American cultural influence. The PI is notable for his big American car, his American liquor and clothing as he runs around Paris trying to put the pieces together. One gets the sense it's a roundabout critique on contemporary cultural globalism. If you like this, you might want to check out Philip Kerr's March Violets, set in 1936 Berlin.	2000-11-30
2192681:US	52254603	RIFICQ2FA35NS	0679779159	698950156	How Proust Can Change Your Life	Books	3	6	10	N	N	Interesting Hybrid	I came to read this via de Botton's fictional work (Kiss and Tell, On Love, The Romantic Movement), which I loved. Proust was a name I certainly knew, but the notion of sitting down and reading his seven volume Remembrance of Things Past was (and is) rather distasteful. Here, de Botton has applied his imagination and deft, witty prose to using the Frenchman's mammoth novel as a sort of self-help guide cum literary biography. It's a strange mix, and the pleasure comes in seeing how de Botton pulls it off, rather than the actual &quot;lessons&quot; drawn from Proust, which are rather obvious pieces of common sense (at least to me). It's worth a quick glance--if for no other reason than to see a very unusual hybrid of a book--and it's very short in any event.	2000-11-30
2193098:US	52254603	RZPUYZWLKP89E	1556904487	653957051	Rommel Plot (#81250)	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Weak	This convoluted and tepid WWII thriller takes place in 1942 after the D-Day landings at Normandy but before the Allied breakout. There are actually multiple plots, one is by a group of German army officers seeking to blow up Hitler and install Rommel as the president of a Germany that would then come to terms with the Allies and concentrate on fighting Stalin. The main plot however, concentrates on a British spy who comes up with a workable plan for assassinating Rommel as he partakes of his weekly hunting session. Although he never gets the go-ahead, he decides to pursue the plan while on the run. Two killers are dispatched from England to stop him, and they work with the French to track him down. There are far too many players, none of whom rises beyond cardboard characterization. The ending culminates in a series of silly predictable (especially if you know how Rommel really died) ironic reversals. This book was written under a pseudonym by Clive Egleton.	2000-11-30
2193350:US	52254603	RC8287F2FFF71	1582340609	368821941	Homework	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Nothing Special	This debut reads just like many debuts--an OK book with few good bits, but also a lot of muck. This book could have used a little more editorial attention, both in terms of helping a young writer find a slightly less contrived voice, but also in catching some of the incorrect word usages scattered in the book. The tale of a lonely young girl growing up in a household with a manic-depressive mother, overburdened father, and incredibly smart and unfriendly sister works at capturing some of the confusion of that age. However, it could have been done equally well without some silly semi-magical realist elements (like the protagonists two antennae). It's OK, but nothing special, and nowhere near the level of Meera Syal's outstanding novel with a somewhat similar theme, Anita and Me.	2000-11-30
2202489:US	52254603	RS1JEEDSZ6X3N	087113361X	387019006	Malaria Dreams: An African Adventure	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Fleetingly Amusing / Somewhat Offensive	Stevens's account of a trip to Africa to drive a Land Roverfrom Bangui in the C.A.R. up to Europe (via Cameroon, Niger, Mali, andAlgeria) is like meeting an entertaining raconteur at a cocktailparty. He has lots of comic stories, and is amusing in a very breezyway, but at the end of the night as you're heading home, you realizethat the raconteur was somehow distasteful. Steven's retelling of hisencounters too often cast the African as (pick one): backwards,obstinate, childish, petulant, greedy, annoying. etc. While a certainamount of this can be likely be attributed to narrative exaggeration,and a certain amount to the enervating African bureaucracy, it alsohardly seems a fair portrayal, since Stevens doesn't seem to have anymeaningful linguistic skills. Many of his exchanges are made via histraveling partner (a young woman who is never really explained andremains annoyingly enigmatic for the entire trip), or a local who haspolished French.<br />Most of his misadventures are predictable: themaps aren't infallible, the vehicle breaks down repeatedly, bordercrossings are difficult, there are plenty of guys with guns shakingpeople down, and so forth. As with any good travel writer, he hasplenty of self-depreciation on hand, and is quick to admit his ownmistakes, but it masks a certain smugness as well. A full third of thebook is spent obtaining a vehicle, and Steven's wraps things up ratherabruptly in the middle of the desert in Algeria. A far better tripabout driving across the Sahara and into sub-Sahara Africa is WilliamLangwiesche's Sahara Unveiled and the first section of Robert Kaplan'sThe Ends of the Earth is a more contemporary and levelheaded look attraveling in West Africa.	2000-11-21
2202705:US	52254603	R3FKF1D8YGWE37	0736618287	726730772	Malaria Dreams	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Fleetingly Amusing / Somehwat Offensive	Stevens's account of a trip to Africa to drive a Land Rover from Bangui in the C.A.R. up to Europe (via Cameroon, Niger, Mali,  and Algeria) is like meeting an entertaining raconteur at a cocktail party. He has lots of comic stories, and is amusing in a very breezy way, but at the end of the night as you're heading home, you realize that the raconteur was somehow distasteful. Steven's retelling of his encounters too often cast the African as (pick one): backwards, obstinate, childish, petulant, greedy, annoying. etc. While a certain amount of this can be likely be attributed to narrative exaggeration, and a certain amount to the enervating African bureaucracy, it also hardly seems a fair portrayal, since Stevens doesn't seem to have any meaningful linguistic skills. Many of his exchanges are made via his traveling partner (a young woman who is never really explained and remains annoyingly enigmatic for the entire trip), or a local who has polished French.<br />Most of his misadventures are predictable: the maps aren't infallible, the vehicle breaks down repeatedly, border crossings are difficult, there are plenty of guys with guns shaking people down, and so forth. As with any good travel writer, he has plenty of self-depreciation on hand, and is quick to admit his own mistakes, but it masks a certain smugness as well. A full third of the book is spent obtaining a vehicle, and Steven's wraps things up rather abruptly in the middle of the desert in Algeria. A far better trip about driving across the Sahara and into sub-Sahara Africa is William Langwiesche's Sahara Unveiled and the first section of Robert Kaplan's The Ends of the Earth is a more contemporary and levelheaded look at traveling in West Africa.<br />The reader is mediocre at best. The myriad of accents required seem well beyond his capabilities, and he pretty much mangles the book's few French phrases.	2000-11-21
2211474:US	52254603	R1TP6W3QIFP7OZ	1899344160	558791000	I Love the Sound of Breaking Glass: An Inspector Christy Kennedy Mystery (Bloodlines)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Solid Debut	This is a pretty solid debut police procedural with both feet firmly set in the Camden Town area of London. Much like John Havey's Charley Resnick series, the reader follows the professional and personal travails of D.I. Christy Kennedy as he solves a few murders and feels his way though a relationship. Kennedy is decidedly less troubled and dark than Resnick, however. The central case is the murder of the head of a local independent record label who has recently sold out to a major for big money. There's some sort of music insider stuff mixed in, but none of it particularly enthralling in and of itself. It's more fun to watch Kennedy trawl the past and present of the Irish promoter to track down the killer. It moves pretty smoothly, although it'd be nice if Charles managed to make his chapters a tad bit longer (60 chapters over 240 pages = 4 page chapters!), as all the breaks get rather intrusive. His love of music gets the better of him with the rather silly inclusion of song lyrics at the beginning of each chapter (the book's title is that of a Nick Lowe song). These minor annoyances and few bits of a sloppy prose aside, it's a good beginning and I'll definitely look for the next in the series.	2000-11-14
2214915:US	52254603	R1UTUSWUVEYA8	014002803X	272919813	The Anti-death League	Books	2	5	13	N	N	Never Comes Together	Having read a couple Martin Amis books, and more or less enjoyed them, I figured I should check out something by Amis pere. Set on an army base in (apparently) the 1960s, this book tries to blend farce with love story with meditation on the fallacy of God. It doesn't ever really all come together, and in fact no one element works very well on its own either. The farce aspect just wasn't that funny, the love story was hoary and trite, and the meditations of the cruelty and indifference of God seemed rather forced into the rest of it. There are some good scenes here and there, and a large cast of nutty characters, but rarely was I made to care about any of them. Guess I'd better stick to Martin.	2000-11-10
2219562:US	52254603	R28815Q14J465H	1852423986	807069214	Bayswater Bodycount (A Mask Noir Title)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Messy Fun	This altogether tongue-in-cheek page turner set in the slimier side of the London underworld starts off with the murder of a Jewish teenager by a pair of Arab kids. Of course the kid is the son of a powerful Jewish businessman/mobster type who, for some reason, employs a squad of somewhat inept midgets to carry out his dirty work. There's a beautiful Arab blues singer, plenty of drugs, some offhanded killing, and a predictably happy ending.	2000-11-06
2234177:US	52254603	R19BU3ZD57LLE3	015626224X	789289309	Down and Out in Paris and London	Books	4	39	43	N	N	Poverty Taken To Task	Ostensibly a novel, this book is Orwell's thinly fictional account of a time he spent &quot;slumming it&quot; in Paris and London. Orwell had read and greatly admired Jack London's book, &quot;People of the Abyss&quot; (1902), which chronicled his time spent among the wretched poor of London at the turn of the century. In the prewar '30s Orwell followed London's journalistic example, and voluntarily entered the ranks of the barely surviving in Paris. His account is rich in it's evocation of sights, sounds, and characters of this day-to-day existence. When he isn't unemployed and pawning his clothes, he works 12-18 hour days as a &quot;plongeur&quot; (dishwasher/gopher) at various hotels and restaurants. It's a pretty awful never-ending cycle of poverty to be caught in, as Orwell's books amply demonstrates. He ends his Paris section by speaking directly to the reader about the reasons for such poverty. Rather than claim any kind of nobility in  poverty, he points out that the terrible jobs he and his friends perform are largely useless work and can be easily made obsolete. Later he moves over to London and joins the ranks of the homeless tramps. This section is less vivid and strong, and is better as a simple sociological study of homelessness in Edwardian England. He somewhat awkwardly inserts a lot of info about slang which is interesting, but somewhat tangential. The extreme policies he decries here have been replaced by the modern welfare state economy. Altogether, it's an interesting journalistic/sociological exercise with some strong statements.	2000-10-24
2234548:US	52254603	R1OI2URIPTB8TZ	0486219011	304728935	Kwaidan; Stories and Studies of Strange Things	Books	3	5	11	N	N	Spooky Old Tales	This collection of 17 old stories from Japan was collected and translated by a well-known ethnographer, and first published in English in 1904. The tales are old folk stories (urban legends if you will) mostly dealing with ghosts and the spirit world. Many feature the theme of a spirit who takes a human form to disguise their true nature. Another common theme concerns the uneasy spirit who must be appeased in some form. They are fairly charming old-fashioned stories, which vary considerably in length. The final three sections (&quot;Butterflies,&quot; &quot;Mosquitoes,&quot; &quot;Ants&quot;) are more like meditations on the three subjects and don't really fit into the ghost story theme of the rest of the book. Four of the tales were made into an excellent Japanese movie in 1964.	2000-10-24
2235321:US	52254603	R6Z3JZSLMPI3M	0939495716	304728935	Kwaidan	Books	3	11	15	N	N	Spooky Old Tales	This collection of 17 old stories from Japan was collected and translated by a well-known ethnographer, and first published in English in 1904. The tales are old folk stories (urban legends if you will) mostly dealing with ghosts and the spirit world. Many feature the theme of a spirit who takes a human form to disguise their true nature. Another common theme concerns the uneasy spirit who must be appeased in some form. They are fairly charming old-fashioned stories, which vary considerably in length. The final three sections (&quot;Butterflies,&quot; &quot;Mosquitoes,&quot; &quot;Ants&quot;) are more like meditations on the three subjects and don't really fit into the ghost story theme of the rest of the book. Four of the tales were made into an excellent Japanese movie in 1964.	2000-10-24
2245611:US	52254603	RBVV85XHH33K6	0425165582	316168356	Books of Blood, Vols. 1-3	Books	2	8	21	N	N	Overrated	I'm not big horror reader these days, but I used to read Stephen King, and always liked the darker fantasy stuff, not to mention all the splatter movies we used to watch in high school, so I wouldn't say I'm adverse to it. Barker has been widely hailed as &quot;the future of horror,&quot; so I figured I'd take a gander at this collection of 16 stories originally published in 1984, to see what all the fuss what about. Well, maybe I'm just jaded or am too grounded to reality, but I found the seven stories I read to be fairly boring. There's plenty of blood, but nothing I found particularly shocking or scary. There are good premises here and there, but somewhat haphazard execution--which Barker himself obliquely acknowledges in his introduction.	2000-10-15
2248948:US	52254603	R1DBSZIM8ETOOC	0060932287	649372279	Sharpe's Battle: Richard Sharpe and the Battle of Fuentes de Onoro, May 1811	Books	3	0	1	N	N	One of the Weaker in the Series	Another in the long-running Sharpe series, this one starts promisingly enough as Sharpe encounters the nasty French Brigadier General &quot;Loup&quot; (Wolf) and his elite counterinsurgency unit, who author atrocities worthy of modern warfare in the name of suppressing the Spanish partisans. After establishing Sharpe and Loup as dire enemies, the book continues through an initial fight, which ties into a subplot involving an Irish regiment of the Spanish emperor's bodyguard. This subplot occasionally bogs things down, and in the final third of the book--which details the battle of Fuentes de Ooro (1811)--we unfortunately lose track of Sharpe for long stretches before the inevitable climactic encounter between him and Loup. Not surprisingly, there's a beautiful and dangerous woman involved in it all. It's one of the weaker entries in the series, but still quite enjoyable.	2000-10-12
2249657:US	52254603	R89RDSPLJXLW7	0452279593	699079153	The Magician's Wife (A William Abrahams Book)	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Insipid Prose / Interesting Idea	I've never heard of Brian Moore, and the only reason I picked up this book is because I lived in Algeria for 5 years. The premise of a French magician being sent to Algeria on a mission for emperor Napoleon III in 1856 was intriguing. However, what might have been a really interesting story is spoiled by cardboard characterization and insipid prose. Each character seems to be a study of a certain type: bored, naive young wife who wakes up to the nastiness of the world around her, the distanced, self-absorbed husband, the dashing Arabist, the noble savage wise man, etc... Moore's descriptions of French court life and Algiers managed to sustain interest, and the set-pieces of the magic shows were quite good, but his subtexts on faith and colonialism are totally pedestrian. And when it comes right down to it, the whole notion that the &quot;native&quot; Algerians of the 1850s are likely to be dazzled into submission by a European magician's tricks is both ridiculous and offensive.	2000-10-12
2256671:US	52254603	RTUNU9HFA8Y76	067964024X	613618854	Nightwood (Modern Library)	Books	1	21	55	N	N	Inaccessible and Overrated	I'll say right up front that this is not the kind of book I would choose to read, and I never would have if it hadn't been a selection of my book club. And when I read T.S. Elliot's introduction attempting to explain how it's a new form of novel and how one needs several readings to truly appreciate the wonderful language and characters, I knew I was in for a bumpy read. What can I say? I don't like stream of consciousness writing, I don't like novels that don't have a strong story, and I don't like poetry, therefore I hated, hated, hated this book. Certainly there is some evocative language, but I couldn't really enjoy it as it was buried in paragraph-long sentences. As for the notion that it's some masterpiece of depicting obsession or addiction--give me a break. It's far too inaccessible and difficult to serve that function, I can think of half a dozen books that do a better job and aren't a trial to read. Fortunately, I can report that my feelings were generally shared by the rest of my book group, including those who love poetry and stream of consciousness writing. A few people also mentioned an anti-Jewish element in the book, which, when combined with Elliot's well-known prejudices make one wonder.	2000-10-06
2284318:US	52254603	R1Q8EZDXMV11LG	0375410244	96312554	Flashman and the Tiger	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Still Better Than the Other 99%	This is book in the 11th Flashman series, and in it, Fraser offers a new  look at the (mis)adventures of Sir Harry Flashman, a &quot;celebrated  Victorian soldier, scoundrel, amorist, and self-confessed poltroon.&quot;  Unlike the previous books, it collects three unrelated stories of varied  length in one volume. The first is a 228 page episode which starts with  Flashman aiding and abetting some journalistic espionage at the Congress of  Berlin in 1878. It ends with him once again hanging on for dear life while  tangled in the weblike machinations of his old foe Otto von Bismark and an  assassination attempt on old Emperor Franz-Joseph. It takes rather a long  time to set up and indeed flags at the beginning, but by the end, where  reversals pile atop eachother, it's worthy of any Flashman tale. The second  tale explains a Victorian gambling scandal, and is reasonably diverting, if  not action-packed. The final story places Flashman in the midst of the 1879  Zulu uprising and has him surviving the legendary battle at Roarke's Drift  and then moves forward 15 years to London and a hilarious meeting with  Sherlock Holmes. Unlike others, I think these stories make a good  introduction to the series for the initiated.	2000-09-13
2284534:US	52254603	R1CQDCKKRXGWR5	0006499031	89676319	Red Gold	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A Little Lackluster	Like his other WWII espionage books (The Polish Officer, Dark Star), Red  Gold brings the seediness and squalidness of spying to the fore. This entry  takes place almost entirely within German occupied France in 1941 and picks  up the story of former filmmaker Jean Casson where it left off at the end  of The World At Night (which I have not read). This novel is shorter and  choppier than his others, and suffers in comparison. The story of Casson's  recruitment to to the resistance and subsequent attempt to be a liaison  between Vichy officers and the Communist underground is somewhat desultory  and fails to excite or capture the imagination. The book's strength lies in  its capturing of the atmosphere of occupied Paris, rather than the actual  story.	2000-09-13
2285226:US	52254603	R33ZDNNX1CPH3H	0006499031	89676319	Red Gold	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A Little Lackluster	Like his other WWII espionage books (The Polish Officer, Dark Star), Red  Gold brings the seediness and squalidness of spying to the fore. This entry  takes place almost entirely within German occupied France in 1941 and picks  up the story of former filmmaker Jean Casson where it left off at the end  of Night Soldiers (which I have not read). This novel is shorter and  choppier than his others, and suffers in comparison. The story of Casson's  recruitment to to the resistance and subsequent attempt to be a liaison  between Vichy officers and the Communist underground is somewhat desultory  and fails to excite or capture the imagination. The book's strength lies in  its capturing of the atmosphere of occupied Paris, rather than the actual  story.	2000-09-13
2291043:US	52254603	R271517SF4Y14K	0767902521	157497316	A Walk in the Woods: Rediscovering America on the Appalachian Trail (Official Guides to the Appalachian Trail)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Fools Rush In	I first discovered Bill Bryson via his hilarious European travelogue,  Neither Here Nor There. I then eagerly turned to Notes From A Small Island,  in which he recounts a journey around Britain via public transport. I found  this substantially less entertaining so it was a little trepidation that I  picked up his account of hiking the Appalachian Trail. One early surprise  is the reappearance of Stephen Katz (a grumpy and constantly complaining  old high school buddy who appears in Neither Here Nor There) as his hiking  partner. Katz is a perfect addition, as he is a spectacular combination of  inept, obstinate, and plain childish--in short, an entertaining traveling  companion, as long as he's not with you.<br />Needless to say, once it's  established that the AT is insanely long and difficult, there's not a  zillion things to say about the actual walking. So Bryson concentrates on  retelling the history behind the trail, stories and legends of the trail,  and anything else remotely tangential that is interesting. There's a lot of  little interesting tidbits scattered throughout the book, the conclusion  one draws, however, is that hiking the AT is a fool's errand. On that note,  I've heard from friends that bit of the book exaggerate elements of the  trail, this doesn't particularly bother me, as it's part of long and  honorable tradition in travel writing of fudging a bit to serve the  narrative. Altogether, great stuff, look forward to reading his next.	2000-09-07
2291383:US	52254603	RO00UHAFI0786	0312928459	676495450	Dark Star	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Excellent Stuff	I picked this up immediately after tearing through Furst's &quot;The Polish Officer,&quot; which is similar in setting (WWII-era Europe), episodic construction (this book is divided in 5 sections of almost exactly 80 pages each), and loner hero (here, a Russian Jew journalist/spy attempting to survive the Stalinist purges while working in Europe). It's equally well-written and researched as &quot;The Polish Officer,&quot; but slightly less enjoyable. This can be attributed to the previous book putting more emphasis on set piece clandestine military operations (which I find fascinating), whereas this book is more concerned with the mental and organizational challenges of staying alive as a Soviet spy. To be sure, there is a lot of neat spycraft here, but less of what I would call for lack of a better word &quot;action.&quot; That is certainly just a personal preference of mine however, and in no way reflects on the overall quality of the book-although at times, keeping track of the various Soviet factions interferred with the flow. Furst does a great job of recreating European society of the time, down to the smallest details. I'll certainly be looking for more of his work.	2000-09-07
2293623:US	52254603	R3VN5UBZN4XHUS	0517562596	219219514	Dark Arrows: Great Stories of Revenge	Books	3	6	7	N	N	A Decidedly Mixed Bag	Revenge is a theme that has always fascinated and beguiled me, so several  years ago I bought this book in order that it's tales might perhaps quell  any demons within.<br />The 18 stories' authors are a good blend of the  long-dead and still breathing, the eminent and the obscure, mostly Western,  but not all. The famous Lord Dunsany starts things off with an  exquisite--if harmless--story to set the table. Faulker, Saki, and some  long-dead German named von Kleit proceed to muck things up with three  forgettable tales (the first two involving animals) before Frederick  Forsyth gets things back on track with &quot;There Are No Snakes In  Ireland.&quot;<br />A Canadian (Ken Miller) and the eminent E.L. Doctrow  muddle through two forgettable stories before Bram Stoker's entertaining,  though predictable, &quot;The Squaw&quot; (which involves yet another  animal). Argentinean Isidoro Blaisten and Mexican Edmundo Valades  contribute neat little pieces, sandwiching a rather forgettable Rudyard  Kipling tale. The Irish author, William Trevor, contributes a brilliant  piece of comeuppence in &quot;Torridge,&quot; which is followed by a  somewhat contrived letter by Kafka's father, as conceived by Nadine  Gordimer.<br />Borges is Borges in &quot;Emma Zunz&quot;, and once again, I  fail to see what the big deal is. Edgar Allen Poe's &quot;Hop-Frog&quot; is  as solid and bloody a tale of revenge you would expect. Then follows the  longest piece, by a 19th-century Frenchman, d'Aurevilly, which suffers from  being overwritten and overblown (of its time, one suspects). August  Derleth's &quot;Miss Esperson&quot; reads like an X-File, but thankfully  Roger Louis Steveson's &quot;The Isle of Voices&quot; ends the volume on a  sound note. So, pick and choose.	2000-09-06
2301728:US	52254603	R2O14GV7GQT3ZH	0679736808	699806629	Babel Tower	Books	3	5	9	N	N	Not Talkin' bout My Generation	Boy, if there was ever a book to expose my lack of classical education,  it's this. Clearly Byatt is incorporating the Persephone myth and the Tower  of Babel into her tale of one  woman in England's '60s, but lack of  familiarity with the original myths may impede the reader's direct  enjoyment. Not to say the book isn't enjoyable from beginning to end, but  it was rather humbling for me! The story mostly follows Fredrica, a shining  star at Cambridge who  left everything behind to marry a man she is  unsuited for. The main tension is supplied by her leaving after he throws  an axe(!) at her, taking her son to live in London. A long struggle  follows, but that's just a very small piece of the pie. It's difficult to  pinpoint what the book is about, as it is so massive in scope and size,  however the themes of lost loves and disappointment run rampant. An English  review wrote: &quot;...a book which deals with great and important  subjects...&quot; I'm not so sure that people of my age (28) and position  will agree with this, for, despite the fine writing, its not really for us.	2000-08-30
2301904:US	52254603	RAWUMMCPF97FH	0446606642	863517752	Rhode Island Red (Nanette Hayes Mysteries)	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Blah	A weak plot and a protagonist I didn't care about made for an unsatisfying read. Carter's hero, Nanette, came across as far too contrived a character  for me to get in to. She's a jazz freak, who's got a master's in French and  passes her days busking with a sax on the streets of New York, and her best  friend is a stripper--ooo, neat. The murder of an undercover cop in her  apartment kicks things off, but it never goes anywhere that interesting.  Might actually be better as a movie.	2000-08-30
2302202:US	52254603	R1R66LAUC03IPJ	0515127485	926822340	Archangel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Nice Beach/Plane Fare	Good airplane or beach reading, this thriller hangs on the premise that Stalin had a personal diary that no one ever read, and which has remained  hidden since his death. A U.S. historian/journalist in semi-disrepute is  invited to a conference about Stalin in Moscow where he is approached by an  old man with just such a wild tale. Everything proceeds to careen through 4  wild days from the &quot;new Russia&quot; of pricey Moscow bars and hookers  to the bleak forests of Archangel in the far north. It's a good ride,  imparting lots of useful factoids about Stalin and his current  appeal while delivering a solid Robert Ludlumish conspiracy thriller.	2000-08-30
2302681:US	52254603	R3ELEOBSCUKEE2	1565845293	991839449	Anita and Me	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Outstanding	A very wonderful and touching tale of a young Indian girl growing up in a small Midlands town in 1960s England. The book succeeds on two levels, both  as the coming of age tale of young girl, dealing with her  &quot;differentness&quot; and desire to assimilate, and as the story of a  whole generation of immigrants from the subcontinent. In many ways it has  that &quot;young adult&quot; book feel to it, lots of familiar clich&eacute;d plot  devices and characters, but the nicely drawn setting makes it very  different from what American readers may be used to. In particular, the use  of slang stand out as particularly well-written. The only quibble I have is  the jumbling of pop-culture references which don't seem to make any sense:  1960's &quot;To Kill A Mockingbird&quot; is called a &quot;new&quot; book  from America, whereas fashion references seem to place it as late 60s,  whereas teen heartthrob references (Donny Osmond, Shaun Cassidy) seem to  place it in the 70s, and skinhead fashions are of the 1968-9 era. These are  minor annoyances though, and barely distract from the touching and  sometimes gut wrenching story of a little girl learning about herself.	2000-08-30
2302752:US	52254603	R32CNE0GLJDZCV	0060809558	680594937	The Danger Within (Perennial mystery library)	Books	3	17	19	N	N	A Country House Murder Mystery in A POW Camp	Master mystery writer Gilbert takes the classic English weekend country house murder and resituates it in an Allied POW camp in Italy just before  the Allied invasion of Italy (which is ably described by Alan Moorehead in  Eclipse). Gilbert spent time in a prison camp, and thus writes with  authority about the setting. The book is similar to The Great Escape in  that the prisoners are mainly English officers engaged in tunneling out of  the camp--although here the camp is run by Italians. The camp's one Greek  POW is found dead in one of the tunnels and one of the officers is  appointed detective to figure who killed him, how, and why, and what it  means. Thusly, Gilbert presents a traditional whodunit, with the impending  German assumption of control of the camp as a looming threat. Like your  average Agatha Christie, it's entertaining and relatively clever.	2000-08-30
2303203:US	52254603	R2E8FESA7ZE07M	0312853815	555441663	The Alternative Detective	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Pleasing and Diverting Tale	Noted sci-fi author Sheckley revisits the mystery form in this pleasing PI story. Middle-aged ex-hippie Hob Dranconian has settled down in New Jersey  after spending the last 20 years running around the world enjoying life and  dealing drugs to the funseekers of the world. This book finds him trying to  track down some stolen sailboards in Spain via his Ibiza office, and trying  to locate a missing old friend in Paris. Sheckley sets off down these two  paths with solid plotting, amusing characters, and a clear sense of making  sure all is not as it seems. It's a nice quick read, I'll definitely be  checking out the sequel: Soma Blues and prequel: Draconian New York.	2000-08-29
2303949:US	52254603	R2ZGIZI8QBJPEX	0006511295	894188613	Polish Officer	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Great Stuff!	Short on plot, this book follows the title character as he leaves his normal life as an army cartographer behind to become a spy and resistance  fighter in Nazi-occupied Europe. The book unfolds in a series of acts,  starting with his unit's dissolution in late 1939 and his subsequent  underground work in Poland. The bulk of the book then describes his work in  occupied France before a final brief action in Ukraine. Furst is  outstanding at portraying individual assignments and actions, making them  come alive with outstanding period detail. Wisely, he doesn't try too hard  to link the various acts into a larger story, other than that of the title  character. The ending is left open for continuation, which might bother  some readers, but seemed to me highly appropriate. Furst's description of  spycraft, and life behind the lines is highly entertaining and informative,  and I'll definitely be looking for other of his books. If you like Philip  Kerr's Berlin Noir trilogy, you'll probably dig this.	2000-08-29
2303990:US	52254603	RH72TA2IBFGJI	0517599902	193023411	Pollen	Books	2	0	1	N	N	Too Disjointed for Me	Noon is a well-known English sci-fi writer, and his wild imagaination is on full display in this surreal blend of cyberpunk, science-fiction, drug  haze, surrealism, and Greek myth. Unfortunately, it came across as a little  too much of too many things to keep me involved. In a Manchester of the  future, the barriers between the real world and the dream or  &quot;vurt&quot; world start to break down as an insidious pollen begins to  reduce almost everyone to sneezing, sniffling wrecks. It all gets far too  phantasmagorical for me.	2000-08-29
2339497:US	52254603	R2YEE39MG6UNHY	0316695238	602258802	Shame the Devil: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A FITTING FINALE	According to Pelecanos, this is his final hard-boiled D.C. book for a  while, so fittingly, he's used it to bring back many of the characters from  his seven previous books to try and provide some closure on this part of  his writing career. So, while it works on its own merits, it's really a  better idea to go read the previous books to fully appreciate this one. As  with many of his books, it starts with a bang: a robbery turned massacre in  NW Washington, DC in 1995. The story then skips ahead to 1998, where we  find the relatives of those killed dealing with their grief, and the  killers itching to escape their low profiles. The story is peppered  throughout with the usual pop culture references Pelecanos and I love, and  plenty of local scenery. Pelecanos slowly brings the these characters and  their baggage together for a final nasty showdown and some measure of  catharsis and resolution. Great stuff.	2000-08-03
2339816:US	52254603	RJWHHWWO11M57	0060929200	293512437	In Awe	Books	2	9	13	N	N	An Unfinished Mess?	It's not until halfway through the book that one discovers the yellow stuff in the test tube on the cover is urine, and if the notion of that  disgusts or outrages you, this book probably isn't for you. It's about a  trio of misfits in Lawrence, KS: a teenage gay boy living in a halfway  house for kids, a 30ish woman whose gay best friend (Marshall) dies from  AIDS, and Marshall's 60ish widowed mother. Each has &quot;issues&quot; and  is to various degrees an outcast in the heartland, and over a few months,  the book weaves each person's problems with their persecution, climaxing in  an unsatisfying showdown with their tormentors/issues. There's a subplot  about two college girls who go missing and turn up dead, and excerpts from  the boy's revenge-fantasy zombie novel-in-progress, both of which only  serve to distract. Heim loads plenty of inconsequential detail in a attempt  to give his writing a more haunting or literary tone than it can naturally  achieve--he fails. There are a few nice elements here and there, but the  book reads like an unfinished, unedited mess.	2000-08-03
2339900:US	52254603	RRD90CHQUKKKX	0679407251	161486688	The Elephant	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Fathers + Sons	This is a pretty interesting father/son story, told over the course of 40  years or so by the son. Set in Bradford (a formerly industrial city in  Yorkshire), it all revolves around the son's attempt to grapple with his  father's nature: which is that of a boozing, womanizing, fun-loving,  extrovert, life-of-the-party, war hero, scoundrel, con-man. In a sense, he  never escapes his father's shadow, with many of the same failings. None of  this is all that fascinating in and of itself, however, Rayner keeps it  popping along at a good rate as he switches back and forth in time,  bringing up episodes from the past in cracking language. It's engaging and  definitely likely to be more of interest to fathers and sons.	2000-08-03
2340450:US	52254603	R2WZ5W04HZ9KNG	1852425016	590693573	Moonrise, Sunset (A Mask Noir Title)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Singapore Unveiled	It's always cool to be able to check out a writer from a relatively  obscure country, and Baratham's Singaporan whodunit is no exception. How  Kum Menon (a Chinese/Malay) goes to the park with his fiancee and wakes up  with her dead in his arms, the same night as several other murders in the  same park. From there on it's a fairly straightforward investigation by  D'Cruz a thorny Chinese/Indian policeman, and their mutual Arab lawyer  friend Jafar. What quickly comes to the fore is the extreme multi-ethnicity  and multi-culturalism of Singapore's inhabitants, as various cultural  traits and prejudices prove important to the murder mystery. In the end,  the culprit isn't a shocker, but How Kum's reaction is, and the reader will  come away with a nice sketch of Singapore.	2000-08-03
2363556:US	52254603	R19QZDSDNDWWCY	0312194560	312411415	Girl Walking Backwards	Books	4	24	25	N	N	STUNNING DEBUT	Am I the only man who read this book?... This is pretty stunning stuff from a first-time novelist: beautiful but grounded prose, deep and believable characterizations, and a deft handling of complicated  coming-of-age issues. On the other hand, first novels (and films) are often  about those things closest to the author's heart and experience, so we'll  wait to see what Williams comes up with next before proclaiming her the  voice of a new generation... The book is about Skye, a high school senior  in Santa Barbara trying to deal with a new school, making new friends, her  insane New Age-addict mother, and her own sexuality. Williams juggles these  along with the typical teenage traumas of parties, a controlling parent, an  absent parent, and an out-of-control friend. It's a complex journey into  Skye's head, and even though much of the book concerns her lesbianism, it  never draws attention to itself. Williams' prose floats and flows but never  lifts off into the realm of mawkishness. Deserves a wide readership.	2000-07-18
2364860:US	52254603	R174YK9P7SYMLP	0934211590	178922020	Seven Shades of Memory: Stories of Old Iran	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Wonderful!	This collection of seven short stories set in Iran reveal the author's deep understanding of the country and their people. O'Donnell's stories present both issues of Western interaction with Persians, as well as  cultural divides within Persian culture. The collection is subtitled  &quot;Stories of Old Iran&quot; as they portray an Iran of 20-40 years ago  and have a certain reserve to them. &quot;The Tree and the Pool&quot; is  perhaps the least successful of the stories, portraying a somewhat  stereotyped &quot;ugly American.&quot; Another featuring Americans,  &quot;The Women and the Ladies&quot; is also somewhat awkwardly executed.  The concluding &quot;Mrs. Cahn&quot; is a more even piece, as an old  American woman transcends her background to connect with local  tribespeople. &quot;The Duck Hunt&quot; works well as a sketch of the  tension in a Norwegian family on vacation in Iran. &quot;The Price and the  Baker,&quot; &quot;The Stone of Love,&quot; and &quot;The Old Men of  Isfahan&quot; are more fablistic, and enjoyable on that level. As a whole,  the stories are a good glimpse into a passing time and place. The story  titles are presented as two page spreads with lovely black and white photos  that perfectly capture the mood of the book as a whole.	2000-07-18
2364989:US	52254603	RHR1DR8PH782O	0930289218	752643683	Frank Miller's Ronin	Books	3	3	9	N	N	Great Art, Weaker Story	Since it's Frank Miller, you know this graphic novel looks awesome, and you can pretty much count on a dark moodiness too. The book starts with samurai in feudal Japan failing his master and becoming ronin (wandering  and masterless) before a climactic encounter with the demon who slew his  master. Then the book flashes forward to a dystopian 21st-century New York  where the streets are rubble ruled by gangs, and ghouls rule beneath the  streets. The ronin and demon's story is carried on in the context of a a  giant corporation involved in bio-technology. It gets a little complicated  and somewhat cheezy after that, but it's still worth checking out.	2000-07-18
2365795:US	52254603	RELGSF6A400FQ	0966646908	189483642	Tales of a Punk Rock Nothing	Books	4	15	15	N	N	DIY Success	This is a fairly cute and telling fictional journal/scrapbook of a New Orleans punk who, instead of going to college, decides to move to Washington, D.C. and live a more &quot;punk&quot; life. Elliot's two years  in D.C. unfold in a series of letters to his former girlfriend, letters to  his little sister back home, journal entries, and three issues of  &quot;Mindcleaner&quot; a 'zine he starts. Elliot's punk experience runs  the gamut, from living in the Positive Force house, a hazy relationship  with a riot grrrrl, working in a health food store at Dupont Circle, trying  to organize a collective, moving to Mt. Pleasant, and of course, being in a  band and putting out a record. I believe the book is pretty much based on  the co-author's experiences in moving to D.C. and I suppose it  captures/satirizes a lot of the D.C. &quot;scene&quot; pretty accurately.  Although the names have been changed, plenty of D.C. bands (Fugazi, Nation  of Ulysses) and scenesters will be recognizable to people in the know. The  book works better as a rabid cry to &quot;do something&quot; instead of  posing--an aim that is always laudable. It's critique/satire of the D.C.  scene gets a little stale by the end, it seems to me like a lot of Elliot's  disillusionment stems from idealized expectations about D.C.	2000-07-17
2371535:US	52254603	RRY4TGR6NV8R9	0312862202	604611650	Amnesia Moon	Books	1	3	3	N	N	Exceedingly Weak	I picked this up because I'd really enjoyed Lethem's Gun With Occasional Music, Motherless Brooklyn, and parts of The Wall of the Eye, The Wall of the Sky. Unfortunately, this sci-fi surrealist road-trip never leads anywhere interesting. Chaos, the amnesiac hero, is on a quest to discover the truth of what what happened the world (we are given hints of alien attack, nuclear/biological holocaust, etc.) and his own identity. However, memory, time and truth seem to be totally subjective in this landscape and are somehow dictated and controlled by his dreams. The overwhelming subjectivity results in a surprisingly dull roadtrip, as he struggles to find himself in a world which makes no sense. As with some of Lethem's other work (especially his short stories), there are a some interesting ideas, flashes of genius writing, and the sense that Lethem doesn't know how to finish what he's started. Unless you're really into dreamlike surrealism, skip this one, 'cause Lethem's capable of much better.	2000-07-13
2377101:US	52254603	R3GN0X0N0ZQJTJ	1555835279	163736556	Two Gentlemen Sharing: A Novel	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Diverting, but Hardly Original	This is a light and breezy small village comedy of manners, a la P.G. Wodehouse, albeit with a gay theme. When a rich London theatrical producer buys the &quot;Hall House&quot; in a small village an hour outside London,  and installs his young boyfriend there, wacky antics ensue. The books is  chock-a-block with misunderstandings, mistaken identities, secret longings,  and over-the-top characters. Per the genre, the book ends with all the  characters gathered for a party which quickly degenerates into a wild  fiasco in which all is revealed and resolved. It's all fairly diverting  stuff, although I never found it laugh-out-loud funny, nor particularly  insightful on gay issues.	2000-07-11
2386959:US	52254603	R1WXDIA4GUTTIM	1852425962	501925450	Logic Bomb	Books	2	2	4	N	N	intermittently interesting	This collection of &quot;transmissions from the edge of style culture&quot; is intermittently interesting, depending on one's personal interests, level of interest in cultural studies and tolerance for  semi-academic jargon. Beard's pieces are mostly republished from various  style mags (mostly i-D and Arena) he wrote for over the course of the '90s.  For me, he's probably at his best extolling various sci-fi writers like  William Gibson, Bruce Sterling, or J. G. Ballard or specific topics as  opposed to the pieces where he's making broader assertions or bringing  together bits and pieces of his vast reading. Likely to appeal to a fairly  limited audience.	2000-07-05
2387485:US	52254603	R1SL04S5EASLZ4	0471291072	412026526	Unexplained Mysteries of World War II	Books	3	32	32	N	N	Some Great Stories	This compilation of about 100 &quot;strange coincidences, ominous premonitions, and baffling mysteries&quot; contains a lot of tantalizing little tidbits, but one has to be a little dubious about some of the stuff.  Especially since others with much more detailed WWII knowledge than me have  pointed out factual errors that undermine the entire book's credibility.  Even so, it's worth reading for some of the incidents are remarkable and  would make great grist for the Hollywood Mill. If you've got limited time  or interest, the sections &quot;Puzzling Events,&quot; &quot;Uncanny  Riddles,&quot; and &quot;People Who Vanished&quot; are much, much stronger  than &quot;Odd Coincidences,&quot; &quot;Curious Happenings,&quot;  &quot;Peculiar Premonitions,&quot; and &quot;Strange Encounters.&quot;	2000-07-05
2388141:US	52254603	R23SX6EX2Z128J	081333585X	552067330	The Emperor's Giraffe And Other Stories Of Cultures In Contact	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Interesting Small Bites	This book is a collection of 23 short essays Wilson wrote for Natural History, under the theme of &quot;early contact&quot;--mostly between Europe and the Americas. Almost every piece is interesting in one way or  another, although the few that challenge popular myths stand out as  exceptional: one about the &quot;real&quot; Christopher Columbus, and  another about the origins of Thanksgiving. The emphasis is on Wilson's own  area of the specialization (the Caribbean and Latin America) so your own  enjoyment may depend on your level of interest in that region. The most  interesting of these to me was a piece about the history of Jewish culture  in the Caribbean. The book would make a good, bite-sized companion to Jared  Diamond's outstanding work, Guns, Germs, and Steel.	2000-07-05
2388658:US	52254603	R1YXDMY98KHF4L	0395985374	480129962	Secret War in Shanghai: An Untold Story of Espionage, Intrigue, and Treason in World War II	Books	3	7	11	N	N	Meticulous, But Less Than Gripping	This history of Shanghai during WWII is amazingly researched (check the notes), and beautifully written, and yet somehow failed to be quite as fascinating as I'd anticipated. There are bizarre personalities, intrigues,  and dastardly deeds by the handful, but there's a lot of history of fairly  boring bureaucratic maneuvering as well. Shanghai was certainly interesting  in the variety of interests and intelligence groups operating in it, but in  the end one gets the feeling that a great deal of time and effort was  expended on all sides to virtually no effect. I think the book possibly  suffers from the lack of a single major dramatic incident. Of course, this  is history, so it is what it is, but it rather peters out, I felt. Still,  of considerable interest to WWII or Chinese history buffs.	2000-07-05
2409074:US	52254603	R1XFENSJYRX8FB	0316779423	685145331	Barrel Fever: Stories and Essays	Books	2	1	5	N	N	&quot;Weak Stories&quot; b/w &quot;One Ace Essay&quot;	I'd enjoyed David Sedaris's commentaries (&quot;This American Life&quot;) on NPR from time to time, and friends kept telling me I'd like his writing, so I finally checked this slim book out. Belatedly I realized that the bulk  (2/3) of it is taken up by 12 short stories and there are only 4 essays.  Sad to say, the stories are pretty lacking, each is built around a single  conceit which is well worn by the end. All are written from a first-person  perspective which at times becomes indistinguishable from story to story.  Persistent themes of homosexuality grow tired from repetition as well.  Although there are a few bon mots scattered about, the stories' attempt at  sardonic, satirical wit fall well short on the whole. For better results,  check out Mark Jude Porier's &quot;Naked Pueblo&quot; or Ethan Coen's  &quot;Gates of Eden.&quot; The first three of Sedaris's essays are pretty  basic riffs, entertaining, and well done, but nothing to write home about.  However, the last, and longest--&quot;Santaland Diaries&quot;--is a  classic, the kind of essay you'll take to the office photocopier to send to  friends and family.	2000-06-22
2410199:US	52254603	R1G5BTZJH0TIB7	1859842305	515605435	Soccer in Sun and Shadow	Books	4	43	46	N	N	A Thoughtful &amp; Lyrical Reader	This is a thoughtful little soccer history reader by a well-known Uruguayan poet and writer. It's written in tiny little topical chunks covering the history of soccer in roughly chronological order. Starting  with the pre-history of soccer it unravels leisurely until at the end there  is a small denunciation of the big money interests that have corrupted the  game which has a grip on the imaginations of little boys (and now girls)  around the world. Scattered throughout are lyrical testimonials to  individual performers and goals throughout history. As I read, I kept  wishing for an accompanying DVD to show these magical goals, but upon  reflection, I realized that what Galeano can paint as magic with words  might well fade into banality when subjected to the freeze frame. Even  though a lot of the players and matches mentioned will mean little to North  American soccer fans, the book is still essential reading for its ability  to impart the mystical grip the sport has on much of the globe.	2000-06-22
2410210:US	52254603	RO4YNLQZI5I4M	0140140654	993216074	Granta 45: Gazza Agonistes	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Aptly Titled, Well Worth Reading	The title piece, &quot;Gazza Agonistes&quot; is 112 page mini-biography of English soccer superstar Paul Gascoigne. What makes it more than an expanded sports or style section profile is the author. Ian Hamilton is a  well-known biographer, poet, and essayist, and reading someone of his  caliber write about soccer as a fan is always a nice departure from the  norm. Gascoigne's story--the sort of rise and stumble of a mercurial and  talented boy--ends a little abruptly as he was still in the prime of his  career at the time of the writing, even so, it's worth reading.<br />The rest  of the issue includes some arresting photo portraits of WWI veterans, 30+  pages devoted to the consequences of the end of the Soviet empire, a long  piece by Jonathan Rabin about the Mississippi flooding which didn't look  that interesting, a 40 page short story by Ethan Canin that I also skipped,  and more intriguingly, an 18 page story by Nick Hornby called  &quot;Fourteen and After.&quot; This story is basically an early draft of  the earliest parts of &quot;High Fidelity&quot;, in some areas word for  word. Neat.	2000-06-22
2425968:US	52254603	R2DA193BLJKVTU	0807122823	657053752	Ramble Through My War: Anzio and Other Joys	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Great Inside Look at Anzio and Military Intelligence	This is a very aptly titled WWII memoir by a former U.S. intelligence officer. Aptly titled because it could certainly have used a little more rigorous editor to eliminate the numerous repetitions and help the  narrative flow a little better. That aside, Marshall's memoir is valuable  if nothing else for its ground-level description of Anzio--which I had  always heard of but never really knew anything about--and the inside look  into &quot;order of battle&quot; and &quot;document exploitation.&quot;  Both are elements of military intelligence whose importance is largely  unknown to the general public and Marshall does an excellent job in  explaining and showing how it all works. Less important but also  interesting are the day to day details of an army on the move from the  invasion of Italy all the way into Germany.	2000-06-13
2426211:US	52254603	R1HFNWZ7MN40AA	0006382495	704964704	Danzigers Britain (Journey to the Edge)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Stunning &amp; Depressing	Wow. What a depressing book. In it, Danziger (Danziger's Adventures) recounts his attempt to discover, interview, and photograph &quot;the huge ranks of the excluded and marginalized people of Great Britain.&quot;  Danziger covers the gamut, from inner city, to tiny village, from recent  immigrants, to the purest English, Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland,  everywhere. I don't think I can sum up the result any better than the print  reviews: &quot;A chilling indictment of what we've let happen in the past  two decades.... This book is so important that every one of us should read  it and weep.&quot; --The Independent, &quot;Grips and appalls the  mind....The sheer extent of civil catastrophe and human waste here  threatens to beggar belief.&quot; --Sunday Times. None of what he describes  (children drug addicts, single mothers, welfare catch-22s, no future) would  be considered particularly newsworthy in the US, on its own, but it does  shatter the common perception Americans tend to hold of Great Britain. A  polar opposite to Bill Brysons's fairly affectionate British travelogue,  &quot;Notes From a Small Island.&quot;	2000-06-13
2426292:US	52254603	R16NWWBGT4HSVW	0802133851	922529560	Are You Mine?: A Novel	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Spots of Good Writing, But Poorly Characterized	When I picked up this book from the library for my book group, I immediately cringed at the cover. It had &quot;that look&quot; that told me I was not going to enjoy it, and for the most part, my instincts were right  on. The story is of a blissful Midwestern couple with two kids who face the  troubling decision of whether or not to have a third child when the wife  becomes pregnant. The idea of a woman in her 30s facing an abortion is a  potentially interesting issue. Unfortunately the husband and wife are very  poorly characterized: she is an annoyingly narcissistic woman, and he is  annoyingly gentle and understanding man. There are many interesting and  well written scenes littering the book, but none of the potential of these  moments is ever realized. The ending is particularly unsatisfying. In fact,  the whole book feels like a cobbled together pastiche of short stories,  short story ideas, scenes and characters all poorly tied together.	2000-06-13
2426676:US	52254603	RU9YTU1KZLZXY	076790446X	304616304	North to the Night: A Spiritual Odyssey in the Arctic	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Detail and Honesty Make for a Great Account	This tale of a husband and wife who decide to sail far north and spend the winter in the Arctic is a better than average travelogue. From concept to completion, it's quite a page-turner at times as the duo take on all the  hurdles in their way, some of which are mere annoyances, and some of which  are life-threatening. The details of finding the right boat and  provisioning are all quite interesting, as are many of the little tricks of  the trade and jerry-rigging that are brought up throughout the course of  the book. There's also quite a bit about Inuit (aka Eskimo) life, and the  majesty of the Arctic, which at times gets a little much, but isn't as  cheezy as some writers get. Things get really interesting when Simon's wife  has to be airlifted out in an emergency, leaving him alone with a kitten  for almost half a year. Simon's vivid and frank description of his mental  state during this time is perhaps the best part of the book. Well worth  reading.	2000-06-13
2426799:US	52254603	R2DOBDOR26HDUH	0312931867	763514297	Henry Martyn	Books	1	0	10	N	N	Wannabe Sabatini	I was quite looking forward to this &quot;star-spanning, swashbuckling, epic adventure&quot; which hinted at being a lovely combination of space opera and Rafael Sabatini. Unfortunately it's not much more than a tepid  tale of betrayal and revenge with hardly any swashbuckling and little  action. Too many tongue-twisting names, titles, and unnecessary tweaking of  everyday words to make them more alien to the reader. Blah. Read  &quot;Captain Blood&quot; instead.	2000-06-13
2426822:US	52254603	R4G400PZSQXUC	0140283307	981253911	White Noise (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	2	9	14	N	N	Dated, Not Funny, Overrated	A selection of my book group, I must confess to being totally underwhelmed by this National Book Award winner. This is the book that cemented Delillo's reputation as one of the modern greats, but I really failed to  see much in beyond some pretty tepid superficial sniping at modern American  culture and lifestyles. Set in a fictional town somewhat akin to  Pittsburgh, the book's hero is a college professor of Hitler studies. It  takes his (and his wife's) fear of death and seemingly tries to tell the  reader that while they are so obsessed with death, they are missing out on  life--in no small part due to all the &quot;white noise&quot; that forms  our popular culture. I never found any of this particularly amusing or  insightful, however I was in the minority of my bookgroup in this one, so  take my opinion with a grain of salt... I guess.	2000-06-13
2426829:US	52254603	R3VQE2KLP1KUNL	006099486X	418849151	The Professor and the Madman: A Tale of Murder, Insanity, and the Making of The Oxford English Dictionary	Books	3	7	7	N	N	A Few Nice Tidbits + Lots of Padding	This wildly popular account of the creation of the Oxford English Dictionary is moderately interesting, and reads like an expanded magazine piece. The main story is of two men: the English professor who shepherds  the dictionary project, and the American madman who is perhaps its most  prolific contributor. There are lots of interesting tidbits including a  capsule history of dictionaries, and some excellent research has gone into  the book, and while it's a nice story, it ended up feeling a little fluffy  to me in the end. Still, worth reading if you are into words.	2000-06-13
2426846:US	52254603	RORG4YJKRR9HR	0891902139	957550566	Ashenden: Or the British Agent	Books	4	29	31	N	N	The Father of Modern Spies	Worth a read for historical reasons as it is one of (if not the) first modern spy novels. That said, it is very far away from the intricately woven page-turners featuring brainy CIA types bedding winsome females that  we tend to think of as being sp novels today. Maugham served in the British  intelligence corps in WWI and drew heavily upon his own experiences in  writing this book, indeed the epynonymous hero is a well-known writer by  profession. Each chapter is almost its own vignette, illustrating some  experience or aspect of the intelligent agent's life. The theme is that the  agent's life is marked by dullness and inability to know the &quot;big  picture.&quot; Ashenden is based in Switzerland and undertakes his  assignments (none of which involve gunplay or physical prowess) dutifully,  yet the reader feels, with a certain ambivalence. There is one especially  haunting scene where, for once, Ashenden witnesses firsthand, the  repercussions of his actions.	2000-06-13
2426949:US	52254603	R38IOI828HIDLT	078670621X	104115308	Endurance: Shackleton's Incredible Voyage	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Gripping Quick Read	One of the best-known of the many books about Englishman Shakleton's 1915 expedition to cross the South Pole, this is essentially a quick, easy-reading adventure story. Aptly titled, it's a pretty gripping and  amazing story, and will put to shame any bad camping story of one's own. I  guess what one emerges with is sheer amazement that anyone managed to  survive the conditions these men were exposed to. A nice modern companion  book to this is &quot;North to the Night.&quot;	2000-06-13
2426950:US	52254603	R3HKK5DZWZ2QGO	0393318680	603345732	Filth	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Another Great Nasty Tale From Welsh	Although nominally a murder mystery, this is just the rack on which Welsh hangs a brilliantly nasty character study of one Bruce Robertson, detective in the Edinburgh PD. The writing is vintage Welsh, slang-laden, caustic,  funny, and unsparing in its portrayal of a protagonist who might be  described as &quot;The Bad Lieutenant&quot; squared. Oddest of all is a  tapeworm inhabiting Det. Robertson, whose own ponderings infiltrate the  book, plopping down right over Robertson's main text. Great, inventive  stuff.	2000-06-13
2427022:US	52254603	R2GEFTL9PYKPT3	0399145761	539869630	What if...?	Books	4	30	34	N	N	Great Beach Reading History	This book is well described by its subtitle: &quot;The World's Foremost Military Historians Imagine What Might Have Been.&quot; The twenty essays and numerous sidebars are actually only by American and British, so the use  of &quot;World's Foremost&quot; is a bit of a reach, but nonetheless, there  is a nice variety amongst the essays. Almost all of them are lively and  compelling examples of what is known in jargon as &quot;counterfactual  reasoning,&quot; providing plenty of food for thought to chew on.<br />The  essays progress in chronological order, and in general I enjoyed the ones  that concentrated on the older events more, perhaps because they are more  removed from time and consciousness and thus are easier to credit. As might  be expected, John Keegan's brief &quot;How Hitler Could Have Won the War:  The Drive for the Middle East, 1941&quot; is the exception here. In  general, the more titillating notions are found in essays like Thomas  Fleming's &quot;Unlikely Victory: 13 Ways the Americans Could Have Lost the  Revolution.&quot; or Cecelia Holland's &quot;The Death that Saved Europe:  The Mongols Turn Back, 1242.&quot; Irrespective of one's particular  interests, this is a spectacular anthology of alternate history. It should  be noted that the maps accompanying each essay are outstanding.	2000-06-13
2427118:US	52254603	R3JL7Z3MCT0MBD	067102082X	385052238	The Gun Seller	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great Spy Spoof in the tradition of Wodehouse	A grand spoof on the spy novel written by a well-known British actor (Jeeves and Wooster, Black Adder) which follows and skewers the classic conventions of the genre: ex-Army hero drifts in and out of work and falls  into the middle of an international conspiracy involving CIA, et al,  beautiful love interests, exotic locales, motorcycles, etc... The first  half of the book (the setup) is consistently funny in typical British  satiric fashion, almost every paragraph has a lovely turn of phrase or  nasty aside. The second half of the book (the deed) is less so,  concentrating more on action. I'm not surprised the pace couldn't be held  all the way through, given the high wit of the first half. This is not to  say the book isn't excellent and fun reading.	2000-06-13
2427155:US	52254603	R1ZXZIVXUZ1VQZ	0385495382	23340107	The Big Con: The Story of the Confidence Man	Books	3	23	30	N	N	Cool, but Dated and Repetitive	This classic 1940 study of confidence men and their methods sounds pretty cool--and is in a retro-sheik way--but objectively is rather dated and repetitive. While it is strong on the lingo of the time, with its 26 page  glossary, it is much less effective in bringing any of the con men in its  pages to life. Instead, in illuminating the workings of the main big con  gambits, the reader is given a sense of the general traits of con men.  Typical of Mauer's writing style is to make the general comment that most  con men can't hold onto the cast sums they earn, and then proceed to name  all these ones who had. That, and the repetition of certain points and  material over and over throughout various chapters is rather annoying. That  said, the actual detailing of the big cons is really interesting,  especially if you're into authors like Jim Thomson (The Getaway, A  Swell-Looking Babe), David Mamet, and Elmore Leonard. It should be  mentioned that Maurer is a bit of an apologist for his subjects.	2000-06-13
2427227:US	52254603	RNJYP9BZDUE6Z	0553566067	186197761	Virtual Light	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Good Intro to Gibson	This was my first foray into cyberguru Gibson's realm, and the blend of cyberpunk and noir worked pretty well for me. Clearly Gibson is more interested in showing off his skills at imagining the gadgets and  lifestyles of the near future, rather than providing any intricate plot.  Indeed, the tale of a bike courier who unwittingly steals what turns out to  be technology to die for, combined with a down and out former cop hired to  help retrieve the missing item, rehashes some fairly familiar noir  territory. But the evocation of a neighborhood built on the now unused Bay  Bridge is good stuff. I especially enjoyed the clueless Japanese grad  student who's trying to write an anthropology thesis about the  neighborhood. If you like this, try Jonathan Lethem's &quot;Gun With  Occasional Music.&quot;	2000-06-13
2427240:US	52254603	R344YIJAC6VULM	0312252897	471465284	The Widow Killer: A Novel	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Brilliant Setting and Story	Awesome thriller/murder mystery set in Nazi-occupied Prague circa 1945. As in J. Robert James's series (Salamander, et al), a Gestapo officer is teamed up with a local detective to tackle crime--in this instance a serial  killer. What makes the book very interesting is the care Kohout has taken  to lay out the difficulties in living under occupation during wartime,  knowing who to trust, the testing of loyalties, and the peaks and valleys  of hope and despair. On another level, the killer represents evil ideology,  while the two detectives embody and common humanity. Beyond general mystery  fans, this book should be read by anyone interested in World War II or  Prague in general. It should be noted that Neil Bermel's translation is  top-notch.	2000-06-13
2427358:US	52254603	R3NO9NIHJUL9WZ	0805055088	687261224	The River at the Center of the World: A Journey Up the Yangtze, and Back in Chinese Time	Books	4	28	32	N	N	Excellent Dip Into Chinese History	The subtitle &quot;A Journey up the Yangtze, and Back in Chinese Time&quot; more or less explains this combination travelogue/history. Winchester's aim is to travel the length of the Yangtze heading upriver. In  doing so, he does a superb job of explaining the importance of the Yangtze  River in Chinese history by blending in all manner of history from Western  gunboat diplomacy to Mao's Long March to the Rape of Nanjing to the current  Three Gorges Dam project. In fact, the book isn't bad as a way to sort of  dip into Chinese history for the uninitiated. The travelogue aspect is also  well handled, as Winchester travels with a Chinese woman  translator/problem-solver. Modern China doesn't come across very well in  his description, as he encounters the usual corruption, but also amazing  episodes of lethargy and apathy from the locals. At times, the technical  hydrology/geology stuff gets tiresome, but overall, it's an excellent  read--especially for prospective travelers to area.	2000-06-13
2427462:US	52254603	R3L718WT3CVW0O	0887846068	339562559	Portrait of a Thousand Punks: Hard Core Logo	Books	2	3	9	N	Y	A+ Design/Prodcution but the Story?	Graphic novel based on the screenplay for a a feature movie about some punk band in Canada. The design and production is lovely, but the actual story didn't do anything for me.	2000-06-13
2427646:US	52254603	R27X81R9Q8GJ1J	0586090819	88511113	Danzigers Adventures	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Dissapointing	This is a somewhat disappointing follow up to &quot;Danzinger's Travels&quot; which utterly lacks the cohesiveness and compelling tale of that earlier book. There are interesting tidbits here and there as the  author skips back and forth from Afghanistan to the luxury lecture circuit,  with occasional forays into Tijuana and New York life, but for the most  part I was left unmoved. There are some horrifying first-person accounts of  the tragedy in Afghanistan, and an interesting chapter about Ayatollah  Khomeni's funeral, but one's time is better spent skipping most of these  musings.	2000-06-13
2427833:US	52254603	R29H4N8NLO7ZVP	0684848155	553694758	Underworld: A Novel	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Some Great Bits, But Too Much Chaff...	Any book that attempts to encapsulate the Cold War, post-WWII, American experience is destined to be a long, long read. The problem is that it's just tough to keep up good writing for 800+ pages, and while certain  vignettes were really interesting and absorbing, others weren't. The  prologue--a set piece at the famous 1951 &quot;shot heard round the  world&quot; Giants-Dodgers playoff game--is sheer genius, working in a  young black truant, J. Edgar Hoover, Sinatra, Gleason, and news of the  Soviet Union's first atomic bomb test. Overall though, there were just too  many balls in the air, and it was a bit abstract at times for me.	2000-06-13
2427864:US	52254603	R2DFJN8R2VKQ8N	0449005747	425476515	Final Vinyl Days (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Solid Short Stories	OK, I'll totally admit that I kept picking this book off the shelf at the library due to the jacket and title. It wasn't until I read the title story in the &quot;It's Only Rock and Roll&quot; anthology that I was encouraged  enough to check this collection of short stories out. It's good writing,  and she's definitely adept at the short form. My three favorite stories are  &quot;Paradise,&quot; &quot;Last Request,&quot; and &quot;Your Husband Is  Cheating On Us.&quot;	2000-06-13
2428152:US	52254603	RV7A64V98J2LA	088184716X	344054289	Epitaph for a Spy	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Classic old-fashioned Fun	Classic post-WWI spy tale wherein a Hungarian teacher/translator with no national status is vacationing in the south of France and is accused of being a spy. A mix-up with his camera has him in jail and set for  extradition unless he helps the police capture the real spy, who must be  one of the guests at his hotel. With this as the set-up, this is very much  a mystery of the type set on an English country manor with a houseful of  guests. Here, the guests are of varying nationalities, and may not be what  they seem. The hero manages to bungle a number of situations, which gets  annoying but certainly raises the tension. Some of the plot is rather  forced, but it's still good old-fashioned fun.	2000-06-13
2428163:US	52254603	R2D40MW51QUB8M	0345427130	195918371	Eureka Street: A Novel of Ireland Like No Other	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Touching and Humorous	Mostly enjoyable love story(s) set amid a group of friends in contemporary Belfast. The novel alternates between a third-person account of Chuckie (a Protestant who is somewhat reminiscent of George from Seinfeld) and the first person musings of Jake (Catholic). This dual narrative technique is a highly successful one. In novels with two protagonists writers often fall into the trap of writing both from the first-person, which usually ends up sounding forced in one, if not both, cases. Here, the two approaches offer a nice contrast, and complement each other perfectly. With satirical wit which mocks among other things activists and paramilitary groups, Wilson shows with great skill how the Troubles are constantly present, yet never directly affect most people. The book also does a nice job of depicting the mindless hatred between various factions, and the horrors which they inflict on each other and the innocents they supposedly represent. Against this backdrop, Chuckie, Jake and other characters search for love, each finding it to varying degrees of success. There are some fine bits of humor, especially a scam Chuckie runs, which is a priceless classic.	2000-06-13
2428202:US	52254603	R904VINBX1SBU	067145790X	223960030	Fast Times at Ridgemont High	Books	5	9	9	N	N	As Good As the Movie	I bet you didn't even know this was a book before it was a movie, did you? The first thing to know is that the book is much better than the movie. The definitive novel about early 80s Southern California high-school life, it  is actually based on real events, as its subtitle &quot;A True Story&quot;  tells you. Cameron Crowe apparently actually attended high-school for a  year to do a &quot;portrait&quot; of contemporary high-school life. Fast  Times is what emerged. While fairly faithful to the story, the movie  diminishes the roles of Mark &quot;the Rat&quot; and Brad, and pumps up the  role of Spicoli (who is a freshman in the book). It's a quick read, and  well worth it if you want a light-hearted period book. It can be a little  hard to find, if you see a first edition, buy it, I guarantee it will  become a collectible.	2000-06-13
2436777:US	52254603	RXGE1MN2WG7OB	0140280103	511155810	Cordelia Underwood: Or, The Marvelous Beginnings of the Moosepath League	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Quaint Adventures From Another Era	If you're looking for a breezy romantic adventure, set in late-Victorian era Maine, search no further. Van Reid's debut is written in a dead-on decorous prose, mimicking the manners of the era, and following the pacing  of the traditional serialized novel. Full of digressive, yet entertaining,  stories, and borrowing liberally from classic adventure tales, this makes  good hammock or porch reading if you're into this type of thing. The first  storyline follows a pretty young woman (Cordelia of the title) and her  family, as they receive a mysterious bequest from her dead uncle and  investigate it while she is courted by an dashing young man. The second  storyline concerns a the activities bumbling trio of gentlemen who start a  club, and the witty and portly fellow they elect as the club's chair.  Needless to say, the storylines overlap and dovetail throughout, though  Cordelia's storyline drives the action. It all works rather well, although  the ending felt a bit abrupt and unsatisfying to me. On the whole Reid sets  the tone perfectly, and this is ideal book for anyone planning a visit to  Maine.	2000-06-08
2447419:US	52254603	RA3OKJF2XPN6Q	1559704950	897096751	All Quiet On The Orient Express	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Deadpan Trip To Purgatory	Without a doubt, this is a modern masterpiece. An unnamed narrator on a camping holiday in England's Lake District gets entangled in an extended Kafkaesque morass. What starts as a simple trade of painting a gate in exchange for a week's free camping turns into what looks to be a lifetime in purgatory thanks in great part to the narrator's own weakness of character and the town's perpetual barter economy. One menial job in trade begets another as he gets further and further immersed in the small town's weird male culture (there are only two females in the whole book: the Lolita-like daughter of his boss, and the captain of a darts team from another town). Like many of us, the narrator has grand plans (he's saved up to take a trip on the Orient Express), but falters in the execution. This everyman nature is makes him an extremely appealing and yet frustrating character. It's a deadpan, darkly humorous book, somewhat akin to one the Coen Brothers' films. Just to give a taste: someone drowns in the lake while with the narrator and his boss. Once they realize he's drowned, that's it-there's no more mention made of him, the authorities are never called, etc. Don't even get me started on the groceries. Whether you read this straight, or as some kind of allegorical work, it's enjoyable.	2000-06-02
2451353:US	52254603	R32320QA9GCUA6	0679781501	773489309	The Insult	Books	3	8	12	N	N	Good Writing, Not Enough Payoff	The insult of the title refers to what has happened to Martin, whose brain suffered an &quot;insult&quot; in the form of a bullet. This renders him blind--or does it? Although Martin's doctor insists he is hallucinating,  Martin apparently has the ability to see at night. He moves to &quot;the  city&quot; and starts a new life, one that takes place entirely at night  (which evokes something of the eeireness of the movie Dark City and oddball  aspects of the movie After Hours). I recommend reading this section only at  night to preserve the atmosphere. Martin's night vision starts to change  though--he suspects he is the subject of some experiment-- and he heads to  the mountains to try and fix it and find some clue to an lover who has  disappeared. In a small village he stays at an inn, where the narrative is  turned over to a bitter middle-aged woman. For the next 100+ pages she  tells her life story, which of course dovetails into his own search. Alas,  what starts as an intriguing book drags on far too long, without a  correspondingly satisfying payoff. Thomson's writing is quite good--he's  excellent at capturing a mood and bringing characters to life, but the  storytelling isn't quite there.	2000-05-31
2461702:US	52254603	R18VOYCO6FEG1I	0609604473	147300435	Naked Pueblo : Stories	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Top-Notch Collection	This collection of 12 stories offers a darkly humorous and unsentimental view of the new southwest and its marginalized inhabitants. They are all linked in some way to Tucson, AZ and reading them will give you a new perspective on what many think of a bland, desert state. The stories are at their strongest when Poirier sticks to the follies of boys and young men. Many of the stories have a ring of authenticity that suggests the author lived the moment described-or something very close to it indeed. &quot;Ska Boy, 1986&quot; for example, could not have been written by anyone who had not been a part of that teenage subculture at that time. Poirier manages to balance improbable situations with realistic, and wild characters with wildly realistic emotions and desires. This is a top-notch collection, and I'm excited to see more from Poirier.	2000-05-24
2461950:US	52254603	R164VSCB99VDZB	0375500804	770652862	Chaos Theory: A Novel	Books	2	6	10	N	N	Disappointing	I was excited to read this book because the review I'd read made a big deal about how it was a great thriller that said a lot about Washington, D.C.'s racial state, and the two teen protagonists were from the  neighborhood I grew up in. As it turns out, my admittedly raised  expectations weren't met by this fairly pedestrian conspiracy thriller.  Krist does capture some of the flavor of racial relations in DC, but he's  not a very fluid writer so it comes across as rather forced and  stereotyped. Indeed, his observations about D.C.'s racial issues, politics,  corruption, and bureaucracy are all rather obvious. None of the characters  are particularly vivid--may verge on being cardboard--and the white  teenager Jason is given a totally over the top case of teenage rebellion.  The book is additionally annoying for all the small local name changes it  makes: Mayor Barry becomes Mayor Humphrey-- presumably to avoid a  lawsuit--but why change Wilson H.S. to RFK H.S. (which does not exist), or  Nevada Avenue to Nevada Street? As a book if suspense, it's pretty woeful  as well. Despite a number of chase scenes and seemingly dire situations, I  felt the teens were more likely to share a rueful joint at the end than a  grave. In the end, it read like just another poorly written airplane/beach  thriller, albeit with somewhat good intentions. If you want a real literary  taste of D.C., pick up any of George Pelecanos's hardboiled books or Edward  Jones's brilliant short story collection &quot;Lost In the City.&quot;	2000-05-24
2463257:US	52254603	R3MA6NS8DF0MSO	0060392002	888346219	Running Through the Tall Grass: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Ambitious but Perhaps Too Much So...	It's hard to know exactly what to call this: thriller, love story, historical novel, tragedy... This is the story of Robert, a Jewish pied noir (a derogatory term used to refer to the non-French Mediterranean  people invited to help colonize French Algeria) who, having served as a  demolition expert in the French Foreign Legion in the losing war in Vietnam  is sent back to Algeria to fight the FLN independence movement. The book  starts in 1962 after his unit's desertion to the ranks of the OAS, the  underground army determined not to retain Algeria as a French colony,  regardless of the wishes of French politicians. (An OAS assassination  attempt on Charles DeGaulle was the basis for the book and movie, The Day  of the Jackal.) The first third of the book is written from the perspective  of Marie, a young woman who has fallen in love with Robert, who is  meanwhile engaged in a daily war of terror and attrition in Algiers. Once  you read the author's capsule history in the prologue, it's gripping and  absorbing stuff--although it loses a bit in being told through another's  eyes.<br />The second part part shifts to Marseilles, and follows Robert as  he flees the OAS and waits for his love to follow him. The is written from  the perspective of JoJo, his longtime comrade and OAS commander, and is  tautly effective as it is clear they will never let him simply leave. The  final third is written from Robert's own perspective, as he is forced to  join his former comrades to fight as a mercenary in the Belgian Congo. This  is the least effective portion, as the hold JoJo has over him becomes more  and more tenuous and implausible. The tragic ending is of little surprise  and the coda (from the lover's perspective) is just a touch sappy. The book  is clearly attempting to do a lot of things and cover a lot of themes at  once, and although successful on an individual level in many of these, it  also failed to fully come together for me. This is partly die to the use of  three narrators with essential the same voice, but more so the ambiguous  nature of Robert and JoJo's relationship. I suspect that unless one has an  interest in Algerian history (as I do), the book will fail to satisfy on  plot and writing alone.ree narrators with essential the same voice, but more so the ambiguous  nature of Robert and JoJo's relationship. I suspect that unless one has an  interest in Algerian history (as I do), the book will fail to satisfy on  plot and writing alone.	2000-05-24
2470125:US	52254603	R27G2GX77IUH5A	0374525633	566498967	The Zigzag Kid: A Novel	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Lovely	Let me start by applauding an excellent translation (from the Hebrew) by Betsy Rosenberg. Only once or twice in reading this humorous coming of age tale did I recall it was a translation, which is always a good sign. The  novel is written from the perspective of a 12-year-old boy just about to  have his Bar Mitzvah in late '60 or early '70s Israel. Nonny is an only  child, raised by a workaholic policeman father and his secretary  girlfriend. At first we know little more than this, as the boy is placed by  himself on a train to Haifa. Then, some odd events occur which had me  worried that the book was headed into magical realism. Fortunately, this is  not the case, but the boy is involved in a wild several days where it is  not clear what is truth and what is deception. The boy's character and the  mystery of his mother is unveiled with in tantalizing tidbits. For me the  tension mounted and mounted all the way to the end, when the boy fully  learns and understands his past. Very nice.	2000-05-19
2470838:US	52254603	R2LA81EQ0LKLYO	0425163148	771227214	The Wishbones	Books	4	0	3	N	N	Wedding Singer meets High Fidelity	I was much more entertained by this story of a 30-year-old New Jersey wedding musician than I had anticipated being. It's sort of a The Wedding Singer meets Nick Hornby page-turner as we follow the professional and  romantic progress of guitarist Dave over the course of a summer, as he  attempts to resolve his love of being a musician with the reality of being  an adult and living at home. The male characters are all interesting and  well-drawn, and while the commitment issues are somewhat hackneyed, it's  excellent in portraying the ambivalence some of us have to &quot;settling  down.&quot;	2000-05-19
2472200:US	52254603	R2PTOTZGGRJRV1	0385494327	214937180	Black Dogs: A Novel	Books	2	4	25	N	N	Not My Cup Of Tea	Can't say I cared much for this literary love story. The narrator describes his attempt to write a memoir about his separated parents-in-law. I don't know... it was all rather obscure to me.	2000-05-18
2472202:US	52254603	R219A2KVIFSTA1	1852425091	168960831	Acid Casuals (A Mask Noir Title)	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Great Expectations Fall Short	Hip-noir set in Manchester (England, not New-Hampshire) doesn't really live up to expectations. The premise of a transexual hit (wo)man coming back home to off a club owner amongst all the club kids and nutters sounds  lively and promising. The devil is in the writing though, and although  quick-reading, the prose doesn't quite deliver.	2000-05-18
2472571:US	52254603	R7XYSFM8YKPZB	0440235057	405352304	Be Cool	Books	2	7	9	N	N	Pretty Flat...	This, the sequel to &quot;Get Shorty,&quot; takes Chili Palmer from the world of film to the music industry. Although one of the book's themes is a very self-conscious attempt to comment on the nature of sequels, it falls  pretty flat since it's just not that good. The behind the scenes music  stuff comes off as very clich&eacute; and dated, and just doesn't work very well.  There is the usual cast of wacky Leonard characters, some more entertaining  than others--but as I feel about other of his books, wackiness alone  doesn't cut it.	2000-05-18
2472601:US	52254603	R303T5REMW13EE	0140254501	27674487	Bombardiers	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Hilarious AND Educational	Very fun and nasty satire of brokerage houses written by a briefly former insider. It's more of a fictional sociological study of the men and few women bond brokers of a San Francisco brokerage house. Standard types are  presented, along with the motivations that drive them, and the lies by  which they unload dubious securities. In all this Bronson is really going  after the entire system which allows firms to profit massively from insane  schemes and financial failures. Everything goes wacky at Atlantic Pacific  when a new, young salesman appears on the floor. He ignores the rules, has  the nature of a master salesman, and throws the system in a tizzy. It's all  pretty over the top, but fun stuff with more than a kernel of truth.	2000-05-18
2472994:US	52254603	RTZPOWB1N6HV3	0684853000	893214399	Beach Boy: A Novel	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Delightful	Very well written, even-toned debut which presents, in short vignettes, a tumultuous year in the life of an upper middle-class Bombay 10-year old boy, circa 1972. One of the running themes is food, another is film,  although these are very vivid, they sort of pop in and out, sometimes  rather forcedly. Granted, the food scenes make the mouth water, even if one  isn't really sure what is being described, but the film scenes fail to  elicit the same level of enchantment. Many of the short chapters are  obviously semi-autobiographical, and many of the events read like personal  experiences, not fiction. One minor annoyance is the decision to leave in  swaths of romanized and untranslated Urdu, which isn't typographically set  off in any way.	2000-05-18
2473373:US	52254603	R2H21ITNWYEI02	014028009X	738261988	Bridget Jones's Diary: A Novel	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Amusment gives way to Disdain	#1 Bestseller in Britain, and it's easy to see why. This fictional diary of a 30ish single career woman in London reflects the all concerns and insecurities of her kind, in a breezy, witty, quick read that will not tax  anyone in any way. Fielding's heroine's worries and dislikes are all fairly  obvious, and her mistakes, while gently amusing, aren't particularly  insightful. Her daily tallies of calories, alcohol units, cigarettes, lotto  tickets, and so forth, are supposed to be a barometer to her inner self,  which is mainly influenced by the progress of her love life. It starts off  as amusing, but as the book progresses, Bridget gets more and more annoying  in her self-pitying and general immaturity. I guess there are 30ish women  like this in the world, but thankfully not among my friends.	2000-05-18
2477680:US	52254603	R21ZOLWO2ERTHU	039331975X	694094517	Blackden (Norton Paperback)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Another Great Piece of Scottish Fiction	From the author of the totally creepy Bunker Man comes another finely honed short novel set in the slightly askew world of northeast Scotland. The teenager on his own for the weekend has a fine tradition in modern  fiction, and McLean adds to it with his tale of Patrick, an 18-year old in  the tiny town of Blackden. Many familiar elements are present in his story:  comic misadventure, unrequited admiration of an older woman, a somewhat  manic personality, and alienation from his ostensible peers. He a hard  worker and yet gentler and far more thoughtful than those around him. It's  a truly affectionate portrait of a boy grappling with his place in the  world. McLean's writing is both economical and evocative, as he vividly  displays Patrick's life and surroundings.	2000-05-15
2481817:US	52254603	R2IBWEVMC3HTRW	0425165965	983349113	Timequake	Books	1	2	8	N	N	STAMP: Return to Writer	Vonnegut's 19th, and allegedly last, novel is a mish-mash only diehard Vonnegut fans are likely to appreciate. There are all kinds of semi-autobiographical musings here, mixed in with the remnants of a failed  novel. I lost interest a quarter of the way through and tossed it aside.	2000-05-12
2481922:US	52254603	R2W1ENQ486M0SZ	0820316326	365619529	The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys: A Novel	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Beautifully Written Coming of Age Story	Although set much later, in 1974, this largely entertaining and touching book strikes many of the same chords as the movie Stand By Me. The antics of a gang of outcast 13-year-old Catholic-school boys in Savannah involve  the usual coming of age subjects: drinking, blaspheming, lusting, trying to  escape the parental bonds, etc... This is mostly handled with care and a  delicate touch, as is the tension of race relations, and parental abuse.  The only part which rings false is a sub-plot involving a young girl with  some serious sexual problems which are somewhat difficult to read about.  The hero's reaction to this is far too mature to be believable. Other than  this slight misstep, the book is an excellent portrait of a time and place.  If you like this, check out Tom Perrota's short story collection, Bad  Haircut. A very good collection--and interesting contrast--about growing up  in South Central LA in the 70s is Living for the City.	2000-05-12
2482056:US	52254603	RBSQMPSVHYUUA	0812564758	173232144	The Centurion's Empire	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Little Too Long, But Otherwise Excellent.	This excellent time-travel saga begins with a young Roman soldier almost dying in a tempest in the year 71. The first hundred pages takes place during this time, where the method of time travel that forms the basis for  the book is introduced. This section is all excellent conspiracy stuff with  the ancient Rome twist. This is followed by a sixty-page interlude in  France during the 100 Years War which is full of chivalry and heroism, also  good stuff. The remainder of the book takes place about 30 years years into  our future and is heavy on complicated technology and elaborate  double-crossing. This is somewhat less satisfying for all its complexity  than the previous settings, although the story is good enough to carry the  reader through until the end. For the futurist buffs, there all kinds of  neat ideas: mind imprinting, body repair, crazy weapons and armor,  vehicles, etc. Although a bit too long, the book is a pretty satisfying  blend of historical fantasy and futurist sci-fi.	2000-05-12
2482156:US	52254603	R2GSJSIQ3L8JHM	0747216460	534864891	Throwing the House Out of the Window	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Well Worth Seeking Out	Fans of Nick Hornby and James Hawes will find a familiar hero in Jamie, a early-30s Londoner, dumped in the first chapter by a long time girlfriend. The book covers his attempts to pick up the pieces of his life, try new  partners, and deal with a nasty situation at work He is a housing officer  for a council housing estate, and he's the one who has to to resolve the  threats to and harassment of a Pakistani family by local thugish  youngsters. Plenty of snappy dialogue, and the threat of violence keeps the  pages turning, as do interesting characters like Jamie's Scottish best  friend and the intriguing Chilean visitor Ana Maria. If you like High  Fidelity, About A Boy, or A White Merc With Fins, you'll like this.	2000-05-12
2482296:US	52254603	R1TM140263D231	0553573527	504179075	Empire of the Ants	Books	4	1	1	N	N	You'll Never Step On An Ant Again...	This French novel is borderline science-fiction marketed as straight fiction. It's a very captivating story as the narrative alternates between a family who, one-by-one, mysteriously vanish into the basement of home  they've just inherited, and the struggle of a few ants to discover what  lies behind some mysterious forces threatening their city. Of course the  two are related, but its not clear how until the end. The genius of the  book is its incredibly evocative portrait of ant life, including the  politics of a federation of ant cities, the threats of other species, and  just their whole life cycle. It's a quite remarkable achievement to be able  to make this stuff so fascinating. You will never think about ants the same  way, and of course, this is meant to make us think about ourselves as well.	2000-05-12
2482369:US	52254603	R2LFFZPQCVIKHR	0679777547	582743995	The Club Dumas	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Fun Page-Turner Spoiled By Trick Ending	Like The Flanders Panel, this falls into the category of &quot;literary mystery,&quot; although it'll most likely show up on the fiction shelves in stores and libraries. The hero is Corso, a loner mercenary who makes his  living hunting down rare books for dealers and collectors. Corso has little  else going on in his life (he lives in some torment, having been left by a  true love years ago) and ready crisscrosses Europe searching out duty old  tomes for a 30% comission. The plot weaves together his attempt to  authenticate a handwritten chapter of a Dumas (French author best known for  &quot;The Three Muskateers&quot;) manuscript for a friend, and his  comission by a wealthy collector to investigate a book of witchcraft called  De Umbrarum Regni Novem Portis (The Book of the Nine Doors to the Kingdom  of Darkness). The tone is dark all the way through, as Corso is shadowed,  attacked and evenutally confronts his foes. It's a page-turner, but suffers  from a trick ending that wouldn't be as irksome if it weren't a touch too  ambiguous.	2000-05-12
2482638:US	52254603	R12X7V3JCGKKP9	0312167601	727257377	After: A Novel	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A Bold But Unsuccessful Novel	I like the premise of this book, a black comedy about the Holocaust, however, it never quite jelled into an good read for me. The book starts right as the war is ending and American tanks are rolling in to liberate  concentration camps. A few odd survivors make their way across this bizarre  landscape, meet up, and form a &quot;gang.&quot; Through forgery and  trading, they turn into rich men by cynically working both the system and  the black market that arises with the fall of the Nazis. Everything is a  buildup though, for the big score, a 4 x 4 foot cube of gold extracted from  the mouths of Jewish prisoners. Along the way, there are all kinds of  oddballs and kooks running around and sincere, naive people to be  exploited. None of this is as funny as it's made out to be, however. The  book is interesting for the unsentimental look it takes at the time and  place, but it takes a little to long to accomplish that task.	2000-05-12
2483061:US	52254603	R3J12S5J5QT5I6	0786703644	976407740	A Coffin for Dimitrios	Books	3	20	24	N	N	A Little Too Improbable To Completely Satisfy	In this engaging classic mystery set in pre-WWII Europe an English writer of mysteries happens upon an interesting story of a Greek career criminal recently found dead. To amuse himself and procrastinate from beginning his  next book, he decides to attempt to reconstruct this criminal's path across  southern Europe over the previous 15 years. He soon discovers that his idle  exercise has elicited the attention of a mysterious man, who is apparently  also interested in the career of this criminal. The path goes back in time  to such lurid things as political assassination, white slavery, heroin  rings, and blackmail. There is a big surprise late in the book (which  shouldn't be much of a surprise at all) and a satisfying ending. While the  plot is high on the improbable scale it is considered one of the fathers of  the modern spy novel and is worth reading for that reason alone.	2000-05-12
2483092:US	52254603	R1CP57L5FJ4UKT	0345405021	502157513	Bring the Jubilee (Alternate History Masterpiece)	Books	3	11	16	N	N	Interesting? Yes. Masterpiece? No.	This is an alternate history of a U.S. where the South won the Civil War and the North is its vassal/client-state--which results in the industrial revolution never occurring. Set in the 1930s-50s, the story follows a young  boy growing up in rural Pennsylvania who moves to New York (which is still  &quot;the big city&quot;) where he does a little growing up. Unfortunately,  too much time is spent in his head, and not enough detailing the alternate  world around him. He becomes a autodidact Civil War scholar and eventually  is accepted in a sort of academic commune. Moore concentrates a bit too  much on showing how things might have been, and pounding the fickleness of  history into the reader's head, at the expense of a decent story. It's  somewhat interesting to see how the hero develops, but he's kind of  frustrating character, and in the end you know what he's going to do. The  book is OK, but not as special as it's made out to be.	2000-05-12
2483115:US	52254603	R1Q7M3OZ02YORX	0805063307	357507415	Knick Knack Paddy Whack: A Novel	Books	2	4	13	N	N	Highly Unmemorable...	Irish comic O'Hanlon has written a largely unmemorable coming of age novel starring the entirely unsympathetic and creepy 18-year-old Patrick. He works as a security guard in Dublin and periodically takes the bus to his  home hamlet on weekends, allowing the reader a glimpse into both city and  small town life in early 80s Ireland. While certain set pieces and milieus  are descriptively evoked, the overall story of the ethically confused boy  and his relationship with college student Francesca doesn't really hold  together. The novel is more effective when it breaks off into excerpts from  Franceca's diary, detailing her side of their relationship. However, this  too, is problematic, as you know that eventually Patrick will be reading  it, and only bad things can result. All in all, it lacks the humor I had  expected, and is very bleak. Elements of it are highly reminiscent of The  Butcher Boy.	2000-05-12
2483344:US	52254603	R13TRY9LOYDMS3	0312134851	558040578	The Emperor's Coloured Coat: A Novel	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A Simply Brilliant Entertainment	This chronological prequel to &quot;A Sailor of Austria&quot; is considerably more wacky and far flung than its predecessor. In this one, the memoirist recounts his adventures as one of the first rank of military  pilots, who, by dint of accident, ends up in the retinue of Archduke  Ferdinand (yes that one) for some time. Eventually he returns to naval  duties, where he gets tangled up with a former lover. Then, by dint of  coincidence, he gets involved in the Serbian plot to assassinate the  Archduke! Once again, Biggins brings the history and political milieu of  the time to convincing life. After that peters out, the hero ends up in a  blockaded Chinese port, and even faces a sword-wielding Japanese officer in  trench warfare. Further adventurers take him and a crew of Chinese sailors  into unknown waters an encounter with pirates, and a hilarious encounter in  the jungle. Then, even wackier, he ends up on a ship headed to Mecca and  has to make his way by land to Syria! This particular entry in the series  is highly reminiscent of George McDonald Fraser's &quot;Flashman&quot;  series.	2000-05-12
2483397:US	52254603	R3VCROQNEZB9ZV	0452273706	543228813	Dogs of God	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Fine Writing Falls Flat at the End	This book is many of the things it is alleged to be: violent, suspenseful, full of well drawn weird characters, and a description of rural West Virginia that makes it as menacing as any exotic setting. The plot keeps  driving and driving, bringing a bare-knuckle fighter, gun runners, a psycho  drug lord, enslaved illegal immigrants, and other assorted folk together  for a grand shoot 'em out climax. Unfortunately it falls a bit flat in the  end as things get a little too odd, I can't quite put my finger on it, but  the end didn't satisfy me or justify the buildup. Others may be happier  with the results.	2000-05-12
2483399:US	52254603	R22K43ZXRGKYW4	0805044469	901683012	Traplines: Stories	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Dissapointing...	These four short stories tread on a common ground as theyrecount the lives/situations of four different teens in contemporaryBritish Columbia. The stories aren't bad, but the blurbs and reviews really go way overboard in trying to portray this as a landmark work of Canadian literature. Yes the stories aren't pleasant, and the tone is deadpan, but it bears little similarity to anything Tarrantino-esque. And yes, the characters share some of the seaminess and desperation of those in &quot;Trainspotting,&quot; but there is none of the style or humor of Welsh here. &quot;Queen of the North&quot; is a quick sketch of a sexually abused girl and her first boyfriend, and isn't particularly interesting.  &quot;Traplines&quot; is about a young teen from an abusive household who almost grasps a better life when his English teacher takes him--but his misplaced place of loyalty betrays him. &quot;Dogs of Winter&quot; is an almost interesting story about a girl whose mother is a psycho killer, but it too somehow peters out. Only &quot;Contact Sports&quot;--the longest of the stories--is really compelling, as a misfit teen has to adjust to his older cousin moving in and playing the role of older brother/father. Some of the issues and themes in it are actually interesting, but it too succumbs to the aura of despair that characterizes the collection as a whole. I'd like to see a full novel from Robinson, that might be well worth reading.  END	2000-05-12
2483420:US	52254603	R2WIAM7Q10QZW7	0312958633	89720004	Living Proof	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Lackluster Effort in the Series	This entry is a little more gimmicky and doesn't quite work as well as its predecessors in the Charlie Resnick series. It centers around a real-life mystery book and film convention in Nottingham, as an American writer of a  lesbian series is attacked by feminists and receives threatening letters.  Meanwhile, a number of men have been apparently attacked by the prostitute  they picked up. Too much attention is given to the convention, which seems  kind of hokey somehow, and the prostitute murders aren't particularly  satisfying.	2000-05-11
2483433:US	52254603	R3KEUZQW72M5RV	0684825139	947218452	The KILLERS GAME	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Bound For the Big Screen...	You might have heard of &quot;high-concept&quot; movies, well this is a &quot;high-concept&quot; book. One of the world's deadliest assassins discovers he is terminally ill, so he dumps his girl, and takes out a  contract on himself, which draws the attention of the world's killer elite.  Of course, his lab tests were mixed up and he's not ill, and his girlfriend  is pregnant and hasn't told him, etc... Oh, by the way, he only killed evil  types, Klan leaders, kiddie porn barons, etc... You can guess how things  go, wacky killers converge, hero takes loads of damage, girl rides to  rescue, blah blah blah. Not exactly the highest prose, but kinda fun in a  trashy way, sooner or later it'll end up on the big screen.	2000-05-11
2483481:US	52254603	R2RI7MDVHNDS66	1569471509	649148645	Making History	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Nothing New in the World of Speculative Fiction	I didn't like the other Stephen Fry book I read, The Liar, but the premise of this one looked intriguing enough for me to overlook that black mark. The premise is that a graduate student of history and doctor of physics  attempt to reverse the course of history by sending a sterilizing agent  into the water where Hitler's parents lived. The first half of the book  sets this up, and the second half plays up the results. None of this will  be breathtakingly inventive to anyone whose read a lot of alternate history  or speculative fiction, but its very well-written, in a style more literate  than, say, Harry Turtledove. Along the way the hero discovers his real  sexuality, which I felt was an unnecessary subplot. But perhaps Fry, a  well-known British actor (Jeeves in the &quot;Jeeves and Wooster&quot;  series) famous for his celibate homosexuality, needs to inject this aspect  into his fiction to maintain his own sanity.	2000-05-11
2483612:US	52254603	R1KR58DDVYEZLQ	0380728176	401129852	King Con: A Novel	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Grifters Delight	Fun, fun, fun page turner for those who love to read about grifters and con artists. In the prologue the best con artist in the US cheats a number of people at cards, including a mobster, who beats him nearly to death  afterward (an act which is totally contrary to the way the character is  depicted throughout the rest of the book, but oh well). After a number of  convolutions, the lovable con artist and the local DA team up to run a huge  con to take out the mobster and his psychopathic brother. The characters  are all cardboard, but its fun to read along and watch the author shuffle  them around and spin a good story. Of course, Cannell knows that the  details make the story, and this book is chock full of grifter tricks and  cons which are a delight.	2000-05-11
2483781:US	52254603	R2BWYYJGQCE4YX	0312168187	497375829	Dog Eat Dog: A Novel	Books	4	19	20	N	N	Flawed but Real	Edward Bunker is the real deal when it comes to crime writers, having served hard time in the California penal system, and it shows in this bleak work. A trio of reform school friends are reunited many years later, when  the leader is released after 12 years in jail. One is a Teamster  thug/family man, the second is a junkie psychopath, and the leader is the  brains and charisma. The tension builds, and the threat of violence is  everywhere as they embark on a few scams together and dislike between the  family man and junkie becomes more and more open. In a story like this,  there is only possible outcome, so the bleak ending comes as no surprise.  It's reminiscent of the movie &quot;Heat&quot;, where the reader starts to  like some of the criminals and then sees them topple for almost absurd  reasons. One small caveat about this book is that Bunker is none too subtle  in preaching his critique of the criminal justice system. Points that are  made over and over through the character's mouths are: (1) They were bad  kids, but the system made them into adult criminals; (2) There is no such  thing as justice; (3) In the criminal world your best friend can turn on  you at the drop of a hat; (4) The &quot;3 strikes&quot; law only serves to  make career criminals more desperate when down tot he last strike. If you  don't mind the proselytizing, this is a great, nasty, page-turner.	2000-05-11
2483817:US	52254603	RFHD2SVJV1JLI	0679732500	580873109	The Getaway	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Great Crime Book	This book was my first foray into the books of famous pulp writer Thompson, although of course I've seen a few movies based on other work of his (The Grifters, After Dark My Sweet). This slim book tells a very simple  tale about a bank heist, the falling out of thieves afterward, and their  attempt to elude the police dragnet make it to the Mexican border, where a  paradise awaits them. Simple enough, with just the right number of  characters and complexity for the movies (which is why it's been made into  one twice, first in 1972, then in 1993). It's all very fun to read, and you  find yourself rooting for the husband and wife team of robbers to make it  out...let's just say there's an unexpected ending which lifts the book out  of the realm of pulp fiction, and into that of morality play. I plan on  reading some more Jim Thompson.	2000-05-11
2484063:US	52254603	RUN25RP82PPH3	1899344225	59183140	The Hackman Blues (Bloodlines)	Books	2	7	13	N	N	Good Parts Don't Quite Gell	Some interesting possibilities (gay, bipolar, tough guy, criminal- detective as lead, Brixton-centered plot, oddball crime boss) don't really gel into anything that interesting. The con is asked to find a white girl  in Brixton, which sounds simple, but causes all kinds of complications. The  whole bipolar thing wears thin quickly, and the style isn't quite on.	2000-05-11
2484074:US	52254603	R1IPO6VEAL2UXB	1569471533	761662649	Lie in the Dark	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Brilliant Entry in the Detective in War subgenre	A brilliant entry in the &quot;Detective at work while war rages around him&quot; subgenre, this book takes place in war-torn Sarajevo of the mid-1990s. Investigator Petric has managed to avoid being drafted into the  Bosnian army due to his job as a police detective. However, since the war  started, he's had few interesting cases, as a branch of the interior  ministry has expropriated much of his domain. When he is handed a highly  sensitive case, all clues lead to an easy conclusion, one that he suspects  he is supposed to deliver. As his inquires progresses, the haunting nature  of daily life in a city under siege is brought into sharp relief, as is the  power of the various gangs controlling commerce, and the corruption of what  nominal authorities there are--including the U.N. Fesperman manages to  convey a sense of the multiethnic complexities of the city and conflict  without becoming too preachy (although an exchange 267-268 comes across as  a stilted high-school debate, rather than an actual conversation), as well  as the personal depression of individuals. While at times Inspector Petric  seems awfully naive and forthcoming in his information, and the ending  relies on a somewhat unlikely trick, this is a very satisfying crime novel  in a unique setting. Another book with the same setting and  premise--somewhat less skillfully executed--is John Fullerton's &quot;The  Monkey House.&quot;	2000-05-11
2484148:US	52254603	R3MMENV7MFX26J	0385312377	149732156	The Butcher Boy	Books	2	7	16	N	N	Annoying writing	Although a 1992 Booker finalist I couldn't bring myself to finishing it. The story is from the perspective of a young boy (10-13 range) who lives with an alcoholic father and a depressed mother in am Irish village in the  1950s. The novel traces the boy's slide into delusion and dementia as his  world gets harsher and harsher. It doesn't take you long to realize that  the kid is messed up, the only question is how far he'll go. While the  author has done a brilliant job of writing from inside a young boy's head,  I couldn't find enough it to keep my attention after 100 pages or so. A  particularly annoying aspect is the lack of punctuation to distinguish  dialogue from internal thought. Some passages are particularly difficult  and force you to re-read, interrupting the flow of the otherwise good  writing. For some reason, the Scots seem to do this type of thing much  better.	2000-05-11
2484155:US	52254603	R3Q0YL85GCUT52	1558820752	734724042	Don't Point That Thing at Me! (Library of Crime Classics)	Books	4	22	25	N	N	A Deliciously Droll Caper	This is a reprint of an exceedingly witty English book from 1970 in which the wordplay and piercing descriptions far outweigh the enjoyment to be gotten from the actual plot, which features stolen art, blackmail, double  crossing, etc... There is plenty of foreshadowing, so you aren't surprised  at the rather bleak ending, but the journey there is highly entertaining.  Imagine a crime thriller written by P.G. Wodehouse, and you might get a  feel for the type of dry Brit humor to be found here.	2000-05-11
2484237:US	52254603	R14V6NSUD4D4S2	0441295150	410655433	God Save the Mark	Books	3	7	14	N	N	Mildly Amusing	A kind of vaguely amusing story about a stumbling, bumbling, New York copyeditor who is the most gullible &quot;mark&quot; around. The victim of every short (small) and long (large) con known to man, our hero is in  really big trouble when he inherits a cool half-million from a long-lost  uncle. Suddenly people are shooting at him, girls are all over him, and  he's not sure if he can trust his pal in the bunco (fraud) division.  Needless to say, there are many twists and turns in this wry tale.	2000-05-11
2484315:US	52254603	RAABG1F2BA6WG	0446403601	617323609	32 Cadillacs	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Fun Repoman Romp	Fun romp featuring repo men (and women) of DKA as heroes versus gypsy clans. The king of American gypsies has died, and the clans from around the US are vying to have their leader be selected as the new king. To this end,  they are stealing Cadillacs left and right in order to show up in the  proper style at the big gathering where the new king will be selected. Lots  of fun to be had as Gores skillfully describes scam after scam after scam,  both by the gypsies and the repo men. Both groups are sympathetically  portrayed for the most part, and the background detail about modern gypsy  life is interesting in its own right.	2000-05-11
2484336:US	52254603	R2I6ZIMJ4CP7W8	0374524912	14638458	Coyote V. Acme	Books	3	5	8	N	N	A Few Gems...	This collection of twenty-two short humorous essays culled from The New Yorker and The Atlantic Monthy is worth a quick glance on the strength of a few of the essays, but don't be tricked by the clever title or jacket into  actually buying the book. The laugh-out-loud essays are: &quot;Boswell's  Life of Don Johnson,&quot; which satirizes Thomas Boswell's famous  biography of the poet, &quot;The Life of Samuel Johnson;&quot; &quot;Coyote  v. Acme,&quot; which is a legal document outlining Wile E. Coyote's (of  cartoon fame) lawsuit against the Acme Corporation; and &quot;Thanks For  the Memory.&quot; Each of these is based on a lone brilliant idea, quickly  and artfully rendered before it gets too stale.	2000-05-11
2484392:US	52254603	RRDU16C8PAS1P	0140273298	383459689	Kill Kill Faster Faster	Books	1	4	7	N	N	Stunningly Bad.	Sleep, Sleep, Now, Now, that's the real title of this turkey. This is supposed to be &quot;edgy&quot; , but it's only bad. I won't waste any more time, other than to tell you, don't be fooled by the cover, type or  ubiquitous Irvine Welsh (whom I love) blurb, this book bites. I don't know  what's worse, that someone likely forked out a huge advance on this, or  that my time was wasted with it. Stunningly bad.	2000-05-11
2484467:US	52254603	ROK7W1UJ1DSIY	0679448802	489874479	Gone Bamboo	Books	2	20	23	N	N	Sophomore Slump	A rather disappointing followup to &quot;Bone in the Throat,&quot; this mob caper never reaches the breezy good humor of the Bourdain's debut. There are some decently interesting characters (a crossdressing mobster and  a legendary ancient French commando being two), and some offbeat  happenings, but the climax is wholly unsatisfying (at least to me). One  redeeming aspect is that Bourdain doesn't shy away from killing some of the  characters you least suspect will die. Definitely read &quot;Bone in the  Throat,&quot; before this, as some of characters overlap, and this comes  second chronologically.	2000-05-11
2484475:US	52254603	R29HU9Q7RKDIL7	0446604658	612130498	Lucky You	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Typical Beach/Plane Fare	Hiassen's South Florida schtick is fairly entertaining stuff, suitable for airplanes, beaches, and so forth. His forte is creating oddball characters and setting them loose to bounce off each other until the good guys  inevitably come out on top. The plot here revolves around two lottery  winners, a beautiful black veterinarian's assistant, and a stupid, but  dangerous white supremacist cracker. She wants to use her money to buy some  land for a nature preserve, while he decides $14 million isn't enough to  finance the militia he wants to start up, and thus decides to steal the  other ticket. Entering into this is a laconic newspaperman sent to do a  story on the woman. Wacky antics and a little nasty violence ensue,  everyone gets their just desserts, etc...	2000-05-11
2484494:US	52254603	R9NE9I970E6Y0	1852423080	974934191	London Noir (A Mask Noir Title)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great Sampler of UK Noir	This collection of fifteen crime stories was commissioned with the notion of capturing the dark side of the city in some manner. This attempt is largely successful, but the book also works as a sampler of modern British  crime writers. Among the better stories are: &quot;Perfect Casting&quot; by  Christopher Fowler, &quot;Brand New Dead&quot; by Derek Raymond, &quot;A  Deep Hole&quot; by Ian Rankin (cf. Knots and Crosses), and &quot;Angel's  Day&quot; by Molly Brown. For some reason, other than the Molly Brown  story, I found the other female contributions (by Liza Cody, Denise Danks,  Jessica Palmer and Liz Holliday) to be rather sub-par. Actually one of the  stories that does the best job of showing the underbelly of London is by  John Harvey, who has his Nottingham policeman Charlie Resnick (cf. Lonely  Hearts and subsequent novels) down in London for a funeral.	2000-05-11
2484509:US	52254603	R20QQVDVXAJ7NZ	0312117752	925363810	The Destroying of Harry Blyne	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Intriguing but Flawed	A very simple premise drives this intriguing little puzzler. A mediocre thriller writer living a pleasant little life with wife and daughter sees his life unravel in a matter of days as what seems at first to be a hoax  turns out to be a conspiracy by persons unknown to drive him to suicide.  Once he sinks to the lowest depths he taps into his heroic literary  character in order to seek out and strike back against his tormentors. The  book has two main weaknesses: the first is that his wife and friends seem  awfully willing to believe the lies that are told about him, and second,  the motive for his persecution isn't very believable.	2000-05-11
2484580:US	52254603	R1Y81CHCVCWX1S	0679435522	615107411	Bone in the Throat	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Nice Culinary/Wiseguy Combo	&quot;Two-hundred-and-eighty-pound Salvatore Pitera, in a powder-blue jogging suit and tinted aviator glasses, stepped out of Frank's Original Pizza onto Spring Street. He had a slice of pizza in one hand, too hot to  eat, and he was blowing on it as he waddled through traffic.&quot; That's  the first sentence in the book, if you like it, you'll like this breezy  debut which weaves cuisine and wiseguys into a satisfying little tale of  crime. The author does a nice job of capturing the nuances of wiseguy  speech and the culinary arts while telling the tale of one neighborhood guy  trying to make a go of it outside the &quot;family business.&quot; Followed  by the less-satisfying &quot;Gone Bamboo,&quot; which picks up where this  leaves off.	2000-05-11
2484589:US	52254603	RKPI728K3I659	0679767843	566077188	The Destiny of Nathalie X	Books	2	1	3	N	N	His Novels Are Much Better...	I read this collection of eleven short stories (all previously published in various periodicals)  in preparation for an interview I was to do with the author, who is also a screenwriter, for Creative Screenwriting,magazine  otherwise, I would not have picked it up. As it was, I found little to hold  my attention, and I skipped past many a story after reading half. Not my  cuppa tea... Boyd's novels, on the other hand, are extremely good,  especially The Blue Afternoon.	2000-05-11
2484604:US	52254603	R19BJ5V914VWS4	067100302X	164220467	Drawing Dead	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Fun Fun EZ Reading	An impressive debut comic crime caper featuring oddball characters and situations set in Minnesota. The story centers on ex-cop Joe Crow who gets caught up in the shady shenanigans of a couple of con-artists and a couple  of high-rollers. Poker, and all its subtleties, is central to the plot, as  are comic books--so it will especially appeal to aficionados of either of  those hobbies/obsessions. This is a book that is a bit hard to put down as  I kept wanting to see how all the quirky characters would keep bouncing off  each other and how the multiple plot threads would culminate. There aren't  any profound truths here, just a good fun story.	2000-05-11
2484641:US	52254603	R3GRTZXN9LD0U8	0720608287	9179846	Defiant Pose	Books	2	0	4	N	N	Satire? That Quickly Grows Tiresome	Sort of an odd stew satirizing porn novels and English political extremists featuring an antihero skinhead as the catalyst for many things. Loads of over-the-top sex, violence and ideological debate make for a  somewhat tiresome book. Not likely to appeal to many people.	2000-05-11
2484644:US	52254603	R1PL6UHO3WBR04	0312195044	381095304	Little Boy Blue: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Brilliant	A searing roman a clef from the author of Dog Eat Dog which also does a good job of showing LA, circa 1943-45. The book traces the path of an 11-year old boy, from social service homes, through the various levels of  the juvenile criminal system until the inevitable tragic end. This  depressing accelerated transition from childhood to teenager is  convincingly presented. Bunker is clearly writing many of the episodes in  the book from personal experience, and each of the shifting cast of  supporting characters are well-drawn individuals. It's a gripping story and  although much has changed in the social service system since this time, yet  many of the problems and attitudes shown in the book remain.	2000-05-11
2484827:US	52254603	R9S0H3DC0BQ1K	0312956738	602700130	Knots and Crosses: An Inspector Rebus Novel (Inspector Rebus Novels)	Books	2	3	10	N	N	Weak Series Debut	Ian Rankin's debut John Rebus procedural has several similarities to John Harvey's Charlie Resnick series, weary, flawed, divorced, mid-level policeman hero, nasty plot (serial killer of little girls), set in a dark  British city (Edinburgh). However, Rankin's book doesn't measure up in  characterization, plausibility, or even plot to any of Harvey's books.  Therefore, I will return my attention to finishing the Harvey books before  giving Rankin a second chance.	2000-05-11
2484942:US	52254603	R2HURE0D6KZS2W	1852425938	411052734	Dirty Laundry	Books	2	0	1	N	N	Weak Portrait of a Tormented Soul	Taylor tries hard to get the reader into the head of a likely insane loser in Lambdon Spa in the north of England, but too many of the relationships are insufficiently explained and lack credibility for the book to really  work. He's semi-kept by a gay man who he no longer sleeps with, and it's  not at all clear why the other guy tolerates him since they so openly  despise each other. He's constantly spending massive amounts of money on a  co-worker he's obsessed with, who is a class-A tease. Why he's so into her  and why she leads him on is never convincingly explained. Ditto the sexual  relationships he has. There are a few good scenes, but too much is  unexplained--and it feels as if Taylor has left it all unexplained because  he's unable to come up with anything plausible. There are a lot of better  books that portray a soul tormented by obsession, anger and fantasy  spiraling toward self-destruction--try Duncan McLean's &quot;Bunker  Man&quot; for example.	2000-05-11
2484984:US	52254603	R2Y2RC9UIQ84HO	0446606804	396156869	A Dying Light in Corduba (Marcus Didius Falco Mysteries)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	A Little Too Long	The eighth in the Marco Didius Falco series, this entry sees our glib hero investigating the formation of an olive oil cartel in the province of Baetica (southern Spain). The action starts in Rome, at a private party  after which Falco's former employer, and current enemy Anacrites is put in  a coma. All events converge as Falco heads of to Spain to get to the bottom  of things, with pregnant wife Helena in tow. Once there, Falco plunges into  the local society and politics of the olive oil bigwigs. As usual, the  story is a fun read, with a few moments of action, and the usual  frustrations for Falco. It gets a bit a long though, and the greatest  narrative tension comes from Helena's pregnancy and its resolution.	2000-05-11
2485306:US	52254603	R2URNUOR6ENFBZ	0446604488	656036106	Bordersnakes	Books	2	2	8	N	N	Not My Cup Of Crime...	Unfortunately. this is one of those cases I fell prey to a snazzy jacket design and paid for it with a few hours of my life. It's not a bad crime story, but the plot is overly convoluted, and it never really gets better than beach or plane reading. Prospective readers should be aware that the two main characters, Milo and Sughrue, are from earlier Crumely works, and without reading those (The Wrong Case, Dancing Bear), one is liekly missing all kinds of background and development that might make them more interesting here. Of course many readers, myself included, found nothing particularly compelling about a pair of 50+-year-old boozers and drug users. The story, which concerns the duo's hunt for a Mexican drug lord and killer, takes place in south Texas and New Mexico, an area I know little about, which also made it a little hard to get into. The narrative is first-person, switching between the two characters in alternating sections, which might have worked had the two characters hadn't been so similar. Next time I won't be suckered by the jacket and will stick to the good stuff, like George Pelecanos.	2000-05-11
2485346:US	52254603	R1SJZ9FAZH8P9F	0684820811	2776760	The Detainees	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Nice Wee Irish Revenge Thriller	Irish comic Hughes loses the comedy in favor of a fairly clever piece of revenge fulfillment. The jacket blurbs speak of it being &quot;a riveting thriller and blackly comic novel&quot; and being an &quot;urban  gothic&quot; a la Welsh, Kelman, Amis, and Self. I don't really see any of  that: it's entertaining, though not riveting, and takes a while to get  going before it can really be considered as a thriller, and I didn't get  any comedy--black or otherwise--from it. It's a pretty decent tale about an  antique dealer outside Dublin with a psychologically messed-up wife, and  what happens when an old bully moves back into town and into their lives.  There is a great twist at the end, but other than that, nothing too  memorable.	2000-05-11
2485353:US	52254603	R1ZVQJSYR8CNQC	0375502327	449481739	Come Together: A Novel	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Predictable Fun	Kind of a cutesy concept at work here, chronicle the fits and starts of a pair of London 20-somethings meeting and &quot;coming together&quot; via alternating chapters presenting the man's and then the woman's take on the  relationship and events. Jack is rather unlikable at the start, being  nicely set up both at home and work, yet content to mark his life's  progression by the number of one night stands he can complete. Fortunately  Amy is rather more likable and by the end we are rooting for the couple to  stay a couple. It's a rather predictable story, obstacles great and small  are overcome, misunderstandings abound, and transformation occurs. But it  is often funny, and is perfectly harmless fun.	2000-05-11
2485404:US	52254603	R14FC0165PVYPF	1569470375	961141756	Come On (Soho crime)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Servicable Fun	A perfectly servicable tale weaving our hero-restrauanter, big and small-time mobsters, two gorgeous sisters, and a wad of cash. Quick, fun, easy, nothing to really set it apart or remember it. In the vein of Anthony  Bourdain's &quot;Bone in the Throat&quot; but not as original.	2000-05-11
2495959:US	52254603	R2LAQJ6QX74AE5	0805044256	863150956	The Consul's Wife	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Excellent	This portrait of a young, single US foreign service officer serving in pre civil-war Lebanon, the Congo, and then just pre-civil war Sudan is dead on in capturing a certain type. Tyler served in the foreign service himself (a  milieu I grew up in), and his description of the diplomatic life is perhaps  the best I've read. Most of the book is spent in the Congo, and Tyler does  an excellent job showing how Hugh Mathews is totally affected by his  travels through the back country. He is outsider to the stuffy suited men  who mostly stay in within the safe confines of embassy life. His life is  given meaning through a frenetic affair with the wife of the embassy's  consul. When she leaves, he drifts through a few empty years in Sudan and  Washington, going through the motions. He gains a second chance at the end,  with plausibly subdued results. It all rings very very true and is  presented in well-crafted prose.	2000-05-04
2496321:US	52254603	RDY7UA5YM566G	1852426349	196805462	Nineteen Seventy Four	Books	2	4	12	N	N	Akward First Effort	Apparently modeled somewhat after Orwell's 1984, Peace's bookfails to offer much more than a bloody and bleak look at a series ofhorrific child murders and corruption in Leeds, England. As in Orwell's book, a young, idealistic and naive man (here a junior crime reporter) enters into an ever-increasingly brutal and nasty side of his surroundings. What motivates him isn't altogether clear, and whether he's an idiot, an ( ), losing his sanity--or all three--he's a far from sympathetic figure. Peace's writing is altogether awkward, he tries to hard to achieve some kind of flair, and plot threads. Yes, he piles on the cultural references to impress the time and place upon the reader, but the sheer level of brutality, and the body count makes it altogether silly by the end. Better luck next time.  END	2000-05-04
2532192:US	52254603	R95FWROYAOWO7	0880641703	270197525	One Death to Die: A Kayankaya Mystery	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Hard-Boiled in Germany	Arjouni's hard-boiled Turkish PI Kemal Kayankaya returns for his third story, this one centered in the world of Germany's &quot;guest workers&quot; and illegal immigrants. Germany's racism is played up in this  one, as Kayankaya attempts to find a missing Thai woman. As usual, his  wise-assedness gets him into deeper trouble than he really needs. There is  a subplot with his best friend, Slibusky, which is a little hard to follow,  but for the most part it's the smart, quick, read I've come to expect from  Arjouni.	2000-04-14
2533493:US	52254603	R2SBIMJCOGYH6F	0880641487	370655917	Happy Birthday, Turk!	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Hard-Boiled in Frankfurt	If you're looking for a solid, hard-boiled with a twist, try this first book in a series about a Turkish PI living in Frankfurt. Kemal Kayankaya is a detective well-rooted in the genre's requirements, he's always drinking,  often a wise-ass, gets his ass kicked a few times, and kicks a little ass,  and underneath all the weariness and disgust, has a streak of compassion.  Economical in length, the story about murdered immigrants, drugs, crooked  cops, and the red-light district translates well from the original German.	2000-04-14
2533537:US	52254603	R35D542N6H2GD9	0880641614	876956593	And Still Drink More!: A Kayankaya Mystery	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A New PI For A New Germany	As in &quot;Happy Birthday, Turk!&quot;, Turkish PI Kemal Kayankaya displays all the attributes of the hardboiled detective: constant drinking and smart mouthing leads to his getting roughed up and underneath all the  weariness and disgust, there is a streak of compassion. Although  well-translated, this story about an ecoterrorist act mingled with a murder  isn't as compelling as the previous book.	2000-04-14
2537936:US	52254603	R308D6QD2N7ZK1	1899344403	142919303	Mean Time: New Crime for a New Millennium (Bloodlines) (Bloodlines S)	Books	1	1	2	N	N	Dissapointing	These 16 short stories have been assembled under the subtitle of &quot;New Crime For A New Millennium&quot; as The Do-Not Press seems to have succumbed to the temptations of the sirens of millennial marketing. As might be expected, many of the stories use the millennium as a backdrop to  the story but fail to incorporate it in more than this superficial manner,  while others use it as a ticking clock device. Many of the usual suspects  are here: John Harvey (Lonely Hearts, et al) offers a serviceable short  Charlie Resnick story; Ian Rankin (Knots and Crosses, et al) gives a very  weak cross-European story; Nicholas Blincoe (Acid Casuals, et al) has a  slightly amusing story set in Miami; Ed Gorman (Cage of Night, et al) has a  weak story of siblings, and Denis Lehane (A Drink Before The War) has a  quirky little tale that doesn't really qualify as crime in the sense of  most of the stories here; and Maxim Jakubowski has another of his sexy  little stories. My two favorites were editor Sykes' &quot;Roots&quot; and  John Foster's &quot;Reaper.&quot; It should be noted that a two stories are  total throwaways, stories you've read before and can predict a page into  them: Colin Bateman's &quot;NIPD Blue&quot; and Molly Brown's  &quot;Y2K.&quot; The book is also riddled with typos, seven that I noticed,  which, coupled with the weakness or bare adequacy of many of the stories,  makes this a very disappointing anthology. You'd be much better served  sticking to The Do-Not Press's &quot;Fresh Blood&quot; series.	2000-04-11
2538464:US	52254603	RHN3C2SH90LMO	0140286802	149633096	Collected Fictions	Books	3	6	37	N	N	Didn't Speak To Me	So I thought it was time I finally checked out some Borges, I mean, he's supposed to be the man, right? Thus, dipped into this book, reading about 15 or so of the stories before packing it in. They kind of drifted over me  leaving no great impression. They all felt very similar in style and tone,  and I couldn't see reading another 50 of the same kind of stories. The only  two I recall are &quot;The Lottery in Babylon&quot; and &quot;The  Zahir.&quot; Obviously Borges can write and tell a story, just not in a way  that appeals to me.	2000-04-11
2538907:US	52254603	R30C3U19QC380N	0848817540	842807821	A Passage to India	Books	3	0	5	N	N	A Good Twist then a Weak Ending	Forster's classic is yet another one of those books I probably would not have read save for its selection by my bookgroup. For a good half of the book I was fully expecting a nicely written standard story of colonial  injustice. Thankfully, the story turns a different way and is thus saved  from what at the time might have been controversial, but now is merely  banal commentary. Forster's writing is decent, and he did a really good job  of conveying the psychologically confusing aura of the place. However, the  ending is very weak and oddly done compared to the rest of the book. I'm  glad I read it, but I don't foresee reading much else by Forster.	2000-04-11
2546485:US	52254603	R1PYU72UDE598I	0871135507	960221406	Yardie	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Strong Setting / Weak Story	Headley's debut is more interesting for its portrayal of London's Jamaican immigrant criminal subculture than it's straightforward tale of the rise and fall of one hood. Basically if you've seen &quot;Scarface,&quot; you'll  know the story. Headley's authentic vision of the milieu, with vivid  descriptions of the role of music and food in the immigrant community, is  what makes it worth reading. The thick Jamaican patois gets a little hard  to follow at times, but it's no harder than &quot;Trainspotting,&quot; once  you get used to it. Other than the descriptive element, the writing and  plotting is extremely elementary.	2000-04-07
2546943:US	52254603	R2NJ3U31L61ME9	1569470197	558012003	Inspector Imanishi Investigates (Soho Crime)	Books	1	7	19	N	N	Too Reliant on Coincidence and Contrivance	Originally published in 1961, this rather weak mystery shows its age poorly. The inspector of the title is interesting in how dated he now appears; consistently polite and apologetic in his work, and lord of the manor at home. He is embroiled in what seems like a fairly straightforward  murder which turns out to be devilishly confusing--but, alas not that  interesting for the reader. Matsumoto switches back and forth between the  investigation and a group of young, new intellectuals who are darlings of  Tokyo's media. Obviously the twain shall meet, but it's not very satisfying  when they do. Matsumoto relies altogether too much on coincidences and  unlikely convenient relationships to bring things to a solution. Not a book  that will make me seek out others by the author.	2000-04-06
2548220:US	52254603	RH90895BVEXSV	156947155X	304466089	The Informer	Books	3	7	11	N	N	Strong of Setting, Weak on Mystery	Originally published in 1965, this superbly translated mystery does a better job of displaying its 1960s Tokyo business world setting than it does of providing a satisfying mystery. For the modern American reader, the  formality and attention paid to manners by the characters might seem more  at place in an cozy old Agatha Christie village murder. Indeed, the  importance of hierarchy and respect in Japanese culture (not to mention the  role of women) is fully evoked in this tale of an industrial spy and his  love life. Unfortunately, Takagi relies far too much on unlikely  coincidences and relationships to resolve the multiple murders--although  not quite as much as Seicho Matsumoto does in &quot;Inspector Imanishi  Investigates.&quot; Keen readers will, in any event, deduced the solution  long before the end.	2000-04-06
2548467:US	52254603	R1EOIVXUXLTTLI	0517706601	166918536	The Monkey House	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Short on Thrills, Long on Setting	A small but potent subgenre of thrillers might be termed &quot;The Detective in War&quot;--which showcase police detectives attempting to continue to do their job amidst the trials of war. Here, Croatian police superintendent Rosso has to face the disintegration of his police force,  and the city of Sarajevo as he attempts to solve the murder of a police  informant. There's really no mystery here, Fullertaon instead delivers a  series of set pieces and somewhat stock characters (for example, the brash  young American journalist, the beautiful tough girl who plays both sides)  which pale next to his excellent description of the daily Serbian shelling  and its effect on the city. It's decent enough at that, but a better  version of this type of book, with the exact same setting, is Dan  Fesperman's &quot;Lie in the Dark.&quot;	2000-04-06
2569805:US	52254603	R25QYGQSL1DO3E	0156006332	920629611	Finbar's Hotel: A Novel	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A Fun Intro to Mod Irish Writers	In the tradition (but not awful quality) of the movie Four Rooms, editor Bolger brings together six of Ireland's top authors to each tell the tale of one room and the circumstances which bring its occupant there. He's  managed to solicit a nice set of loosely related short stories although I  didn't find &quot;Room 102 -- White Lies&quot; or &quot;Room 106 -- An Old  Flame&quot; quite as compelling as the others. Once of the nice little  twists is that the reader doesn't know which author wrote which story, and  not being an expert on those represented, I'd hesitate to hazard any  guesses. This is about as good an introduction as any to the six modern  Irish writers represented.	2000-03-28
2571950:US	52254603	RIEOCHGV8DAF2	0006544584	928716224	Cowboys and Indians (Flamingo)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Decent Post-college debut	Like Ardal O'Hanlon's The Talk of the Town, this Irish coming of ager features a flawed protagonist who has uncomfortably settled in the big city (here London), and is struggling to make his way (here as a musician), and  is involved in a serious relationship beyond his ability to handle. Unlike  in O'Hanlon's book, the reader here can find enough good in Eddie Virago to  root for him at least part of the time as he makes his way toward  adulthood. Perhaps the best aspect of the novel is the bevy of believable  and interesting characters involved in the story, from his Asian landlord  Mr. Patel, to American best friend Dean Bean, to various bandmates and  scheming pseudo-manager. It's a good read, and as in real life,  self-centered Eddie's realizations often arrive too late to do any good.	2000-03-28
2575573:US	52254603	R291IBFKBHWDSH	0151004080	598278386	A Stranger in the Earth: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Old Fashioned Fun	One night, bored, I went to see Marcel Theroux read from his debut novel at a local bookstore. I enjoyed the old-fashioned wit of his excerpts so much I ended up buying a copy--something I am not prone to do. It took half a year, but when I finally got around to reading it, it was exactly what I expected: a gentle, witty tale of a country bumpkin's move to London to work for his great-uncle's newspaper. There are a boatload of supporting characters who are all utterly believable, with their own quirks and entertaining agendas. One small criticism is the silliness of character names, which slightly detracts from the overall assuredness of the writing. There is a lot going on, but it all resolves more or less satisfactorily, as is the norm in fish-out-of-water stories of this ilk. The one area that could have used a bit more attention was the history of the hero's grandfather. A promising debut.	2000-03-26
2587132:US	52254603	RRYJXOP9VV6DU	1573227579	844656353	Wall	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Dissapointing	I was expecting big things from this thriller, set amidst the fall of the Berlin Wall and subsequent uprisings in Eastern Europe--and found it all rather disappointing in the end. One problem is that there were way too  many characters bouncing around all over the place, and while some felt  real, far too many others were simply too cardboard for me (especially the  main villain Styles, and the spunky young reporter Jodie). Marks does  manage to introduce the reader to the major events of those months, and  captures the aura fairly well--but at the expense of any kind of  plausibility in many of the characters' actions, and certainly at the  expense of the weak plot. Although strong on atmosphere, overall  comparisons to Greene and LeCarr&eacute; are way off-track.	2000-03-20
2587134:US	52254603	R8KZ2XSRPJHUY	0393316165	848922126	Bunker Man	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Economic and Effective Writing	Here we have yet another Scottish writer (cf. Iain Bank's &quot;The Wasp Factory&quot;, Irvine Welsh's &quot;Filth&quot;)who seems to have mastered the art of entering the head of a total psycho and writing about it all in  a very unsensational offhand way so that the tension sneaks up on you. This  is a very short and quick read, and I don't want to give anything away, but  I'll just say that it's a pretty disturbing portrait of a man's decent into  paranoia. BTW, there's lots of sex--much of it pretty unpleasant. Not  everyone is going to like the ending, but I thought it was effective and  the best resolution for all that preceded it. A good example of economic,  yet evocative, writing.	2000-03-20
2621270:US	52254603	R2JOL2B9RTTZY0	0520207467	776320929	Thieves' Market	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Excellent California Noir	This is a totally awesome book about the small produce truckers who brought food to market in post-WWII California. In very straigtforward plain prose, the book tells the story of Nick, the son of Greek immigrants. When his father dies after a long life of just squeaking by, Nick is  determined he won't fall into the same cycle, and enters the cutthroat  world of independent trucking. The bulk of the book concerns the trials he  and his mentor Ed encounter in finding and selling their first load. The  writing clearly comes from intimate personal knowledge of the life and the  swindles that were a constant part of it. It's a brilliant and fascinating  piece of noir literature.	2000-02-24
2621298:US	52254603	R3LFQUQWU9OV5D	1852423692	412940031	Left for Dead	Books	2	0	1	N	N	Of Limited Interest	This pretty blah mystery set in contemporary London is too heavily reliant on the characters' past political proclivities to be truly gripping or even all that interesting. It all revolves around council housing (the UK equivalent of public housing) and how the formerly radical have managed to  finesse their way into the current ruling party. All in all, well worth  skipping.	2000-02-24
2631714:US	52254603	RKIH5KLI3DYFG	1569470200	585156788	Jade Lady Burning	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Excellent Military Procedural	Set in what looks to be 1970s-era Seoul, Limon's debut is a highly enjoyable procedural featuring two well-drawn US army CID officers. Normally confined to busting up black market operations, the two must  battle army bureaucracy while trying to solve the murder of one of the  hundreds of prostitutes who live off US GIs. The book is excellent at  exploring the relationship between the army and the local service economy  that it supports, and Limon's service in Korea brings raw authenticity to  every page. Limon's use of both Korean and US army culture in service of  the plot makes this well worth reading.	2000-02-16
2631725:US	52254603	RD8EDD5A5B08Y	0517703300	414292210	Confessions of an Ivy League Bookie: A True Tale of Love and the Vig	Books	3	2	9	N	N	Even odds on whether it's worth it.	Despite the subtitle (&quot;A True Tale of Love and the Vig&quot;) I was plagued throughout my reading of this semi-confession of a former Ivy-leaguer's plummet into the world of bookmaking by a certain  dubiousness. Alson's story is written in a kind of flippantly open manner  that undermines the believability of his insider's story. Don't get me  wrong, it's very entertaining and all, but his coyness about just how  &quot;connected&quot; the small-time operation he was a part of was came  across as rather disingenuous to me. While his confusion and despair about  figuring out what he should be doing with his overeducated self hit the  right notes, the subplot of the long distance sort of relationship was  often more annoying than interesting. Still, not a bad little peek into  bookmaking.	2000-02-16
2632185:US	52254603	R3K2YZKH838ATP	0394568702	140838471	Yes We Have No: Adventures in the Other England	Books	2	6	6	N	N	Little New or Startling Here	Gotta say that my high hopes for this book sank further and further with every chapter I read. Rather than present the &quot;Adventures in the Other England&quot; that the subtitle promises, Cohn instead gives the reader  transcriptions of conversation after conversation. Yes, he does have a  knack for finding interesting people to talk to, but once he's done that,  he seems content to record what they say and leave it at that. One thing he  does try to stress is what a melting pot England has become since WWII and  what a diverse array of lifestyles it now hosts. But unless you're  completely unaware and still think Britain is nothing more than a country  of cozy tea rooms and ye olde tradition, none of this is news. A far more  enlightening (and depressing) book on the state of modern Britain is Nick  Danziger's travelogue &quot;Danziger's Britain.&quot;	2000-02-16
2632685:US	52254603	R35O0DAC21B0FP	1895837561	411044581	The Long Drive Home: A Novel	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Nothing Notable	This short little book has a couple different stories going on at once, and in all the jumping back and forth between characters, places, and times, something gets lost. Rogal has created a bunch of different  characters (some more interesting than others), armed them, intertwined  their stories somewhat, and then let them loose to all meet in a motel  parking lot. Thanks to film (Short Cuts, Pulp Fiction, et al) this formula  is familiar to most of us, but Rogal's book brings nothing particularly new  to the party.	2000-02-16
2642174:US	52254603	R35RSQWEK978QD	0879518863	106962622	Bleeding London	Books	4	7	9	N	N	London Calling	This wonderful novel is ideally enjoyed while living in or visiting London, seeing as how the city is a central character in it. With his typical offbeat humor, Nicholson weaves together the lives and stories of  three of its denizens. Stuart is the owner of a company that does walking  tours of London; burned out, he has decided to walk every single street in  London in a quest for fulfillment and meaning. Julie is a native Londoner,  although half-Japanese and thus is constantly being forced to prove herself  a native. She keeps detailed maps of the locations of all her sexual  encounters, as well as those of her partners. Mick is a Sheffielder whose  stripper girlfriend was gang-raped by six well-to-do Londoners. He's come  down to the unfamiliar city he hates in order to mete out some revenge.  Both these and the supporting cast are wonderfully drawn characters, their  paths through London are a treat.	2000-02-08
2654480:US	52254603	R2B6VETDT0ABR3	0312180322	330114835	1988: A Novel	Books	2	0	1	N	N	A Road to Nowhere	The prequel to the award-winning Praise, this book is marginally better than that empty outing. The plot has all kinds of interesting possibilities: two 21ish guys (one painter, one writer) who just met decide  to take a 6-month job as weather observers on a national park out in the  middle of nowhere. But not much happens to the two losers since they don't  make any effort to do anything except get drunk and stoned all the time.  There's no great conflict, no insights gained, and perhaps that is the  point Mcgahan is trying to make about that generation of Australian youth.  Or at least a certain segment of them. Either way, there's got to be a more  interesting way of making the point.	2000-01-30
2654811:US	52254603	RQAWJ05IUHDG2	006101351X	637283524	The Perfect Storm: A True Story of Men Against the Sea	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Melodrama on the High Seas	It's easy to see why this book was such a huge bestseller, as Junger weaves a tragic love story in with a tale of men doing manly work, the wrath of mother nature, and peppers with a dash of science lending what is  a mythic tale an aura of detachment. The book centers on a fishing trawler  which (presumably) sank in the Atlantic during a horrific storm in 1991 and  the men who crewed it. Junger's interviews with their surviving loved ones,  sailors who were caught in the same storm, and others who survived similiar  near-death experiences form the compelling core of the book, as he  recreates the buildup to the trip, the fishing, and the storm. Along the  way are excursions into the history of commerical fishing, trawler design,  fluid dynamics, meterology, and many other tangents. It's a good,  melodramatic tale, and when you're done, you can see why it's being made as  a big Hollywood movie.	2000-01-30
2657775:US	52254603	R3F450JL5BD375	0575400633	876411326	My Favourite Year: A Collection of New Football Writing	Books	2	6	15	N	N	There's Only....4	The subtitle (A Collection of New Football Writing) might lead some to thing this is a book of short stories like&quot; A Book of Two Halves&quot;, but it isn't. What Hornby has assembled is a collection of 13  essays by writers (including himself) about their favorite season following  a soccer team. Unfortunately, many of the essays are boring as hell to this  American reader, with names of unknown players streaming by meaninglessly  by and all manner of pop culture-specific references drifting past. Roddy  Doyle's (The Woman Who Walked Into Doors) essay on Ireland's 1990 World Cup  run is nice, as are Don Watson's piece on Leeds United '74/'75 and Giles  Smith's piece on Chelsea '73/'74, both of which feature the authors as  children. And of course Horbny's own piece on the futility of following  Cambridge United in '83/'84 is entertaining as one might expect.	2000-01-28
2657827:US	52254603	RLD72S61SM8MJ	0805041508	216971239	Last Rites: A Novel (Charles Resnick Novels)	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Running Out Steam...	The not-so-grand finale in the Charlie Resnick series certainly exhibits the signs of Harvey's weariness with the series. The highly predictable main plot features an escaped murderer with a sordid childhood, and is the least interesting element of the book. The police efforts to stem a series  of drug-related killings brings in a number of minor players from past  books and is somewhat more interesting. But of course it is the  developments in Resnick's private and professional life that drives the  book and rescues it in the end.	2000-01-28
2668076:US	52254603	R1K162M1L1GCWA	0889104808	426761790	Dining With the Dictator	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Misleading Title	Allright, the catchy title (referring to Papa Doc Duvalier of Haiti) and cool cover enticed me into buying this slim, unsatisfying book. Apparently functioning as a sequel to the highly autobiographical &quot;An Aroma of  Coffee,&quot; it nominally follows one teenage boy's weekend in early 1970s  Port-au-Prince. In actuality, the boy mostly functions as an observer of  the whirlwind lives of a group of fine young women who live across the  street from him. This is reflected by the more apt ordinal French title,  which translates to &quot;The Taste/Appetite of Young Girls.&quot; Theses  women are a fairly unpleasant, nasty, catty, backstabbing lot, and are  fairly hard to tell apart. Written as a series of scenes, the book conveys  some atmosphere of the time, but not enough to make it worthwhile.	2000-01-21
2674280:US	52254603	ROIRMVR2V2WT8	0020343906	732884158	Sagittarius Rising	Books	2	7	33	N	N	Of Limited General Interest	This memoir of a British WWI pilot is pretty uneven and likely only to be enjoyed by those with a particular interest in military aviation history or WWI. Lewis' narrative is fine when he describes his enlistment, training,  and adventures as a pilot both over France and in home defense. Whenever he  attempts to describe life outside these areas--his minor romantic  entanglements, the big &quot;drunks&quot; the officers would have, and his  views on life and human nature--the writing is very weak and ordinary. This  is especially true in the latter portion of the book, which recounts his  postwar activities in China. He does a good job, however, of conveying the  sketchiness of those early days of flying around in wood and cloth machines  with little more than a compass to guide one. A more entertaining WWI  flying saga is the fictional The Emperor's Coloured Coat, the second in  John Biggins' Otto Prohaska quartet and its followup, The Two-Headed Eagle.	2000-01-17
2677578:US	52254603	RYTWASQV80EYU	0802135013	312510334	Shooting Elvis	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Pretty Typical Wanna-Be Hip	Underneath the veneer of wanna-be hipness designed to draw in the 20-something set, this is a pretty basic piece of airplane/beach reading. An unassuming good young woman gets caught up in some sort of underworld  deal gone bad when she delivers a package for her rocker boyfriend. What  follows is a pretty typical girl on the lam story in which she must  transform herself (both in look and attitude, clever eh?) in order to  survive. Unfortunately her transformation isn't particularly interesting  and seems to falter depending on the requirements of the plot. One reviewer  calls this &quot;punk noir&quot; which is laughable, it's barely noir and  has nothing to do with punk whatsoever. The best parts are when the hero  describes her photography, descriptions which really sparkle and convince  the reader of her love for shooting. Her family background is also nicely  done, with a good portrayal of a domineering nasty father. Altogether its  not a bad way to pass the time, just don't believe the hype about how  &quot;hip&quot; the book is. If you like this, you might also want to check  out Jen Banbury's &quot;Like A Hold in the Head.&quot;	2000-01-15
2687507:US	52254603	R1WI0IHM2E8UMV	0340682655	80549476	Disco Biscuits	Books	3	8	8	N	N	A Mixed House	Ostensibly compiled to celebrate the 10th anniversary of Acid House, this anthology of 19 stories bills itself as &quot;capturing the hedonistic spirit of the last decade.&quot; Mixed in with well known (Irvine Welsh,  Alan Warner, Alex Garland, Douglas Rushkoff) are some interesting  lesser-known writers, although it should be noted that not a single female  voice is represented. Nicholas Blincoe's leadoff story, &quot;Ardwick  Green&quot; is apt as it chattily recounts the starting of a small club out  in the boonies. Welsh's &quot;The State of the Party&quot; feels a bit  dashed off and is a bit disappointing. Gavin Hill's &quot;White Burger  Danny&quot; is a nice tale emblematic story about a former soccer thug  turned mellow by the new acid house scene. A number of the stories are  fairly bland in a stream of consciousness imitating acid kind of way which  doesn't do much for me. Jonathon Brook's &quot;Sangria&quot; crosses over  into the club owner's side of the street where everything revolves around  the money to be made off the kids. Jeff Noon's &quot;DJNA&quot; puts an odd  sci-fi spin on the whole scene, which kinda works while Dean Cavanaugh's  &quot;Mile High Meltdown&quot; tale of DJ's spinning on an airplane is  quite funny. Alex Garland's &quot;Blink and You Miss It&quot; is only  tangentially related to the theme and is more of a riff on his familiar  themes of Westerners adrift in the Third World. All in all, very mixed in  quality and tone.	2000-01-08
2688248:US	52254603	RKD3KOGNTI710	1582340277	515807337	Five Pubs, Two Bars and a Nightclub	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Tales of Underground Cardiff	The title refers to the eight locales from which each of these interwoven stories takes its title. The crime-tinged tales are all generally set in Butetown, a working-class, largely Caribbean neighborhood in Cardiff, Wales. Characters move in and out between the stories, most of which are set contemporarily and involve, crime, drugs, and sex. While there is an air of seediness about the shady lives everyone leads, Williams gives each story just enough humor and humanity to keep the collection light. Fun stuff. If you like this, definitely check out his subsequent novel, Cardiff Dead, which features some of the same characters (pothead Col, lesbian pimp Bobby, and heavy Kenny Ibdullah to name a few). Also check out Williams' debut novel, Faithless and his earlier travelogue of American crime writers, Into the Badlands. One of the stories in this volume previously appeared in the Fresh Blood 2 anthology.	2000-01-08
2703052:US	52254603	R1TCBFJSFMQC6J	0375705902	875193537	Slapboxing with Jesus	Books	3	4	9	N	N	don't rate the fuss	Hmmm. People really seem to like this collection of 12 somewhat interrelated short stories. To be quite honest I'm not sure what all the fuss is about: the writing is pretty cool, Lavalle has his own distinctive  voice, but for the most part, the actual stories never quite worked for me.  The first five stories, which are set contemporarily, were particularly  melodramatic and suffer as a result. The second part of the book, about  kids in the late-70s and early 80s is much better and rings truer. This is  probably one of those books that would be a lot more interesting if I'd  grown up in the same time and place as the author.<br />Better collections in  the same vein are Jervey Tervalon's _Living For the City_ and Edward P.  Jones' _Lost in the City_.<br />Oh yeah, on page 166, it's Graig Nettles, not  &quot;Craig&quot;...	1999-12-28
2772520:US	52254603	R1DKFW8ZS4I4EW	1860464459	127164057	The Fairy Gunmother	Books	2	5	10	N	N	Overrated	As in The Scapegoat, Pennac has written a crime novel where the crime aspect isn't actually all that compelling. Pennac makes some hay with police racism, but it's nothing special in that regard. Once again, the  translation doesn't really work for me and I'm sort of baffled by the  notion that people found this book to be hilarious. Hard to imagine  spending time on the third or fourth books in this series.	1999-10-15
2772657:US	52254603	R18AXZLUK0L07	1879434482	224954379	The Alluring Target: In Search of the Secrets of Central Asia	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Good starting point	Former foreign service officer Wimmel has written an accessible introduction to eight different &quot;explorations&quot; of Central Asia--which in this book means Nepal, Tibet, Mongolia, and parts of China,  moreso than current day Uzbekistan, Khazakstan, etc... Wimmel's goal is to  remind modern readers of the amazing exploits of intrepid adventurers and  scientists of the past, and he wholly succeeds. The book is full of fun  little anecdotes and tidbits, as well as excellent photos. My favorite  chapter was the description of the Houston Expedition to be the first to  fly over Mt. Everest. Good stuff.	1999-10-15
2776693:US	52254603	R3KOBFTWUKB23F	0609602357	868561953	The Night Inspector	Books	3	18	20	N	N	Fails to Gell	I fully expected to enjoy this gritty suspense set in the same gilded age NYC of E.L. Doctrow's The Waterworks. For whatever reason though, I found it rather tedious and affected at times. The story follows a former Union  army sharpshooter, who must always wear a mask to conceal his wartime  disfigurement. This is presumably a metaphor for the city itself--as Busch  manages to put tidbits of its historical sordidness, such as child  prostitutes, on display for the reader. There are a lot of flashbacks,  telling the background of this man, and of his wartime exploits, where he  is used as any other tool. These struck me as much better written and  interesting than the bulk of the book, which revolves around the man's  attempt to liberate some child slaves with the aid of Herman Melville and  various other cultivated allies. The characterizations are quite good, as  is the period detail, but the story itself never quite gelled for me.	1999-10-08
2777476:US	52254603	R1WKE44S4J35A3	0380976188	122477335	Lucy Sullivan Is Getting Married	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Good Within Its Genre	Like many romantic comedies, you know in the first 50 pages who the  Lucy of the title is supposed to falling love with and marry. True to the genre though, she doesn't, and it takes 400 pages for things to play out to the  point where all is as it should be. The 400 pages in this book mostly work  as 20-something Lucy searches London for Mr. Right, deals with her shrewish  mother and alcoholic father, her girlfriend/ roommates (one domineering,  one ditzy), and her co-workers--who are obsessed with not doing a lick of  work. At times the book suffers due to Lucy's stubbornness and inability to  see what's so apparent to the reader, but on the whole it's not without  it's charm, albeit with few surprises.	1999-10-07
2777579:US	52254603	R7T8CX6ZP89G	0671535692	983674317	My Ride with Gus	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Reads Like A Movie	Things are quickly set up as upscale New York architect Jimmy meets his girlfriend for New Year's Eve dinner in a trendy joint. Instead of pulling out the wedding ring and asking her to marry him, they argue and break up.  Jimmy gets wildly drunk and brings home a sketchy addict woman, who attacks  him and he accidentally kills. From there, things turn into After Hours, as  Jimmy calls his brother in Brooklyn to help him out of this jam, and an  evening of driving around with a dead body in the trunk begins. Built on  clich&eacute;s, it's hard to get too involved in the characters: Jimmy is from a  impoverished Brooklyn background and has tried to hide it, his brother is a  nebulous mafia figure who speaks in movie Brooklynese. Long estranged from  each other, Jimmy's problem becomes a catalyst for the two brothers  renewing their bonds, while flashbacks give the backstory for each. It's  all a little fairytaleish as everyone gets their just deserts, and only bad  people die.	1999-10-07
2777618:US	52254603	RJ260B8NTQRZZ	0385495803	145206106	The Good Times	Books	3	4	9	N	N	Well-Written Yet Uncompelling	The twenty stories here offer little variation from those in Busted Scotch. Written in the first-person, these are again mostly from a lower-class male perspective. They often feel fragmentary in nature, rarely  offering up a traditional &quot;story&quot; per se, they tend to be more  about how people communicate and misunderstand each other. Kelman's a good  writer, but I don't find his stories particularly interesting.	1999-10-07
2781796:US	52254603	R4PI9PEDI9HBM	1569471649	171480841	Eclipse	Books	3	15	17	N	N	An Interesting Immediate Impression	One of WWII's leading correspondents here describes the Allied push onto mainland Europe and the subsequent drive for Berlin. The book is not a blow-by-blow account of the military maneuvers, but rather a series of  anecdotal impressions of the soldiers, the people, and the ebb and flow of  war covering Italy, France, Belgium, the Netherlands and finally Germany.  Published in 1945, it's fairly interesting if only because Moorehead  doesn't write from the armchair long after the fact. For anyone interested  in the war, it's a worthwhile read, although it begs for more maps (which  the new Soho edition may have).	1999-09-30
2786777:US	52254603	R2OU4JXR4A10E0	042515954X	207304386	Bad Haircut: Stories of the Seventies	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Unaffected Stories About Growing Up	Even though I didn't grow up in New Jersey in the 1970s, or even the US for that matter, I nonetheless found this series of ten short stories set in that time and place to be extremely enjoyable. The stories feature a kid  named buddy, who is kid in the opening story and graduates by the end.  Perotta skillfully avoids the clich&eacute; pitfalls that threaten any writing  about adolescence. There are fights, racism, drugs, booze, football,  electric guitar, learning to drive, death, and of course, heartbreak.  There's nothing affected about the writing, which is simple and  straightforward. If you like this, check out Chris Fuhrman's The Dangerous  Lives of Altar Boys.	1999-09-21
2786929:US	52254603	R1NA1PLZV7AKLH	1888277084	338738717	Living for the City	Books	5	3	3	N	N	LA's &quot;Lost in the City&quot;	These 23 stories with reoccurring characters are essential reading for anyone interested in the cultural history of Los Angeles. In the words of the author: &quot;What I hope I've done with living for the city is conjure  up the black Los Angeles I grew up in during the seventies without all the  gangster hype but showing that world as bittersweet as it was. Many of  these stories were written when I was a teenager living that life.&quot;  This is reflected in the highly autobiographical tone many of the stories  assume, as well as the straightforward style. Although there is a lot of  desperation in the characters, and depictions of being trapped (mentally  and physically), Tervalon shows the reader unexpected characters and their  desires. If you like this, find a copy of Edward Jones' collection of  stories about Washington, DC, Lost in the City, which is sadly  out-of-print.	1999-09-21
2786966:US	52254603	R32PAESYEQXN1D	0670886408	680707728	Syrup	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Overhyped Beach Reading	I listened to the plaudits for this book--&quot;clever debut satire&quot; (Publishers Weekly), &quot;a charming and hilarious send-up...a terrific comic novel&quot; (Booklist), &quot;rollicking&quot; (Kirkus Reviews)--and  the publisher's attempt to group it with Nick Hornby and Helen Fielding,  and thus read it. Yes, it is moderately clever, and moderately amusing, and  there's a touch of the romantic screwball comedy with a Gen-X angst twist.  But the targets of the satire, namely marketing, corporate infighting, and  Hollywood, are hardly difficult to make fun of (anyone who thinks the book  has any penetrating insights probably hasn't thought very much about how  the world around them works). The characters are all cardboard caricatures,  which is a normal device in the service of satire, but not so handy if  you're trying to make the reader care about your heroes. If you want  lampooning of corporate marketing, find a copy of the magazine Adbusters.  If you want to read something serious about the insidious pervasiveness of  marketing, check out The Baffler. However, if you want an easy beach read,  this isn't a bad choice.	1999-09-21
2786988:US	52254603	R35ULZ8PMHPGV	0684862921	140302646	Ringing For You: A Love Story with Interruptions	Books	2	3	4	N	N	It's no Bridget Jones	The notion of a receptionist writing a novel as she sits around waiting for the phone to ring and packages to arrive isn't a bad premise for a smart romantic comedy. Unfortunately, Forrester fails to deliver any kind  of interesting plot, nor does she offer up any startling insights into the  role of a receptionist. The book starts out peppered with little icons  indicating telephone, package and visitor interruptions--a cute conceit  that even the author realizes wears thin as the book goes on. The people  she works for/with, start as mysteries, and more or less end that way,  aside from one highly predictable character. The main subject of the  receptionist's typing is her confusion about an affair she's having with a  weird courier who doesn't seem to like her that much, and her indecision  over what to do with her agreeable, if unsexy, boyfriend. There is a  modicum of pleasure to be scraped from this, but all in all, the writing is  rather ordinary, not particularly witty, and the chronology of the events  in the book is somewhat confusing. The whole effort struck me as a weak  attempt to follow in the wake of the success of Bridget Jones Diary.	1999-09-21
2790950:US	52254603	R1O8ILCXRT60SH	0670701726	567807025	This Gun for Hire	Books	2	1	5	N	N	Not What I'd Hoped For	Given the world-class reputation of the author, I assumed I was in for a treat -- or at least a solidly diverting yarn. Unfortunately I found myself aching to put this book down and pick up something else. The story is about  an assassin working for munitions suppliers who kills an influential  British anti-war figure in the days leading up to WWII. He is betrayed and  races to confront his betrayers before the police catch up with him. Sounds  like good stuff, but for some reason it isn't. Part of the problem is that  Greene gets sidetracked into painting little portraits of every peripheral  character encountered. While well-fleshed out characters are required  ingredients for any good story, Greene goes overboard and the story drags  and suffers as a result. Next time I'll try one of his more famous books.	1999-09-14
2792771:US	52254603	R2U8FAI4TQS3D8	0385491468	187656472	These Demented Lands	Books	2	4	5	N	N	What A Mess...	What a mess this is... This &quot;darkly intoxicating brew&quot; (The Guardian) picks up the story of young a young Scottish lass (see his debut,  &quot;Morvern Callar&quot;) as she returns from the continent. She comes  to a wee little island where honeymooners stay at a weird hotel, and  there's a cast of supporting bizarros. Really tough to get through and none  too rewarding despite occasionally clever language at times. Warner's got  talent, but try his much more accesible &quot;The Sopranos&quot; before  trying this.	1999-09-10
2792780:US	52254603	R31GVYJWUB2VOO	0385422636	319029355	Tribes	Books	1	2	4	N	N	Weak	This book is far too contrived for its own good. In trying to make some sort of point about the individual capacity for violence and sex, Stuart creates a silly plot with some totally over the top characters. The plot  circles around a London movie producer who is trying to make a masterpiece  movie based on an ultraviolent play about warring soccer hooligan gangs.  Along the way he falls in love with a crew member and hires a hooligan  (presumably a skinhead of sorts) to be a driver. Much is made of how little  difference there is between the upper class producer and the lower class  thug. For some reason Stuart chose not to use real soccer teams in his  narrative, which only further hinders the book. It really reads as if the  author is basing a lot of his notions of what he has read and heard about,  rather than seen. A novel which covers the theme of violence much better  and realistically is John King's The Football Factory.	1999-09-10
2792791:US	52254603	R8QBIE5HT9I7F	0684830795	351794557	The Thought Gang	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Occaisonally Fun, But Not Wholly Satisfying	The premise is good: A drunken fraud of a Cambridge philosophy professor flees to France with stolen funds, promptly loses them all, and falls in with an odd young French bank robber. The book follows their adventures as  &quot;The Thought Gang,&quot; a pair of desperadoes robbing French banks  using methods and spouting phrases depending on the philosophy of the day.  This action is intermingled with the prof's musings and memories of his own  debauched life. Some bits are quite funny, Hubert, the Frenchie is bold and  creative, and very droll. Some of the digressions get a bit tiresome  however, and without a decent overview of philosophy, most asides will go  right past the reader. One interesting thing is that the book isn't written  in chapters, but rather hundreds of mini-sections with their own headers.  Interesting, sometimes funny, but not wholly satisfying.	1999-09-10
2792823:US	52254603	R1JWWSHF2GMFYS	0140255125	472868610	The Woman Who Walked into Doors	Books	5	32	36	N	N	Brilliant	I'd seen the movies made from Doyle's earlier books (The Commitments, The Snapper, The Van), but hadn't read any until this. Despite the somewhat depressing tale it's great writing. The book is the recounting by a 39-year  old Irish woman of her family and social life growing up, interspersed with  her life now, a year after the death of her abusive husband. Told  first-person, as if she is sitting at a kitchen table with the reader, the  stories of her life are engrossing and entertaining. Although the actual  battering doesn't come until the last third of the book, it lurks in the  background of everything leading up to it. And when it does come, it  dominates and is terrible in its harshness. It's a pretty impressive story,  especially coming from the pen of a man.	1999-09-10
2793030:US	52254603	RPFR7PTSKIS0Y	0312144032	930663260	The Romantic Movement: Sex, Shopping, and the Novel	Books	4	5	7	N	Y	Another Good One from de Botton	Like On Love and Kiss &amp; Tell, Botton uses the fiction format to examine a romantic relationship from beginning to end in witty and telling detail. Like these other two books, there are diagrams and charts sprinkled  throughout to illustrate various analogies and examples. Here, the  relationship is between a 24-year old London woman and a professionally and  financial successful 30ish man. As with the other books, there is a lot to  be gotten out of de Botton's crisp prose. Read it.	1999-09-10
2793060:US	52254603	R2YD1RNU8DLMUD	081490744X	929955133	The virtues of hell	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Kwai Redux?	This book bears many similarities to Boulle's earlier masterpiece, &quot;The Bridge on the River Kwai.&quot; Like Col. Nicholson in his earlier book, the hero Butler is in a bad situation (former Vietnam vet  turned heroin addict) and becomes obsessed with a task (producing pure  heroin for his new employers) which leads him into a grand scheme  (producing five tons to be imported into the US). And much like the earlier  book, there is a lesser storyline of others (the US &quot;Narcotics  Bureau&quot;) working secretly to counter this plan. And yes, like the  other book, the two sides meet in a what might be regarded in a tragic  climax. This book, however, is much less compelling and interesting than  its predecessor.	1999-09-10
2793134:US	52254603	R1HJRA3AEZYKCA	0802134092	897378500	On Love	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Like Joe Strummer said: Love Kills, Yeah Love Kiiiiiilllzzz	de Botton's first effort is an intimate and exacting dissection of a love affair, disguised as a novel. The flow is chronological, with short chapters further divided into short numbered paragraphs, each expressing a  single thought. Liberally sprinkled with quotes and references to various  philosophers, it teeters at times on becoming pretentiously highbrow, but  always eases up and delights with home truths about the ebb and flow of  relationships. If you've ever been in love, you will recognize yourself in  parts of this book. Very ambitious and interesting.	1999-09-10
2793140:US	52254603	RVCZIV48KFG0	0312200463	171865341	Waiting for the Healer: A Novel	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Tough Love	Like many Irish novels, this is a bittersweet read, featuring the familiar themes of drink, revenge, and coming home. Paul left Ireland years ago and has become a success in the London pub business, he has a young daughter, a bright Kiwi girlfriend, and the strong inner demon of a dead wife haunting him. He is called back to his village home by the murder of his younger brother, and reluctantly arrives with 4-year old Kaya in tow. He spends most of his time in pubs with old acquaintances, brother-in-law, and so forth. At one of these excursions, a man walks into the pub and kills his brother's best friend, Beetlejuice. Soon, Beetlejuice's brother Bumper gets in touch with Paul and ropes him into a scheme to kill whoever killed their brothers. Paul agrees, more because he feels like he should, than any desire to kill anyone. The revenge themes are not new, but Paul is an interesting a sympathetic figure who, by the end of the book, is ultimately at a better place. A word of caution, the book has loads of Irish slang which may mystify those not familiar with the vernacular. If you like this, also try Eureka Street and Joseph O'Connor's The Saleman.	1999-09-10
2793190:US	52254603	R1MIPK43CDYBOH	0345377370	682630645	Spy Who Came in from the Cold	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Quick and Bleak	Considered the best spy novel ever written, this is a quick, bleak book. It is widely praised for its realistic portrayal of Cold War spycraft, and rightfully so. There's hardly any 007-style action, no gizmos, no babes,  just an elaborate, nasty plot. More or less makes all other Cold War spy  novels redundant in its efficient depicted of an old British spy making his  last big gambit before being retired. Tight prose and lots of tension.	1999-09-10
2793202:US	52254603	R3OWKJQIGMGLLW	0312155611	270890230	Kiss & Tell: A Novel	Books	5	19	22	N	Y	Another Brilliant de Botton Book	Outstanding fictional examination of how we perceive each other as humans as well as the art and form of biography. The narrator, derided as being self-absorbed, decides to write a biography of the next person he meets.  Thus, we are treated to his attempt to do this with &quot;Isabel&quot;, a  young London woman he meets at a party. De Botton spins it all with a very  light, often comic, touch, and yet manages to raise some fairly deep issues  relating to how our perceptions of others are formed and shape our actions.  Very good stuff which makes me want to find his other work and read it  immediately. Fans of &quot;High Fidelity&quot; will likely find this a  slightly higher-brow, but very enjoyable book. See also &quot;On Love&quot;  and &quot;The Romantic Movement.&quot;	1999-09-10
2793207:US	52254603	R3295B63SG9WV4	0312113684	340167318	Treasure Island: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Excellent Reworking Of A Classic	OK, the reader below totally missed the point...<br />I know what you're thinking: this book was written by Robert Louis Stevenson in 1883, wasn't it? Well, yes, but this is an excellent &quot;modern retelling&quot; which  moves the classic story to Long Island in the 1950s. The dubious souls are  WWII vets and the treasure is Nazi gold. It's a masterful job of preserving  the dialogue and structure, while modernizing. Great stuff.	1999-09-10
2793274:US	52254603	R3ITD1GZSV8UUV	1573221090	593444393	The Tesseract	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Excellent Atmosphere nad Tension	Very interesting and well-written set of interwoven events and stories centered on a single day in Manila. It starts with an English sailor waiting in a hyperdingy hotel to meet with a local mobster. As he waits he  becomes more and more convinced he is about to be executed. This is  intercut with the mobster in the car with his retinue treading on verbal  eggshells. The two meet in an explosive climax, whereupon the book shifts  to the story of a woman putting her kids to sleep. This leads to the story  of her childhood in a coastal village, her the discovery of love, and we  gradually learn how she came to be in Manila, married and with kids. As she  talks on a cell phone to her husband, street kids throw some nails in the  road puncturing his tire and delaying his arrival home. This segues into  the story of two street kids and the psychological researcher who tapes  their dreams. At the end, all three stories converge into a brief, bloody  resolution of sorts. Garland is definitely a talented writer and I will  think about reading his first book, The Beach--which I have avoided as it  looks very shallow and annoying.	1999-09-10
2793342:US	52254603	R1IW136UIK8C6R	0393314804	232683594	Trainspotting	Books	5	15	17	N	N	More Whacked Out + Rough Than the Film	You've seen the movie, now read the book (or vice versa). Despite the phantasmagorical nature the film adopts at times, the book is even more whacked out--in a good way-- not to mention rougher in many senses.  Although it flows chronologically, the novel is plotless, skipping from  vignette to vignette, told by a wide range of people. The main characters  from the movie are the main characters in the book, but there are a number  of stories narrated by more minor characters as well. This makes the whole  thing more impressionistic and loose, and of course, allows space for many  more entertaining stories. There are a few scenes that get really nasty,  such as a scene where Renton has sex with his just-dead brother's pregnant  wife in a bathroom after the funeral. The guys are also a fair bit older  than the movie makes them out to be, Begbie is a good deal nastier, etc...  It's actually rather amazing they found a movie in all the stories in the  book. In any event, don't be intimidated by the dialect and slang, it's  great fun once you get into it.	1999-09-10
2793556:US	52254603	R3RWF92QNA1RVN	0375402241	873305459	Soft!	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good Weaving	Thomson's excellent fifth divided into six parts. In the first we meet a tough, lonely bouncer who moves down to London to avoid a spot of bother. In part two we meet a young waitress who has an unsatisfactory  long-distance relationship with an American. In the third we meet a young  go-getter executive in the London office of a multinational soft-drink  giant. Each of these characters are interesting and in the fourth and fifth  parts we see them begin to interact, and begin to appreciate how they  relate. The sixth part is an epilogue. The plot revolves around the launch  of a new soft drink, and the lengths taken to promote it. In the end,  things don't work out quite the way you expect, but it is a tale well told.	1999-09-09
2793559:US	52254603	RRCJI46B3QVMQ	0879516941	66322608	Still Life with Volkswagens	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Quirky Fun	Apparently this is the second Volkswagen-themed novel by this British author. I have not as yet read &quot;Street Sleeper,&quot; so I can't tell you if this is the better of the two or not. What I can tell you is that is  a mostly amusing tale of a number of Brits all bound together in one way or  another by Volkswagens. The main problem is that all across England, there  are Volkswagen's blowing up left and right. Who is doing and why, and how  they can be stopped is the alleged plot which drives this book, but the  reader is mostly along for the ride as the main characters search for  meaning in their existence. I get the impression that many of the main  characters appeared previously in &quot;Street Sleeper,&quot; but how long  the interval has been in unclear. It's a little tough to describe a novel  which culminates in a rave/VW expo under siege by eight neo-Nazi skinheads  and their delusional leader, who is questing after a holy grail comprised  of a hand carved VW whose sun roof opens to reveal human bone replicas of  Hitler and Eva Braun in flagrante... All I can say is that if you have a  taste for the quirky, check it out.	1999-09-09
2793953:US	52254603	R2IOQ5DX0XSNFD	1852424052	544424223	Spinsters (High Risk Books)	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Totally Ordinary	I'd heard the buzz about Pagan Kennedy, so I figured I'd grab this and see what the fuss was all about. Set in 1968, the book is about two 30-something sisters who embark on a cross-country road trip following the  death of their father, who've they've been caring for. It's more or less a  belated coming of age tale for Frannie, the virgin of the two, as she  gradually sheds her safe life and appearance. Although there are a couple  of nice lines (&quot;My mother understood longing better than love.&quot;)  it didn't strike me as anything special and didn't enthuse me to pursue  anything else by Kennedy.	1999-09-09
2794064:US	52254603	R23YYCAF22CVRR	067940273X	825838366	That's All Folks	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Good Brit Beach Read	Fun, silly little romp about an awful British advertising yuppie and his awful friends. Things go comically awry when he starts to turn into a living cartoon (e.g. his flesh stretches to ridiculous limits, his thoughts  appear as balloons coming out of his ear). It's not much, but Snow does  take the premise to the logical places, tabloids come running, show-biz  opportunities come knocking, and the government gets very interested... In  the end, it take some special people to show the hero the error of his  shallow ways and he must look within to win back the girl he doesn't  deserve. It's all very heart-warming stuff, but written in a snappy,  stylish British style that I find appealing.	1999-09-09
2794293:US	52254603	R37QBDKF47IIQ3	1852422815	34104291	Sand Blind (A Mask Noir Title)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Pretty Hum-Drum Stuff	Although this was published under the &quot;Mask Noir&quot; imprint, it's more of a thriller set just prior to the Gulf War, than a mystery per se. The story is about an embittered British radar technician who is inexplicably fired from his job in England. He soon finds himself  unwittingly (at first) in the employ of Iraq in modifying a radar system so  that it can detect stealth aircraft, and thus protect the Republican Guard.  There are all kinds of standard thriller complications: a Palestinian  &quot;honey-pot,&quot; a CIA &quot;watcher,&quot; an likable elderly  father, etc. The book skips around a bit, sometimes in first-person by one  of Saddam's attendants, sometimes in first-person by the CIA watcher,  sometimes in a Pentagon meeting, but it mostly follows the radar tech. The  attempts to portray the Americans are fairly clumsy, and the Palestinian  girl's motivations seem to be awfully flexible. Pretty hum-drum stuff, all  in all.	1999-09-08
2794476:US	52254603	R3MH1FUL3UK19K	0312181736	958085662	Second Coming Attractions	Books	1	6	8	N	N	A Waste of Everything	A dubious use of good paper and ink, this satire has an interesting premise and takes it nowhere, fortunately the non-journey is quick, and the reader can move on to more profitable fare. The hype the St. Martin's  publicist gives the book makes one wonder if she even read it... It starts  as a moderately interesting look at the inspiration Christian film  &quot;industry&quot; which makes it's point in the first thirty pages and  then keep repeating, until there is enough paper to be bound into a book.  Despite my personal predisposition to laugh at jokes about Christian  &quot;culture,&quot; this book is not nearly as funny as it (or the  publisher) wishes it was.	1999-09-08
2794755:US	52254603	R27FJE4F1651RD	0312118872	868870854	Shadows on a Wall	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Plausible Fun	Fun, big book for those interested in the film industry. The story follows the path of a tiny play as it struggles to get noticed during the annual Edinburgh festival until it explodes into a mega-budget Hollywood spectacle  several years later. The plot of the play/movie is not important, what the  book is really about is the process and the upheaval it causes in a  multitude of lives. The book is a little slow to get moving as it opens  with a bunch of dead Hollywood big-shots getting pulled from a car in  Eastern Europe (which, devoid of context, doesn't make any sense until  almost the very end). The scene then jumps to Scotland, several years  earlier, where we meet our hero, the playwright, and his girlfriend and  fellow artists. I have no idea how realistic Connolly's portrayal of the  genesis of this tiny play into huge Hollywood debacle is, but it reads well  and certainly seems plausible, given past Hollywood disasters and  ill-conceived projects. The petty intrigues, machinations, power plays,  massive egos, and greed, are all well displayed in this swiftly moving  book. Connolly ratchets up the suspense as the film's budget soars and  personalities clash, only to neatly resolve everything in a slick ending  worthy of, well, Hollywood...	1999-09-08
2794793:US	52254603	R161L5LAV7IHPC	0380727501	157497316	Notes from a Small Island	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Not His Best, But Still Worth Reading	Although Bryson has got to be the wittiest travel writer around, I wasn't as enchanted with this book as I was with his shorter--and nastier--Neither Here Nor There. In this travelogue, he decided to take a sort of  celebratory tour of Britain just prior to moving back to America after 18  years. His goal--largely successful--is to accomplish this all via public  transport or foot. Bryson does lots of riffing on various aspects of  English culture, often to humorous effect, and never fails to highlight his  own mistakes and shortcomings along the way. It's a largely successful book  in that he manages to recommend certain destinations and express  disappointment at others in a fairly judicious and witty manner. He's also  good at highlighting the differences in scale between the U.S. and the UK,  not to mention the differing sense of history each culture has.	1999-09-07
2795169:US	52254603	R20PP5QRA2WX8P	1888277025	692610629	Snitch Factory: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	I Wasn't Blown Away	This is definitely a books you'll enjoy a lot more if you've lived in or are intimately familiar with San Francisco's Mission district. That's because the story of a city social worker who bends the rules to help  people out, goes drinking with her workmates, and is working on her third  husband, isn't all that fascinating in and of itself. There is a good sense  of atmosphere throughout, but it would be a lot more compelling if I knew  the area and people at the heart of the narrative.	1999-09-07
2796799:US	52254603	R9XFYV8XKOSGX	0879519142	202936797	The Peculiar Memories of Thomas Penman	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Excellent Outsiders Tale	Like many other books, this is an examination of an odd young boy growing up (here in 1950s England). The title character is kind of wierd and bit deviant, but likable nonetheless. As the novel progresses, his  grandfather--the only family member who really loves him--slides toward  death, Thomas wrestles with the usual teen angst involving a girl, and digs  up a profound secret about himself. It's an excellent entry in the pantheon  of works about growing up as an outsider.	1999-09-04
2796814:US	52254603	R1SEJIC73LCAGF	0452277051	203341062	The People's Choice: A Novel	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Funny and Educational in a Workmanlike way...	I'm not usually one to read so-called &quot;Washington&quot; novels, whose plots revolve around politics and its attending infrastructure. This one, however, is probably worth the short time it takes to read. It bears the  subtitle &quot;A Cautionary Tale&quot; and rightfully so, for the novel is  simply a fictional device to deliver the message that the American system  of employing an electoral college is seriously flawed and outdated. With  workmanlike prose, Greenfield presents a tale in which a president-elect is  killed in the time between the popular election and the actual election by  the college of electors. What is exposed is the complete failure of the  system to account for any such anomaly as first one elector refuses to vote  for VP-elect to fill the dead president-elect's position. Greenfield  manages to make all the normal Washington-insider dealings, media coverage,  and so forth, somewhat interesting and entertaining. Check it out, you  might learn something.	1999-09-04
2796873:US	52254603	R307TL6EVFOBFG	0385493533	698700335	Pink	Books	1	0	1	N	N	Race abandoned...	You know how you check the sports pages in the summer for the Tour de France daily results, and all the riders are listed in order of their time in the previous day's stage? At the end of the list are names followed by the designation &quot;abandoned race.&quot; That's how it was for me with this book, about 70 pages into it I abandoned it due to lack of entertainment or interest. I like Gus van Sant's movies, I like the book jacket a lot, and I like the little drawings in the book, but as for the actual words... No. The book is a convulated mess, sprinkled with characters loosely based on real people van Sant knew or knows (Kurt Cobain and River Phoenix among them), but none of whom are worth investing any time or energy in. It's really an experimental work at best, and even on that level fails to do anything new or interesting.	1999-09-04
2796890:US	52254603	R2WIOJHS5WWF4X	1569470154	284084612	The Queen and I	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good, Silly Fun	Well-known British author Townsend takes an amusing premise about as far as it can go with her silly take on what might happen if the British royal family was stripped of its titles and possessions. In this farce,  subliminal TV messages hoodwink British voters into electing a Republican  ticket on an abolish-the-monarchy platform. The bulk of the plot is fairly  predictable, but nonetheless enjoyable, fish-out-of-water stuff as the  royals are sent to live in nasty council housing amidst the rabble, sans  their servants, finery, and so forth. Townsend uses this as an opportunity  to satirize the royals: Diana is depicted as an airhead clothes horse and  has an affair with a Jamaican fellow, Charles goes environmental and falls  for one of his feisty lower-class neighbors, Harry and William run wild in  the streets and quickly adopt gutter accents, Prince Phillip goes mad and  is bedridden, etc... Somewhat predictably the one most able to cope is the  Queen--also predictable is the ending, but you can't really expect it to  end any other way.	1999-09-04
2796952:US	52254603	RQIH7XTHIJKD	0312199988	632563672	The Salesman	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Outstanding.	Written as a diary, this is a brilliant novel of suspense, love, loneliness, alcoholism, fatherhood, redemption and of course, tragedy. The salesman of the title is a dumpy middle-aged satellite dish salesman who  pissed away his family and life as an alcoholic. He's been sober for years,  trying to raise his daughter by himself when she is attacked and put into a  coma. One of the defendants escapes, and the salesman is left frustrated  and angry.When he happens to see the escapee on the street one day he  daydreams of revenge. The suspense builds and builds as he follows the  criminal and plots his revenge. Interspersed with this is his recounting of  meeting his wife and their life together, which he tries to explain to his  daughter. Outstanding.	1999-09-04
2796970:US	52254603	RWZ4N2LX0E5MW	0684800993	548874018	Our Noise	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Ehhh.	LOADED WITH semi-obscure music and pop culture references, this is definitely a book intended to be read by those born between 1970 and 1980. The book follows the days in the lives of a number twentysomethings in fictional Kitty, VA, apparently located somewhere a few hours south of Washington, DC. These small town Gen-Xish types posses varying degrees of hipness, and their paths sometimes intersect, but mostly the reader is following multiple storylines in each chapter. The main thing Gomez seems to be aiming to capture is the total lack of meaning in the lives of these mostly overeducated post-college people. I found myself alternately repelled by the utter lameness of most of the characters, and yet strangely drawn to them, because the types are familiar to me in many ways. Gomez has a gift for capturing the generational language, and there are lots of funny moments and only a few scenes that ring false. If you're young and into indie music (lables like Dischord, Teen Beat, K Records, Sub Pop, Jade Tree and the like) you'll probably get a kick of it, others will more than likely be annoying by its self-concious hippness. It's a generational ride somewhat similar to some of Richard Linkletter's navel gazing films and Cameron Crowe's film Singles. The sequel is Geniuses of Crack.	1999-09-04
2797009:US	52254603	R37RGQ4LF24KP0	0891904352	332366416	Rogue Male	Books	3	18	30	N	N	A Readable, If Dated Thriller	Somewhat dated suspense work about a big game hunter who sets his sights on a notorious dictator--presumably Hitler--in the early pages, but doesn't fire. He then spends the rest of the book on the run or in hiding. The  technical side of all this is pretty fun and suspenseful stuff, the book's  weakness lies in the character of the hero, whose motivations for both  stalking the dictator and refusing to appeal to his friends and government  are a little tough to understand for the modern reader. Part of this  remedied in a nice twist near the end where we learn the real reason why he  first trained his sights on the dictator. However, we are forced to lean on  somewhat dated notions of loyalty, honor, disgrace, and so forth in order  to accept his playing the lone wolf in trying to escape retribution. Still,  worth a read in front of the fireplace.	1999-09-04
2797040:US	52254603	R732DP2351IQ4	0385264666	603947329	Palace Walk: The Cairo Trilogy, Volume 1	Books	2	8	18	N	N	Frustratingly Unentertaining	The first of my book group's selections, this is the very long first book in the Egyptian Nobel Prize winner's &quot;Cairo Trilogy.&quot; I had always wanted to read something by Mahfouz, and this is supposed to be one  of his best. It's a realistic portrayal of the life of a middle-class Cairo  family circa WWI, under British occupation--although it should be noted  that the family dynamics are not typical of the time and place. There is a  great deal of interesting perspective into the social structure and so  forth, but it's done in a very long-winded way. Perhaps more important is  that it doesn't function as a traditional Western novel would in that there  isn't really any change in the characters even as they go through major  events. One gets a bit frustrated by the docile attitudes of the more  likable characters, and the hypocrisy of others doesn't really lead to any  repercussions as we might expect. In other words, it may all be very  realistic and insightful, but it's far from entertaining stuff.	1999-09-04
2797094:US	52254603	R9LZPL5S7BO1D	088001590X	91509961	My Favorite War: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Satire-cum-Sitcom	Pretty funny, sometimes angry, book from the perspective of a well-educated young black man working in northern Virginia at a thinly veiled USA Today. Lotsa riffing on the various issues facing such a person,  both socially and professional. About halfway through, the Gulf War starts,  allowing for a further variety of targets to be riffed on. There are some  romantic complications and far too many coincidences to serve the plot, but  it's pretty enjoyable, if rather lightweight stuff.	1999-09-03
2797119:US	52254603	R3CLAT5J16PL8U	156512037X	671374496	No One But Us	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Interesting, but too staged	Small and precise story in which the first half is devoted to a 16-year old boy having an affair with his mother's best friend, Jolene--who takes care of him while his mother is in the hospital recovering from a suicide  attempt. This could all easily fall into the realm of prurient fantasy, but  fortunately doesn't. There are the usual problems in which the thoughts and  insights of a 16-year old are much more lucid and knowing than his age  would dictate, but this is a typical failing of writers attempting this  kind of book. The latter half of the book picks up events three years  later, as the boy and his new girlfriend drive across country to find  Jolene and see how she has turned out. In the end it's all kind of  interesting, but too carefully painted and staged to feel real.	1999-09-03
2797312:US	52254603	R1D51U31FFOTQ0	0140073728	130609637	The Marrakesh One-Two (Penguin contemporary American fiction series)	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Moderately Funny Send-Up	Moderately funny send-up of Arabs and Islam that could be taken the wrong way if one were so inclined. The hero is a screenwriter hired to write a film about the life of Mohammed, the prophet of Islam (a problem when  representations of the prophet are forbidden). Grenier succeeds in writing  imaginatively about the antics of the international crew and their trials  as they bounce around the Middle East as funding gets pulled out from under  them time and again by various governments. Not nearly as compelling or  amusing as Ray Connolly's Shadows on a Wall but interesting in its own way,  especially for Middle Eastern buffs. Includes obligatory hijacking and  hostage taking.	1999-09-03
2797426:US	52254603	R2SBHJ365LV6AY	0316926280	343081043	Men at Arms	Books	2	2	16	N	N	Dissapointing	I was expecting to greatly enjoy this satire of one English gentleman's mobilization for WWII, but came away bitterly disspointed. I found it very flat and dull, with none of the bite and sharp wit I had expected. The  story follows a middle-aged man who comes home to become an officer after  living for eight years in Italy. The books plods about as he goes through  training and then gets moved all over England with his regiment. It's all  rather dreary and slow, and the few moments that twinkle are not worth the  time spent to discover them.	1999-09-03
2797494:US	52254603	R3AI52PUVEE8YR	1873982607	448164337	The Mysteries of Algiers (Contemporary English Language Fiction)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Excellent Thriller	This vastly interesting thriller takes place over several months in 1959-60 in Algeria, at the height of the struggle for liberation  from France (1954-62). It would certainly be useful to familiarize oneself with  the history of Algeria's colonization by France, and especially the fight  for independence (at the very least, rent &quot;The Battle of Algiers&quot;  which will get you in the right mood). The story centers on a French army  officer who turns out to be an agent for the FLN, his exposure by his  neo-fascist lover, and his attempt to go underground. The book is highly  effective at showing both the underbelly of the fight for liberation and  its flip side on the French side. It's also a believable portrait of a  committed Marxist and his adversaries.	1999-09-03
2797508:US	52254603	R3T011HFIKCKR7	0824816846	3940109	One Night Out Stealing (Talanoa: Contemporary Pacific Literature)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Bleak New Zealand...	From the author of &quot;Once Were Warriors&quot; comes another gritty tale set in New Zealand's underclass. This book focuses exclusively on two thieves Jube (white), and Sonny (half-Maori) who also share an apartment.  Their miserable existence sitting around a nasty bar full of ex-cons is  rendered in full detail as they drink through the weekly welfare check.  Jube is a insecure loudmouth of the kind that likes to drive his muscle car  real fast and brag about everything. Sonny is more of a thinker and feels  trapped and out of place. One night they rob a fancy house and score big,  changing both their lives. It's a pretty nasty read, and gets a little  tiresome at times as the duo move through a familiar cycle of hopelessness.  Duff strings the two men's conversation together into single blocks so that  who's saying what is a little confusing at times. Reminiscent in some ways  of the Australian film &quot;Romper Stomper.&quot;	1999-09-03
2797642:US	52254603	R1QPEUNQ1RYMJV	155970134X	311193053	The Old Man and Mr. Smith: A Fable	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Droll Stuff	In this amusing fable, God and the Devil have taken mortal forms to meet and walk the earth in examination of their handiwork. Naturally, there are a number of stumbling blocks. One, when they first need to pay for  something, God pulls random currency from his pocket. This quickly gets the  duo in trouble with the FBI, who chase them for the remainder of the trip.  Two, no one believes them when they tell them who they really are (hardly  surprising). Starting in the US, the bickering twosome end up hitting a  number of contents and capitols before their time runs out. Ustinov uses  this conceit to make loads of wry observations on humanity, as well  specific cultural and political types. There are lots of deep thoughts  stirred into this romp, and although a bit hammy, it is worth a read. It  definitely makes me want to read some other of Ustinov's fiction, as he has  a nimble way with his prose.	1999-09-03
2798127:US	52254603	R2W35ZYDZ56CEP	1860463401	54472911	The Lone Man	Books	4	3	4	N	N	An Unusual, Introspective Thriller	A taut thriller set during Spain's hosting of the 1982 World Cup. Former ETA Basque terrorists own a hotel outside Barcelona where the Polish team is staying. One of them, Carlos, has allowed two fugitive terrorists to  hide out on the grounds without telling his compatriots. The tension  gradually mounts as the police close in, others at the hotel find out, and  relationships get tangled and tense until the stunning denouement. What  raises the book above the level your average thriller is the author's  brilliance at getting inside Carlos's head to illuminate his ambivalence  about his former activities and current allegiances, as well as his  relationships to his dead mentor and mad brother. Gripping book, would make  a very interesting film in the right hands.	1999-09-02
2798210:US	52254603	R3R2DZC61BG103	1567920896	699577306	It's Only Rock and Roll: An Anthology of Rock and Roll Short Stories	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A Very Mixed Bag	Twenty-two very hit or miss stories grouped around the theme of rock and roll. The first five, grouped under the &quot;Glory Days&quot; theme of &quot;evoking the past&quot; are all pretty sound and worth reading, as are  the four stories about the relationship between musicians and fans/lovers  in the &quot;Keepin' the Faith&quot; section. The four stories in the  &quot;You've Really Got a Hold On Me&quot; are grouped around the idea of  intertwining music and love/lust, but this is a rather loose connection and  doesn't quite work. The T.C. Boyle story here is a total throwaway, but  Lewis Shiner's &quot;Sticks&quot; and Linda Sexton's &quot;Shine&quot; are  both excellent. The four stories of &quot;Welcome to the Jungle&quot; make  for the weakest section, as the editors were apparently looking for  &quot;wild&quot; writing. I would skip them all except Roberta Smoodin's  &quot;Ursus Major&quot; (about a bear in a band). The editors write that  the &quot;Rock and Roll Is Here to Stay&quot; section &quot;applauds the  durability of the music&quot;--I'm not sure what that means. The five  stories here are all very strong, especially Geoffrey Becker's  &quot;Bluestown&quot; and Kevin Downs' &quot;Like A Lead Balloon&quot;  which is probably my favorite in the anthology.	1999-09-02
2799106:US	52254603	R991CIGU63BXF	1884615155	922260099	The Sub: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Sub A Dub Dub	Lots of little episodes in the life of a SoCal substitute teacher make up a broad portrait of a seemingly cool young man getting slowly ground up in a dysfunctional system. Written in a kind of free-rambling, Joe  Strummeresque, hip-hop rhyming lingo, the prose makes a refreshing break  from the norm. It's not like there's a real narrative here to be disturbed  anyway. Rather interesting all in all.	1999-08-31
2799557:US	52254603	R201ZYIJQZDWF9	1556114532	370756977	The Keeper of the Ferris Wheel: A Novel	Books	2	0	1	N	N	Slow and Tepid	A slow and tepid tale of the Vietnam era. Set in New Jersey, the central character is a teenage boy who is trying to deal with growing up in a time of changing values. His father works at a gun factory, but he falls in with  an odd leftist who runs a local hotel and is the main anti-war organizer in  the town. Loads of typical events occur: golden-boy older brother goes to  Vietnam and gets killed, Mrs. Robinson syndrome as boy gets involved with  the older activist, boy becomes estranged from parents, parents refuse to  admit futility of older sons death, blah, blah, blah. I think you had to  have lived through the times to remotely enjoy this book.	1999-08-30
2799610:US	52254603	R2GYEHEIJA9JVC	0679420363	456352284	The Good Soldier Svejk (Everyman's Library)	Books	3	17	49	N	N	Spun Our Serial Runs On and On	OK, I'll admit up front that I only made it through 450 of this 800 page monster. As I was reading this, I saw the pile of unread books mounting alarmingly, and as I had more or less gotten the gist of it, I tucked the  ribbon twixt the pages and set it aside. These (never-ending) stories of  the Czech WW I soldier Svejk are considered a modern &quot;must read.&quot;  as they depict the trials and travails of a well-intentioned soldier  muddling through the army beauracacy. The book functions as a satire of the  war, the leaders, and the army. The problem is, these stories were written  as serials, and as such, tend to go on and on and on.... so that Hasek  could milk more money from them. In fact, they are unfinished, as the  author died before he could dictate the end! So, I suggest dipping in to  it, but not soaking too long as the antics don't vary much as the book  moves along. Those with an particular interest in Czech culture or World  War I might have greater reason to finish it than the general reader.	1999-08-30
2799849:US	52254603	R25FWA6PXBKYBJ	0748661123	881325890	In Between Talking About the Football	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Scots are Go!	I tracked this down because I'd read and loved Legge's short story &quot;Pop Life&quot; in the Children of Albion Rovers collection. Here, he really emphasizes the short side of things, as 33 stories are crammed into  152 pages. Ranging from a half page to twelve pages, the stories are  full-on Scot-centric. In general, the longer the story was, the more I  liked it. If you want to sample a novel of his, try The Shoe.	1999-08-30
2799853:US	52254603	R460KAM7FI8K0	157322068X	870968002	If You Lived Here, You'd Be Home By Now	Books	1	12	27	N	N	Neither Witty nor Clever	Allegedly &quot;wickedly witty&quot;, this is a tiresome attempt at satirizing the obvious targets of LA's population. The main character is a 30-year-old PhD candidate in women's studies who comes to realize that she  is not living they way she wants to be. Shacked up in a shabby  grad-schoolish house the Valley with her longtime (unsuccessful) writer  boyfriend, she longs for upscale living, and a designer kitchen. She begins  to question her lifestyle and choices, and then thanks to an unexpected  windfall, the couple can start living the dream life, with a new car, condo  in downtown LA, etc. Predictably, these things are exposed as being empty,  blah blah blah. Although short, it's not worth the time.	1999-08-30
2799949:US	52254603	R3ULF75PD3XP7R	0892965894	346320337	Leonardo's Bicycle	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Frustration Is Unrewarded	Whew! This is like reading four books in one as Tabio jumps between multiple storylines, spending only 2-5 pages on each before switching. One is set in present-day Mexico City and is centered on a downtrodden crime  writer who gets obsessed with watching women's college basketball. Another  follows a CIA operative circa 1975 as he flees Vietnam and tracks him until  the present. A third is about the unionist and anarchist upheavals in Spain  in the 1920s. Yet another is about Leonardo DaVinci. Most reviews I read  said that it is a frustrating read at the beginning, but the end is worth  it. I dispute that, as all these stories converge into what I found to be a  very unsatisfying ending.	1999-08-30
2800153:US	52254603	R3K5VRZNNQ8MBO	0802135218	263948887	Jack Frusciante Has Left the Band: A Love Story- with Rock 'n' Roll	Books	1	0	0	N	N	Don't Believe the Hype...	This book is so exceedingly annoying, I had a difficult time finishing it. Part of the problem is that it reeks of overhyped Gen-Xism, from jacket flaps cramming in multiple comparisons to The Catcher in the Rye, to a meaningless blurb from Pagan Kennedy invoking &quot;stage-diving into a mosh pit,&quot; and blurbs from European reviews telling me how &quot;exciting,&quot; &quot;authentic,&quot; and &quot;ironic&quot; the book is. The rest of the problem is that the writing is not that great, written in a sort of self-aware stream of consciousness style, it resembles nothing so much as the diary of a self-absorbed teenager. Unfortunately this teenager isn't very interesting despite his desire to be an outsider. He's a composite rebel, what with his crop top, mixing The Clash, The Smiths, and The Cure on his internal soundtrack and skipping school to drink and hang out with friends. My, how rebellious! There are a few interesting angles to him, such as his biking and his chaste love affair, but they are not enough to redeem the book. The translation is terribly off-putting, placing all kinds of US slang in the mouths of Italian teenagers and mixing it with other slang which is somewhat puzzling, such as &quot;rot-Aryans&quot; which shows up a lot. Like Benjamin Lebert's novel Crazy (from Germany), if it had been written by an American and set in the U.S., it wouldn't rate a moments' attention.	1999-08-30
2800154:US	52254603	R3FFRFMVE8GWEA	0810112434	232828724	The Life and Extraordinary Adventures of Private Ivan Chonkin (European Classics)	Books	4	15	18	N	N	A Shorter, Sweeter Svejklike Satire	Funny, good-natured look at a bumbling Soviet private sent to guard an airplane which is stuck out in the sticks just prior to the German invasion in 1941. Satirizes all manner of things Soviet, most especially bureaucracy  and the pomposity of its upper echelons. Somewhat similar to The Good  Soldier Svejk in this respect, but at a much more manageable size and pace.  Some really funny bits about Comrade Stalin. Especially recommended for  Russian literature devotees, but should be enjoyable to most. There is a  sequel called Pretender to the Throne.	1999-08-30
2800196:US	52254603	R16YG5L41AULAQ	1883642442	723498522	Hero	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Good Writing, But a Bit Slow For Me...	A slim book entirely dedicated to constructing a portrait of an elderly waiter in a New York restaurant nicknamed Hero. The author sets up the scene at the restaurant as Hero struggles to maintain his dignity amidst a  multi-national, multi-ethnic group of younger waiters. Then, tension builds  as Hero finds something worth rocking the boat for, and struggles with the  meaning of his own existence. The writing is good, but it is too slow and  introspective for my tastes.	1999-08-30
2800222:US	52254603	RIYN1XUO0IPJN	0679767908	645461368	Illywhacker	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Help Me Understand...	I hate to confess this, but this is one of those books I read and enjoyed on the surface level, but whose more meaningful level I did not understand at all. The writing is extremely good--Carey evokes specific places and  moods quite well and I was thoroughly engrossed the whole way through. It  is enjoyable simply as a series of well-told tales are, but as an allegory  of Australian history and national character, it eluded me. Someone please  explain it to me!	1999-08-30
2801388:US	52254603	R3M86VBP503EBT	0679448314	635950208	Everyone's Gone to the Moon	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Swinging 60Ts Fall A Wee Flat	I picked this book off the library shelf because of the bright cover and took it home because the jacket copy promised a funny book centered on Fleet street in 1966. The book does deliver on its promise to take one back  to London's &quot;swinging sixties&quot; but the story itself is a wee bit  flat. The hero is a young journalist who makes it out of a small town  newspaper and onto the staff of England's trend setting Sunday magazine  where he must cope with all kinds of nasty folks. There is a  &quot;super-journalist&quot; mentor who turns out not to be as great a  fellow as the naive hero thinks. There is a beautiful but duplicitous  girlfriend, and any number of backbiting, catty people. Indeed, few  characters are rendered sympathetically. The author is apparently an  authority on music of the era, which allows him to slip The Beatles and  Jimi Hendrix into the book (Liz Taylor and Richard Burton also make an  appearance). All in all, I think this would have been a lot more enjoyable  had I lived in London during the era (or at least maybe been alive), 'cos I  didn't find the book nearly as funny as other reviewers did.	1999-08-27
2801422:US	52254603	RHH973YOQ15Q6	0553066978	958247132	Eat Me: A Novel	Books	1	0	0	N	N	Weak Weak Weak	This Aussie soft porn-cum-satire for the middle classes is pretty much a waste of time. All flash and no staying power is the name of the game. The book is mostly an exercise in writing mildly shocking &quot;erotic&quot;  interludes, and weaving them together with a lots of single women sitting  around talking about sex type nonsense. Cool jacket, silly contents.	1999-08-27
2801559:US	52254603	R27CWDQII0EH7L	0393040402	274691412	Darkest England	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Decent Premise-Driven Satire	This satirical novel is totally dependent upon, and carried by, its outstanding premise. A South African bushman is raised by a Boer farmer and learns to read English by reading the farmer's collection of colonial-era travel narratives (Livingstone, Burton, etc...). Flash-forward to the early 1990s-the bushman's people are under severe threat and decide that they will appeal to the Queen of England for aid. Our hero is appointed by his people to travel to England as an ambassador, to present an old pledge made by Queen Victoria to protect the interests of the bushmen and petition the current Queen for help. He's also acting as an explorer, scouting England out as a place for settlement. With this conceit driving it, the bushman sets out for England and recounts his adventures in an archaic exploreresque travelogue. He brims with navet&eacute;, allowing Hope to unleash all manner of wry commentarty and satire on contemporary England. Sometimes this is fluid and funny, but often it is a touch too heavy-handed. The premise manages to carry the reader all the way through, but barely.	1999-08-27
2801618:US	52254603	R1V7GNPWEDL9LY	0312155131	42449518	Death Will Have Your Eyes: A Novel About Spies	Books	2	0	6	N	N	Long on atmosphere and short on plot	Long on atmosphere and short on plot or action, this slim novel ultimately disappoints. The plot follows a retired government assassin who is called upon to abandon his life as a sculptor to track down a former colleague who  has turned freelance. Sallis captures the depressing bleak atmosphere of  small-town strip-mall America, but there's not enough a a story to make it  all worthwhile.	1999-08-27
2801677:US	52254603	R38MHF1RPCP41H	0748662057	36452409	Drivetime (Fiction series)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A Magical Mystery Tour	I went to a bit of effort to buy this novel after having read Meek's entertaining short story, &quot;Brown Pint of Courage&quot; in the Children of Albion Rovers collection. It sounded like a neat road trip book as this  ex-student dude goes bopping around Europe with a madman and a cute woman  in search of an antique egg some guy is paying him to retrieve. It's not  all that funny though, and wanders off into phantasmagorical areas that  left me scratching my head. Oh well.	1999-08-27
2801697:US	52254603	RGNMMJDY7EQQ8	1852425164	453224956	Faithless	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Post Punk Blues	This book does a great job of capturing London in the post-punk days of 1983. The lead character, Jeff, is an ex-saxophonist now working at a used record store (a la High Fidelity). He's drifting aimlessly, trying to  figure out what happened to punk, and what's coming next. Some shit goes  down, a co-worker is killed, he's besotted by a woman who keeps coming and  going from his life, and his life drifts in and out of contact with an old  bandmate, turned semi-big time star. Chock full of bars, junkies, and music  industry types, the plot is interesting enough, but the main attraction is  the sense of time and place Williams imparts.	1999-08-27
2801810:US	52254603	RMSK34GOK1QW8	0393315819	604983605	Ecstasy	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Modern Love	I'd heard this collection of &quot;three tales of chemical imbalance&quot; weren't so good, so it was a pleasant surprise to find myself quite enjoying them all. Within each of the three &quot;stories&quot; there are  multiple plot lines running with entertaining characters abounding. A  listing of the subtitle of each story hints at this: &quot;A Rave and  Regency Romance,&quot; &quot;A Corporate Drug Romance&quot; and &quot;An  Acid House Romance.&quot; Amok with explicit drugs and sex, these are  clearly love stories for youth, and yet they all celebrate rather  traditional notions of love and falling in love. I found the combination  very pleasing, although others might find it a bit forced perhaps even  cheezy. What is lacking is the dense dialect of Trainspotting which might  make it more accessible reading for some.	1999-08-27
2802041:US	52254603	R3PEBFMCQOB178	0316102024	219009139	Bunny Modern	Books	2	5	7	N	N	Good Idea, Bad Execution	This book sounded a lot cooler than it turned out to be, and while there were a few interesting conceits, it didn't work for me as a whole. About 20 years in the future there is no electricity, it has simply ceased to work,  and for some reason reproduction is much rarer as well. Thus, in New York,  nannies are heat-packing badasses, hooked on a drug called  &quot;Vengeance.&quot; Unfortunately, this doesn't lead the reader anywhere  particularly interesting.	1999-08-26
2802072:US	52254603	R31E7SWEOB9HX9	0393317773	198476954	Busted Scotch: Selected Stories	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Well Written, but Unexciting	This is about as good a way to get to know Kelman's writings as any, since he's selected the 35 short stories in this volume from four or five of his previous collections. They range from a half-page to thirty pages or so,  and tend to be rather unexciting interior monologues. There are a few nice  stories, my favorite being &quot;Remember Young Cecil,&quot; about a former  pool champion. Nothing much to inspire one to seek out his other work,  though.	1999-08-26
2802166:US	52254603	RV5MT4CX1848Q	0224032267	427454244	Brrm! Brrm! Or The Man from Japan or Perfume at Anchorage	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Short and Sweet	Short and sweet story about a young Japanese man working at a Japanese-language bookshop in London. He is apparently a &quot;rising star&quot; in certain circles in Japan and has been sent to England to  polish his English and his interactions with foreigners. This allows the  author to simultaneously poke fun at elements of both British and Japanese  culture--albeit aiming only at the obvious targets. The main action centers  on his involvement with a highly unsuitable&quot;punk&quot; woman, and  later, with a more upscale woman. An economical, comic 160 pages.	1999-08-26
2802296:US	52254603	R2TR0TOM8DYF2M	0553569430	294867820	Brittle Innings	Books	5	2	3	N	N	SPOILER ALERT: There is a spoiler in this review!	What an unexpected book! It starts as the tale of a teenaged Okie shortstop lured to play baseball for a Phillies class C affiliate in the rural south during World War II. This story, on its own, with all the  attendant delving into the era, race, gender, etc. is very well done. But,  about a third of the way into the book the reader discovers that the Okie's  huge, ugly roommate is Dr. Frankenstein's monstrous creation, last seen in  the arctic north! I can't conceive of how the author came up with this  idea, but it works. The Okie finds out and the secret bonds the two until  the climactic ending, which involves a number of deaths. If you like  baseball, this is a really good piece of fiction, if you can handle the  sci-fi element noted above.	1999-08-26
2802469:US	52254603	R1I96SDPK317CB	0879518650	660674609	Children of Albion Rovers: An Anthology of New Scottish Writing	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Great Introduction to &quot;New&quot; Scottish Writing	An excellent introduction to &quot;new Scottish writing&quot; this collection features one short story each from Irvine Welsh (Filth, Trainspotting, Ecstacy Club, Maribou Stork Nightmare), Alan Warner (Morvern  Callar, These Demented Lands,The Sopranos), Gordon Legge (The Shoe, In  Between Talking About the Football), James Meek (Drivetime), Laura Hird,  and Paul Reekie. Gordon Legge's &quot;Pop Life&quot; is a gruffly tender  portrait of three friends who've grown up and apart. Alan Warner's  &quot;After the Vision&quot; is typically long on tone and atmosphere as it  follows a stranded raver trying to find a place to sleep until the morning  train. James Meek's &quot;Brown Pint of Courage&quot; amusingly depicts a  trio of parking ticket writers who blow off their job. Paul Reekie's  &quot;The Submission&quot; was perhaps the lesser of the six stories,  written as a long rambling letter to a friend. The most &quot;sexy&quot;  story is by the lone female entrant, Laura Hird, whose &quot;The Dilating  Pupil&quot; is about a middle-aged teacher and a female student who have  designs on each other which are derailed in a night of booze and drugs.  Irvine Welsh's &quot;The Rosewell Incident&quot; is the shallowest, but  possibly funniest read of the lot. It throws together alien abduction and  &quot;lads&quot; in an unholy alliance to rule the world. A bit silly but  fun. The collection as a whole is well worth checking out if you want to  see what the Scottish kids are up to.	1999-08-26
2802522:US	52254603	RLCJFH78NOC63	0891905715	549223675	Bridge over the River Kwai	Books	4	13	15	N	N	War Noir	Very different in many ways from the Academy Award winning film, the short book is well worth reading in its own right. It's somehow bleaker and more disheartening, sort of a war noir. Interestingly enough Boulle also wrote  &quot;Planet of the Apes.&quot;	1999-08-26
2802560:US	52254603	RR4XWWNKURU7F	0805054979	694774725	Cutting Edge: A Crime Novel (Owl Book)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Solid Series Rebound	The third of the Charlie Resnick procedurals, this one brings the quality back up after the somewhat disappointing Rough Treatment. This may be because the stakes are raised back to the level of the first book Lonely  Hearts. In this one, someone is slicing up hospital workers, and the  motivation is a rather interesting one. There's also a side plot involving  a man who won't take no for an answer. There's the usual business with some  delving into the messed-up private lives of the police, Charlie takes in a  wino jazz saxophonist, and has his ex-wife turn up again. Whets the  appetite for Off Minor.	1999-08-25
2802682:US	52254603	R37EGCAQVL7G4R	0312956037	397411639	Cold Light (Dead Letter Mystery)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Another solid one	Another solid entry in the Charlie Resnick series, this one mostly about the search for a missing woman after a New Year's party. The mystery is a little less tricky than others in the series, and instead is a little more  interesting in the personal realm.	1999-08-25
2802705:US	52254603	R2SEN35CMP9RP1	0805054952	289499614	Easy Meat (Charlie Resnick)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Darker and Deeper	Somewhat more complicated than the seven previous entries in the Charlie Resnick series, this one involves a young boy hurtling down the road to a criminal life and his subsequent suicide in a youth facility as well as a  series of attacks on gays in a park, and the killing of a police officer.  More so than usual, Harvey has these events intertwining in the end. The  CID's personal life gets heavy treatment here, as Resnick gets involved in  a serious relationship, and a young black officer is added to his team.	1999-08-25
2802821:US	52254603	R30T2BHJM35BE	0805041494	546686178	Still Waters	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Solid Ninth Entry in Series	Very solid ninth entry effectively mixes Charlie Resnick's ever-deepening relationship with schoolteacher Hannah and the dissapearance of her friend Jane. This is against a backdrop of the formation of a new Serious Crimes  Unit headed by an ambitious high-flying female which threatens to take over  Charlie's turf. Less effective is the subplot tying together a few formerly  seen characters and an art forgery ring.	1999-08-25
2802911:US	52254603	RH1ZC6803JVAP	0805054960	967687707	Rough Treatment (Charlie Resnick)	Books	3	11	12	N	N	Sophomore Slump	The sequel to Lonely Hearts holds true to the curse of the &quot;sophomore slump.&quot; After the crispness of the first book, something isn't quite as fresh here. Part of it may be that the criminals being pursued by the  hero, Charlie Resnick, are burglars and mid-range drug dealers, instead of  the serial killer of the previous book. What still holds one's attention,  however, are the side stories in which the off-duty lives of the various  police officers are given some play. Most interesting is the unflappable  Super's paternal woes. Don't worry, the series picks up after this one.	1999-08-25
2802961:US	52254603	R3KY58IN3D0UP9	0805054944	625441578	Lonely Hearts	Books	4	21	22	N	N	Excellent Debut	Excellent debut of the gritty procedural Charlie Resnick series, set in an unnamed city (Nottingham) in the British Midlands. From the beginning it's clear why this series has become so popular over time. Harvey brings all  the banal nastiness of routine policework to the book, much as the  television shows Hill Street Blues and NYPD Blue did on the small screen.  Also like those series, he arranges a deep cast of characters around a less  than striking hero, paunchy, ill-dressed, Inspector Charlie Resnick (he  being of Polish descent). The plot covers the plodding efforts of the force  to solve first one murder, then a second, the linking of the two, and in a  somewhat clich&eacute; climax, the race to avert the killing of Charlie's new love  interest. What makes the book stand out is the convincing cast of  policemen, witnesses, suspects, and assorted other folks Harvey brings to  life.	1999-08-25
2803005:US	52254603	R1BO50N58FPESK	0575400978	574030542	A Book of Two Halves: New Football Short Stories	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Awesome Footie Stories	Awesome collection of 25 short stories and essays about soccer. My favorites were Stephen Baxter's &quot;Clods,&quot; Tim Pears' &quot;Ebony International&quot; Nicholas Lezards' &quot;The Beautiful Game,&quot; Steve  Grant's &quot;Casuals,&quot; Geoff Nicholson's &quot;The Winning  Side,&quot; Mark Morris's &quot;The Shirt,&quot; and Mark Timlin's  &quot;Wonder Boy.&quot; That said, almost every story has something  worthwhile about it, and for a soccer fan, this is a must read.	1999-08-25
2803107:US	52254603	R3057A1AT2ZB6S	0805054995	749321991	Wasted Years	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Best of the Series	The fifth and strongest entry in Harvey's Charlie Resnick series is less sensational on the procedural side than previous outings, focusing on two separate sets of armed robberies. One set does a good job of portraying a  bullying wayward youth and his aimless follower, while the other very  high-end, hitting banks and armored cars, and is rooted in Resnick's past.  Harvey effectively cuts back and forth between the present and 1981 in  order to show the past events and characters. As usual, the private lives  of the police squad is further developed.	1999-08-25
2803167:US	52254603	R2V86NC4LQ3WFF	0805054987	935287733	Off Minor (Charlie Resnick Series)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Wee Frustrating but Still Good Stuff	A strong fourth entry in the Charlie Resnick series, the plot revolves around the dissapearance of two small girls, and the uncertainty as to their abductor is maintained until the very end. As in the previous books  Harvey continues to the develop the personal lives of the police force,  although the focus her is less on Resnick as it is on others. It a bit  bleak since it isn't really clear why Resnick keeps rejecting the romantic  possabilites presented, and the one member of the force who seems headed  toward happiness doesn't acheive it.	1999-08-25
2803513:US	52254603	R1C9VVJKLS6EQ2	0312105347	649235796	A Sailor of Austria: A Novel	Books	5	30	31	N	N	Brilliant Debut	Wonderful debut historical novel set in the Austro-Hungarian Empire circa WWI. The book is presented as the memoirs of a Polish Czech who served in the royal navy as a submarine commander. The bulk of the book focuses on  his exploits in the fledgling submarine corps patrolling the Adriatic.  Biggins is masterful at depicting the cramped life and sketchy technology  of the earliest submarines. The detailed descriptions of combat are as  gripping and engaging as anything in &quot;The Hunt for Red October&quot;,  with the added bonus that Biggins can actually write. It is a very strong  historical novel which manages to depict a confusing time and place with  total believability. Highly recommended for those interested in Central  Europe circa WWI and those interested in military history. Followed by The  Emperor's Coloured Coat and The Two-Headed Eagle.	1999-08-24
2803980:US	52254603	R11CJ3OWCCQ3X0	0748660801	185131810	The Shoe	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Young Men Adrift in Scotland	Set in a town halfway between Glasgow and Edinburgh, Legge's first novel follows the bright-yet-unemployed Archie and his three friends: Davie (married and very domestic), the Mental Kid (loud and annoying), and  Richard (possessor of a record collection insured for 10,000 pounds). Over  three days they wander around arguing about football and music in this  affectionate portrayal of a certain segment of a generation. Legge's young  men are much more relaxed and docile than those of Irvine Welsh's world,  for Legge's short fiction check out In Between Talking About the Football,  and his excellent story in Children of Albion Rovers.	1999-08-23
2804857:US	52254603	R5TJVSEBEICF6	1577310241	876280494	The Inscrutable Americans	Books	1	12	22	N	N	Unfunny Superficial Waste of Time	What sounded like a good premise--chronicling an young Indian man's year abroad at a Midwestern university--never really develops beyond the obvious targets. Most of the trials and tribulations concern that mysterious  creature, the American female, and our Indian hero's complete ineptitude  with them (even the willing ones), al of which gets rather tiresome. The  attempts to portray racism are fairly clumsy and ineffective, and the one  black character is an unfortunate stereotype himself. Another problem is a  certain confusion as to when the story is set--it seems to be the early to  mid-1980s (a reference is made to the U.S.'s 1983 invasion of Grenada), but  much of the slang being used belongs to an earlier era. This could all be  overlooked if the cross-cultural confusions were actually funny, but they  are limited to the obvious language confusions for the most part. The book  does do a reasonable job touching upon some of the issues and frustrations  faced by foreign students, as well as the why they come to America to  study, but on the whole, I'd say skip it.	1999-08-22
2808053:US	52254603	R2GX2B16Q3ETB9	0375501401	776585139	City of Ice: A Novel	Books	3	11	16	N	N	Starts Strong but Drags On	The city of the title is Montreal, and I picked this up specifically because I was going on vacation there for a week and wanted to get some of the flavor of the city. As it worked out, I ended up reading it while there  instead, which was actually a kind of cool--although by the end I was  exhausted and ready for it to end. It's a thriller/procedural, teaming a  loner French-Canadian veteran police detective with a young  English-Canadian, with the resulting sparks predictably followed by mutual  respect. The plot revolves around gang-warfare between rival biker gangs  (yes, this sounds hokey, but I gather it's based on real events) who are  tied into international crime circles. By then end, it's all a bit much,  but still worth reading if you're interested in Montreal. BTW- John Farrow  is a pseudonym for Canadian literary talent Trevor Ferguson.	1999-08-17
2808181:US	52254603	R8KWEFJ7MDH59	1569471258	226915374	Getting It On: A Condom Reader	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Too Thin	By the end of this collection of poems (12), short stories (9), and book excerpts (7) I felt like I'd been a participant in a good idea (anthology of fiction revolving around condoms), but wasn't fulfilled. I hadn't  realized so much of the book was comprised of poetry or excerpts, and at  times the relation of the condom to the theme of the story seemed almost  non-existent. That said, there are some well done stories stories such as  T.C. Boyle's &quot;Modern Love,&quot; Ewing Campbell's  &quot;Conveniences,&quot; and Hester Kaplan's &quot;On the Narrow  Side.&quot; The excerpts aren't bad either, especially those from Michelle  Chalfoun's Roustabout, John Irving's The World According to Garp, Martin  Amis's The Rachel Papers, and Ann Rice's The Tale of the Body Thief, and  Andrew McGahan's Praise. All in all, it's not as fun or saucy as you might  expect.	1999-08-17
2821547:US	52254603	R140DKBWCI9KM1	1569470650	936627134	The Souvenir (Soho crime)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Very good stuff	A quick reading reissue of a taut 1970 Australian book. Two teenage girls are hitchhiking together during the summer and one of them kills a man. Each accuses the other and neither's story can be disproven. It is now four  years later and the sister of the victim turns to a very ordinary--and yet  odd--man to decipher the issue. The mystery is unraveled in flashbacks,  written testimony and current interviews. The reader will be very  hard-pressed to finger the culprit properly in this unusual tale.	1999-07-26
2821633:US	52254603	R2ZYMKOWDH1UQO	0553575384	291987598	To Say Nothing of the Dog	Books	4	12	16	N	N	Interesting Mix	This is one of the most interesting literary mixes I've ever come across, all the more surprising as it appears in the form of a science-fiction time-travel book. The book itself is a mix of hard sci-fi, Victorian comedy  of errors and manners, and cozy mystery. Literary homages (most notably to  Three Men in a Boat) and references abound, including P.G. Wodehouse's  Beeves books, Gibbon's Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, not to mention  Tennyson's poetry and Herotodus (who are both quoted throughout). The story  has to do with a project in 2057 to rebuild the Coventry Cathedral, and  time-traveling historians sent back to study its contents prior to the  bombing of 1940. The story is set in motion when one of the historians  somehow brings a Victorian-era cat through the time-travel &quot;net&quot;,  contravening the natural laws governing time-travel. The heroes must then  return the cat in order to correct any &quot;anomalies&quot;, but this gets  them enmeshed in a matchmaking fiasco with loads of fun and well-drawn  archetypes of the era (the ditzy girl, the absentminded Oxford don, the  seance-loving matron, and miscellaneous butlers). And of course, by the  end, all mysteries are revealed, everyone is paired off, and everything  neatly dovetails. Truly a wondrous feat of writing and imagination.	1999-07-26
2821658:US	52254603	R28RK1483DUDMD	1852425571	444873517	The Riot Act (A Mask Noir Title)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent, unusual dark stuff	A highly, highly original character drives this dark, London thriller. It's shades of &quot;La Femme Nikita&quot; as a young class warrior is turned/blackmailed by a government agency into helping them find the people  who are responsible for the bombings that are plaguing London (one of which  killed his New Age girlfriend). In order to don his disguise as foreign  exchange broker, he has to shave his dreadlocks, vacate his houseboat and  move into a posh flat with a dishy &quot;minder.&quot; There is constant  tension, both sexual and criminal as the plot develops. I won't suggest the  ending, but it is a corker, and entirely dark.	1999-07-26
2821766:US	52254603	R1D0XYZ1BKYLLG	0312187548	613949143	Praise: A Novel	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Is That All There Is?	THE BOOK ALLEGEDLY won the award for best Australian book of 1991-it must have been a slow year... No matter how you try and dress it up with meaning and hyperbole, this is a book about an unemployed slacker having lots and lots of graphic loveless sex and getting drunk/high a lot. It gets pretty old pretty quick, and there's little to take from it. The subject of lost youth in the modern world has been vividly and effectively portrayed in Scotland by writers like Irvine Welsh and Alan Warner, and in England and America in countless novels, McGahan seems to be striving for the same effect here, but it's not nearly as well written or interesting. The loser slacker protagonist (Gordon) is introduced in 1988, which has a lot less sex, and is slightly more interesting as a whole.	1999-07-26
2821864:US	52254603	R2QJN56MQ3U1KA	0312965680	48472496	Wings of Fire: An Inspector Ian Rutledge Mystery (Ian Rutledge Mysteries)	Books	3	2	8	N	N	Adequete #2 in the series	WWI vet and shell shook victim Inspector Rutledge is once again sent to the English countryside to get him out of the way of his Scotland Yard rival. While a serial killer stalks London, Rutledge is in Cornwall  checking on a double-suicide and accident within the same household. In  this story, it's not clear for much of the book whether or not a crime has  been committed or not, as Rutledge follows his instincts in prodding the  memories of the villagers about the three dead people--one of whom was  renowned poet. It all hinges on a very complex family, involving a woman  with three husbands, children from each marriage (including twins), and  their spouses. Todd seems to enjoy writing about mental tussles between  people, but no matter how well he does it, it's all a little tame for my  tastes.	1999-07-26
2821875:US	52254603	R3MKAUIGRVRX7Q	0679767886	68694794	Unusual Suspects: A New Anthology of Crime Stories from Black Lizard	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Decent Mix	Typical of most anthologies, some stories are clever, some entertaining, some funny, some boring, some touching... I can't really say which stories are best, since it really depends what style you like. Probably there is  something for everyone but not everything for someone.	1999-07-26
2821956:US	52254603	RG09TXK4IHIGH	0446675172	972725087	Like a Hole in the Head	Books	2	2	6	N	N	What's All the Fuss About?	Fairly mediocre first novel, in which the plot revolves around the theft and retrieval of a inscribed first edition of a Jack London novel. The protagonist is a loner, slacker type working in a small LA used bookstore.  Things go wacky when a dwarf sells her the Jack London, she sells it to a  dealer, and a polite thug comes looking for it. She's sort of interesting  as a character, but also fairly annoying. There's a few bits of nasty  violence and some nice evocation of grimy America. Less convincing are the  bits with the star Hollywood director. A more interesting and literary  mystery involving the quest for rare books is The Club Dumas by Arturo  P&eacute;rez-Reverte.	1999-07-26
2821974:US	52254603	R2O0WI8IHUON7I	0679449000	203053226	The Way of the Traitor: A Samurai Mystery	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Filthy Gaijin!	The third in the Japanese historical series, this one takes Sano Ichiro from Edo to Nagasaki on an inspection. It's 1690 and Nagasaki is the one place where barbarian traders (the Dutch East India Co.) are permitted to  come and trade. Sano is quickly embroiled in investigating the death of the  head of the Dutch trade mission, which spins off into smuggling and  possibly an illegal Christian underground. As usually, there is a lot of  interesting history and social custom imparted in the course of the  whodunit, which is good, 'cause Sano's inner conflict and the actual  mystery aren't all that compelling in and of themselves.	1999-07-26
2822652:US	52254603	R2QMFIMXTLILLX	0679733116	161137335	A Swell-Looking Babe	Books	2	4	11	N	N	Not So Swell	So-so effort from the ace of pulp noir. Typical themes of a twisted loner with thwarted ambition, blackmail and a dark secret -- and a dollop of incest. Not too hard to see where it's headed, and not really worth making  the trip.	1999-07-24
2822674:US	52254603	RI17JQJ1HON15	1569471193	734440007	Salamander	Books	2	2	5	N	N	Great Concept, Mediocre Execution	This is the ninth book in the Canadian author's series set in occupied France, featuring a detecting duo of one German Gestapo agent, and one French Suret&eacute; officer. I love the concept, but the mystery--set in Lyon, a  few days before Christmas in 1942--is a confusing mess involving way too  many characters and bizarre motivations. Also, the author's style of  preceding a character's dialogue with their interior thoughts gets annoying  and intrusive. All in all, the book was not satisfying, and didn't tempt me  to seek out the others in the series.	1999-07-24
2822739:US	52254603	R1ZBKB3Z7Z73R8	0061009504	421509995	Shinju	Books	3	16	18	N	N	Interesting Setting, Less Compelling Mystery	A highly detailed series debut set in Tokyo (Edo) circa 1690. The detective is a newly appointed samurai police officer who quickly manages to piss off his boss and underlings by sticking his naively inquisitive  nose into various matters, most notably, a ritual lovers' suicide he is  ordered not to investigate. Of course our hero has an inner conflict which  rages between duty and justice which battles most of the book, as he gets  himself deeper and deeper in hot water. The mystery itself is nothing  special, and relies on a villain who is more than slightly crazed. The fun  in the book is in all the little details about urban Japanese life and  customs of the era, as well as the political background. This is presented  very fluidly and is well-woven into the plot.	1999-07-24
2822784:US	52254603	R3JDM5SSWFXAI8	0312964463	224822609	Shoot the Moon (Shoot Moon)	Books	3	0	2	N	N	OK for the airplane or beach	Nice airplane or beach reading, this book is that sort of &quot;witty&quot; crime story featuring &quot;characters&quot; in both the underworld and law enforcement who all stumble their way through a big drug  deal, providing lots of slang and &quot;insider&quot; info as they do. Like  Elmore Leonard or Carl Hiassen, it's good fun, could make a good movie, but  nothing that's going to stick with you. Actually Klempner does a pretty  good job juggling the hero and his sidekicks with the NYCPD trying to take  him down, the Bronx gangsters who are trying to rip him off, the Cuban  gangsters trying to get even, and the mafia he's trying to deal with... In  its zest to make everything work out and have all the lose ends tied up,  the plot relies a little too much on police bumbling, and a crucial ally  who betrays her past, but other than that it's fine.	1999-07-24
2822785:US	52254603	R7UL6VRCJ3OO6	0440217970	868852985	Scavenger Reef	Books	2	2	8	N	N	A Weak Immitator	Although this book attempts to set itself in the same colorful &quot;wacky Florida crime&quot; world of Elmore Leonard and Carl Hiassen, it falls totally flat. The idea is kind of nice, a beloved Key West painter goes  missing in a storm and is presumed dead. His agent holds a memorial show of  his work in an attempt to drive up the price of the posthumous painters  work., this results in a canonizing review by a super-influential critic. A  little later a Sotheby's auction is arranged and his friends, agent, and  others all try and cash in on the painter's new cachet. Meanwhile, he comes  back from the dead, throwing a spanner in everyone's plans! So, someone  tries to kill him to maintain the value of the art. It's a neat idea, but  not particularly well executed. Airplane reading at best.	1999-07-24
2822787:US	52254603	R1YLVL3NU04RFW	0385324170	393560935	Riding the Rap	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Diverting but not lasting	I'd not read an Elmore Leonard book prior to this, and by the end I could tell why his books sell so well. It's very much a &quot;beach book,&quot; guilty pleasure type of experience. The plot is what I gather to be  standard Leonard fare, cops and robbers running around in Florida getting  in odd situations and spouting wise-a** remarks left and right. It's all  very diverting, but don't expect anything lasting.	1999-07-24
2822850:US	52254603	R1B93ZGGULEMAW	1899344179	243109054	Shrouded	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Creepy and Unusual	Creepy story about two socially maladjusted people whose lives intersect with nasty consequences. Douglas is a mortician with no interpersonal skills, making lists on his computer, and approaching each task in life  analytically. Physically abused as a child, he finally moves out of his  mother's house as an adult and slowly unravels mentally, turning into a  quiet homicidal maniac. Marjorie is an asthmatic, overmothered wallflower  who craves attention. Her timid involvement with a fish owner's club brings  her into contact with Douglas. The book is convincing in showing how minor  personality problems can either mask a dangerous psyche or get one in a lot  of trouble. Could make a very good film.	1999-07-24
2822856:US	52254603	R1TB1YAU277XJU	0156006391	937190844	The Seville Communion	Books	3	1	1	N	N	The Vatican's 007 Plods Along	This, the third of P&eacute;rez-Reverte &quot;literate thrillers&quot; to be published in the US, is somehow less satisfying than the previous two (The Flanders Panel and The Club Dumas). Perhaps it because of the predominance  of religious themes, or maybe the relative lack of action, I'm not sure.  The story kicks off with a hacker breaking into the Pope's PC and leaving a  plea to investigate the nefarious attempts to close down a small church in  Seville. The Vatican sends one of its &quot;agents,&quot; who, like 007 is  sharp dresser, good in a fight, and is a lady-killer. He, and all the  characters are intriguing and well-developed, as is usual for  P&eacute;rez-Reverte. Somehow, despite a clicking clock, the whole thing seems to  sort of plod along without too much pace to it.	1999-07-24
2822891:US	52254603	RSDBSI7NGMJ6T	0312110618	56509702	Shoedog	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Noir in DC	Pelecanos takes a break from the Nick Stefanos series to tell the noir tale of a drifter who, while simply hitching a ride south, gets caught up in shady dealings with deadly consequences. The protagonist, Constantine,  is extremely similar to Pelecanos' Nick Stefanos (and even spends a night  in Stefanos' bar) he's a loner, able to hold his own, at home with the  underbelly of society and a keen sense of what is right and wrong. He gets  caught up in with some petty criminals and their controlling boss and ends  up in a sticky situation. As usual, Pelecanos uses Washington DC and  environs as a backdrop for this gritty little tale.	1999-07-24
2822928:US	52254603	R38TF6QQ8Z7MLF	1899344136	770301285	Smalltime (Bloodlines) (Bloodlines Series)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	So-so Bleak	So-so peek into very small time crime perpetuated by non-criminals. The ostensible hero, Chris, is mugged by the inept Leo, setting into motion a chain of events that will lead Chris, Leo, and Leo's buddy Kevin into a  triangle of crime. All three are 25-35 and living dead-end lives in a  London suburb. Chris' prospects are starting to look up very slightly (he  lives in a YMCA) when he tries to juggle two new women. Predictable results  ensue with the women, and the smalltime crime ends up in multiple tragedy.  Tr&eacute;s bleak.	1999-07-24
2822951:US	52254603	R2G7JKWN3V5FW7	0446603422	396091677	Stormy Weather	Books	3	0	4	N	N	Beach Reading 101	One the seemingly ubiquitous South Florida crimeish writer set, Hiassen isn't too shabby. The idea for this book seems to have been to think up a bunch of characters (some quirky, some not), a bunch of odd situations  occurring in the aftermath of a hurricane, and try and weave them all  together. My favorite character died early on though, and some others were  a tad too implausible for my taste. I would call it a crime book since most  of the action seems to revolve around criminals and schemers trying to make  money off the aftermath of the hurricane, and those in their way. Not a bad  beach read, but not exactly challenging.	1999-07-24
2822974:US	52254603	R19B1NW8XAY2Q8	0312144318	88261938	A Test of Wills	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Mystery unsatisfying, Background interesting	Although the murder in this debut mystery is somewhat banal, the book is redeemed by its engrossing portrayals of a small English village and the Inspector sent from London to solve the case. Set in 1919, the book's main  strength comes in evoking the effect of WWI on both the fragile  shell-shocked psyche of Inspector Rutledge, and the small village social  structure. The mystery facing the Inspector is fairly baffling on the  surface, and relies on a standard old ruse to arrive at a not-so-satisfying  solution. Even so, this is a series definitely worth trying out.	1999-07-24
2822985:US	52254603	REIP7B5MHQOJF	1852425113	843358193	Rilke on Black (A Mask Noir Title)	Books	2	2	10	N	N	Ho-Hum	Very short basic kidnapping story revolving around an aging bouncer type, a sexy young woman and their dodgy partner in crime. Of course since this is noir, they can't trust each other one bit as they run around South  London and nasty things happen. Lots of sex and killing, pretty ho-hum  stuff.	1999-07-24
2823034:US	52254603	R1AJ2DF2O87XTO	0140258825	724686774	Sherlock Holmes and the Red Demon: A Sherlock Holmes Adventure in North America	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Solid	This is part of the whole cottage industry which produces riffs upon and spin-offs of Arthur Conan Doyle's classic Sherlock Holmes stories. The author is actually listed as &quot;John Watson, M.D.&quot; and Millett is  listed as the &quot;editor&quot; in order to preserve the total illusion  that this is a &quot;lost&quot; manuscript only recently recovered and  edited, complete with footnotes of explanation. This premise, although  hokey in one sense, was actually quite effective in getting me into the  spirit of the book. This book alleges to account for some of the missing  time of the dynamic duo by placing them in Minnesota in 1894. I confess to  being a neophyte to the Holmes canon, having read only a few stories and  been mostly exposed to it via the excellent British television productions.  Thus, I am in no position to comment on the books faithfulness, or lack  thereof, to the details of the series, or to the replication of writing  style. However, it is a fun read. Based on a great deal of historical  research, the book has Holmes and Watson hired by a rail baron to solve the  mystery of a mysterious outbreak of arson attacks on his line. The mystery  itself isn't too tricky, but a rousing conclusion more than makes up for  any other deficiencies. A must for Holmes fans, and a good period mystery  even if you're not a big Holmes reader.	1999-07-24
2823051:US	52254603	R3OVTMAIX5CF2N	1860464424	611664591	The Scapegoat	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Anglicized Translation Detracts From Middling Mystery	Regrettably, the essence of what could have been a very interesting French crime novel is bastardized by this unfortunate Anglicized translation, resulting in an adequate, if somewhat haphazard read. Translation is a very  tricky business, fraught with pitfalls, and the decision in this case to  use British colloquialisms is a total failure (albeit more so for the  American reader than the British one). To have uniquely British turns of  phrase and slang emerging from what are supposed to be French characters  severely detracts from the reader's ability to immerse himself in the book.  That said, the story, about a department store employee, and the bombs that  keep going off in his store, isn't bad. He and his family are the most  interesting and entertaining bits of the book. The actual  &quot;mystery&quot; relies on some very disturbing pathology, which I don't  find particularly interesting or plausible in general, and the  &quot;mystery&quot; as to how the bombs are getting into the store will be  apparent to most readers very early on.	1999-07-24
2823088:US	52254603	R2VQOGE72IDX95	1852425199	155480084	Slow Death (High Risk Books)	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Overambitiously interesting	Home tries to do a little too much here in attempting to satirize the contemporary London art scene within a what appears to be a parody of pulp fiction. The plot intertwines the trendies of the London art world with a  gang of sympathetic, yet thuggish skinheads (the non-racist kind) let by  Johnny Aggro. There's lots of silly art doubletalk, some asskicking of  foolish people by the skins, and lots of sex. Not erotic or even pulp sex,  but rather a parody of pulp sex. Everyone seems to want it--from frustrated  social workers, to young schoolgirls, to the fat skinhead--and Home uses  the same words to describe each act, sometimes duplicating the entire  passage. In any event, Home's touch is far too heavy to pull this whole  enterprise off.	1999-07-24
2823102:US	52254603	RE05INOG39YQB	006109420X	98943768	Thief of Light	Books	1	2	4	N	N	Insider Info Can't Save Clich&eacute;-ridden Prose	O-ver-ra-ted... This NYC art-world thriller, which got much hype when it came out is nothing more than an insider's hackneyed paint-by-numbers attempt to hit it big as an author. There are so many clich&eacute;s, I wouldn't  want to waste the space listing them out. Ramus' insider status doesn't add  much to this tired story about a crooked art dealer whose world crumbles  when his master forger is unexpectedly slain prior to completing a Manet  water lily fake. Japanese mobsters, younger posh love interest, child from  previous marriage, blah, blah, blah. Waste of time.	1999-07-24
2875586:US	52254603	R2M3VXDA9TDPUC	0312147511	373478326	The Two-Headed Eagle: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Outstanding Historical Adventure	The third of Biggins's tales (after &quot;A Sailor of Austria&quot; and &quot;The Emperor's Coloured Coat&quot;) of Austrio-Hungarian Imperial naval officer Otto Prohaska. This entry chronicles his five months duty on  the Italian front with an air reconnaissance unit. This book, more so than  the previous two, manages to project the hopelessness, meaninglessness, and  horror of WWI. Although Biggins foreshadows the deaths of various  characters, the tragedy of their circumstance is always intact and  immutable. As always, the technical aspect of the book is thrilling and  captivating. Just as he did with submarines in &quot;A Sailor of  Austria,&quot; Biggins masterfully describes the emergence and rapid  development of the airplane as an instrument of war. Reading this will  shatter all preconceptions about the era of biplanes and the &quot;Red  Baron.&quot; The distinguishing feature of this entry in the series is its  melancholy mood, which the reader cannot help but adopt.	1999-04-30
2875608:US	52254603	R1XCCB5ARWXAOD	156836167X	667164071	Tales of Two Cities: A Persian Memoir (Kodansha Globe)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	An Excellent Place To Start	This book is an excellent introduction for Westerners to the enigma that is Iran. Culture, history and politics are all blended in this exceptional memoir.	1999-04-30
2875627:US	52254603	R1JFOFMT026LW9	0679757937	16614305	Visiting Mrs. Nabokov: And Other Excursions	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Good Subway Reading	Moderately amusing collection of 33 articles culled from various magazines and newspapers. Many of these are interviews with authors like John Updike, Salman Rushdie, and other such literary luminaries. While these are likely  of interest to the well-read, I found the more entertaining essays to be  the non-interviews. In this vein are those railing on Republican politics,  the darts scene, judging a short story competition, the Frankfurt Book  Fair, an English soccer team's tour of China, and playing pool with a good  friend. The essays are all fairly short, so it's a good book to pick up and  put down constantly.	1999-04-30
2875647:US	52254603	R2E58S80HDPHDM	086442471X	795005519	Shopping for Buddhas	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Nothing Special	Kind of blah traveler's tale, ostensibly about this dude's quest to purchase a &quot;perfect&quot; statue of the Buddha in the bazaars of Katmandu. Along the way we get vignettes about Nepal and a very, very  casual overview of life and politics there. Neither particularly engaging,  nor particularly loathsome.	1999-04-30
2875737:US	52254603	R2N9PGZEM96PE8	1568361025	339022821	Setting the East Ablaze: Lenins Dream of an Empire in Asia	Books	4	7	7	N	N	The Great Game Ct'd	A nice followup read to &quot;The Great Game&quot; (also by Hopkirk), this book details the efforts between the World Wars by the Soviet Union to spread Marxism to the east. Like The Great Game, there are dashing  adventurers, wily spies, lunatics, and odd characters aplenty. There are  some great individual stories, such as the British agent who the Soviets  hired to find himself, and several crackpots with serious delusions of  grandeur. What really emerges is how tenuous Moscow's hold was on its  further-flung regions, as Bolsheviks, White Russians, and native people  vied for control of these regions. Ultimately, the books is less cohesive  and thus less satisfying than &quot;The Great Game&quot; (and about half  the size!).	1999-04-30
2875748:US	52254603	R1BNCRRRYEGSRB	0879516895	675900200	Surfers Soulies Skinheads and Skaters: Subcultural Style from the Forties to the Nineties	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Fashion Book For Rest Of Us	This beautifully produced coffee-table book arose from a fashion exhibit held by the Victoria &amp; Albert Museum in the early 1990s. I can't say enough about the layout, photography, and amazing color throughout the  book. While the exhibit curators obviously labored mightily to put the  exhibit together, the book manages to catalog it all in an enthralling way.  A bit expensive for people like me, but you should definitely find a copy  to browse through if nothing else.	1999-04-30
2875752:US	52254603	R3UUFXRLP0H7YF	078670618X	644277504	Black Ajax	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Great Stuff	From one of my most favorite authors of historical fiction comes this tale of a freed slave coming to England circa 1810 to try and break into the prizefighting game. Apparently prizefighting was the sport back then,  enjoyed by all levels of society. Fraser tells the story of the rise and  fall of this one-time legend in a series of mock interviews with those  surrounding him: his childhood love, his manager, his trainer, his patron,  several foes, and misc. others. Just as interesting as the fighter's story  is the variety in language and perspective given in each interview. The  interviews are loaded with slang from the era, which is only partially  decoded in the glossary, so it may make for heavy reading for some. The  patron of the prizefighter is Harry Flashman's father, in a tie-in to  Fraser's excellent long-running Flashman series.	1999-04-30
2875770:US	52254603	RBN0VLC2O2IUU	088001301X	169118971	Their Heads Are Green Their Hands Are Blue	Books	3	11	19	N	N	Somewhat Haphazard &amp; Dated, But Mostly Worth It	Reprint of 1957 collection of eight travel essays by the well-known novelist. Though they include pieces on modern Sri Lanka, Turkey and South America, the book is at its most insightful in North Africa, where Bowles  has lived a great deal of his life. While the book is not really about  religion, despite the suggestive nature of the subtitle, it is in most ways  about different modes of spirituality and belief. Whether this involves  hexes, the spirits of animals, the solitude of the desert, Bowles is  attempting to present an alternative vision. Some of the language and  indeed the attitudes he takes could be considered very dated by today's  standards, and some of the writing borders on whining about poor  conditions. But the essays are still valuable for their portraits of newly  independent countries struggling with their identities. His glib  generalizations on the relative merits and effects of narcotic vs. those of  alcohol are somewhat silly, as are some of his observations on nationalism  and cultural tradition. But, each piece is a quick read, and well worth it  if you have any interest in the areas written about.	1999-04-30
2875847:US	52254603	RGGDB6SKA8H44	0440225590	225201186	Cuba Libre	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Pretty Pedestrian	Much-hyped, this latest book from Leonard only confirms my opinion that he's a decent genre writer, but little more. Set in Cuba, the book uses the Spanish-American War (starting with the destruction of The Maine) as its backdrop. The story itself is the usual Leonard stuff, a righteous cowboy bank-robber helps a buddy export some horses to Cuba, along with arms for the native insurgents. They soon run afoul of both the law, and the nasty sugar cane baron they are supposed to deliver the horses to. The sugar baron has a lovely young kept woman who falls for the cowboy, and they spend the rest of the book trying to hook up while getting pursued by various foes. There's also a &quot;fake&quot; kidnapping and ransom, which has a predictable ending. The historical milieu is pretty interesting, albeit rather heavy-handed in many cases and the Spanish are cast rather a shade too dastardly. There's a bit at the end where this newspaper guy delivers a lecture which is so unrelated to the story that it ought to be used as an example of how not to write historical fiction. I guess it's worth reading if you're a Leonard fan, others will get moderate mileage from it. I think the Coen Bros. have acquired the film rights to it.	1999-04-30
2875894:US	52254603	R2RI7UQAVX884I	0865474893	186717347	A Thousand Miles from Nowhere: Trucking Two Continents	Books	1	2	2	N	N	Read &quot;Danger, Heavy Goods&quot; Instead	The two continents in question are Europe and America, the trucking in question being the 18-wheeler, big rig type. English freelance writer Coster took truck-driving lessons in preparation for his scheme to ride  along with truckers on hauls in both continents. Unfortunately the small  bit about his lessons ultimately prove to be the most entertaining part of  the book, which is basically a blow-by-blow account of his ridealongs from  England to Moscow, and from New England to California. His description of  various driver &quot;types&quot; constrains no surprises, the segues into  different truck makes and models are boring (unless you are a gearhead),  and the attempt to weave in all kinds of nonsense about music (country and  blues) is misguided and annoying. One can learn a fair number of  interesting details about the trucking life and industry (especially all  the permits and paperwork involved), but that wasn't enough to rescue the  book for me. An interesting omission is any exploration of prostitution,  which is reputed to be widespread at truck stops around the world. Coster  is clearly a fan of trucking and rather in awe of the drivers and their  ability to make it all work, but his enthusiasm doesn't translate well to a  book. A much more compelling and entertaining account of trucking can be  found in &quot;Danger, Heavy Goods&quot; by Robert Hutchison.	1999-04-30
2875926:US	52254603	R36U6WVXFS8IHT	091015533X	989002881	A Spy for Hannibal: A Novel of Carthage	Books	1	7	9	N	N	Very Unimpressive	A historical novel which is pretty flat and unimpressive throughout. It is set in Carthage, c. 219 BC as a young Hannibal is making his march on Rome. The title and copy made me think it would be more of a thriller, rather  than the weak soap-opera it turned out to be. There is a bit to be learned  about the customs and manners of Carthage, but the plot is so silly I don't  advise spending your time on this book. It relies on one unbelievable  coincidence after another--much like Melrose Place, only without the verve.  Steer clear.	1999-04-30
2875958:US	52254603	R1HSI5BTA2XVHS	0140104305	795384724	Sharpe's Enemy: Richard Sharpe & the Defense of Portugal, Christmas 1812 (Richard Sharpe's Adventure Series #15)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Napoleonic Adventures	Somehow, I've been aware for years of Cornwall's series set in the Napoleonic wars, and the BBC productions based on them, but haven't gotten around to sampling either book or video until this. It is obviously in the  middle of the series, but the reader does not suffer from this. You can  pretty quickly tell which characters are reoccurring ones, and indeed the  British hero Sharpe finally has it out with his old enemy Obadiah Hakeswell  (great name!) in this volume. Certainly, there would be greater  deliciousness if I'd read of their previous encounters, but Cornwall  effectively summarizes them so that one is satisfied. The military action  centers around a small Spanish village near the Portuguese border, in which  a band of deserters are holding hostage a number of innocent women,  including the wives of some British and French officers. Sharpe is assigned  the task of their rescue, and then later assumes great responsibilities as  he must meet a challenge from the French. There is some good stuff about  how the British officers operated, and some fun with the first rocket  artillery unit in war. Despite all these heroics, Cornwall keeps the horror  and senseless waste of war in clear focus. The ending is especially  bittersweet, though not unexpected. I'll definitely be looking to read this  series in order, or at least check out the videos.	1999-04-30
2875984:US	52254603	R2C9YG6VC6CONE	067977260X	830255307	The Blue Afternoon	Books	4	30	30	N	N	Unusual and Compelling	A very unusual book which could be considered a period mystery, but stands as excellent literature on its own merits. The book starts in 1936 Los Angeles and follows a young woman architect for just enough pages for the  reader to get interested in her. Then a mysterious man shows up and claims  to be her father. After 70 pages she is then whisked away on a  cross-Atlantic sea voyage to help her father find a woman in Lisbon. The  bulk of the book then serves to explain why. In a slightly awkward device,  the woman recounts, in prose form, what her father tells her about his  life. This takes the reader to Manila in 1902 and follows a her father, as  a doctor as he strives to bring modern medical practices to the  Philippines, helps the occupying US Army investigate a series of gruesome  murders, and watches his marriage fade away and maintain a love affair.  There is also a subplot involving an attempt to build a flying machine.  Events build to a crisis and collapse. By now the reader understands who  the woman in Lisbon is and why she is important. Boyd's strength is  building a complete description of time and place at the same time as he  creates characters with great depth. This book won the LA Times Book Prize  for Fiction.	1999-04-30
2876003:US	52254603	R1EVOXT0GUQIUW	019212319X	831583838	The Fortunes of Casanova and Other Stories	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Great Omnibus	An outstanding omnibus which collects eleven of Sabatini's &quot;lost&quot; short stories and nine stories which are based on events from the historical Casanova's memoirs. Sabatini's short stories are  masterful in their pace and ability to immediately immerse the reader in an  adventure (invariably featuring a rascally hero) which ends in total  satisfaction for the reader, if not the hero. The stories are all set from  the 16th-18th centuries in various European locales and are shining  examples of the craft of historical adventure writing.	1999-04-30
2876020:US	52254603	R3M41R8SU8LSXF	0786704624	579481360	A Booke of Days: A Novel of the Crusades	Books	3	2	4	N	N	The Horror.... the horror...	Written in diary form, this a mostly entertaining account of a French knight's experience in the Crusades, circa 1100. The highly devout hero is plagued by his guilt for committing adultery and so consigns himself to the  Crusades to seek spiritual cleansing. A great deal of the book is taken up  in documenting his trek across Europe to the Holy Land. I have no idea how  historically accurate the book is, but it jibed with what little I do know  about the Crusades. The most valuable part of the book for me was its  depicting of how horrible and desperate the trip to the Holy Land was. The  author does a great job of showing how gritty and nasty the whole  enterprise was. He pulls no punches in describing the feuding between  different groups of Crusaders and their naked ambitions to seize land and  tribute. The novel is highly unromantic, and is extremely useful in that  sense. There is all manner of other stuff thrown in to round it out,  spiritual questing (which I skimmed over) and a love story (which was  banal) which culminates in a extremely silly surprise, which almost ruins  the whole book.	1999-04-30
2876052:US	52254603	R1PQXARVW0P7YM	1889703001	629745251	All Ages: Reflections on Straight Edge	Books	4	18	19	N	N	A Look Back At the Old Times	Having been heavily into the straight-edge scene from 1987-91 or so, and having more or lest kept abreast of it since (while remaining SE), it was with some trepidation that I started reading this compilation of interviews  with former band members and scenesters of that era. While I wasn't  surprised at all to find a lot of revisionist history about what so-and-so  &quot;really&quot; believed at the time, there was actually quite a bit  more honesty and self-awareness than I expected. Even though most of the  interviewees aren't SE any more, there was a general consensus that it had  played a positive role in their lives, despite the wretched excesses that  some in the scene were--and are--prone to. There are a few females (friends  of the compiler) who have some semi-interesting things to say about how  straight-edge is fairly exclusionary of women, but the best interview in  the book is with Ian Mackaye. Far from dissing SE, he lauds its passability  as a positive influence and force while recognizing its limitations and  unexpected mutations. For people who were there, this book is an  interesting look back, but as a work of anthropology it's kind of useless.  One wishes Lahickey had pursued some of the obvious contradictions and  obfuscations in some of her interviewees statements. The book is  chock-a-block with live pictures and reproductions of flyers, which make up  somewhat for the crappy typography and typos.	1999-04-30
2876156:US	52254603	RO9ICFR9ZCXU7	1570362858	705641087	Pirates: Terror on the High Seas-From the Caribbean to the South China Sea	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Great Coffee-Table Book	This is an excellent coffee-table introduction to pirates, well worth the $29.95 for those interested in the subject. The book's chapters are written by different authors, who generally keep the prose crisp and readable,  although there are occasional &quot;dry&quot; areas. The chapters are: The  Lure of Spanish Gold, Brethren of the Coast, Buccaneer Explorers, Corsairs  of the Mediterranean, The Golden Age of Piracy, Libertalia: The Pirate's  Utopia, The Pirate Round, French and American Privateers, The Eastern Seas,  Chinese Pirates, and Piracy Today. What really makes the book worthwhile is  the excellent collection of illustrations and artifacts that accompany the  text. Of special noteworthyness is the photo on page 9 of some beheaded  pirates. The book is very well designed, and very conducive to leisurely  reading, bit by bit. Some of the information is repeated across chapters,  which is prone to happen when there are different contributors (although  the editors should still have excised the repetitive parts). The chapter  &quot;Corsairs of the Mediterranean&quot; was probably the most engaging  for me, both in terms of the writing, and the vast amount of interesting  history presented. I felt two chapters that could have been really  interesting, but unfortunately failed to be were &quot;The Eastern  Seas,&quot; and &quot;Chinese Pirates.&quot; I would definitely recommend  this book as a beginning text to anyone with an interest in pirates.	1999-04-29
2876163:US	52254603	R1FTAMRG7B8WX8	0688067565	602777275	Danger-Heavy Goods: Driving the Toughest, Most Dangerous Roads in the World	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Great Stuff	Although it is somewhat dated, Hutchison's book is a highly entertaining and in a way, heartwarming, account of riding with a heavy trucker from England to Saudi Arabia and back on a &quot;Middle East&quot; run.  Hutchison has a very good knack for capturing the characters of the  &quot;brotherhood&quot; of truckers and all the people who help and hinder  them as they their haul goods. The writing is honest and open, leaving  everything open for inspection, from the ingrained racism of many of the  British drivers, to the truckers' brothels, to the resorts where it is  known that English girls congregate, will to trade a &quot;ride&quot; for a  ride back to England. The chronicle of the trip also serves as a critique  of the free-market system which was facilitating the undercutting of  British drivers by Bulgarians and Turks, and a semi-maudlin lament for  &quot;the end of trucking as we know it.&quot; But it is also strewn with  anecdotes from drivers, both amusing, and absurd. Hutchison also attempts  to weave in the history of the area they pass through, but this is not as  compelling, and feels almost as if it were added on to make the account  more high-brow. But nonetheless, I highly recommend this as an unusual  travelogue, and as an account of trucking, it's miles better than Graham  Coster's A Thousand Miles From Nowhere: Trucking Two Continents.	1999-04-29
2876194:US	52254603	R299LORW0JA2Y0	1580800602	320726711	Ill Met By Moonlight (Classics of war)	Books	3	39	50	N	N	Not As Gripping a Tale As One Might Think	This is the first-hand account by a British commando of the kidnapping of a German general on the island of Crete in the Spring of 1944, and his removal to Egypt. The book is taken almost verbatim from the diary he kept  during the course of the five-week operation, with occasional notes added  by the author. What sounds like the stuff of movies, turns out to be rather  tame in the telling. The bulk of the book describes the trekking hither and  yon of two British officers and their various partisans allies, without  whose aid the operation would never had succeeded. The main tension comes  after the General is captured, as the group has to evade the German search  parties and make it to the coast for a nighttime pickup. Aside from an  inside look at how such operations actually work, the book's main value  comes from Moss' descriptions of Crete and its people. Moss has some nice  turns of phrase, too: &quot;Only John Katsias, that suave killer, remained  serene and unperturbed, leaning against the boatrail and looking like a  very tired aristocrat who has tried and found wanting every physical and  emotional stimulus.&quot;	1999-04-29
2876206:US	52254603	RIBGOIEGSQAGR	0810933519	440079025	Andy Goldsworthy: A Collaboration with Nature	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Brilliant	Beautiful coffee-table art book in which the artist/photographer uses the &quot;found objects&quot; of nature: leaves, stones, ice, snow, feathers, etc. to create amazing temporary works of art. These are then photographed  before the elements return the materials to their natural state. It doesn't  sound like much, but it's amazing to look at and see what a creative mind  can do with nature and patience.	1999-04-29
2876224:US	52254603	R3IA9XI43NAPM9	0864424612	659095596	Kingdom of the Film Stars: Journey into Jordan	Books	2	6	9	N	N	Shallow and Uncompelling	Kind of a drecky book which has a great deal more to do with the English authoress' personal life and issues than any kind of examination of Jordan. She presents herself as an intrepid traveler who falls in love with a  Jordanian Bedouin. The book revolves around their relationship and the  trails and tribulations of trying to keep it alive. While there are a few  interesting tidbits scattered here and there, there are many other books  more worthy of your time.	1999-04-29
2876243:US	52254603	R3JJNAY6EJ1FVG	0452267455	664457226	Baghdad without a Map and Other Misadventures in Arabia	Books	3	3	10	N	N	Not A Good Place To Start	Mostly pedestrian account of a freelance journalist's travels across the Middle East, which at times borders on simply perpetuating typical American stereotypes of the area. There are, however, some nuggets of interest to be  found, among the better chapters are those on Yemen and Sudan. Also  excellent are his first-hand accounts of traveling with smugglers in the  Persian Gulf and from Cyprus to Beirut. Not recommended for beginners, but  worth skimming if you already have some context on the region.	1999-04-29
2876262:US	52254603	R1GWYQYQ5U1536	1573226882	326942117	Fever Pitch	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great Stuff for Soccer Buffs	This is an odd but compelling memoir structured around the author's lifelong obsession with the Arsenal Gunners (a football team in England). The book is organized into bite-size chunks which chronologically cover  1968-1982, from ages eleven to twenty-five. While the memoir is full of  Hornby's commentary on various facets of modern life, make no mistake, this  book is unlikely to captivate anyone not deeply interested in football. In  that arena, there is buckets of opinion and analysis of English football,  including such topics as hooliganism, decaying stadiums, escalating ticket  prices and new demographics of fandom. These sections were the most  interesting to me, and in the end, I found myself glad to have waded  through the minutiae to discover them. Hornby's memoir is written with an  openness reveals a somewhat deranged love for his team, one that exceeds  rational fandom in my opinion. The book has been made into a film in the  UK.	1999-04-29
2876280:US	52254603	R10UFF18E1H9VO	000215725X	686635283	City of Djinns: A Year in Delhi	Books	5	27	31	N	N	Outstanding	A really wonderful book about the city of Delhi. Dalrymple and his wife go to spend a year living in Delhi (how did they afford this?), and he uses this arrangement as a way of chronicling the present day status of the city  and delving deep into its history. He's done a very nice job of moving back  and forth between present and past, managing to keep all his meetings and  interviews with various experts quite interesting. The only part which lost  my interest was an extended look into Sufi mysticism, but I just skimmed it  and moved along. Highly recommended to anyone with an interest in India,  and especially to anyone planning a trip to Delhi.	1999-04-29
2876290:US	52254603	R1AJ7CAFELVDZI	0394758374	993069245	Road Fever	Books	4	2	3	N	N	The Ultimate Road Trip	I'd read one other Tim Cahill book before this, and I didn't like it one bit. However, the jacket to this caught my attention long enough to skim the flaps, where the concept behind the book got to me and I checked it  out. The book is about Cahill's accompanying a friend on his attempt to set  the world record (as adjudicated by Guinness) for driving from the tip of  South America to the tip of Alaska in 1987. Cahill's tone is very intimate  and chatty as he explains the myriad of logistical steps that have to be  taken to mount such an event. Almost the first third of the book is taken  up by describing the process of lining up sponsors, scouting the route,  securing permissions and appropriate documentation for all the countries to  be traveled through, and meeting with the Guinness people to ensure  everything is done according to Hoyle (or rather, Guinness, in this case).  Most of the rest of the book describes the trials and tribulations of the  trek up to the US border. As might be imagined, there are many wacky  hi-jinks and interesting encounters along the way. Cahill does a good job  of recounting these, as well as capturing the interplay between the to men  who are cooped up together driving day and night for almost a month. For  good measure, the reader is given snapshots of history and interesting  anecdotes about the places being passed through. Once again, I am puzzled  by the lack of map, but its not really crucial to this book. A very  enjoyable and quick read about a subject I'd never known anything about. I  could be wrong, but I think this would be a more enjoyable read for men  than women.	1999-04-29
2876370:US	52254603	REC24UKBLCYT2	0679751238	939095964	The Ends of the Earth: From Togo to Turkmenistan, from Iran to Cambodia, a Journey to the Frontiers of Anarchy	Books	4	16	18	N	N	A Good Use of Reading Time	Although Kaplan attempts to style this dense book as a semi-linear travel narrative, it is actually more of an heavily footnoted eyewitness account of the dramatic transitions occurring in various developing regions. Chock  full of provocative and disturbing ideas culled from many social sciences,  the book starts with a largely pessimistic 89 pages of West Africa and 37  pages of Egypt. I didn't find anything particularly new or illuminating in  these two sections, but they serve as a good introduction to the issues if  you aren't familiar with what's happening there, although recent events  somewhat date his account of West Africa in particular. It didn't take me  long to get fed up with Kaplan's machine gun use of statistics to support  his observations. That, and his tendency to repeat himself, undermine his  attempts at literary narrative. Fortunately, I came to a deeply engrossing  45 pages of Turkey and the Caucuses, 70 pages of Iran, and 96 pages of  Central Asia. These three sections were what made the book for me, even  readers already familiar with the areas will find value in Kaplan's  account. It was here that Kaplan seemed most comfortable and most  knowledgeable. Lots of great info about the ethnic dynamics of the areas  and great historical tidbits make these worth interesting even if you don't  read the sections before or after. What follows is a sporadically  interesting 100 pages on the Indian subcontinent and &quot;Indochina.&quot;  The book is greatly aided by its maps, and Kaplan is careful to acknowledge  the sources of the ideas he presents. There is also an excellent  bibliography for those interested in followup reading. The great value in  this book lies in Kaplan's insistence (correct in my belief) that  population growth is the single most destabilizing force in the world today  and that it must be addressed before all else.	1999-04-29
2876372:US	52254603	R2P8WSANBZHYGM	0380713802	280023223	Neither Here nor There: Travels in Europe	Books	5	0	1	N	N	HIlarious	One of the funniest travel books I know. Bryson sets off solo, intent on recapturing the spirit of a long-ago college-era trek around Europe, covering the breadth of the &quot;continent&quot; in 21 brief chapters. His  dry and droll observations on architecture, national character and local  custom are so good I took to underlining them. Even if you aren't a travel  book reader, try this, it is so damn funny, anyone should enjoy it.	1999-04-29
2876373:US	52254603	R3ATT247ZQDSHJ	0571193064	294708788	Me and Hitch	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Short and Not So Sweet	More of an extended essay with unrelated anecdotes, this tiny book concerns the brief partnering of author Evan Hunter (aka Ed McBain) and Alfred Hitchcock over a few years on the films &quot;The Birds&quot; and  &quot;Marnie.&quot; Dropped in the midst of these alternately bitter and  fond memories are totally unrelated anecdotes about &quot;Hitch.&quot;  Nifty, but so short you should read it in the bookstore and save the  $12.95.	1999-04-29
2876407:US	52254603	R1OKTD0LP4ZMLB	1568360223	600103002	The Great Game: The Struggle for Empire in Central Asia (Kodansha Globe)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	History at its Best	Must read for anyone interested in Central Asia or the general theme of British and Russian imperial ambitions. Despite the 500+ page count, Hopkirk's history of Russian and British intrigues in Central Asia from the  late 1700s until WWI is a real page-turner. There are boatloads of  real-life adventure stories: man against the elements, agents racing  against time, bloodthirsty tribes, devious schemers, valiant young  officers, continual teetering on the brink of war, etc... Hopkirk does an  excellent job explaining how events and people all interrelate, and to what  effect. This is history at its best.	1999-04-29
2876500:US	52254603	RUMQPTY1FQ202	0140258795	803603230	Longitude: The True Story of a Lone Genius Who Solved the Greatest Scientific Problem of His Time	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Overhyped, but Decent	Slim, vastly overhyped story of the quest to discover a method for calculating longitude, and the unassuming self-taught British clockmaker who invented what we now call the chronometer. It's somewhat interesting  history in that it brings home what a big deal solving the longitude  problem was, but the personal struggles and feuding come across as almost  clich&eacute;-like. Still, worthwhile reading. An illustrated edition which is due  to come out in late 1998 should be a bit more interesting.	1999-04-29
2876560:US	52254603	R57Y8RY1YH6GS	0679750061	255611086	Sahara Unveiled: A Journey Across the Desert (Vintage Departures)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Demythologizing the Desert	Very, very good book about author's 1990(?) trip from Algiers south through the Sahara desert into Niger, Mali and Senegal. He has apparently spent a fair amount of time in Algeria and had been to much of the Algerian  desert prior to the trip he recounts in this book (actually, many of the  anecdotes he tells are from previous trips). He nicely mixes in digressions  on science (physics of sand dunes, ecology of scorpions, desertification)  with his history and sociology. Langewiesche seems particularly keen to  de-romanticize the Sahara, and spends a great deal of time chiding the  French for doing so. A nice travel book which captures the terror of the  desert quite well. I recommend not reading on once he exits the Algerian  desert. He speeds through the final portion of the trip and has taken to  heart the writer's adage that no ending is better than a bad ending!	1999-04-29
2876567:US	52254603	R1Y8CJ3FPHEG47	0393316734	129219535	Commodify Your Dissent: Salvos from the Baffler	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Food For Thought	A mix bag of 23 mostly provocative essays culled from the pages of The Baffler magazine, collected with the aim of critiquing the &quot;new American cultural order.&quot; While a many of the ideas and theses  presented will be old hat to thinking observers of popular culture, the  essays are valuable in that they connect the dots in often highly  entertaining (if sometimes overly snide and self-congratulatory) prose. The  essays are separated into four sections: The Rebel Consumer, The Culture of  Business, The Culturetrust Generation, and Wealth Against the Commonwealth  Revisited. Of these, the essays in The Rebel Consumer and The Culturetrust  Generation are probably the most lively, entertaining, and accessible to  those who haven't thought about this stuff. Should be made required reading  for all 9th graders.	1999-04-29
2876602:US	52254603	R2XHNNQQHOKJK2	031211236X	4154838	The Afghan Amulet: Travels from the Hindu Kush to Razgrad	Books	2	2	8	N	N	A Meandering Muddle	This meandering travelogue is theoretically framed by the author's quest to discover the provenance of a particular style of embroidered amulet, but doesn't really hold together well. Paine is a multi-lingual expert on  embroidery who recounts her fours trips, encompassing regions in India,  Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iran, Turkey, Iraq, and finally Bulgaria, in her  attempt to track down the source of the amulet. While she is decent in  giving local color and impression, she is awful at conveying the progress  of her quest. When she does manage to talk to someone who knows something,  the conversation is presented as a series of incomprehensible  non-sequiturs. It's best to skim over anything about the textiles, for what  is more interesting is her experience as a 62-year old English woman  traveling solo through some rather dicey areas at the time of the Gulf War  and the new independence of Afghanistan (which is the only country where  she is assaulted).	1999-04-29
2876672:US	52254603	R2N80VUZ1OSLO1	0812920260	341923940	On the Grand Trunk Road: A Journey into South Asia	Books	4	41	42	N	N	Excellent Introduction to the Region	I picked up this book at the library based on the title and the pretty neat cover photo and artwork. It figured to be a reasonably interesting travelogue about an area I wasn't overly familiar with. It only took a few  pages to realize that I was quite mistaken. The author, a former Washington  Post correspondent covering South Asia from 1989-92, has written a variably  readable introduction to the political and social dynamics of India,  Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Afghanistan and Nepal. By far the most  attention is given to India and Pakistan, as these are the two areas he  appears to have spent the most time in. The best parts of the book are  those in which he relates little vignettes which serve to underscore a  broader point or illustrate a particular nuance of a region. Unfortunately,  there are also long dry spells which threaten to glaze one's eyes. By far  the most compelling portion is the 26 pages in which the author recounts  his investigation into the 1988 plane crash which killed the Pakistani  leader, General Zia, many of his top military aides, and US Ambassador  Arnold Raphel. This disturbing chapter is a page-turner which ends with no  resolution, but is deeply affecting. As a whole, this is good reading for  someone who wants a casual introduction to the forces at work in South  Asia. Amazingly enough, you will have to provide your own map, as the  publishers didn't see fit to include any.	1999-04-29
2876683:US	52254603	R2JV6RFFCOHHNU	0156005565	849027698	Catapult: Harry and I Build a Siege Weapon	Books	2	0	3	N	N	Good Idea, Uneven Execution	The neat premise of two friends building a catapult caught my attention, unfortunately the actual book wasn't as successful. The whole idea of two middle-aged, San Francisco area men getting grant money to build a working  catapult sounds interesting, no? As it turns out, not really. The actual  construction is poorly explained, I would have liked diagrams showing each  piece, as it stands, I never really completely understood what he was  talking about. There is a fair amount of boring detailing of the two  friends coping with normal life and high and low points in their  friendship. In order to add some bulk to the book, the author has added  chapters here and there about technology and war. It is these which prove  the most enlightening and interesting to read--however, I am sure there are  texts better suited to covering the relationship between technology and  war.	1999-04-29
2876740:US	52254603	R3L8QF81CKFU7K	1859739571	230061270	Football Hooligans: Knowing the Score (Explorations in Anthropology)	Books	5	34	35	N	N	Outstanding Popular Anthropology	This outstanding ethnographic study of one particular group of football hooligans--the &quot;Blades&quot; who follow Sheffield United--challenges and dismisses many of the popular conceptions about hooliganism. Based on  the author's 15 or so years of following Sheffield United and hanging out  with those he is examining, the book is a fairly academic one, brimming  with sociology jargon and theory (none of it too distracting or demanding  for the lay reader). A few key themes emerge:  (1) The Blades are not  organized in any way, they are a self-selected amorphous group with members  coming and going of their own accord, and being involved at a self-decided  level (ranging from &quot;core&quot; to &quot;peripheral.&quot;  (2) There  are no leaders who organize Blade hooligan activity. Buses to away games  may be organized, and some &quot;Top Lads&quot; may yell suggestions in the  heat of a situation, but no one bears--or wants--a leadership mantle. (3)  There is no element of racism, about 10% of the Blades are black. Blades  involved with the National Front or British National Party are peripherals  who are derided for their views. (4) The media generally get the facts all  wrong (either from laziness or police misinformation) or intentionally  distort the facts about hooligan incidents, oftentimes mislabeling  non-football related episodes as hooligan events. Also, the police are  generally effective in limiting hooligan on hooligan violence, but often  wrongfully arrest Blades and manufacture charges. This is hardly  surprising, but the frequency outlined in the study is somewhat  disconcerting. (5) The level of violence as measured by actual punches,  injuries (minor and major) is exceedingly minimal and is self-restrained by  various unspoken &quot;rules&quot; and &quot;norms&quot; within the ritual  of behavior. Most all violence occurs away from the match, either before or  after or en route, and is never targeted at non-hooligans. This is a key  theme, and an important one, considering the popular perception of what  hooligan violence involves. The overall impression that emerges is that the  effects of hooliganism are totally overhyped by media, police, and public  for their own aims. The caveat is that this study was limited to one group  in one city. One suspects that a similarly rigorous and long-running study  of, say, Chelsea, or West Ham, would find a much more disturbing set of  lads and incidents. For participant accounts, see &quot;Capital Punishment:  London's Violent Football Following&quot; by Dougie and Eddy Brimson and  for an excellent work of fiction see &quot;The Football Factory&quot; by  John King.an important one, considering the popular perception of what  hooligan violence involves. The overall impression that emerges is that the  effects of hooliganism are totally overhyped by media, police, and public  for their own aims. The caveat is that this study was limited to one group  in one city. One suspects that a similarly rigorous and long-running study  of, say, Chelsea, or West Ham, would find a much more disturbing set of  lads and incidents. For participant accounts, see &quot;Capital Punishment:  London's Violent Football Following&quot; by Dougie and Eddy Brimson and  for an excellent work of fiction see &quot;The Football Factory&quot; by  John King.	1999-04-29
2876741:US	52254603	R1HL9UMFMOGCTF	0679737324	274124055	No Mercy: A Journey Into the Heart of the Congo	Books	2	12	29	N	N	Tedious for the Layman	This is one of those travel narratives that takes a real commitment, 450 pages of densely set type in a hefty book. Unfortunately, it is also one of those books which I wish I had stopped reading after the first 100 pages.  The author, a British biologist (I think) with a special interest in birds,  and his friend, an American animal behaviorist set out to travel up the  Congo River to seek out an isolated lake where an unusual creature is  reported to have been seen. Sounds promising, but isn't. There is some  interesting interaction with the locals they have to hire, bribe and coerce  to guide them and allow them passage, but not enough for the amount of  space expended. There's quite a bit of material about life in the small  villages along the river and the the spirit world that is the keystone of  the belief system. It all gets a little too touchy-feely for me, although  I'm sure others will love it, and the payoff isn't satisfying in the least.  Like the travelers in this adventure, by the end I was exhausted.	1999-04-29
2876742:US	52254603	RDWSH30EXGGO5	0879513608	48379163	Muddling through in Madagascar	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Very Entertaining	Super travel book about a little known island. The author is a veteran Irish travel writer who takes her teenage daughter on a hiking trip across Madagascar. This book is simply loaded with all kinds of interesting  history and lore. Excellent travel writing, bibliography, map, loved it.	1999-04-29
2973992:US	52254603	RURXQ5JSHZ3AN	0312863489	443840172	Celestial Matters	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Science Fantasy with Intrigue &amp; Action	Set in a world where Alexander the Great's empire has lasted 1,000 years  and Ptolemeic speculations are scientific fact, this is part  alternate-history, part alternate-science. The story concerns a celestial  ship (spaceship) of the Delian league (who control the world from India to  halfway across the Americas) which is embarking on a mission to gather a  piece of the sun in order to use it as a sort of atomic bomb against the  capital of the Middle Kingdom (an oriental empire which they have been at  constant war with). Written as the testimony of a co-captain of the ship,  the story relates this adventure, complete with scheming, betrayals,  setbacks, and crises of faith, while also presenting a vivid and  interesting alternate world. Enjoyment would be aided by a solid  understanding of the beliefs (scientific and otherwise) of the ancient  Greeks, but should be enjoyable for anyone.	1998-10-25
2973994:US	52254603	RRC2C1E0ZXGHT	0575061030	685854664	Pavane	Books	3	2	8	N	N	Not for Everybody	This book uses six independent, but linked, short stories to paint an  England that, like much of the world, is under the domination of the  Catholic church. The Church has limited the use of technology, so that,  even though it is the 1960s, most of society functions at a sort of Middle  Ages level. Each story draws out a little more detail though, goods are  moved by &quot;hauliers&quot; who drive a sort of truck-locomotive, or how  news and messages are sent via &quot;signalers&quot; (the story of the  signalers is reprinted in Modern Classics of Fantasy). It's sort of  interesting, but a bit ephemeral; there's all kinds of obscure references  to &quot;Old Ones&quot; and &quot;faeries.&quot; Rather than reading the  whole book, I'd recommend reading just two of the stories &quot;The Lady  Margaret&quot; and &quot;The Signaler.&quot;	1998-10-25
2974073:US	52254603	R13QW1YXRFD3IC	0671877364	586578266	Lest Darkness Fall & To Bring the Light	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A Classic Worth Revisiting	In this classic of time-travel originally published as a short story,  academic Martin Padway is jolted back into the waning days of the Roman  Empire. He then sets out to prevent the fall of the Roman Empire by  introducing various technological innovations and inventions, which  culminate to catapult him to a position of high political and military  power. Of course since Martin is an academic in a certain field, he manages  to have enough classical Latin to muddle along until he learns the Latin of  the times. he is also suspiciously adept at figuring out how to remake  certain modern tools with the materials at hand, most notably a printing  press. And when he needs to be, he becomes remarkably politically subtle  and charismatic. Altogether, rather contrived, but fun.	1998-10-25
2974104:US	52254603	R1SZU79DCOQDS2	0312169310	115040488	Modern Classics of Fantasy	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Pick and Choose	This rather large book kicks off with a relatively brief essay which gives  a simple history of the fantasy genre and places in context with other  genres without attempting to nail down a hard and fast defintion of what a  fantasy story is. Most of the stories in the anthology didn't do much for  me, which I more or less expected. Those I considered time well spent were:  &quot;Two Sadnesses&quot; by George Effinger, &quot;The Signaller&quot; by  Keith Roberts, &quot;The Tale of Hauk&quot; by Poul Anderson, &quot;Into  Gold&quot; by Tanith Lee, &quot;Flowers of Edo&quot; by Bruce Sterling, and  &quot;The Man Who Painted the Dragon Griaule&quot; by Lucius Shepard. This  doesn't include the Fritz Leiber stories, which I've read before, and  are--of course--outstanding.	1998-10-25
2974156:US	52254603	R2UBR53HTL9TBU	0671875930	203575558	Agent of Byzantium	Books	4	26	27	N	N	Good Alternate History Fun	A great collection of seven stories set in an early fourteenth-century  version of Earth where Islam is absent. The Byzantine Empire retained its  eastern holdings and swallowed up most of western Europe as well. Their  main rival is the Persian Empire which also never fell in Turtledove's well  thought-out alternate world. The stories span 15 years in the life of  Basil, a soldier and eventual &quot;agent&quot; (read spy) for the  Byzantine Empire. Great fun!	1998-10-25
2974294:US	52254603	R1I2HRAU1PS4J2	0441783589	242880671	Starship Troopers	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Way Better than the Film	More interesting, more palatable, and shorter than the movie, the book  also makes much more military and technical sense. All the co-ed trooper  stuff is gone, as well as the silly tactics and whatnot from the movie. The  book is very much a political statement however, arguing the need for more  discipline and greater sense of duty, which could be interpreted as  semi-fascist I suppose. Good, short fun.	1998-10-25
2974302:US	52254603	R3NAWR4R9S70YK	0812549422	255727020	Goa (Blood of the Goddess)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Read the whole trilogy at once	A slender volume of an intended trilogy which reads quickly and well. The  subject matter, a young apprentice herbalist sent to India to trade for  rare herbs and medicaments in the era of the Inquisition, is fascinating.  The book is a little too short, and it is obvious within the first 50 pages  that we are being set up for future volumes, which did not inspire me to  read on. However, read on I did, and I quite enjoyed the blend of  historical fiction and fantastical magic. I would advise waiting for the  trilogy to be finished and then reading it all together in one go.	1998-10-25
