3703:US	52300235	RRJ299H7HMJHM	0156028433	3703000	Maigret and the Spinster	Books	4	2	4	N	N	An innocent man may have the seeds of guilt in him	Maigret enjoyed his pipe and the first fog of the year.  Interestingly he had a whole collection of pipes on his desk.  The name of the spinster of the title is Cecile.  She is only twenty-eight.  She claims an intruder has been entering her apartment.  The claim is mysterious since lately her apartment has been under police watch and nothing unusual has been discovered.  Maigret goes to Cecile Pardon's flat.  He learns that Cedile is dead.  Cecile's aunt is dead, too.  Maigret feels guilty because he did not interview Cecile right away.  She was considered a nuisance, a joke, at the police station.      Madam Boynet had lived quite alone with Cecile.  One of the tenants in the building was a former lawyer from the provinces whom Maigret recognized.  The man had been involved in a case of the corruption of minors.  Cecile was killed because she knew the identity of the murderer, Maigret surmised.      A nephew is discovered to have a key to Juliette Boynet's apartment. (She was a miser, distrusting banks, but no money has been found on the premises.)  Gerard claims that Cecile had wanted him to check up on what was going on in the flat since the police couldn't ascertain the cause of the disturbance of the objects in the flat.      Feeling overwhelmed, Maigret goes to watch a movie.  Although everyone has been looking for a single murderer, it is possible there are two.  Maigret can be intolerably superior, even with his wife.  There is always in a Maigret novel a sense of claustrophobia.  This is noticeable particularly as Maigret nears a solution to the case at hand.     Finally, the money is located in a footstool in the flat.  The victim's papers have vanished and Maigret is required to work some more to solve this mystery in a very surprising manner.  The Maigret books are variable in quality.  This one is quite good.	2005-10-12
7952:US	52300235	R39A3F2ZDKMDU4	0156011433	593236463	Snow Mountain Passage	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Hunger has no boundaries	An historical novel about the Donner Party is of interest.  Tales of cannibalism and other kinds of deprivation make the rest of us grateful to be living in the modern era.  Lewis Keseberg has Sioux burial robes.  He is told by George Donner to give them back.  It is feared the Indians will demand retribution.  Keseberg has imperiled the safety of everyone.   <br /> <br />Jim Reed does not remember Ireland at all, but he remembers crossing the Atlantic.  Jim and his wife read about California and it sounded too good to be true.  Game is scarcer the higher the party climbs.  Tempers are tested.  Reed kills Snyder and suffers banishment from the group.  Reed is given a young man as a companion to cross the desert.   <br /> <br />Fort Laramie is a sort of outpost of civilization.  Where Laramie Creek spills into the Platte it looks like a park.  Half way across the Rockies the Donner Party takes the southern route.  Near the Humboldt Sink the Reed draft animals give way to exhaustion.  The Reed provisions are loaded into the Graves family wagons.   <br /> <br />Except for berries and wild onions, Jim Reed and his companion, Walter, are out of food when they set out from Truckee Meadows.  Walter wants to shoot a horse.  (Snyder was killed because Reed was furious with him for abusing animals.)  Charlie Stanton and  McCutcheon find them.  Walter is too sick to travel.  He is taken in by an Illinois family.  Jim goes off with two traveling men.  It has been ten weeks since Jim left Fort Bridger.   <br /> <br />Coming overland the Johnson cabin is the first stop.  Land costs less than a penny an acre.  Jim arrives at Captain John Sutter's place.  He explains that his wife and children are suffering in the mountains.  Supplies have run low.  McCutcheon arives.   <br /> <br />The Donner Party, traveling, is isolated.  The party has turned into a scattering of wagons and there is the snow.  The Summit Trail is too deep in snow for the oxen.  Jim and others start out on a rescue mission.  They have to turn back.  Sutter is moved by the gall and the plight of the two men, Reed and McCutcheon, the husbands.  McCutcheon sets out for Sonoma to seek the help of ranchers there.  It is known in the area that the Donner Party was the last group to set out that year.   <br /> <br />The Donner Party reached the Summit Trail twenty four hours too late.  People in the party moved into cabins.  When snow went up to the roofs there was not more hunting and there was no more game to eat.  There was no leader because George Donner was five miles back.  A snowshoed party of fourteen people left Donner Lake to try to get through the pass.  Hunger has no boundaries.  The Reed party at the lake suffered hunger.   <br /> <br />Belatedly four rescue teams arrived at the behest of Jim Reed and Bill McCutcheon.  The Reed family survived the ordeal entire, an unusual result.  This is a good retelling of the Donner Party tragedy.	2005-10-09
9246:US	52300235	R19D98SUVXMSNI	0156551640	631493931	Maigret and the Tavern by the Seine	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Some place to call one's own	The story dates back to 1932.  In the opening the prisoner, Lenoir, is to be executed the following day.  He is young, no more than 22.  The condemned man refuses to speak in a meaningful way to the law enforcement officials to save himself.  In the end no one keeps Lenoir company.      Maigret goes to Morsang to an inn on the Seine while his wife is in the country.  There is sailing.  One of the guests, Marcel Basso, has a gun, and Monsieur Feinstein is shot dead.  Madame Feinstein, Mado, is taken indoors.  Maigret hates Paris when his wife is there.  He learns that Mado and Basso had a friendship.  Basso is missing.      After the commission of the crime, Maigret does not feel he is a welcome presence to the weekenders.  The establishment at the river is called Guinguette a Deux Sous.  When someone shows up from  a municipal sanitorium Maigret mentions the name of Lenoir.  Obviously the new man is someone who is going to live on his lung trouble.      The book is notable for its atmosphere and the pace of the storytelling.	2005-10-09
9890:US	52300235	R2HTGELCAA1KDY	014017561X	757402210	A German Requiem (Crime, Penguin)	Books	5	10	15	N	N	There is no innocence anymore, not in Vienna	Bernhard Gunther is still in Berlin, but it is now 1947.  Berlin is a fallen acropolis.  Bernhard's wife Kirsten works at Johnny's American Bar.  She had been a school teacher.  Bernhard Gunther was a Soviet prisoner of war.  His ability to speak Russian is useful to his work of private investigation in the aftermath of the Second World War.      He travels from Berlin to Potsdam because he is handling a case for Dr. Novak.  Dr. Novak is paying him in coal.  On the journey Bernhard has to give up his coat to a Russian.  When a war has been fought a city consists of its women.  Hunger dulls the wits and blunts the memory.  The Russians have an officially licensed black market in their sector of Berlin!      Bernhard's wife has access to the PX.  Her friendships bother Bernhard.  Gunther, with various police personnel, had been drafted into an Action Group operating in White Russia.  Not wishing to be part of the mass execution squads, Bernhard sought service at the front.  He was transferred to the War Crimes Bureau in Berlin.      Bernie travels to Vienna to investigate the case of Emil Becker, a cigarette seller, among other things.  The Central Cemetary in Vienna is larger than some towns.  Most Austrians don't like Berliners.  Becker is accused of murdering Linden.  Bernie links up with an American, Belinsky, supposedly of the counter-intelligence corps, to solve the crime for his client who faces the death penalty.  Belinsky is from Williamsburg, Brooklyn, New York.  It seems that Linden had had contact with some amateur Nazi hunters, the Drexlers.      A mysterious German group, simply known as the org, is connected to the crime Bernie is investigating. Bernhard Gunther is pleased to receive a letter from his wife who, it seems, misses him greatly.  Agents spirit his wife out of Berlin before she is caught permanently in the Russian sector.      The plot turns on the use of double agents and is very exciting.  The atmosphere of the story is suitably dark, considering the era and the circumstances of Germany and Austria in defeat and occupation.	2005-10-08
32227:US	52300235	RAZCZ1R6RA0PF	0449000419	792813592	Toward the End of Time: A Novel	Books	5	3	8	N	N	An Aging Man's Mirage	The hero is Ben Turnbull.  His wife is named Gloria and he keeps a diary.  He refers to his wife, amusingly, as the dynamic Gloria.  The Massachusetts unit of currency is now called a welder.  John Updike, through Ben, has projected himself and us into the future.  It is 2020. Going to Boston to his old firm, Ben finds the city has little use for him now.  A deer eating an euonymus hedge has caused Gloria to borrow a friend's shotgun to protect their greenery.  Ben senses that in the snow-covered landscape the deer is starving.  In Ben's fantasy the deer is a young woman.   <br /> <br />The year 2020 is in the postwar era.  The war was fought with China, in which, it seems the U.S. suffered substantial damage because the economy collapsed.  Ben is sixty six.  When Gloria cools the house during the winter, Ben puts on a watch cap to wear to bed.  Ben had attended the University of Massachusetts.  He and his first wife, Perdita, had five children closely spaced.  The children now had stable small families.  While Gloria is absent temporarily, Ben takes as a friend a young woman named Deirdre.  Law and order have disappeared and Ben pays protection money.  Easter Day they go to church since Deirdre claims it would be bad luck not to.   <br /> <br />Deirdre leaves while Ben is visiting his grandchildren in Gloucester.  He attends Grandparents Day with another grandchild, Kevin, at the Dimmesdale School.  Perdita is present also.  Later Gloria returns and their life together is resumed.  It is late spring, then summer, then fall.  After time marriage is a mental game of thrust and parry.  Ben thinks he has observed the world poorly.  In the chaotic environment existing after the war, FedEx employees have taken over the policing function.   <br /> <br />The book has set pieces on history, archaeology, natural science, astronomy, and physics, giving the whole work a richness, a layeredness that it wouldn't have otherwise.  In many sections the book is funny and in the over-all framework it is human, all too human.  Bravo, John Updike, for excellence in the practice of the writer's craft.	2005-09-26
36135:US	52300235	RCVL45W0MMAQO	0312420021	31855225	A Cold Case	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Just a murderer, not a monster	Frankie Koehler had a criminal record and a youthful stretch of incarceration.  In 1970 there was a double murder.  A witness saw Frankie afterwards with a gun. Andy Rosenzweig had been one police officer who didn't want to sleep on the job when he joined the NYPD in the sixties.  He found the active cops in the precinct and used them as teachers.  He loved being a cop and an investigator.  Frank Koehler was known to and feared by the Irish racketeers known as the Westies.   <br /> <br />This cold case was not a glamor grudge.  Koehler had changed his name to Frank O'Grady and had moved to California.  Officers met him and he was arrested when he arrived in New York City via Amtrak.  At the time of his arrest he was sixty eight years old.  He was a refugee of sorts from the white hoodlum milieu of another time.  He was a period piece, a West Side bad guy.  One of Koehler's victims left four children.  He showed a flicker of interest when this fact was related to him.  Koehler's lawyer, Murray Richman, explained to the author that crime is immature behavior.  The lawyer had worked as a social worker before becoming a lawyer.  Koehler read THUS SPAKE ZARATHUSTRA at Rikers Island.  While growing up,  he had modeled himself on Jimmy Cagney.	2005-09-24
36414:US	52300235	R2FGSP9KO7NTN9	0399152792	777159166	Fire Sale (V.I. Warshawski Novels)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Family Values	V.I. Warshawski, watching a factory, is hit by debris in a burst of fire.  After emergency room attention, Conrad Rawlings, a former love interest, drives her home.  Rawlings is a police commander assigned to the South Side.  V.I. is to be a volunteer girls basketball coach for her old mentor who is cancer-ridden.  The South Side is the city's dumping ground and it is Warshawski's home turf.      Her friend Morrell, a journalist, has returned from Afghanistan battered. He plays host to another journalist, a British woman,  who becomes one of the prime movers of the crime story.  The second journalist is aggressive in search of stories and causes V.I. to be tormented by jealousy.      V.I. tries to get a WalMart-like organization to sponsor the team.  The warehouse and headquarters of the organization are located in the area.  In short order the number of deaths rises to two and the British journalist experiences severe injuries.      An issue of outsourcing arises.  A variation on the outsourcing scheme is the use of illegals working a midnight shift in the stateside factory.  The family running the Walmart-like enterprise encounters problems when a grandson starts to take religion seriously and becomes concerned with matters of social justice.  V.I. Warshawski is lively and resourceful in this nicely plotted mystery tale.	2005-09-24
46773:US	52300235	R79CDH9RHP0CJ	1585670499	52093416	The Corruption of American Politics: What Went Wrong and Why	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Careerism	Careerism is driving the Senate downward.  Former House members who have entered the Senate are more aggressive than others.  Politics has become difficult and nasty, Drew contends.  Each vote affects fundraising.  Political institutions are now simply reactive.  The decline in civility is caused by fewer people thinking about the whole.  Office-holders think in terms of message, not politics, and that isn't leadership.  People used to socialize across the aisles.  There was an exodus in 1996 of fifteen senators.  A substantial body of experience and judgment left.  There used to be an interdependence.  Senators used to talk to each other.  Now they talk to their staff.  The role of political consultants has grown.  Consultants will always focus on the short term advantage.  Virtually all the meaning of the 1974 Federal Election Campaign Act has been obliterated over time.  What has evolved in Washington is a pre-occupation with money.  It has transformed politics and subverted values.  People now seek to benefit financially from government service.   <br /> <br />The Clinton White House engaged in pre-emptive leaking to head-off news during the Thompson Committee Hearings on the 1996 Presidential Campaign.  The Clinton campaign engaged in desperate efforts to raise money.  The Committee obtained videotapes showing Clinton with questionable contributors.  Unfortunately the Thompson Hearings were rendered useless by partisan attacks on both sides.  Fred Thompson had believed that the hearings could be conducted in statesman-like fashion along the lines of Watergate and Iran-Contra Hearings of the previous decades.  Interest groups sought to defy the Thompson Committee's subpoenas.  Evasion and protection produced new lawlessness.  The cover story used to shut down the hearings was that the committee would engage in finance reform efforts.  Christopher Shays thought that Thompson was a hero.  Even with limited exposure the hearings had an impact.   <br /> <br />Nothing has contributed more to public cynicism than the hypocrisy of politicians.  One of the problems is that there is no financial base for the core issues of the Democratic Party.  Clinton enjoyed the political fruits of prosperity but advanced only mini-proposals.  Clinton was the most resilient politician in memory, but tactical skills don't constitute leadership.  Balkanization in Washington increased.  Everything was up for grabs.  John McCain has pointed out that influence buying leaves out the ordinary citizen.  Fred Thompson reflected that campaign finance reform is difficult because the political class has become professionalized.  Being risk averse is one of the characteristics.  The House passed a campaign finance reform bill but it did not go before the Senate because there were insufficient votes to shut down the filibuster.   <br /> <br />This is an excellent guide to politics on the national scene, new style.	2005-09-19
48793:US	52300235	R2B48W3FC8G2P5	0679642811	448968193	The Crisis of Islam: Holy War and Unholy Terror	Books	5	8	12	N	N	Multiculturalism	In 1918 the Ottoman Sultanate, the last of the great Muslim empires, was defeated.  The area was partitioned by the British and French.  The Turks liberated Anatolia in a secular movement headed by Kemal Ataturk.  The Turks abolished the caliphate in 1924.  Caliph means successor or deputy and acquired the meaning of commander of the faithful.   <br /> <br />Westerners have difficulty understanding Middle Eastern concepts of history and identity.  Islamic history is the working out of God's purpose and so it is learned.  In the West the basic unit of civilization is the nation.  By contrast, in the Middle East, a single Islamic polity is the ideal.  For Muslims the Holy Land is Arabia, particularly Mecca and Medina.  Irag and Baghdad are also significant.  For a non-Muslim to set foot on sacred soil is a desecration.   <br /> <br />Islam was a leading civilization in the Dark Ages.  Judaism and Islam share dietary restrictions and an emphasis on laws.  Christianity and Islam share triumphalism.  The Muslims recognize no church-state dichotomy.  Islamic society is both a polity and a religious community.  Muslims have built up an elaborate apparatus of international consultation, the Organization of the Islamic Conference, (Buddhist and Christian rulers have not).   <br /> <br />The critique of Muslim fundamentalists is societal.  In Islam the struggle of good and evil acquired political, even military dimensions.  Jihad means striving or effort.  It is lawful to wage war against four types--infidels, apostates, rebels, and bandits.  Only the first two count as jihad. Fighters in jihad are not supposed to kill women and children and the aged, to torture or mutilate prisoners, they are supposed to give fair warning and honor agreements.   <br /> <br />Modern history in Europe and the Middle East begins in 1798 with the French Revolution and Napolean Bonaparte.  Muslims resent western imperialism.  Economic exploitation was followed by armed invasion and conquest.  Thecollapse of the Soviet Union and the first Gulf War were a blow to secular nationalism.   <br /> <br />World War Two and and the oil industry brought Americans to Islamic lands.  Cinema and television were seen by Muslims.  Anti-Americanism was fueled by some European currents.  Then there was the overthrow of the Mosaddeq government in Iran in 1953.  The most powerful accusation against America is degeneracy and debauchery.  The value of Israel to the United States as a strategic asset had been debated.  Democracies are both more difficult to create and more difficult to destroy.   <br /> <br />Poverty and tyranny are problems in the Muslim world.  Economic supremacy in East Asia and the West is frustrating.  Low productivity and a high birthrate produce an unstable mix.  The figures are devastating.  Discrepancies are noticeable with modern media and communictions.  Modernization has been even worse in politics than economics and warfare.   <br /> <br />Wahhabism is the religious strain of Islamic belief practiced in Saudi Arabia.  The expansion of the Saudi Kingdom transformed Wahhabism into a major force.  Ibn Saud proclaimed himself King of the Hijaz in 1926.  He was recognized by European nations.  The kingdon was reorganized in 1932 and the first oil agreement was entered into in 1933.  There was an outward flow of oil and inward flow of money.  The new wealth brought bitter social tensions.  It inhibited development of representative social institutions.   <br /> <br />Islamic fundamentalists believe that problems have arisen from excessive modernization.  Islamic jurisprudence is a system of law and justice, not lynching and terror.  Killing without authorization is murder.  This is a comprehensive and enlightening book absolutely essential for understanding current events.	2005-09-17
49027:US	52300235	R12N28PHEXBY4P	0142004154	53782510	The Pale Criminal: A Bernie Gunther Novel	Books	5	27	36	N	N	Universe of moral chaos	It is August 26, 1938.  Arthur Nebe, Kripo head, meets Bernhard Gunther, private investigator, in the middle of the night.  It seems that Heydrich thinks Bernie would be useful to him if he were back in Kripo.   <br /> <br />Frau Lange is a new client.  She wants Bernie to find out who is blackmailing her.  To investigate the case he goes to stay in a clinic in Wannsee.  Psychoanalysis has been banned, psychotherapy is the order of the day.  Dr. Meyer, Bernie's physician, is a Jungian.  Homosexuality is a criminal offense under the German Penal Code Section 175.  Bernie's partner is murdered, the alleged blackmailer commits suicide, and Bernie is back at Kripo with a higher rank.  He is working at Heydrich's behest to solve a serial murder case.  He is now Kommissar Gunther.   <br /> <br />There are four dead girls and another missing.  When Bernie learns from the Kripo head of unoffficial mercy killings, he knows that things have already gotten worse than he imagined.  The body of the fifth victim is found through an anonymous call to Kripo.   <br /> <br />A suspect who through investigation becomes a nonsuspect turns up dead and a sixth girl, a fourteen year old attending a fee paying school, is missing.  A schoolmate of the girl recalls a man wearing a uniform stopping his car near the school.  Some of the men start to believe that one of their squad members has killed the nonsuspect.  Gunther eliminates the man from the squad notwithstanding his protests that his actions are nothing compared to actions of higher officials.   <br /> <br />In order to break open the case the squad decides to use another young girl as bait.  Two SS men are responsible for the crimes.  Bernhard Gunther solves the mystery just before Kristallnacht.  The book is outstanding.  The dark morally chaotic universe of National Socialism is portrayed admirably.	2005-09-17
49454:US	52300235	R1SXJ4VHONJJ01	0807841102	162542021	Roanoke Island: The Beginnings of English America	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A flotilla of substance	Sir Walter Raleigh landed in the Outer Banks, North Carolina, in 1584.  Until 1587 there was a steady stream of shipping from England.  Sir Francis Drake and Sir Richard Grenville took part.  The area was named Virginia in honor of Queen Elizabeth.  A colony arrived at Roanoke Island in 1587 and permanent residency seemed assured, but for the next three years efforts to provide releif for the settlement were thwarted by the war with Spain.  An expedition arrived in 1590 and found everyone had disappeared.  Subsequently it became known as the Lost Colony.      England made a late start in exploring and settling the New World.  Irish Monks sailed north and west as far as Iceland in the 5th and 6th centuries.  Norsemen probably came to North America a thousand years ago.  Eric the Red established a settlement in Greenland.  The exact place on the mainland of Vineland, the settlement of Lief Eriksson, has been the subject of speculation.      Eventually the attempts at colonization were given up and nearly five hundred years later Christopher Columbus discovered America.  Columbus wanted to go west to be in the east to trade.  He made four voyages between 1492 and 1506.  Ferdinand Magellan was killed circumnavigating the globe in 1521.  Hernando de Soto led an expedition on the mainland of the American continent.  He landed on the west coast of Florida in 1539.      The leaders of the Raleigh expedition were given information about Roanoke and Ocracoke and other areas of the Outer Banks by the Indians Wanchese and Manteo.  White, an artist, and Hariot, a scientist, reported on the Lost Colony.  Hariot's contribution included navigation skills and linguistics.  The missing colonists-- the palisaded settlement was deserted when the Englishmen arrived August 18, 1590--  may have intermingled with the Chesapeake Indians living near present day Chesapeake and Virginia Beach.      A note on sources, glossary, and index appear at the back of the book.  The author presents an excellent survey of a half century of recent efforts to determine the fate of the inhabitants of the Lost Colony.  A very comprehensive background to the undertaking by the English to settle America is also provided.	2005-09-17
49706:US	52300235	R1SB8XCTONM8AY	0156028514	60960415	Maigret's Boyhood Friend	Books	3	2	4	N	N	A  contemporary  figure	Florentin had been at school with Maigret.  His friend Josee died the afternoon he arrived at Maigret's office.  She had been shot.  Her murder did not cause a stir in the neighborhood.  Florentin took her money after her death.  He claimed that she had not been close to her sister, (her family).   <br /> <br />Maigret finds having to deal with a former schoolfellow a wretched business.  It turns out that the woman had had four lovers and for the most part they did not know about each other.  Maigret obtains a warrant to search the place of the concierge.  The quarters of the woman are mean and close and Maigret almost feels ashamed of himself for pursuing his offical duties.   <br /> <br />The old school friend had tried blackmail.  Maigret considers that literally thousands of people lived in Paris subsisting on the borderline of crime.  It is discovered that the actions of Florentin set off a chain reaction of events.  The puzzle is intricate.  Simenon's tale, here, is quite good.	2005-09-17
49861:US	52300235	ROSCITZXM931K	0865475334	990884860	Out of Sheer Rage : Wrestling With D.H. Lawrence	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The literature of anxiety, fretting, and complaint	Geoff Dyer's study of D.H. Lawrence was conceived as a distraction.  Dyer wanted to read Lawrence with a purpose.  Preparation postponed the task.  The Lawrence project was supposed to take him out of himself. Lawrence wasn't too keen on islands and Geoff Dyer isn't either.  Dyer and Rilke both had difficulty doing nothing but work.  To Dyer it seemed that making a start on the Lawrence book seemed more boring than doing nothing.  After a moped accident and on the mend Dyer began to believe again in his Lawrence project.   <br /> <br />Huxley noted that Lawrence had a great responsiveness to the world.  Dyer looked at pictures of Lawrence he had collected.  The closer Lawrence came to dying, the more he looked like D.H. Lawrence.  Dyer and his friend, Laura, traveled to Sicily, one of those touchy respect cultures.  Geoff and Laura went to Villa Fontana Vecchia.  There was a plaque. Dyer had driven to Eastwood.  According to Lawrence the workers hungered for beauty.  For Rilke the real work was to organize his existence, but not so for someone like John Updike who began his productive writing life early.  Lawrence was untroubled by this sort of thing.  His mature work was based upon his relationship with Frieda.  Lawrence had found a home within himself as had Rodin.   <br /> <br />Reading Lawrence's letters was a perfect excuse for not writing the book.  'The Ship of Death' was written in autumn, 1929.  The first intimation, though, came in 1913 in a letter to Edward Garnett.  What we want years later is a Lawrence in the midst of his sensations.  SEA AND SARDINIA has a note-like immediacy.  The essence of Lawrence's writing and life moves in the opposite direction of achieving serenity.  Lawrence wanted to turn his emotions into a philosophy.  He shows it takes a daily effort to be free.  For the writer work means the suspension of life.  <br /> <br />This postmodern treatment of Lawrence and the act of writing about him is very good.	2005-09-17
57377:US	52300235	R11I7G5D83RCXO	0498017494	152116329	Hitchcock's Films	Books	5	0	3	N	N	Moral ambiguity	Response to Hitchcock's movies is a felt response.  Hitchcock is a popular artist and, for that matter, Shakespeare was a popular artist.  What an artist says about his work only has indirect relevance.  French criticism of Hitchcock plays down the suspense and humor in his movies.  The result is over-simlplification.  There is a disturbing quality in many of Hitchcock's films.  A function of art is to disturb.  Suspense in Hitchcock has a characteristic moral quality.   <br /> <br />REBECCA was Hitchcock's first Hollywood film.  In LIFEBOAT there is a typical Hitchcock counterpoint of despair and optimism.  ROPE was filmed in ten minute takes in a single apartment.  It has unbroken continuity in terms of time and regard.  There is attractiveness and danger in connivance at common guilt in STRANGERS ON A TRAIN.  REAR WINDOW is perhaps the first masterpiece of Alfred Hitchcock.   <br /> <br />In late Hitchcock the viewers' reponses are controlled and organized.  REAR WINDOW is Hitchcock's attempt to imprison viewers.  VERTIGO is superior to its poor book.  A zoom-in shot of Scottie's accident gives the spectator a sense of vertigo.  Psychologists have explained that tension arises from a desire to fall and a dread of falling.  Robin Wood feels that VERTIGO is the Hitchcock film nearest to perfection.   <br /> <br />In contrast to James Bond films, Hitchcock films have depth, charm, integrity.  NORTH BY NORTHWEST is a condensed version of NOTORIOUS.  Mount Rushmore is dramatic rather than symbolic.  PSYCHO is full of parent-child references.  THE BIRDS is described as an ornithological ON THE BEACH.   <br /> <br />In MARNIE concerns evident in Hitchcock's late work become fused.  TORN CURTAIN is disappointing as Htichcock's 50th film.  It is episodic.  Hitchcock, though, fills that movie with his sense of the necessary moral impurity of action in an imperfect world.  This is an excellent guide to Alfred Hitchcock's film career.  There is a filmography at the end of the book.	2005-09-13
60542:US	52300235	R2LFOXOJY2O397	0679724532	275081924	The Gnostic Gospels	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Copies of Gnostic Texts in Coptic Found at Nag Hammadi	Gnosticism was a widespread movement.  Many of the Nag Hammadi texts were Christian.  Some Gnostic sources refer to Jewish tradition.  Pagels endeavors to show how Gnostic Christianity and Orthodox Christianity interact.   <br /> <br />The Orthodox position is that Jesus rose bodily from the grave.  Diverse forms of Christianity flourished in the early Christian movement.  The Gnostics claimed the principle of equal access and equal participation as against the hierarchy of clergy and lay people in Orthodox Christianity.  Gnostics had sources of tradition, one open, the other secret.  Some Gnostics adopted the idea that Genesis teaches an androgynous creation.  The secret texts were omitted from the canonical collection.  There is a correlation between religious theory and social practice.  Women were attracted to the Gnostic groups.   <br /> <br />The focus of Orthodoxy on the Passion of Christ was caused by the new religion's concern over persecution.  Affiliation with the movement placed a believer in danger.  Orthodox Christians insisted upon the necessity of accepting martyrdom.  Zeal for martyrdom was matched by hatred for heresy.  Persecution gave impetus to the formation of a church structure.  By the year 200 battle lines had been drawn between Gnostic and Orthodox Christians.  Ignatius defined the church in terms of the bishops.  Gnostics were not relativists or skeptics, but they believed there were different approaches to the truth.	2005-09-11
61088:US	52300235	R2BVJC6INEBP2	0140007709	20471690	The Crime at Black Dudley	Books	3	0	1	N	N	House party	This is old-fashioned.  It has dated.  The plot, though, is clever and funny.  The name of the mansion, the site of the house party and the mystery, is Black Dudley. Dr. George Abbershaw's opinion is respected at Scotland Yard.  He is in Suffolk on holiday and has fallen in love with Margaret Oliphant.  Wyatt Petrie is the nephew of the host.  He has studied classics at Oxford.   <br /> <br />Colonel Coombe, the host, has a heart attack or is murdered while the guests are playing a game with a ritual sword.  Albert Campion of Scotland Yard is among the party of guests and yet neither the nephew nor the uncle seem to know him.  One person, Benjamin Dawlish, is very angry and in the beginning it isn't clear who he is. Someone siphons off the petrol from the vehicles.  The body of Coombe is removed under mysterious circumstances.  Mr. Campion has been tasked to pick up a small package.  He informs some of the guests that a fence is among them.  <br />  <br />Formerly Black Dudley was a monastery.  There are in it secret rooms and passages.  Eventually the positive and negative forces are sorted out, the negative being a criminal gang consisting of the uncle and the servants, among others.  A problem has arisen since it seems that Coombe double-crossed the gang.   <br /> <br />The incarcerated innocent victims of the skullduggery are saved from false imprisonment at Black Dudley by the local hunt.  Albert Campion is recognized as an old school friend by one of the members of the hunt, and the guests are freed just before the ruffians are proposing to torch the place.  It turns out that the murder of Colonel Coombe is the product of a too perfect crime.	2005-09-11
61789:US	52300235	R3HZ19MYDBVLS5	0816153167	635856757	Maigret's Revolver	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Filial piety	A young man appears at Maigret's apartment and Madame Maigret telephones him.  Maigret's revolver and the visitor are both gone when Maigret arrives home around noon.  Maigret and his wife go to the Pardons for dinner.  Dr. Pardon likes to cook.  The young man is identified as Alain Lagrange.  Alain is the son of one of the expected Pardon guests who, for some reason, did not attend the dinner party   <br /> <br />In a roundabout way it is determined that Alain has become a missing person.  Maigret tells Alain's sister that he is wandering around Paris with a loaded gun in his pocket.  One of the officers finds that a big trunk has been transported from the Lagrange household and smells.  The dead man had been a politician.  Gare du Nord seems to be a feature of the case. <br /> <br />Maigret goes to England for the first time in twelve or thirteen years.  He is following a woman named Jeanne Debul.  He is beginning to lose confidence in himself as an investigator.  He understands that Alain has always believed in his father, a big soft seemingly ineffectual man.  Maigret locates Alain in London and they eat together in a hotel grill before catching a midnight flight back to Paris.  The convoluted story pertaining to the Lagranges and Jeanne Debul and others concerned blackmail.	2005-09-11
62501:US	52300235	R18OPAO9OLW3W1	B0007E6OP4	952570150	Poems, first & second series; (The Living library)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An inward life of bold, swift thought	Few poems were published in her lifetime.  This collection was edited by Mabel Loomis Todd and T.W. Higginson.  The poetry of Emily Dickinson is a joyful experience.  Loneliness is elevated to a level of philosophical knowingness and her lines sing.  Pantheism is circumscribed by her very real sense of the necessary straitjacket supplied by Christian belief.   <br /> <br />The arrangement of the poems is appropriate and thematic.  In the preface to the second series the portfolios of poetry left by Emily Dickinson at her death are described.  Variant forms and revisions were in evidence.  The poems are as luminous as the pictures of Martin Johnson Heade.  The artists' common use of humming birds suggests, among other things, this point.   <br /> <br />The language is succinct, never obvious.  For example, Dickinson writes that remorse is memory awake.  Elsewhere she wishes to be held firmly for eternity.  The topics in both series are life, love, nature, and time and eternity.	2005-09-10
63749:US	52300235	R3CDGHZNR4KDT0	0156028387	643398473	Maigret And The Apparition	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Surveillance	Lapointe advises Maigret at his apartment that Inspector Lognon, a plain-clothes detective, has been wounded.  When Lognon is on the trail of something he makes a mystery of it.  The concierge at the address on Avenue Junot says she heard a car and then shots.  At the time Lognon seemed to be seeing an apparition.  Lognon's wife is a hypochondriac.  Madame Maigret takes her in to comfort her while Lognon is in a coma from the attemped murder.   <br /> <br />Maigret goes to see a Dutchman, a rich art collector, whose household has been under a sort of surveillance by an ancient inhabitant of the Avenue Junot.  Msigret has a feeling that someone is in danger but he doesn't know the person's identity.  He calls Scotland Yard because the Dutchman's wife was married formerly to a man named Muir.   <br /> <br />As the mystery is uncovered, the subject of the forgery of paintings emerges.  It seems that the police officer became a shooting victim through a misunderstanding that he was a member of a rival gang.  The economy of the writing, the terse style used, is one of the pleasures of reading the works of Georges Simenon.	2005-09-09
73202:US	52300235	R1UZ2U435HE1PP	0380728346	792560045	The Ice Maiden: A Britt Montero Mystery (Britt Montero Mysteries)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Post Nine Eleven Crime Stories, Dateline Miami	A burglar was booby-trapped too effectively and electrocution resulted.  Mr. Gomez, a jewelry store owner, had had a terrible time with burglars.  Gomez is charged with second degree murder.     The reporter narrator of the book says she deals in shades of gray.  The reporter, Britt Montero, runs into a detective on the cold case squad, Craig Burch, who believes the homicide victim burglar has a connection with one of his cases.  She proposes a magazine piece on the cold case squad to her editor and he thinks it's a good idea.      The victim-burglar was scarred in a previous incident.  The burns may have been caused by potash, the alkaline material used in making soap.  Having a can of lye under a bed or near a door is a form of protection.  The following evening the Gomez store is torched.  The head of the cold case squad tells Craig and the other officers not to reopen the case.  It is claimed other matters will yield a greater chance of successful prosecution.  The members of the squad decide to do some investigation off the record and they seek Britt's help.      North Beach is still real but Britt fears the developers will change things.  The cold case had two victims, one victim survived and lives in North Beach.  She is an artist.  When studying in Italy she became known as the ice maiden.  In a cold case time works in favor of law enforcement officials, children grow up and spouses lose their fear.  Nazarino, one of the police officers in the unit, is very interested in getting to know the ice maiden.      Britt and others identify some of the likely suspects, including a preacher.  Someone showing remorse is tagged for the police by Britt as a possible informant.  The author is careful to place Britt's near romances in a post nine eleven context.  Too, the feelings of the residents of Little Havana are described as very patriotic.  A number of over age men sought to volunteer for service in the wars of retaliation.  It turns out the ice maiden is uncomfortable with ordinary people who don't know brutal and ugly things can happen.      The unraveling of the plot twists is very compelling.  The alert reader is in for a number of surprises.  It would be a shame not to read this book.  The author is at the top of her form.	2005-09-05
76300:US	52300235	R35W92XTNOGIR3	0142004146	45616288	March Violets: A Bernie Gunther Novel	Books	5	7	12	N	N	A Kind of Palimpsest	Use of the mystery tale genre illuminates this dark historical period.  I will give a thumbnail sketch of some of the events in the story.  The narrator, Bernhard Gunther, a private detective, is 38 years old.  A friend, Dagmarr, appears at the beginning and the end of the story.  In her initial appearance she is to marry Johannes, a sports flyer.  The term sports flyer is a cover for the rearmament taking place in Germany.   <br /> <br />Bernhard is approached by a lawyer and he distrusts lawyers.  Hermann Six, one of the major Ruhr industrialists, has suffered a loss.  His daughter has been murdered.  Grete Six married Paul Pfarr in 1930.  Three nights before the interview with Bernhard the couple died in a fire at their house.  Prior to the fire the safe had been ransacked.  There were jewels in the safe.  Six wants Bernhard Gunther to recover them.   <br /> <br />Pfarr had been an SS man.  Bernhard finds out that Goering might buy hot jewelry since he has a passion for owning expensive things.  Everybody in Germany was somebody different before March 1933.  In Berlin Gestapo headquarters used to be an art school.  Bernhard calls a crime reporter friend, seeking some background on the couple.  Before becoming a private investigator Bernhard had worked for Kripo, a police agency.   <br /> <br />A March Violet is someone who became a Nazi to go along and get along.  In the Weimar years Berlin had seemed like one of the most exciting cities in the world.  Bernhard explains that policing like autobahn construction and informing is one of the new German growth industries.  Corruption in one form or another is a feature of life under National Socialism.  Bernhard pays the pathologist for information about the manner of death of the murder victims.  The pathologist says he is being forcibly retired because he is not political.   <br /> <br />Rings were institutions of organized crime in Germany.  Gunther learns from an informant that the safe cracker in the case is a member of a ring.  The informant is afraid to give him information.  Banned writers are back in the shops because of the Olympiad.  Bernhard Gunther learns that Kurt Mutschmann may have opened the safe.  Gunther is picked up and brought to see Goering who tells Gunther he can lend him RED HARVEST by Dashiell Hammett.  Gunther is asked to find Gerhard Von Greis, someone who functioned as a purchasing agent for Goering and who has been missing for a week.  Bernhard Gunther learns from a ring leader that a killer has followed him and his assistant, a former newspaper reporter, Inge, to a cafe.   <br /> <br />It turns out that Bernhard is actually investigating two crimes since the safe had contained jewels and papers.  The deceased son-in-law possessed papers showing that Hermann Six had ties to organized crime.  Gunther discovers that Six's daughter was not killed in the fire.  Then he is in the hands of the Gestapo since Heydrich wants him to go to Dachau to trace down the papers in the control of Kurt Mutschmann.  Interestingly Kurt decided that hiding in Dachau would be a good idea and so he had done something in order to be arrested.  Bernhard finds Kurt dying in the infirmary of the camp.  Because Bernhard was kind to him, he tells him where to find the papers.  In the end Bernhard Gunther concludes that he has gotten used to living in a world out of joint.	2005-09-03
79405:US	52300235	R3UB6C7QG8FP5D	0425198081	340164684	Booked for Murder (Lighthouse Inn Mysteries, No. 5)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Charming host	Elise Danton and her employer, Alex Winston, did all the work at Hatteras West, an inn in the Blue Ridge Mountains having a replica of the lighthouse at Cape Hatteras.  The inn consisted of two buildings, but they were not at full occupancy.  A guard employed to watch over an exhibit of an emerald is found killed by a lighthouse letter opener.  It is also discovered that the real emerald had been replaced by a fake.   <br /> <br />Alex and Elise and another couple go out to eat at a new restaurant in town, Monet's Garden.  The prices are high and there is a ruckus going on in the kitchen.  The meals are dreadful.  The chef has quit.  The owner tears up the bill and gives the foursome a voucher for four free meals at a future date.  Elise is, apparently, beautiful.  She call her beauty a genetic wind-fall.  She is embarassed to admit she once entered a beauty contest in order to obtain funds to continue in school.   <br /> <br />An ex-cop, now a security man, believes that when one of Alex's guests is shot while jogging the assault is intentional.  Alex decides to conduct an informal investigation, too.  Alex Winston is a pleasant main character.  He seems like the sort of person one would like to know.  When Alex learns from a surveyor that the lighthouse may not be on his property he is made anxious.  The mystery is wrapped up when the true identities of the surveyor and a muffin lady are discerned.	2005-09-01
80272:US	52300235	R3C26GRUHSBMI9	0345430581	63398281	A Taste for Death (Adam Dalgliesh Mysteries, No. 7)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The tyranny of success	Adam Dalgliesh has not written any poetry for four years.  Miss Wharton and Darren, a stray school boy, are a pair.  They go to St. Matthew's twice a week.  It is a Romanesque church in Paddington.  On a particular visit they find two dead men.  They go in search of Father Barnes, the rector. One of the dead men is a tramp, Harry Mack, and the other is Paul Berowne, a baronet.  Kate Miskin and Adam, among others, are members of a special sensitive murder squad and are called upon to do the investigation.  Berowne had known Dalgliesh and known about his fondness for architecture.   <br /> <br />Berowne's daughter, Sarah, is mixed up with a revolutionary Marxist group.  A cousin of Lady Berowne, Stephen Lampart, is her lover.  Berowne had a mistress.  It seems to Kate Miskin that they are up against a killer who has the intelligence to think and plan.  Adam contends that no one joins the murder squad who hasn't a taste for death. When Dalgliesh visiting friends watches a tea ritual, he notes mentally that each person has his own contrivances to keep reality at bay.  Berowne's wife, a beautiful woman, was his brother's fiancee.  After his brother's death, Paul Berowne  succeeded to the title and five months later  married the fiancee, Barbara.   <br /> <br />Exploitation is at the heart of successful detection.  Kate and the third member of the team, Massingham, go out to interview a Mrs. Minns.  The interview of the cleaning woman yields a surprising number of clues.  A re-interview of Berowne's mistress provides more. The story covers class-frictions, the need for privacy of public figures, the role of religion and its lack in modern day England, and many other themes.  The visual arts are dealt with too.  To my way of thinking this is the best P.D. James mystery.	2005-09-01
80644:US	52300235	R1XN46EU8HWBYV	0679720219	764255828	The Plague	Books	5	1	8	N	N	Service Learning	The events occurred at Oran.  An invalid feels out of place in Oran because it is a place of business, of commerce.  One day Dr. Bernard Rieux feels something soft underfoot.  Townspeople show uneasiness.  Rats are coming out to die. Jean Tarrou is a visitor.  He find the town ugly.  Tarrou's diary entries describe a curious fever that is overcoming some of the occupants of the town.  An older colleague, Castel, tells Rieux that the fever is the plague.  Plagues and wars take people by surprise.<br /><br />Pursuant to Rieux's urging, a health committee convenes at the Prefect's office.  Disease is spreading rapidly.  Rieux has a dazed feeling.  He comes to realize he is afraid.  Instructions are received to declare a state of plague and close the town.  It is hard to grasp what is happening.  Measures are taken regarding traffic and food supply.  Rieux is reproached by a journalist, who is looking for a way to get out of town to be reunited with a lover, that he lives in a world of abstractions.  After a time he does not have to steel himself to not feel pity because he grows out of pity during the crisis of the epidemic.<br /><br />A Week of Prayer is organized in Oran.  A priest gives a sermon that if the plague is present, the hour has come for taking thought.  The town itself is under a sort of incarceration.  Some people adapt to the state of affairs and others do not.  Realizing their peril, people give their thoughts to pleasure.  Tarrou approaches Rieux.  He wants to develop a plan for voluntary assistance in coping with the plague.  Tarrou says his job in life is giving people chances.  Rieux finds the only way of fighting the plague is common decency.<br /><br />By August it seems the plague has eliminated free choice by swallowing up everyone and everything.  There is a sense of exile and deprivation.  The striking feature of the funerals is the speed.  In the end men and women are placed in death pits indiscriminately.  When there is no longer romm for burial the victims go to a fiery end.  The real plague has nothing in common with grandiose imaginings.  The people of Oran develop a habit of despair.  Through September and October there is nothing to do but mark time.  Rieux is exhausted and has no emotional resources.<br /><br />Tarrou's father was a lawyer, a functionary of the legal system.  Tarrou assists in the sanitation work of the plague outbreak because he opposes the death penalty.  In winter some of the patients survive the plague.  Others are helped by a serum.  In February the gates are opened.  Tarrou loses the match and dies.  Rieux prepares an account to honor the plague-stricken victims.r romm for burial the victims go to a fiery end.  The real plague has nothing in common with grandiose imaginings.  The people of Oran develop a habit of despair.  Through September and October there is nothing to do but mark time.  Rieux is exhausted and has no emotional resources.   <br /> <br />Tarrou's father was a lawyer, a functionary of the legal system.  Tarrou assists in the sanitation work of the plague outbreak because he opposes the death penalty.  In winter some of the patients survive the plague.  Others are helped by a serum.  In February the gates are opened.  Tarrou loses the match and dies.  Rieux prepares an account to honor the plague-stricken victims.	2005-09-01
86466:US	52300235	RLZWVZ04I1ZO5	0671007254	642444213	G. B. Shaw's Saint Joan	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Contrarian	Joan was a person of ability, a born boss, but she was immature and lacked academic training, Shaw asserts in the Preface.  An evolution in thought must first appear as heresy, misconduct.  Joan seeks out Robert of Baudricourt.  She prays and talks to soldiers.  She is fearless.  Joan claims God has told her to raise the siege at Orleans and crown the Dauphin at Rheims Cathedral.  Robert decides to make provision for her and for five or so soldiers to go see the Dauphin.  The archbishop in Chinon, where the Dauphin is located, explains that a miracle is an event that creates faith.   <br /> <br />The English claim that at Orleans they were defeated by witch craft, sorcery.  Cauchon avers that Joan is a heretic.  He points out, nevertheless, that Joan practices a sort of nationalism.  The inquisitor says at first he thought Joan's case was a political matter.  Then he decided it was one of the gravest cases of heresy within his experience.  The Epilogue deals with the canonization.  <br /> <br />The play is a wonder.	2005-08-29
91718:US	52300235	R2P0B2D0BEYOEX	0399149155	249229548	Q is for Quarry: A Kinsey Millhone Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Identity issues	It takes a while for the plot to kick in, but once it does, this book is good.  A general air of weariness infected Kinsey's new office.  She is handed a cold case file by Con Dolan, the former brother officer of Stacey Oliphant, his mentor and now a dying man.  A Jane Doe was stabbed and dumped in a quarry.  The case is eighteen years old.   <br /> <br />The site of the quarry is near the house of Kinsey's grandmother.  Old family quarrels trouble her thoughts.  Kinsey's parents died when she was very young.  Kinsey's mother had been the maverick of the family she learns.  Kinsey meets her aunt, the youngest in the family, through her cousin. <br /> <br />Kinsey and Con Dolan go to Quorum and find some likely evidence in a car there and have it impounded.  Kinsey speaks with a retired dentist who had treated the girl.  Before going to the alternative high school in an attempt to get the name of the girl, she stops at the motel for Dolan and discovers he is ill and calls 911.  Kinsey and her partners work through a number of connections in the small town to come up with the identity of the dead girl.   <br /> <br />Stacey and Con Dolan are a sort of odd couple.  After Con's heart attack, and since Stacey let his house go believing he would be dead, the men decide to share digs.  The mystery story runs to its conclusion in the usual fashion master-minded by this very competent writer.  The afterward by Sue Grafton is interesting.  There are pictures in it of a reconstructed head yielding a portrait of a true-life unsolved crime victim.	2005-08-25
93006:US	52300235	R4TEW62GO33LZ	0385721056	107479604	Good Faith	Books	5	2	11	N	N	Subsiding into dullness without bothering anyone	Joey Stratford is  real estate agent.  Bobby Baldwin, his side-kick, is the brother of his ex-girl friend, now deceased.  When Joey obtained his divorce he tried to show how small time he was.  In another part of the story Joey thinks that it is a good thing he is single because he can subside into dullness without bothering anyone.   <br /> <br />Gottfried Noelle, a former high school shop teacher, is one of the builders listing his houses with Joey.  Another source of listings is Gordon Baldwin, Bobby's father.  Gordon buys farms, he has special farm-buying clothes, develops shopping centers, one of his projects is a fake village, and develops neighborhoods.  He knows to skimp on necessities and to add more space to make his projects more inviting.  When modest housing in his rust belt state got Italian tile, Joey felt the 80's had begun.   <br /> <br />Joey sells Marcus Burns a Gottfried Noelle house and suddenly Marcus becomes part of Gordon's circle.  Joey doesn't push as hard as perhaps he should have on a deal for Salt Key Farm and in the midst of negotiations one of the owners dies.  Happily his widow is willing to come to terms on the day Gordon's option to buy is to expire.   <br /> <br />Salt Key Development Corporation is created to give all kinds of tax gimmicks to the buyers.  (Marcus Burn is ex-IRS.)  Reported income is like cockroaches Marcus tells Joey.  When Salt Key Farm fails the perc test, Marcus believes it is an opportunity for the project to widen to encompass more intensive development, perhaps even a small shopping center.   <br /> <br />In the project Marcus is the strategic thinker and Joey's role is to implement the plan.  He knows the process of obtaining permits.  Unfortunately Salt Key directly or indirectly causes a savings and loan debacle at a local institution.  Joey loses his current girl friend who doesn't want to stand by him as the mess gets sorted out.  (He was a sucker to have trusted Marcus Burns, a visionary.)  In the endhe is reunited with a true friend, one of Gordon's daughters.  This is a very good story.  The details are amusing and thoughtful.	2005-08-25
101983:US	52300235	RS04YIEAWWFRD	B000873430	387391541	The rubber band ;: A Nero Wolfe mystery	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Framing the question	The book dates from 1936 and Archie Goodwin's speech remains perky, snappy to the modern reader.  A sum of money is missing.  An officer of the corporation was holding the money for what seems to be the purpose of bribery.  It is removed from his desk.  The head of the concern calls upon Nero Wolfe and Archie, seeking a solution to the mystery.  The loss occurred between three and five thirty on a specific day.  Five people could have entered Mr. Muir's office, Mr. Perry, the man who brought the case to Nero Wolfe, Clara Fox, a cable secretary, an office boy, another vice-president, Muir's stenographer.  Clara Fox, the cable clerk, is the likely suspect.  She had worked for the firm for three years.    In classic fashion Nero Wolfe unwinds the complicated mystery in the presence of the police, the culprit, and interested parties.  Great!	2005-08-20
106541:US	52300235	RR88R2AI8O2MZ	084890981X	25068407	Portrait of a Marriage	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Regional Painter	Ruth Harnsbarger and William Barton were contemporaries.  William's father was the owner of a railroad.  William was a painter.  He was going to offer the academy his painting of a girl on a Pennsylvania farm.  The subject of the painting was Ruth.  His father told him the painting ws the best thing he had ever done.  Now he found he couldn't paint in New York.   <br /> <br />William wrote to Ruth.  Ruth told herself she was beneath William in every way.  William went to see Ruth.  He told her mother he couldn't stay away.  Mrs. Harnsbarger said she and her husband had intended for Ruth to marry someone who could help out on the farm.  William told his parents he was going to marry Ruth, a farmer's daughter.  Ruth's family had owned their farm for four generations.  William quarreled with his own parents and went to stay with Ruth's parents.   <br /> <br />It was a Lutheran service.  People were sorry to see Ruth marry a stranger who would take her away.  There were three children, Mary, Jill, and Hal.  Hal was more trouble than the girls.  William would not discipline the children because he did not want to impose his will on them.   <br /> <br />When the couple lived in the city Ruth said she could hardly breathe.  Too, she hated William's friends.  She said they weren't her kind.  William discovered his father went to the gallery where his work was sold.  William took his father back for a brief visit with Ruth.  She was tongue-tied. <br /> <br />They returned to the farm to help out when Ruth's mother became ill.  Ruth ceased to droop.  William went to see his parents.  His father had hung his picture in the house.  When the New York critics did not see progress in William's work he resolved to show his work in another way.   <br /> <br />William went to see his father and brought a painting with him.  His father advised him to go away alone and paint.  William spoke with Ruth, but the fact that their son Hal had just run away, (and stayed away for three years or more), prevented his departure.  Hal returned home to become a volunteer soldier in the war.  The army was a safe place for a boy like Hal.   <br /> <br />Ruth was gored by a bull.  A neighbor told William he should have been doing the man's work around the farm.  Ruth and William's daughter Jill went to stay with a friend of William's who had lost both of her sons in the war.  Jill took singing lessons and became a great singer.  Hal married a French girl.  William had come to be praised as the best painter of the Pennsylvania countryside.   <br /> <br />Aged, in painting William had lost the tricks of depth and luminosity.  William's father had left his fortune  in trust for the founding of an art museum.  Hal and his wife were killed in a bombing in World War Two.  Their young daughters were sent to the United States and Jill undertook to provide for them and to raise them.  William died at home.  His grandson Richard wanted to have his large paint box.	2005-08-17
107860:US	52300235	R10A1ET7YE2JF	0965925072	62929266	Shadow Divers	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Treasure Diving is an Extreme Sport	A German submarine was sunk off of the coast of New Jersey.  What is its story?  For six years Chatterton and Kohler were shadow divers.   <br /> <br />Nagle of Brielle, New Jersey took scuba divers out on his boat, The Seeker.  Seeing a shipwreck Nagle saw the ship in its glory.  He had been a diver in the seventies and eighties when the gear hadn't changed since that devised by Jacques Cousteau and others in the nineteen forties when diving tanks and regulators were developed.  The value of artifacts is in their symbolism.  Nagle explored the Andrea Doria off of Nantucket.  The wreck was deep, dark, and dangerous.  For a diver there is no greater prize than the ship's bell.  Nagle snagged the one from the Doria wreck.  As the owner of a diving ship Nagle had a problem.  He drank.   <br /> <br />Fishing charter captains go to wrecks for good fishing.  Captains protect their secret sites.  A captain described a site to Nagle, sixty miles offshore, and two hundred feet deep.  The captain offered to trade numbers, (giving the exact location), Nagle knew of another wreck, with Nagle.  Nagle contacted Chatterton about the wreck.  The men shared the same philosophy, to explore. Good divers would be needed to go down two hundred feet.  Each man would recruit six.  Deep wreck divers are a minuscule percentage of the world's scuba divers. <br /> <br />When Chatterton went down it was discovered the wreck was a World War Two submarine, a German U-boat, in New Jersey waters.  Nagle felt that the submarine might motivate him to get his health back.  Between 1939 and 1945 Germany assembled a force of 1167 U-boats.  U-boats sank 66 ships in 1940.  757 U-boats were sunk or captured.  The loss rate of U-boats actually used was seventy five percent.  Nagle and Chatterton were afraid another dive outfit would come and steal the glory.  Secrecy was important.   <br /> <br />October 10, 1991 a press release was issued that divers had found a mystery U-boat on the New Jersey coast.  Astory ran in the NEWARK STAR-LEDGER.  Civilians working Civil Defense detail in 1941 spotted a U-boat forty miles off of Atlantic City, slightly north, and dropped a bomb and depth charge on the target.  A German commander contacted Chatterton.  He felt the wreck was vintage 1944, New York area, U-851.  U-boats had a fifty five percent death rate.   <br /> <br />The wreck was identified as U-869 in 1997.  Bill Nagle died in 1993, age 41.  In 1994 Kohler gave up diving for a while to try to reconstruct his marriage and family.  In addition to Nagle, other deaths ensued.  Three divers died in the exploration. The book is exciting, a real page-turner.	2005-08-17
108942:US	52300235	R35W6LEWLJVV3I	0049210033	106326298	001: Autobiography B Russell Vol 1	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Mathematician's certainties	Three passions governed the author's life, searches for love and knowledge, and pity.  He was an orphan.  His parents had held advanced opinions.      Bertrand Russell was raised at Pembroke Lodge by his grandmother.  Her morality was that of a Victorian Puritan.  Bertrand's brother Frank longed to be loved, but he was a bully.  Bertrand believed he owed to the Stanley family, his mother's side, vigor, good health, and good spirits.  To his father's side he believed he owed shyness, sensitiveness, and metaphysics.      He fell in love with Euclid at age eleven.  From that point until age thirty eight, through the PRINCIPIA MATHEMATICA, mathematics was his great passion.  Russell attended Cambridge in 1890 with a minor scholarship.  Cambridge had been chosen for reason of his great interest in mathematics.  He met Charles and Bob Trevelyan when he sat for the scholarship examination.  He felt that Charles Percy Sanger had a perfect combination of penetrating intellect and warm affection.  In addition to Sanger, he came to know Crompton and Theodore Llewelyn Davies, Ellis McTaggart, Roger Fry, and Lowes Dickinson.  Russell never felt that his having been schooled at home was a disadvantage.    In his third year at Cambridge he met G.E. Moore who fulfilled his ideal of genius.  Russell's favorite group at Cambridge was the society known as The Apostles.  Whitehead was a member and had recommended that the mathematics papers of Sanger and Russell, prepared during the scholarship examination, be read by the faculty.  Bertrand was elected to the society in 1892.  He knew Maynard Keynes through his father and Lytton Strachey through his mother.  Lady Strachey had immense vigor.  Lytton was brought up to be a writer.      Russell fell in love with Alys Smith who lived near his Uncle Rollo.  He came of age May 1993.  His love for Alys grew.  His family was not pleased  by his infatuation.  He went to live with Alys's family while working on his fellowship dissertation on non-Euclidean geometry.  He married Alys in December 1894.  Her family had been Philadelphia Quakers.  Her brother was Logan Pearsall Smith and her sister was Mary Costelloe.      Ward and Whitehead were the readers of Russell's dissertation and he was elected a Fellow.  He read the work of Georg Cantor at his wife's parents place because the couple's flat was too noisy.  Subsequently Russell fell out of love with his wife.  He discerned in her traits he disliked in her brother and her mother.      In 1910 with PRINCIPIA MATHEMATICA completed he felt at loose end.  Volunteering for the Liberal cause he met Philip Morrell and Ottoline Morrell.  Ottoline was very tall and had dark red marmalade colored hair, not dyed.  In 1913 he began a friendship with Joseph Conrad.	2005-08-16
109015:US	52300235	R1YYPZZP49XKRH	0618056807	455111837	Baumgartner's Bombay	Books	5	1	6	N	N	Wanderer	Baumgartner fed the cats on restaurant leftovers.  Under the circumstances he had to patronize the cafes.  It was believed that in India Hugo Baumgartner could begin a new life and thus his family had arranged for him to go there.  It was felt that India would be safe because  it was a colony of their neighbor, Britain. He departed for for the East from Venice.  His mother could not be compelled to go with him.  <br /> <br />It had seemed like bedlam when he walked on what he assumed was British soil.  He told Lotte years later that on his first day he ate curry.  In Calcutta he stayed in a hotel on Middleton Row.  He found he had to build a new language to suit the conditions.   <br /> <br />News from Europe became rapidly more alarming.  During the war he was taken to an improvised camp at Fort William.  Baumgartner was labeled a German and a hostile.  He remained in captivity for six years.  In the final camp he saw the Himalayas.  He carried with him the habits of an only child and an isolated youth.   <br /> <br />In the present Baumgartner had a visitor, a blond-haired boy. After the war he had found a room off of Free Street in Calcutta.  The city had been bombed.   He was advised to go to Bombay.  The boy Kurt laughed to have traveled so far to meet H. Baumgartner.  When Hugo died, Lotte appeared to say that Hugo should be mourned and that his belongings should be respected.	2005-08-16
109588:US	52300235	RFAE2SSC0AW4N	0316083593	250252575	On with the Story: Stories	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The risk of mood crash	\\"Check-in\\"--dinner is more pensive than festive.  The couple chooses the buffet restaurant.  In \\"The End\\" the narrator must continue the introduction until the guest speaker, a female poet, delayed by security measures, appears.  It is the innauguration of the Last Lecture Series, endowed by someone who died rather quickly afterwards, and is an end of sorts for the narrator who is retiring from his professorial position.    History is a Mandelbrot set, infinitely divisible.  The story of our life is a story, not our life.  Elizabeth's father died in the corridor of the county hospital while she was on a book tour.  In the draft of a letter to an old friend Elizabeth writes that since time out of mind she had been absorbing stories.  Her father was a born story-teller.  Elizabeth, in her forties, develops into one of the memorable voices of her generation.      Alice is in flight crossing the Mississippi River.  She wonders where the money had come from in those \\"Leave It to Beaver\\" years, the 1960's and 1970's when she grew up.  In a story Alice is reading the malaise is called the Boomer Syndrome.  Alice thinks of the Uncertainty Principle holding that the more we know about a particle's position the less we know about its momentum.  It turns out Alice's seat companion is the author of the story Alice is reading.      Do people think of their lives as stories from birth to death?  Mimi assumes a supporting role when her husband Rob is found to have AIDS.  One of the characters believes that not enough has  been written about happy marriages.	2005-08-16
119534:US	52300235	R3KP2HD43P6YCQ	0671664271	954102735	Lost Horizon	Books	5	2	9	N	N	Traveler's tale	The story of Conway is received by Rutherford.  He had been interested enough in the story to prepare a manuscript.  Conway, Mallinson, and Barnard were in an airplane headed for Peshawar, but going in the wrong direction.  They had left Baskul, Persia.  In their company was a missionary, Miss Brinklow.  Miss Brinklow used to belong to the LMS, London Missionary Society, but she disagreed about infant baptism.  The plane landed.  The pilot was unconscious and died that evening.  Everyone but Conway was affected by the altitude and it was cold.  Part of Conway, (his record at school had been brilliant), was always an onlooker.   <br /> <br />A robed figure emerged from the lamasery of Shangri-La.  The name of the mountain was Karakul, twenty eight thousand feet high.  Conway surmised they were in Tibet.  He knew very little Tibetan.  Chair-bearers transported the members of the  party to shelter.  The atmosphere of the lamasery was Chinese rather than specifically Tibetan.  (Conway was to find out later that the religion practiced was a mixture of Buddhism and Christianity.)  There were about fifty lamas present and others who had not completed their studies, including the guide, Chang.  Some of the lamas were neither Chinese not Tibetan.   <br /> <br />Mallinson, only twenty four years old, wants the party's return journey to be arranged right away.  Conway senses that their arrival had been expected by the inhabitants.  The puzzle of their arrival at Shangri-La begins to fascinate Conway.  It is deemed by the guide that it is unlikely anyone from the outside world would be visiting Shangri-La to carry supplies to the community sooner than two months hence.  Miss Brinklow and the American, Barnard, do not consider staying at Shangri-La for two months a hardship.  Conway is used to service in exotic places, but the situation for Mallinson is difficult.   <br /> <br />The lamasery has collections of books and art of China and Tibet.  It is discovered that Barnard is traveling on a forged passport and is wanted by the authorities.  Chang advises Conway excitedly that the High Lama has agreed to see Conway which is contrary to usual practice and is obviously a great honor.  It seems that for thirty eight years there was a Christian mission in Lhasa.   <br /> <br />Conway learns the members of their party are supposed to stay forever.  The place is known as the valley of the Blue Moon.  The lamas are ageless.  In the end Conway sees the High Lama on a number of occasions and learns he has been designated the successor.  Barnard, having worked as a mining engineer, ascertains that the place is a gold mine.  Mallinson and Conway are  determined to leave and, thus, Conway becomes the subject of the traveler's tale compiled by Rutherford.	2005-08-10
120516:US	52300235	R3LKUTG3VJVJM	0440171970	418564383	Promised Land (A Spenser Novel)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Women's rights	Pier 4 is an expense account monument of a restaurant.  Spenser takes Susan Silverman there for lunch after his new client, Harv Shepard, hires him to find his wife.  Spenser looked for runaway kids in the previous decade and now he is looking for the mothers.  He drives to Hyannis to meet with Shepard.   <br /> <br />Pam Shepard, the wife, grew up in Belfast, Maine.  She and her husband graduated from Colby in 1954.  The police know she took the bus to New Bedford.  She had been something of a regular at a motel bar, the Seven Seas, in Hyannis.   <br /> <br />From the Acushnet River, New Bedford rises steeply from the docks.  When one of the women with whom Pam Shepard is staying hurts Spenser, he tells her that he is a professional thug.  Spenser keeps her whereabouts a secret from Harv.  Harv has been beaten in the manner a loan shark would use to have his debt paid.  <br /> <br />Some days later Spenser learns that Pam has been involved in a bank robbery and homicide.  She is distraught.  (This book is dated in a nice way.  In the 1970's middle class people believed they had to commit crimes to show revolutionary fervor.)  In this book Spenser and Hawk are not working for the same cause, although Hawk is a character in the story.  At this stage in the lives of Robert B. Parker's ensemble characters, Susan is working as a guidance counselor.   <br /> <br />In the end both husband and wife are in big jams and Spenser extricates them by calling in law enforcement and setting up a sting.  Others, more guilty than the couple, do walk into the trap.  All of the the plot points are nicely set out by the author.	2005-08-10
126237:US	52300235	R4J43DMRQYU82	0743454537	354573823	My Sister's Keeper: A Novel (Wsp Readers Club)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Coerced Good Samaritan	A child is conceived to save her sister. Chronic illness is a challenge to families.  This one has a mega-loaded issue of a genetically-matched sibling to serve as a spare parts facility.  The child, teenager Anna Fitzgerald, goes out to obtain an attorney who seeks her medical emancipation at age thirteen.   <br /> <br />As the sick sister, age sixteen, says, something is always falling apart in her.  The match was for the purpose of cord blood.  Things happened and failed to happen and so events moved on through several procedures to a bone-marrow transplant.  At present the sick child's kidneys are failing.   <br /> <br />The family, remarkably, is appealing and normal.  The oldest child, a male, is alienated.  The mother, a nonpracticing lawyer, has turned into a ditz under the strain.  The father has his job as a fire fighter to keep him more or less sane.  The writer has done a good job of making the reader believe in the reality of the characters and the reader is brought to the point of caring about their fates.   <br /> <br />A guardian ad litem is appointed who had a former relationship with Anna's attorney when they attended a ritzy private school in Providence, Wheeler.  The guardian ad litem was a scholarship student and she, Julia, had pink hair at the time.  Campbell Alexander's parents did not like his selection of a friend. <br /> <br />Jesse, the alienated son, remarks that no one in his family covers up mistakes.  Anna goes to stay in her father's room at the fire station when the emotions at home are at their peak.  That every family has problems is a cliche, but unfortunately this family has more problems than most.  One of the problems is that since the couple elected to create a designer child, the sick child has had more opportunities to get well and overcome various crises through the use of the body parts of her sister, and the family system has been in a dysfunctional mode for a very long time.   <br /> <br />There is a surprise ending.  Iwill not disclose it and spoil the reader's fun.	2005-08-07
126313:US	52300235	R2IK8UM4EWM858	0451410025	962047318	I Am the Only Running Footman (Richard Jury Mystery)	Books	4	0	3	N	N	Bonded	The deceased, Sheila Broome, lived in Exeter.  Racer disturbed Richard Jury to call him to the crime scene.  It is another death, that of Ivy Childess, that causes Wiggins to make the conection between Ivy Childess and Sheila Broome because of the manner of death. <br /> <br />As connections are teased out laboriously by everyone including Melrose Plant and Marshall Trueblood, it is determined that the members of the Winslow family were bonded to each other.  The two murders had to do with the accidental death of a child, Phoebe Winslow.   <br /> <br />As in every other instance that I know of, this Martha Grimes novel contains excellent writing coupled with interesting and compelling material.  She is a first rate practitioner of the craft of crime fiction.	2005-08-07
130025:US	52300235	R1EDOU4UUCU73J	0486282228	944746316	Pygmalion (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	When She Opened Her Mouth	Shaw says the English don't teach their children to speak.  Furthermore, they cannot spell.  In the preface written by the playwright Henry Sweet is mentioned.  Shaw claims that the play is deliberately didactic.      In Act One Colonel Pickering, Henry Higgins, and Eliza Dolittle emerge.  When Eliza arrives at the Higgins establishment in Act Two, Higgins is annoyed, since he had already recorded her speech in his notebook.  It seems that Eliza wishes for Higgins to give her speech lessons so that she can sell flowers in a shop.  She is willing to pay him two fifths of her day's pay for lessons and so he is inclined to give it a try.  Colonel Pickering forms a wager that Higgins can turn Eliza into a lady.  Eliza is taken to a room on the third floor where she bathes so that she won't smell while sitting with the two gentlemen, Pickering and Higgins.  Higgins assures Pickering that pupils are sacred and that he would not take advantage of Eliza.      Alfred Dolittle, part Welshman, comes on the scene.  He has, Higgins asserts, the Welsh qualities of sentimental rhetoric and mendacity.  Alfred gives his pitch that he is part of the undeserving poor.  He is up against the middle class morality all of the time.  Higgins teaches Eliza, rewarding her with chocolates.      Mrs. Higgins, Henry's mother, was brought up on Morris and Burne-Jones and her house furnishings reflect this fact.  Mrs. Higgins puts forth the notion that Higgins and Pickering are playing with Eliza.  What is to happen to their live doll after the garden party where she plays a lady.  Much of the play was used verbatim in MY FAIR LADY.  It is terribly funny and  wise.  It presents a very good example of the dangers of experimenting with human beings.	2005-08-04
131597:US	52300235	RKWFVFM26LEQL	0226572501	753898892	Next Room of the Dream	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Smash the Idol	This collection has metaphysical attributes.  When the Etruscan Warrior at the Metropolitan Museum of Art was declared a fraud, Nemerov wrote a poem.  Howard Nemerov is the brother of Diane Arbus, the celebrated photographer of freaks.  One is particularly reminded of this in poems about Santa Claus and the infant, Jesus, and department store mannequins, since department stores had a place in the family background, and in a poem about a picture.   <br /> <br />Nemerov's eye for the arresting scene is everywhere evident.  Rhymes and half-rhymes abound in the selections, creating a musical effect.  Nemerov writes that Vermeer, interested in light, has a modesty that is seductive.  A late nature poet peeled the landscape back to show it was a story.  Two dramas, ENDO and CAIN, appear in the collection.  Abel feels Cain doesn't accept life as it is.	2005-08-04
137721:US	52300235	R135UG9MVS8SDF	0142001449	241909658	The Difference Engine: Charles Babbage and the Quest to Build the First Computer	Books	5	2	2	N	N	One of the great accomplishments of the 19th century	Charles Babbage and John Herschel, the astronomer, were preparing tables for the astronomical society.  They needed to check the work of computations by humans, by different computers.  The need for tables was particulary important for navigators.  The source of error in the tables was clear, human fallibility.  The manual production of tables, calculation, transcription, typesetting, and proofreading created opportunities for error.  The engine of change in 1821 was the steam engine.  Charles Babbage wanted to produce a machine to produce error-free tables.      Babbage entered Trinity in 1810.  He studied on his own the work of the French mathematicians.  His father was a well-to-do London banker.  Charles married and received from his father an allowance of three hundred pounds.  In London he established himself in scientific circles.  By the spring of 1822 he had a small working model of his first design.  Computing devices of the time required manipulation and were limited as to the size of the numbers the devices could handle.  Babbit first used the method of differences, addition, in his design.  He sent a brief announcement to the Astronomical Society about his invention.  He received a mandate from the government and was prepared to build a new machine.  He hired Joseph Clement for precision engineering work.  Clement and Babbage devised new tools and modified machines.  There was a need to produce large numbers of similar parts.  Babbage conceived of his machine when manufacturing was in transition.  By 1826 Babbage was wholly absorbed in the design of his Difference Engine.  The machine was eight feet by seven feet by three feet.      In 1826 Babbage published a book on life assurance.  While traveling in Europe following the death of his wife, he learned of his election as Lucasian Professor of Mathematics.  He never resided in Cambridge and gave no lectures.  Babbage expressed a view on the decline of science In England.  Undoubtedly science was more professional in Prussia and France.  Babbage's position alienated some of his supporters.  In 1832 part of the engine was put on display in his drawing room.  Clement was to leave the project.  Work was not resumed.  The Treasury Department spent more than seventeen thousand pounds on it.      There is a curious affinity between mathematics, mind, and computing.  After the break with Clement, Babbage moved from the Difference Engine to the Analytical Engine.  He devised the first automatic mechanisms for multiplication and division.  He had in fact designed a general purpose four function calculator.  In 1836 he opted for punch cards to control the engine.  The Analytical Engine was never built.  Babbage worked in isolation.  With the Analytical Engine Babbage was seduced by the intellectual quest.      After twenty years the Treasury axed the Difference Engine and wrote off the expense.  Between 1846 and 1849 Babbage designed Difference Engine No. 2.  Maurice Wilkins believed the Analytical Engine was one of the great accomplishments of the 19th century.  The Science Museum in Britain built a version of the Difference Engine No. 2 for an exhibit on Babbage.	2005-08-01
140819:US	52300235	RTUBLO3QY1F23	0060652934	963630731	The Screwtape Letters	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Anticipating the arguments of the opposition	This is a point of view from the underside of human existence portrayed in humorous terms.  Keep men well fed in hazy ideas, exploit misery, encourage the states of moderate religion or no religion, and the negative side prevails.  The superficially intellectual and brightly skeptical are good victims.   <br /> <br />It is possible to use social, sexual, intellectual vanity.  In modern Christian writings there is very little about the value of time, worldly vanities, and choice of friends.  Nihilism, nothing, is very strong.  It can steal away a man's best years.  The future is the least like eternity.  Men are angered by misfortune conceived as injury.   <br /> <br />C.S. Lewis uses the term lowerarchy for his mischievous characters, Screwtape and Wormwood, negative spirits, uncle and nephew.  The letters were conceived in the context of the danger and anxiety produced by World War II to lighten the situation with delightful irony.	2005-07-30
141478:US	52300235	R3IFH0IW1HS8KJ	0425194620	616830403	Death of a Princeton President (Princeton Murders)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Dink Stover Redux	Melissa Faircloth is the newly installed president of Princeton.  When she is missing for three days, her daughter asks her nonfiction writing teacher, McLeod Dulaney, to find her.  It is two years after McLeod's first stay in Princeton when she and her students solved a murder mystery. Presently McLeod is good friends with the president's assistant, George Bridges.  McLeod is advised that the president's estranged husband, Clarence Robbins, is in Princeton and she arranges to see him.  McLeod hears that the president is planning to fire the provost.   <br /> <br />George and McLeod find Melissa Faircloth dead in her office.  Afterwards a number of people agree that McLeod asks too many questions.  A moviemaker has remained on campus after the spring break against the wishes of the late president.  McLeod learns that her friend George is actually a murder suspect.  Snapper soup is a specialty of the Nassau Club.  McLeod eats there with a 1940 alumnus.  George is put on administrative leave after an article in the Trenton Times lists him as a suspect.  He is on paid leave, but is idle and frustrated until McLeod solves the mystery.   <br /> <br />A family member of mine notes the storytelling meanders.  It is true that the writer takes her time.  Basically she does a better than adequate job here.	2005-07-30
143021:US	52300235	R36GCO52CAC652	0060932236	326895825	Essays of E. B. White (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Word genius	Twenty two of the essays appeared in THE NEW YORKER.  White had candor.  His piece on the death of his pig is masterful.  He examined his own feelings and community reaction.  The role of his dachshund, Fred, is described amusingly.  It is no wonder White wrote so winningly for children.      In 1954 when he had no television he was looked upon as an eccentric.  During Hurricane Edna radio worked people up to an incredible state of alarm.  It seemed that no wick was available for the Whites' kerosene lamp.  White has some gentle fun with mistakes of the exhausted radio announcers.  Battered down was said instead of battened down, and unindated for inundated.  There are two stages in the country of a storm.  There is the period when phones and lights are still going, and then there is the stage when these cease to work.  The storm itself did not seem long in comparison to the radio vigil.      He came to feel that living in New England in the winter was a full time job in itself.  Another use of his time was having an enemy, the fox.  Darkness was more insistent than the cold.  Farming, even the kind pursued by the author, is infinitely complex.  When the snow arrived early in 1971 White was cut short.  The usual things were not done.  It got so there was no place to put the snow after it was plowed.        In the city section of the essays it is noted that New York City bestows the gift of loneliness and privacy.  In 1939 there were eight million people in the five boroughs.  In Florida it appears that the sun and the lizard maintain the same schedule.  The tiny spots of the fiddler crab's body enlarge during the daytime hours.  To have a pointsettia plant at Christmastime in   Florida seems faintly ridiculous.  Pointsettias bloom  naturally in the yards. A small chameleon arrives with the Whites' tropical substitute for a Christmas tree much to Mrs. White's delight.      In 1923 the author kept a diary of his trip to Alaska.  A ship, docking at Seattle, was to go on a journey for forty days.  He had only forty dollars, enough to traverse the inner passage to Skagway, and so he went.  The Buford, for some of the passengers, became a high class floating jail because although food and scenery were good, there was no escape.  Youthful, White absorbed the vast scene of Alaska.  This was a trip promoted by the Chamber of Commerce, but White's roommate was another odd man to the enterprise, a Laplander.  He was a reindeer butcher, going to a job in Nome.  When the boat reached Skagway White's ticket ran out.  The captain came up with the idea of putting him on as a night saloonsman.  His metamorphosis took the passengers by surprise.      WALDEN  is not a well-liked book among White's acquaintances.  Thoreau was torn by two desires, to enjoy the world and to set the world straight.  He tended to write in sentences, and WALDEN is a collection of certified sentences.  I have tried to give the prospective reader some notion of the enjoyment to be obtained from reading White's essays.	2005-07-29
144572:US	52300235	RJ9X2UGM2B085	0449131793	705682828	Barrier Island	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Splendid analysis	The look of the money always makes the deal.  A man is willing to sell his office to maintain a relative in a nursing home.  The subject at hand is the condemnation of Bernard Island.  Tucker Loomis is a developer.  Helen Yoder, Tuck's friend, works for a real estate agency headed by Wade Rowley and Bern Gibbs.  Wade Rowley is beginning to think that the development of Bernard Island is dicey and he doesn't like his agency being involved.  Loomis proves he is a man of substance by having a large and successful residential development, Parklands.  Loomis is not immediately accepted because he is an outlander, a man from Ohio.      Wade Rowley's concern is that his firm has handled the deeds and some other work on Bernard Island.  It is possible to acquire marginal land, propose developing it, sell some lots, and use the information in a condemnation hearing, in this instance an action brought by the National Park Service, to obtain a better valuation of the land.  Wade encounters an old friend, a newpaperman, who has questions about the Bernard Island matter.  He thinks, too, that Tucker Loomis is performing a charade about developing the island in order to bilk the government.    MacDonald had an MBA and he understood very well schemes of white collar crime.  He also evidenced knowledge of the perils of overdevelopment in environmentally fragile areas.  Wade explains to his wife how twenty years earlier there was a local power structure deriving from locally owned banks, newspapers, and the like.  The change, or nationalization of institutions, say, has resulted in a situation where developers are some of the biggest frogs in the pond.  Developers and construction firms don't have continuity.  Local government is the biggest growth industry and it operates without restraint.  Now there is a kind of anarchy.  There is splendid analysis embedded in the fiction.      Rowley investigates ownership of the lots to see if the holders of the lots are legitimate owners.  Hediscovers that at least four of the transactions are fraudulent.  He meets with a Park Service official, where the ecology of the Mississippi Sound is discussed, to turn over the information he collected for use against Tucker Loomis in the law suit.  Unfortunately, since Loomis has an inside man, he learns that someone from the real estate agency has provided the federal government with adverse information.      The story continues as interesting and violent events unfold.  Even at the end, everything is not resolved, as is the case in real life.  This is a very good example of the craftsmanship of John D. MacDonald.	2005-07-28
145362:US	52300235	R32S9L1V28ENVT	0425188205	428356431	The Princeton Murders	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A Great Gothic Sieve	McLeod Dulaney is invited to teach the fall version of the John McPhee course, literature of fact.  A Pulitzer Prize winner, she quickly compiles some clippings to apply for the post.  Rent in Princeton turns out to be astronomical by Tallahassee standards.  McLeod enjoys walking around Princeton where it isn't too hot looking at the Gothic buildings designed by Ralph Adams Cram.   <br /> <br />A friend in the English department, (McLeod participates in a good deal of socializing), seems to have food poisoning, is hospitalized, and dies. Another member of the English department dies after a party given by McLeod.  Some of the students in McLeod's class decide to investigate the two deaths.   <br /> <br />One of the assistant professors interviewed admits that the second dead man had stood in the way of his goal of being granted tenure.  McLeod feels that the supposed hardship, teaching in Georgia or Texas, would be a good experience for many of the people she has encountered at Princeton.  When there is a third death, that of yet another professor, the borough police take over and McLeod tells her students to terminate their involvement.  One member of the faculty remarks that he or she is impressed that students are taking some initiative.   <br /> <br />In Firestone Library McLeod is almost squeezed to death in the stacks.  Later she realizes that she could have used some books to protect herself.  One of the victims had found evidence of plagiarism from Giddings and Bate in a novel about Keats and Fanny Brawne.  It turns out that the author could not have committed one of the linked murders for reason she was in New York City.  Someone else tells McLeod that at Princeton all rumors get reported, that it is a great gothic sieve.   <br /> <br />I will not disclose the ending and ruin the reader's pleasure.  This is good storytelling.  It is a good device to have an outsider, McLeod, do the Princeton thing.  Also, the portrayal of the student investigators is superb.	2005-07-27
148106:US	52300235	R1F8T3YUXF8YZZ	0668018852	242542707	Keats.	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Haunting and haunted poet	John Keats was a romantic poet.  A definition of romanticism is the renaissance of wonder.  The second half of the eighteenth century saw the industrialization of England. Restlessness testified to social conscience.  Keats was influenced by the visual arts.  The English tendancy in painting is to be ethereal, sinuous, flowing, liquid.  Keats existed in isolation.  His brother Tom died at age nineteen.  Leigh Hunt, a journalist, was immensely kind to Keats.<br /><br />Fanny Brawne was not the only woman to whom Keats was attracted.  He did not know Shelley well.  Keats moved to London in 1815.  He thought that Wordsworth lacked self-effacement.  He wrote famously of negative capability.  In 1819 he wrote 'Ode to a Nightingale', 'Ode on a Grecian Urn', 'Ode on Melancholy' and 'Ode to Indolence'.  He braced himself for sneering reviews and suffered through poverty.  He died in 1821.<br /><br />Keats's letters are great.  He had steadiness of purpose and confidence.  He had a vivd sense that life is for living.  He found all life is some way precious.  He compared human life to a large mansion with many apartments.  Spenser and Milton were potent influences on Keats's poetry.<br /><br />The plot of 'Endymion' is confusing.  Keats planned a sort of allegory.  'The Eve of St. Agnes' carried onviction.  'Hyperion' is in part about political and social revolution.  Keats made a mistake, though, in attempting epic poetry.  The poet painstakingly learned Italian to read Dante.  'La Belle sans Merci' is haunting.  Keats drew on a body of experience enriched by his great intelligence and fine sensibility.  In 'Ode to Autumn' Keats achieves perfection.<br /><br />A bibliography and general index appear after the text of this excellent study.	2005-07-26
149230:US	52300235	R21020IRPSBCHB	0743431677	43473074	Call for the Dead	Books	5	6	11	N	N	Excursions into the mystery of human behavior	Lady Ann Sercomb married George Smiley.  She deemed him ordinary.  Two years later she left him.  Smiley traveled without labels.  In 1928 he was offered a position in the secret service.  Natural pleasure started to die in him.  In 1937, in Germany, when he had been at a provincial German university, he saw books being burned and he disliked this.      In 1939 he began four years of traveling between Germany, Sweden and Switzerland.  In 1943 he was recalled to England.  After the war the inspired amateurism of a clutch of ill-paid men ceased.  Smiley entered middle age without ever having been young.      A man named Fennan kills himself.  Smiley had interviewed him.  For background for his department he goes to see the man's wife, Elsa.  Smiley comes to believe the death is murder.  His superior is not happy to receive his opinion of the matter.  Making no headway, Smiley decides to resign.  He goes to see a police officer involved in the  investigation of Fennan's death. In a junkyard Smiley is knocked unconscious.  Three weeks later, the hospital allows the policeman, Mendel, to see him.      The dead man, Fennan, had found intellectual purity in Marxism.  Could it be that the murder of Fennan and the attempted murder of Smiley were related?  Perhaps the murderer of Fennan was anxious that he not talk to a security officer.  A connection between the East Germans and Fennan is surmised.  Next the informant at the junkyard, Scarr, comes up dead.  It is established that Fennan had been an East German spy in order to help the cause, but he was clumsy.  Fennan was killed under the false  belief that he had betrayed his side.      This book, one of the first two published by this author, is absolutely brilliant.  One sees that right from the start the webs untangled by George Smiley are of great importance and interest.	2005-07-25
149788:US	52300235	R3UTNHQ0UVU7WN	0822213931	2165549	A Touch of the Poet - Acting Edition	Books	5	10	14	N	N	Culture clash	The setting of the play is 1828, Melody's tavern, not far from Boston.  The Yankee gentry won't let the tavern owner, Cornelius Melody of Galway, come near them, a cousin of Con, Mickey Maloy relates.  Con mistreats his wife, Nora. Sara is Con's daughter.  Sara contends her father prefers his mare to his family.  There are money woes.  Nora has pride in her love for her husband.  Sara is interested in Simon Harford, a rich man's son who attended Harvard, now living the life of a tinker, a tramp.  Sara claims that Simon is a born dreamer.  Nora says that Simon has the touch of a poet in him.  Simon is timid.  He hasn't told Sara yet he is in love with her.   <br /> <br />At Talavera the Duke of Wellington commended Con's bravery.  Con fancies himself a Byronic hero.  Factually speaking, he is the owner of a tavern and he drinks too much.  Mrs. Henry Harford, Deborah, arrives while Con is preening before the mirror.  Simon's mother received an unsigned letter telling her about Simon and Sara.  Simon's grandfather had been an idealist.  Deborah sees that Sara is strong, ambitious, and determined.  Deborah warns Sara that Harfords never part with their dreams. <br /> <br />Sara is put into a state of hysterical laughter because her father, Con, has the presumption to speak with Simon about the terms of a marriage.  Gadsby, an attorney representing Henry Harford, arrives.  He tells Con that Harford opposes the marriage of Simon and Sara.  Henry Harford offers a monetary settlement for nonmarriage.  Seeking an interview with Henry Harford, Con is beaten by the Harford servants.  In a state of lunacy he kills his mare.  In the end Sara comes to see that her mother is strange and powerful and that she should follow the example of her mother. <br /> <br />This is a beautiful play.  Reading it offers some consolation for not seeing it produced.	2005-07-25
153828:US	52300235	REW51RQMK6WG	B0007DY63W	646481269	Essays	Books	5	3	7	N	N	Celebration of the suffering of artists	Goethe had a tendancy to make mysteries.  His conception of artistic life was esoteric.  In 1775 Goethe began to show FAUST to intimate friends.  The confidence, the fame were consequences of the success of WERTHER.  Gretchen dominates the whole first part of FAUST.  The Gretchen story is intellect becoming guilty of preferring beauty.  The man of Faustian strivings is a good boy.  Goethe died writing.  He was a born educator, a citizen, a man of the flesh.  His idea of education was derived from Rousseau.  He needed praise, having his tender spots.  The tumultuous success of YOUNG WERTHER must have been a burden. <br />   <br />Tolstoy was in Weimar when he was thirty years old.  Turgenev advised Tolstoy to stop tormenting himself with theology.  Goethe and Tolstoy were Olympian.  Pedagogic and autobiographic impulses were present to a very great degree in both authors.  Someone held that the artistic work of Leo Tolstoy was a tremendous diary.  Schiller was kinder to his visitors than Tolstoy.  Disease is dehumanizing, but it is also spirit.  Tolstoy and Goethe, though, were nature's noblemen.  They were aristocratic, long-lived, self-loving. Tolstoy and Goethe felt a naive enjoyment of their exalted status.  Goethe was Christian in spirit.  His lifework remained a fragment.  Tolstoy has been called the great seer of the body.  Goethe, synthesizing art and nature, was not a humanitarian.  He did not possess an emancipatory conception of humanity.  Tolstoy's work, including ANNA KARENINA, had an Homeric element.  Thick traditionalism, so much a characteristic of great Russian literary art, connects Tolstoy's novel with Pushkin.  Levin is Tolstoy Mann asserts.  ANNA KARENINA was begun in the happiest, most harmonious period of Tolstoy's life.  In the end the author hated the task and would not have finished the work if it had not been serialized.  <br /> <br />Richard Wagner had all the unmistakable traits of the 19th century.  The century  yielded a perfect forestof giants.  Nietzsche thought that in the end Wagner was a broken man.  Wagner uses psychology and myth to elevate his art.  The erotic mother-complex appears in PARSIFAL and THE RING.  Wagner's art was a passion of Nietzsche's life.  What leaves Mann cold is Wagner's theory.  Wagner's genius was in the dramatic synthesis of the arts.  It may be argued that Wagner strung together acoustic ideas.  Baudelaire wrote to Wagner that hearing his music produced a sense of ecstasy.  When Wagner was thirty two  he sketched out artistic plans for the rest of his life.  He had a nervous complaint causing melancholy and insomnia.  Artistic labors were undertaken with courage and patience.  Schopenhauer's philosophy was the great event of Wagner's life.  Schopenhauer's system is fundamentally erotic and TRISTAN is saturated with this.  Wagner is able to concentrate the intellectual and the popular in one figure.   <br /> <br />The philosophy of Arthur Schopenhauer has always been regarded as creative.  Schopenhauer was Nietzsche's great teacher and master.  Kant taught about time, space, and causality.  The visible world was phenomenal.  To Schopenhauer the will was the principle of being.  Schopenhauer is the father of all modern psychology. In the opening of an essay on Freud, Mann cites Nietzsche's psychological agony.  It is asserted that Freud is the true son of the century of Ibsen and Schopenhauer.  Freuds writes interesting prose.  He is an artist.  The word deep psychology has temporal significance.  Freud's lifework is the cornerstone for a new anthropology.   <br /> <br />Mann's essays constitute a rich interweaving of ideas calculated to enchant the reader.	2005-07-22
155034:US	52300235	R33NRE3RE297ZZ	0316491977	472609947	The Soul of A New Machine	Books	5	3	8	N	N	Getting things done	Off of Route 495 in Massachusetts new companies have replaced old textile mills.  In the new companies there are cubicles, permitting an increase in the people to area ratio and creating an opportunity for making quick changes.  Tom West, the book's hero, worked at Data General in Westborough.  Data General also had a facility in North Carolina.   <br /> <br />West arrived at Data General in 1974.  He was adept at finding flaws in a computer.  He had attended Amherst, majoring in physics.  He was dubbed an underachiever there and spent a year on leave doing folk music in Cambridge.  His father was a senior executive at AT&T.  He had worked at the Smithsonian, building digital clocks.  After seven years he went to RCA where he taught himself computer engineering.   <br /> <br />West headed the Eagle project under the auspices of the Eclipse Group. One of the leaders of the group, Alsing, had worked with West earlier.  The two were fascinated by a statement made by Seymour Cray, inventor of the Cray computer, that he hired engineers straight out of school because they were too inexperienced to know what could not be done.   <br /> <br />Alsing and West decided to hire some kids.  There were two crews on the project--one for the hardware, the other to do micro code, a synaptic language.  Alsing ran the second crew.  In going through a process the writer came to term signing up, the worker became committed to doing whatever was necessary to make the project a success.  The Eclipse Group could sign up the best new engineers because the project, designing a new computer, was so sexy.   <br /> <br />Architecture in the context of computer building tells what a machine will do in detail.  West wanted Steve Wallach for the task, but Wallach said no.  Before coming to Data General Wallach had been at Honeywell and Raytheon where machines built were successful technically but never went into production.  At Data General he had experienced similar near misses.  After ten yearsand five such events, Wallach was roaring.  He was a man ready to get a machine out the door, as it is termed.  Since conceiving architectures was in his job specifications, Wallach was brought around to join the team.  Before joining the group he went to the president of the company, de Castro, to ask what the new computer was supposed to be.  The answer was a 32 bit Eclipse, (a previous model), and no mode bit.   <br /> <br />Computer engineering, decidedly arduous, can also become intense for reason of short product life.  At Data General there was competition for resources and engineers competed with each other to produce good designs.  Mushroom management, keeping everyone in the dark, was practiced at all levels.  Computer designers have to learn there is no such thing as a perfect design.  The entire Eclipse Group, especially the managers, seemed to be operating on instinct.   <br /> <br />After the design was completed in six months, the next step was debugging.  There were many long days and weeks worked by the members of the team of about thirty.  Computer engineering appeals to people who like to climb mountains. In April 1980 Data General would announce the existence of the machine, Eagle, to the world.  Some members of the Eclipse Group went on the roadshows.  The name was changed from Eagle to Eclipse MV/8000.  As the machine moved to the sales force, it no longer belonged to its makers, West and the group.	2005-07-21
155055:US	52300235	R2MYIN7QE9F3U5	0140165347	909932125	Jump and Other Short Stories	Books	5	6	11	N	N	In times of civil disorder	African turmoil is reflected in these stories by Nadine Gordimer.  The storytelling is crisp and detached.  We are lucky to have so acute an observer of the passing scene.  Universality is achieved through the careful attention paid to minute particulars.  Reports of artistry and fidelity make points in understated fashion.   <br /> <br />A man is rewarded with a house for giving information.  When the debriefing is over hardly anyone comes to see him.  He was an ordinary colonial child.  It was his fate to be detained for five weeks in a dirty cell for merely taking a picture.  Later he joins the counter-revolutionary forces.  Horror comes slowly.  Debriefing doesn't describe methods and experience.  His parents may have spoiled him when they let him use a parachute.   <br /> <br />A little boy dies on the barbed wire near his house playing a character from Sleeping Beauty.  In another story the character doesn't know what day it is because the areas for services, churches and schools, have closed.  With a mother gone and having undergone other losses, villagers and members of the family are going away from the land, carrying belongings.  On the way through Kruger Park the grandfather, old and slow, is lost.  The family does not hope to go back to Mozambique when the war is over.  The people in the new village, it is fortunate, speak their language.   <br /> <br />A twice-married man goes to a resort.  The place seems to glisten with women.  He flings stones into the sea and finds a ring.  After advertising it in a local paper, he ends up marrying the woman who comes to claim it. The moon in the southern hemisphere seems the wrong way around.  A couple rents a room to a young man because their son is to be away for eighteen months.  The lodger works in a restaurant.  Vera, the daughter, tells her parents that Rad, the lodger, wants to make a meal for them.  Vera and Rad become involved with each other.  She carries a black box for him on an airplane trip and the plane explodes.   <br /> <br />A woman leaves a conference with four members of a youth delegation.  She feeds them at her house.  It seems their education was interrupted by two years detention.  Those two years will never be regained, she surmises. Goats live on a shipwreck island and cause erosion.  Through exogamous marriage the islanders change.  They are moved. Afterwards the island is used as a weather station.  A tour of duty on the island lasts a year.  The personnel are subject to problems with insects and mice.  Then there are cats on the island.  The birds and turtles are disturbed.  Young men from the university travel there.  They are under orders to shoot the cats.   <br /> <br />An Afrikaner farmer shoots a black man.  He carries the man in his bakkie to the police station and confesses to the shooting.  He had ridden with Lucas, the victim, in a vehicle in which there was a loaded weapon. Driving over a pothole, the weapon had discharged.  The ending of this story is a surprise. Teresa took a leave of absence from her job and slept away from home, away from her Swedish husband, in order to find out the circumstances of the jailing of her mother, brother and sister.  The husband had suspected an affair.  Houseguests at a lodge troop out to witness lions eating a zebra.  In the night they see the cubs in the body of the zebra.  In daylight scarabs are seen devouring the stomach leavings.   <br /> <br />A man, for reason of the indemnity process, is supposed to be free.  He walks and takes buses.  His friends help.  The movement wants him to leave the country but he enjoys being home again.  He notes a fellow bus passenger as being out of place.  She is someone who would treat her servants well, but place her children in segregated schools.  He is now living without consequences, being underground.  He finds out the woman's husband is away in Japan and that they are drawn to each other as a couple.  There is an interval of closeness in the absence of anexchange of personal identifying information.  After several more moves the police find him and he is brought to take a seat in an ongoing trial.	2005-07-21
171890:US	52300235	R3J52INHGGRX5M	0668018836	981932871	T. S. Eliot	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Revered poet	This is an excellent introduction to T.S. Eliot criticism and/or it provides a good gateway to his work.  Reading this, one is motivated to do some serious rereading.   <br /> <br />T.S. Eliot developed new forms and styles.  An American, he went to England when he was twenty six.  He worked in a bank and a publishing house.  He was born in 1888 in St. Louis.  His grandfather was a Unitarian minister and the founder of Washington University.  His father was a businessman.   <br /> <br />After THE WASTELAND, Eliot's career in poetry faltered.  In his second phase he wrote religious poetry.  In the 1930's he became an authoritative figure.  Although he obtained an English accent and British citizenship, in many respects he remained very much an American poet.   <br /> <br />MURDER IN THE CATHEDRAL was produced in 1935.  He was awarded the Nobel Prize in 1948.  In THE FOUR QUARTETS Eliot brought together many aspects of his work.  The plays are narrower than the poems.  Eliot's prose style was precise and memorable.  He was responsible for a change of taste.  He contended that the interaction between tradition and the individual writer was the dynamic source of creative writing.   <br /> <br />In Eliot's lifetime, he died in 1965, art, literature, became a specialized activity.  Eliot had command of many verse forms.  He believed the poetic mind constantly amalgamated experiences.  Prufrock is intertwined with the creator, Eliot.  The poet uses the dramatic monologue in the poem.  He uses a flexible rhythm.  All of his poetry has a strong underlying rhythm.   <br /> <br />Eliot's use of imagery is of greatest importance.  A poet's style consists of the characteristics of his verse.  There are two problems with poetic drama--language and content.  Eliot achieved a new sounding verse form for MURDER IN THE CATHEDRAL.   <br />The contemporary plays have characteristics of melodrama and farce.  There is a bibliography and an index.	2005-07-10
178221:US	52300235	R2TQLMXAOCHNXC	B0007G5UIE	853845831	Long day's journey into night (A Yale paperbound)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	New London residents	James Tyrone had one stroke of good luck in a real estate venture and his wife taunts him with the fact. His family believes he is fair game for any piece of property the real estate agent can't unload elsewhere.  Tyrone's son, Edmund, has no appetite.  Jamie, Edmund's brother, is nearly thirty four years old and is unemployed.  His father says he is always sneering.  Edmund is ten yers younger than Jamie.  Tyrone tells Jamie he wishes he would show gratitude.  He says that Jamie had the talent to be a fine actor.  Jamie notes that it is an Irish peasant idea that consumption is a fatal malady.  Tyrone claims that Jamie was and is a bad influence on Edmund who does not enjoy his brother's strong constitution.      Edmund's illness comes at a bad time for him, he has just had some success publishing his pieces in the newspapers, and his mother, Mary Tyrone.  Mary Tyrone states it is hard to live in an atmosphere of suspicion.  She does admit that it is difficult for the members of her family to forget her long drug dependency.  The sons, sneaking drinks before lunch, put water in the whiskey bottle.  The sons and father learn that Mary Tyrone has started the desperate cycle of addiction again.  The condtion of her eyes and resting in the spare room are signs.  Edmund is heartsick and physically ill.  Tyrone and Jamie are very disappointed.      The Tyrones have been married thirty six years.  James Tyrone was a matinee idol.  Fog and foghorn are present in the play.  Growing up, Jamie had been a likable and brilliant student.  Edmund wants to tell his mother the nature of his illness and can't.  His father has concluded that Edmund has a morbid poet in him.  In the end, Mary walks at night before the drunken James Tyrone, Jamie, and Edmund.  Each of these summer residents of New London is caught up in a sort of Celtic gloom.	2005-07-06
178431:US	52300235	R2L3ZZNVIVPQC6	0395859972	852870338	The Blue Flower	Books	5	7	15	N	N	Guardian Spirit	The Hardenbergs had limited means.  The Seven Years War was expensive.  In 1788, when Fritz was nearly seventeen, Bernhard was born.  Erasmus was fourteen.  The father was the director of the salt mines.   <br /> <br />In 1790 Fritz matriculated at the University of Jena.  On the first morning he attended a lecture by Fichte on Kant.  Fichte was the son of a linen weaver.  Fritz's history teacher was Professor Schiller.  In 1791 Fritz went to Leipzig.  After Leipzig and Wittenberg, Fritz was to be a trainee-clerk at the salt mines.  Fritz thought he could not endure life as a copying clerk.   <br /> <br />Fritz wrote to Erasmus at the school of forestry.  He had fallen in love with a twelve year old girl, Sophie.  He had to go home for Christmas because Bernhard wanted to see him.  On his way home he was marooned in a snow storm.  He obtained permission to exchange letters with Sophie.  Sophie von Kuhn was being painted by a miniaturist.  Before starting work, Fritz went to see Caroline Schlegel and his other friends at Jena.   <br /> <br />Sophie had a pain on her side.  She had tuberculosis of the hip.  At Weissenfels the Hardenbergs had a party.  Sophie and her father arrived.  Sophie had three operations.  Fritz's father was so moved by the physical suffering of Sophie that he gave her, illegally, a family property.  Sophie died two days after her fifteenth birthday.   <br /> <br />Afterwards, Fritz wrote under an old family name, Novalis.	2005-07-06
181453:US	52300235	R2REM9IHUH75OU	0395848385	591032379	The Gate of Angels	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Class differences	Angels was the smallest college in Cambridge.  It was  built at the beginning of the 15th century.  Fairly had a fellowship.  St. Angelicus students had to find their own lodgings.  Fred Fairly had taken the science tripos and received a first class degree.  He came from a rectory and so his material wants were limited.  He was used to making do. At the end of his first year as a junior fellow he wanted to tell his father he was no longer a Christian.  Fred knew the country was not a place of peace.  The Rectory had been built in 1830.   <br /> <br />Daisy Saunders wanted to know how the human body worked and applied for nursing training.  She was seventeen and her mother had died recently and she was free to live away from home.  Daisy, now known as Saunders, was a probationer during her first year.  She was told to keep her eye on James Elder, an attempted suicide via the Thames.  It was January 1912.  To all the patients, except for the dying, food was of paramount importance.  Elder refused to eat.  The constable had said he was a gentleman.  He asked Daisy if the incident had appeared in the press.  For arranging for a notice about Elder's conduct in the newpaper, Daisy was dismissed.   <br /> <br />Fred Fairly and Daisy were in an accident with bicycles.  A Good Samaritan thought they were married to each other and put them to bed together in the spare room to regain their health.  Fred was enchanted and afterwards he looked everywhere to locate Daisy.  The kindness of the Wrayburns, the Samaritans, gave Daisy a place to stay in Cambridge.  She would do work in the house in exchange for room and board.  She had traveled to Cambridge to find work in a private hospital.  Happily Daisy was employed at the mental hospital and Fred found her again at the Wrayburns'.  They went for a walk in the country.  Fred asked Daisy to marry him.  Mr. Wrayburn told Daisy that Fred could not be a junior fellow if he married.   <br /> <br />In the trial, pertaining to the accident, the journalist, who had accompanied Daisy to Cambridge, was able to identify the man who drove the horse cart wildly causing the accident.  When the heart is broken, efficiency is impaired.  There was some suggestion in the testimony of the journalist that Daisy had been or would have been used, but for the happening of the accident.  Daisy had to leave the Wrayburns and Cambridge because of what was disclosed in court.  Leaving her lodgings, she was free at last to cry over the hurt she had caused Fred.  Daisy and Fred passed each other on her way to the train station.  We do not know what action, if any, resulted.   <br /> <br />Both of the young characters are portrayed as having beautiful consciences.  The writing is elegant.	2005-07-04
183238:US	52300235	R1CFDCJ335Y2Z6	0395869463	540961512	The Bookshop	Books	5	5	11	N	N	A British Kelo decision	Florence Green had the good fortune to care deeply about something--books.  Old House, the location in Hardborough where Mrs. Green planned a book store, had a poltergeist, rapper.  Florence went to a party and learned that the grande dame of the community, Mrs. Gamart, did not approve of her having obtained the lease-hold of Old House for her bookshop.  Gamart wanted to place a relative in a postion of running an arts center at that location.      In setting up the property Florence received assistance from some Sea Scouts.  In her first week of operation, she took in between seventy and eighty pounds at the Old House Bookshop.  She started a lending library through a service after the most dignified and very elderly inhabitant of Hardborough wrote her a note thanking her for opening the shop and stating that he would be a library subscriber.      Mrs. Green acquired a child assistant.  (The lending library had to close for a month to become better organized.  On its first day it had approximately thirty patrons, all seeking the same one book about Queen Mary.)  Florence was betrayed, in buying things for the shop, by her weakness for beauty.  In late middle age, it seemed, the upper middle class of Suffolk painted water colors.  She was asked to exhibit the works.  Florence had no room to mount exhibits.  She had to tell the child, Christine, that customers were entitled to browse.  The lending library started again.  The child was severe.  No one was to look at anyone else's selection.  Florence had courage because she wanted to survive.  She sold LOLITA, attracting passers-by to her shop window.      The lending library closed because, mysteriously, Hardborough was granted a long sought for public library.  Next a new book store opened in a neighboring town.  Christine's results in the eleven plus exam were poor.  She stopped working for Florence.  The old historic inhabitant ventured out to go to Mrs. Gamart's, a place he had never gone to before notwithstanding numerous invitations, to tell her to leave Florence Green alone.  An order for compulsory purchase of ancient buildings had crawled through Parliament in a private bill.  He died on his walk home and Mrs. Gamart lied about the reason for his visit.  Florence was dispossessed.  No compensation was paid because of the damp.	2005-07-02
183552:US	52300235	R29MAR7COZU7VJ	0743201140	877422266	Now, Discover Your Strengths	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Do not emphasize weaknesses	Warren Buffett used his patience, a strength, to devise his twenty year investment strategy.  A person should identify the strongest threads of his pattern, make-up.  Strength is consistent near-perfect performance in an activity.  There is the genius of Bill Gates exemplified in taking an innovation and transforming it to a user-friendly application.   <br /> <br />Talent, knowledge, and skill constitute strengths.  Identifying dominant talents is crucial.  Unfortunately the language of human weakness is dense and the language of strength is sparse.   <br />Skills bring structure to experiential knowledge.  Skills are necessary to avoid trial and error.  Identifying talents is important because a lot of action is instinctive.  Talents, the strongest synaptic connections, are raw material for strength-building.   <br /> <br />Yearnings reflect talent.  Sometimes implementation doesn't take place until late in life--Grandma Moses, Penelope Fitzgerald.  Rapid learning may signify talent.  Twenty-four per cent of the people believe that strengths determine success.  This figure is disturbingly low.  In education there is  focus on weakness and this extends to work-place training efforts.  Fear of failure is difficult to dislodge.   <br /> <br />This book is a product of the Gallup Organization.  The conclusions reached by the authors are surprising, noteworthy.	2005-07-02
184534:US	52300235	R3UMRIGVJ29D9V	0060005696	267833178	The Paradox of Choice: Why More Is Less	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Problems of excessive choice	A typical supermarket has more than thirty thousand items.  A college catalogue may be characterized as shopping for knowledge.  There is no fixed curriculum.  Harvard instituted general studies requirements so that the students could talk to each others about their courses.  Studies have shown a small array of choice is more satisfying than a larger array.    Decisions for retirement depend upon the options offered by employers.  Employees tend to place a portion of their funds in each of the plans offered.  Medical patients prefer that others make treatment decisions.  They want their doctors to be competent and kind.      Losses have twice as much psychological impact as gains.  There is an aversion to loss.  Such an aversion is why the concept of sunk costs is a meaningful way to predict human action.  People remember experiences at the peak and the end.  In making choices people may be divided into two categories, the satificers and the maximizers.  Perfectionists, like maximizers, seek to achieve the best.  Rules, presumptions, standards, and routines bear upon when and how to make choices.      In a case where there are trade-offs, many people will avoid making a decision.  Individuals are not all equally susceptible to experiencing  regret.  Seeking to avoid regret, a person might fall into inaction.  Social comparison and positional competition are discussed by the author.  The difference between happy and unhappy people is the ability happy people have of distracting themselves from thinking about negative experiences, rejection and criticism, and moving on.      Rising expectations may cause one to feel disappointed about a particular experience.  The success of modernity is bitter-sweet.  The problem of excessive choice has to be managed.	2005-07-01
185245:US	52300235	R2XJMQ1JUDVWXF	0020199856	737772058	The Love of the Last Tycoon	Books	5	2	2	N	N	All the Hollywood hypocrites	The book edited by Matthew J. Bruccoli is a work in progress, left with various kinds of incompletion at F. Scott Fitzgerald's death.  The narrator, Cecilia Brady, is on planes frequently.  She attends Bennington.  She is the daughter of a producer.  Monroe Stahr is someone who was born sleepless.  He has no talent for rest.  Pat Brady, Cecilia's father, and Monroe Stahr are partners.  Wylie White, one of the travelers on the plane, is a writer.   <br /> <br />There is never a time when the studio is absolutely quiet.  There are always technicians present.  There is an earthquake and a small water main bursts.  Stahr's work is secret in part, devious, slow.  He seems ready to shelve a work the writers have labored over to bring to the screen.  He notes that when he wants a Eugene O'Neill play he will buy one.  If a director disagrees with Stahr he does not advertise it.  The writers are people who are employed because they accept the system and manage to stay sober.   <br /> <br />Stahr sees a girl who resembles his deceased wife.  He has her found in order to see her.  He has difficulty explaining his interest to her and she is troubled by people fawning for reason of his power and, in general, the notoriety of being seen in his company.  Sustained effort is difficult in California it is asserted.  It is Monroe Stahr's ability in this area that accounts for his success.   <br /> <br />F. Scott Fitzgerlad chased ghosts, evanescence.  Stahr pursues a girl, Kathleen Moore,  because she is the image of his dead wife.  The author pursued the following idea obsessively--when did his life derail.  The Kathleen Moore character shares some of the attributes of Sheila Graham.  She lived in England previously and was tutored in classical literature by her live-in companion.   <br /> <br />It is reported that Fitzgerald had a life-long capacity to hero-worship.  A  writer character in the novel compares Monroe Stahr to Lincoln carrying on a long war on many fronts.  At the endof the volume there are working notes and a brief biography.  Revisiting the bright, shining world of F. Scott Fitzgerald, even with the melancholy features, is lots of fun.	2005-06-30
185577:US	52300235	RSTWSX5D31USI	0060971436	559720951	Speedboat	Books	5	13	20	N	N	Stories resembling a poetry of manners	Sanity is a moral option.  Union men are characterized as Irish and senile.  The narrator works for a tabloid, self-described as a ward-heeler of emotional life.  Broadway Junction has nine criss-crossing elevated tracks.  The narrator worked earlier at the 42d Street Branch of the Public Library.  The obituary writer thinks the narrator is an alcoholic.  This idea is spread throughout the newspaper.  Intelligent Americans want to do good and to know leaders active in various spheres of public life.  The brownstone in which the character lives has a sort of orchestra in it caused by the record selections of the inhabitants from Bartok to Judy Collins.   <br /> <br />At the women's college the narrator attended the faculty was distinguished.  There was a quality of obsession in studying.  To be silent in company is a decision of great power.  The narrator, by way of contrast, feels called upon to field every question.   <br /> <br />The story 'Speedboat' opens with flying.  The flight students are advised they would be washouts as fighter pilots.  The speedboat in the story belongs to a tycoon.  There is also a large sailboat featured.  A man who has not mastered the idiom calls his daughter a Jesus creep.   <br /> <br />The stories comprise a sort of poetry of manners.  I particularly like the author's attention to word usage and her wit.	2005-06-30
191133:US	52300235	R3V80URK3XSQIP	0553762974	429448928	The Father Hunt (Nero Wolfe)	Books	4	4	11	N	N	Circumstantial evidence	They had been to Shea Stadium to watch the Mets.  Amy Denovo told Archie Goodwin she did not know who her father was.  Her mother was dead and she no relatives.  Archie said that Nero Wolfe had an inflated idea about fees.  Amy's mother had been a television producer.  She had sent her daughter to Smith.      Archie had learned, with practice, to recount long conversations verbatim.  He did this when Miss Denovo appeared with twenty thousand dollars for a retainer to hire the Nero Wolfe organization to identify her father.  Her mother, Elinor, had been careful, correct, and cold.  Amy was born April 12, 1945.  Elinor Denovo had died in a hit and run accident in May.  Three pedestrians and a taxi driver had seen her hit by an automobile, (it didn't slow down), on 83rd Street.  It turns out that she was hit by a stolen car.    This Nero Wolfe mystery is great, fun, sparkling.	2005-06-26
192546:US	52300235	R1VDTLZW4QMCMF	0451527097	705074922	One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich (Signet Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Gulag description	This was published in NOVY MIR in 1962.  According to Marvin Kalb, Krushchev's approval was necessry to print this take on the Stalinist era.  It created a sensation.<br /><br />Ivan Shukhov was put to work cleaning the guardroom by the guard the inmates of the camp called The Tartar.  Another zek, prisoner, had saved Ivan's stew for him at the mess hall.  After vegetable stew, black cabbage, there was magara, oatmeal.  It was seventeen degrees below zero and windy.  Ivan's squad, the one hundred fourth, was in its normal position for the work detail.  There was, unusually, a search conducted before the men set out.  A former Navy commander mentioned the Criminal Code and was given ten days in the guardhouse.  The prison, eighteen cells, was brick.  The camp for forced labor was logbuilt.<br /><br />It was 1951.  Ivan Shukhov had a right to two letters that year.  He had left home in 1941.  There was now little sense in writing.  The collective farm, the Kolkhoz, where Ivan and his wife had resided was now being kept going by women and children.  Ivan's fellow villagers now engaged in the craft of carpet painting.  His wife assured him that using stencils he could do the same.<br /><br />Ivan's squad leader was serving a second term in the Gulag and knew all the ways of the system.  In camp a man can cheat anyone but not the squad leader.  Snowstorms were no use to anyone.  The prisoners were locked in and the days were counted as holidays.  The work had to be made up.  Their squad's work was being transferred to a half-completed building, the power station.  They were to lay cement blocks.  They needed to figure out how to make the machine room warmer.  The machine room was to be used for mixing mortar.<br /><br />More depended on the work report than the work itself.  A clever squad leader kept the men fed.  Ivan Densovich Shukhov, according to his dossier, had been sentenced for high treason.  He had already served eight years.  He had been taken prisoner by theGermans.  His confession to the Soviet authorities was false.  He had taken the path of least resistance.<br /><br />The meal in the middle of the day was real oatmeal.  Ivan managed to score several extra servings for his group through a sleight of hand.  This straightforward narrative remains a moving and emotional experience to the Western reader.  Solzhenitsyn explains how not wages but the good of the fellow squad members served as a goad to produce work from the prisoners.  On the day of the book, Ivan had built a wall and enjoyed it.  He had almost had a happy day.	2005-06-24
193239:US	52300235	R3P1XQEMHERZY6	0140254587	694403107	Salvation on Sand Mountain: Snake-Handling and Redemption in Southern Appalachia	Books	5	6	12	N	N	War stories	The author did not know what spirit trees were because he grew up in the city.  Snake-handling is a borderland.  It is a defensive measure in a modern world.  Uncle Ully Lynn, Loretta Lynn's uncle,  handled serpents.  He attended the Church of Jesus with Signs Following in Scottsboro, Alabama.  The pastor, Glenn Summerford, was charged with attempting to murder his wife. Scottsboro has wide clean streets.  Progress since World War II has been double-edged.      The language and habits of the hill people, the people from Sand Mountain has changed.  The snake handlers are spiritual nomads from the high country.  When the author covered the Glenn Summerford story he was a stringer for THE NEW YORK TIMES.  The trial raised issues of spousal abuse, marital infidelity, alcoholism.  The church in Scottsboro split when its pastor was convicted.  Darlene Summerford had testified that her husband had made her put her hand in the snake box twice.      It is hard to know what to wish for in a serpent-handling church.  In Jolo, West Virginia dress and behavior were stricter than in the church in Alabama.  Jolo was a Jesus name church, not trinitarian.  The risk taking of snake-handling was of interest to Dennis Covington and his friends.  One time in a service the author wondered if he had felt the presence of the Holy Ghost.      The book is full of surprises.  The writer manages to talk about the practices of the sect virtually from the inside.  In addition to the snakes, (serpents), the groups drink a strychnine solution.  They handle fire.  They speak in tongues.  A watch service is described at a church in Georgia.  After the snake-handling, (when the music got loud the snakes were brought out),  communion was served.  The preacher there noted with care that the bread and the wine or grape juice were symbols.  Later there was foot washing.      Dennis Covington, the writer, tracked down some relatives of snake-handling Covington brothers arrested in the 1950's for disturbing a church service in Alabama.  Those Covingtons were from an area near Shiloh.  The brothers got into snake handling at an outdoor camp meeting.  One can never predict what a snake will do.  The timber rattler is the most common snake used in the serpent handling churches.  In captivity they may live to be thirty years old.  About seventy one people have been killed by snakes during religious services.  George Went Hensley started the practice around 1910.  He was bitten about four hundred times, dying of a snake bite in 1955.  Sister Barbara Elkins of the Jolo church is reputedly the last person alive who handled snakes with George Hensley.  Dennis Covington was baptised at his regular Methodist church in Birmingham and read the New Testament straight through as a consequence of his involvement with the handlers.  He learned that religious ecstasy is excruciating.  After a brush arbor meeting on Sand Mountain the author came to be called Brother Dennis.      The legacy of Southern history is as dangerous as a rattle snake.  It is poverty, ignorance, racism, defeat.  One may become enmeshed in the noise and confusion of a Holiness service.  It is improvisational spiritual theater.  When Dennis Covington handled a snake, time stopped.  He did not hear the music.  Snake handling, drinking strynine, fire handling are types of spiritual warfare.  Mystery is not the absence of meaning.  The snake-handling churches of West Virginia, Georgia, Alabama, Tennessee, Kentucky have congregations interrelated by blood and marriage-- stem families.  The writer wondered why he had taken up serpents.  Eventually his sojourn with the handlers ended and he returned to the world.  He had been released.      The story is excellent, compelling, moving, sincere.	2005-06-24
195513:US	52300235	R2DDWMLSSVMXUC	0688087159	135243679	The Death of Love: A Peter McGarr Mystery	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Death, love-loss, and keening	Paddy Power had a cardiac condition.  McGarr was the Chief Superintendent of the murder squad.  He was tasked to consider Paddy's death by Ireland's leaders.  Paddy had been an important person in Irish life, a philanthropist.   <br /> <br />McGarr's wife, Noreen, said that Paddy had wit without malice.  The dead man had been planning to launch a political career.  He died at a resort where there was to be a conference on the subject of the Irish debt.  A female police officer, Ruth Bresnahan, was drafted to help with the investigation.  Her role was to play a guest or journalist, and she was dressed in finery  suitable for attendance at the conference.  Other officers were to masquerade as hotel employees.   <br /> <br />The murder, if there had been a murder, was a complicated matter of the victim's having been driven to ingest the wrong amount of medicine.  Ireland was a small country.  McGarr had met some of the suspects who were political and financial leaders.  McGarr's wife knew a number of the well-placed people of the country through family connections.   <br /> <br />In politics, someone opined, quick sure strokes count for everything.  Politics offered for political consumption was a mere shadow of the actual workings of public affairs.  This point was illustrated by Paddy's notecards written in preparation for his autobiography it was believed.  Paddy wrote that life changed through love.  Peter McGarr's own life had changed substantially upon his meeting Noreen.  Paddy Power felt that the negative side of Irish life consisted of death, love-loss, keening.   <br /> <br />A former supposed beau, Rory O'Suilleabhain, helped Ruth Bresnahan with the investigation.  They were an admired twosome at an address by Dr. Maurice Gladden, self-proclaimed best friend and defender of the interests of Paddy Power.  In the course of events, in the aftermath and confusion of Paddy's death and wrongful conduct by Gladden, McGarr was dismissed from the service, from employment at Dublin Castle.   <br /> <br />Subsequently, McGarr readied himself for a confrontation with Mossie Gladden and was only extricated from extremely dire  circumstances by his brother officers.  He had used himself and information in his possession as bait.  The solution to the mystery is worked out finally through the auspices of a newspaper reporter.  This is a splendid crime novel.	2005-06-22
196118:US	52300235	R1HXZ0PPB4FORG	0140061401	441590930	July's People	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Topsy turvy	The Bamford Smales family had thought of leaving, but they stayed.  After it all happened, their servant who lived in the yard, July, protected them.  July's wife wondered why white people were present at their place.  Bam's wife, Maureen, believed the family should go to the coast.  Maureen had broughr away one book with her, Manzoni's THE BETROTHED.   <br /> <br />Bam's days were divided into work and rest, Maureen saw.  On the second Saturday Bam was offered some of the soporific maize brew.  Maureen saw certain items of her property at the settlement, items that had been filched over the years.  The Smales children were Gina, Victor, and Royce.  July had used the Smales vehicle to go to the shops for provisions.  Bam and Maureen had been disconcerted the previous day to see their truck their bakkie, disappearing over the horizon.   <br /> <br />The normal order of things had been inverted.  The Smaleses owed their safety to July.  Bam killed two warthog piglets.  He rigged up a spit on which to cook half of the smaller one.  July was highly intelligent in all but mechanical ways.  Bam, Maureen, and the children were commanded to pay respects to July's chief.  July's people lived in a settlement.  Bamford Smales, Maureen, and the children lived in a one room hut in the middle.  They ate meal.  Their gun was taken by the boy, Daniel.   <br /> <br />This is an excellent view of circumstances arising from a civil disturbance and the shifting of power relationships between groups of people, between tribes.	2005-06-21
200516:US	52300235	R1VC1B0KF43UQ4	193154171X	96493108	Payment Deferred	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Guilty Conscience	As to the style of this work, one is reminded of H.G. Wells.  William Marble is surrounded by debt.  His circumstances cause him to be short with his son and his daughter.  Out of the blue, his nephew, Jim Medland, recently orphaned, arrives from Australia.  He is a graduate of Melbourne University and is in funds.   <br /> <br />On the day following the visit Mr. Marble wants Annie Marble, his wife, to fire the washerwoman because he does not want a strange person hanging laundry in his garden.  He instructs his wife to pay the grocer.  Mr. Marble becomes fascinated with a library book called CRIMES AND CRIMINALS.   <br /> <br />William Marble seeks to involve a bookmaker, a customer of the bank employing him, in a currency scheme since the franc is rising in value.  He wants to buy his house with the proceeds.  When Mr. Marble tells his family he has made a lot of money, (speculating in francs), his wife does not believe him.  Marble resigns from the bank because the bookmaker is pretty free with reports as to how he gained his riches.  Marble purchases the freehold at his address, 53 Malcolm Road.   <br /> <br />When new furniture is delivered the neighbors are baffled.  A French dress maker hastens to compliment the Marbles on their new dazzling Empire-style furniture.  When Marble's son discovers that his father is having an affair with the dressmaker, he goes off on his motorcyle and  becomes involved in a fatal crash.  Later Marble is compelled to pay for the dressmaker's trip to France.  The ending of the book is a surprise.	2005-06-17
203317:US	52300235	R1F3IA4QZUFC5O	0425203867	597045553	"R" is for Ricochet (A Kinsey Millhone Mystery, Book 18)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	I want him to say he is sorry	With R we are pretty far along in the series and this is a good entry.  Married and divorced twice, Kinsey Milhone is 37.  The prospective client is in his 80's.  He wants her to meet his daughter in prison at the time of her release.  He wants Kinsey to help his daughter comply with the terms of her parole.    Kinsey is invited to be a blind date at her friend Vera's party.  She determines that she is being used as a B list replacement.  In the course of attending it she runs into an old acquaintance, a law enforcement officer.  This becomes significant when her client's daughter, Reba Lafferty, is released and Reba's former employer becomes the subject matter of an investigation.  It seems that Reba became a knowing sacrfice to her boss's plans when she went to prison for embezzlement.  Reba's assistance in the probe is obtained when she learns that she has hardly been the solitary romantic focus of her boss's life.      The plot of money-laundering and real estate machinations is very exciting, particularly because Reba is something of a loose cannon and keeps things really stirred up.  Her motivation in the matters at hand arise from her belief that she spent several years of her life in a difficult setting and she seeks some acknowledgment of that fact.	2005-06-15
219750:US	52300235	R3QI6AGADW5DQY	0786712341	132044798	The Life of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle	Books	5	24	53	N	N	Exuberant Victorian	Some listings of biographical archives appear at the end of the book.  Charles Doyle, the father, was by profession an architect.  Charles Doyle liked fishing. Arthur was educated by the Jesuits at Stonyhurst.  At age 15 he visited relatives in London and was a rabid sight-seer.  He studied in Germany for one year.  He went to medical  school at the University of Edinburgh, living at home.  It was 1876 when he began.   <br /> <br />At holiday on the Isle of Arran in 1877 he met Dr. Joseph Bell.  Bell used his powers of deduction to impress the students.  Conan Doyle took his medical degree in 1881 and signed on to be a ship's physician on a voyage to the Gold Coast, the west coast of Africa.  Arthur's London relatives were prepared to do him favors but they believed in the teachings of the Catholic Church and he did not.  He decided to open a practice in Portsmouth.  His mother and aunt supplied him with furniture.   <br /> <br />In 1883 one of Arthur's stories was accepted by CORNHILL MAGAZINE.  He joined the literary and scientific society.  A commission from the Gresham Life Insurance Company helped his income.  The more he saw of medical practice, the more he turned to writing.  He learned that he could write fiction that readers would take for absolute truth.  He worked by fits and starts.  He married a Miss Hawkins.  Her mother lived with the couple.  Married life stimulated his mental powers.   <br /> <br />A STUDY IN SCARLET as written in 1886.  He sold the copyright for twenty five pounds.  His favorite writers were Stevenson and Meredith.  The book of his he prized was THE WHITE COMPANY.  He put a vast amount of research into it.  THE SIGN OF FOUR appeared in 1896.  Two Holmes series were brought out in 1891 and 1892.  The stories ran in THE STRAND MAGAZINE.   <br /> <br />He moved to Davos, Switzerland for the sake of his wife's health.  Conan Doyle introduced skiing as a sport in Switzerland.  On an American visit he saw Kipling in Vermont.  He met JeanLeckie in 1897 and fell wildly in love.  He fought the devil for ten years.  He steadied himself by reading Renan.  In a new study at his house called Undershaw he determined to bring back Sherlock Holmes.  He wrote a play and sent it to Beerbohm Tree.  William Gilette, an American, was interested in playing the part.  The actor infected Conan Doyle with his own enthusiasm.  He spent about five months in South Africa at the time of the Boer War manning a hospital dealing with a fever epidemic.  He received a knighthood.   <br /> <br />In 1907 he married Jean Leckie.  After World War I and the loss of his oldest son Conan Doyle pursued the cause of Spritiualism.  Sherlock Holmes was revived again in HIS LAST BOW.	2005-06-01
222428:US	52300235	R2694UEDPMUNNI	042516828X	185941430	Sudden Mischief (Spenser)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Reading human behavior	Susan's ex-husband, Brad Sterling, needs help.  He is being sued for sexual harassment.  He doesn't have enough money to defend himself.  The husband of one of the litigants calls Spenser a bouncer.  An attorney friend tells Spenser to be careful. <br /> <br />Spenser sends Hawk to Marblehead, confident that Hawk can find a way to blend in.  The specifics of the harassment claim are not described by anyone Spenser encounters.  The charities that were supposed to receive the proceeds of a benefit gala, Galapalooza, arranged by Brad, received nothing.  Brad has refused to hire a lawyer to represent him.   <br /> <br />Next Spenser and Hawk find out that Brad is living in one room in Brighton and that he is not paying his bills.  Spenser goes to see Brad's sister.  She relates that he, Brad, is always on the verge of bankruptcy.  She and her husband found it necessary to cut him off a year and half ago.  Spenser meets one of the women claiming harassment at a mall in Peabody.  He learns the suit is bogus, just brought into being because a wife needed to find a way to meet the justifiable  suspicions of her husband.   <br /> <br />By this point Brad is both missing and a murder suspect.  Spenser learns that Galapalooza is probably a scheme to launder money.  Brad appears.   Some symbolism is involved in his misdeeds and has misfired.  He feels that everyone has let him down.   <br /> <br />The story delineates the Susan-Spenser relationship and history in interesting fashion.	2005-05-30
223086:US	52300235	RX59PWO7DN97O	0786707739	50158188	According to Queeney	Books	5	0	4	N	N	Witness to history	Johnson died December 15, 1784.  Acquaintances were willing to sit up with him.  The Thrales had a mansion at Streatham.  Johnson's presence drew others to the Thrales.  The Thrales had a daughter.  When Johnson visited the Thrales in a bad mood he lost his temper with Thrale's mother-in-law.  Johnson's wife, Tetty, had been dead for ten years.   <br /> <br />When Johnson was sick the Thrales went to fetch him.  They gave him clothes worn by another of their guests.  By her third year the pet name for their daughter was Queeney.  Hester Thrale believed that Johnson needed her undivided attention.  After four months at Streatham Park Johnson returned to his house in London weekly. Johnson lived at Johnson Court off of Fleet Street.  Mrs. Desmoulins, Mrs. Williams, Frank Barber, and Dr. Levet were house mates.  He came to regard Streatham as his real home.  Johnson was subject to tics and mutterings.  He claimed he knew almost as much at 18 as he did at 50.  Queeney remembered Garrick, Goldsmith, Reynolds.  Dr. Johnson had spoken of Queeney as a prodigy.  Hester Thrale liked Johnson's strong convictions and roughness of manner.   <br /> <br />The Thrale Brewery failed.  Johnson and the Thrales visited Litchfield.  Johnson said his father had lived in straitened circumstances.  Mr. Thrale provided Johnson with a company wig.  Johnson, the Thrales, and Baretti, the Italian master, traveled to France.  Johnson caused them to spend many hours in dusty libraries.  Marie Antoinette commented on the prettiness of Queeney.  Johnson suffered from lack of ease because he was away from London.  He said the French were silly.  They had beggary and nobility.   <br /> <br />The relationship of Hester Thrale and Johnson was that she needed an audience and he needed a home, Queeney contended.  Johnson was variable in mood.  He had a melancholy disposition.  Following the death of her son Harry, Hester Thrale moved  between the resorts at Brighton and Bath.  Johnson was bored at bothplaces.  Queeney met Fanny Burney.  For LIVES OF THE POETS Johnson said that he was not paid too little, he wrote too much.  Sir Joshua Reynolds was Johnson's chief mourner.  <br /> <br />Bainbridge has pulled off a real feat of reconstruction in this book.	2005-05-30
230078:US	52300235	R3SOPEPL599580	0425147746	224486658	Walking Shadow (Spenser)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Demotic prose	Susan was on the board of the Port City Theater Company.  Spenser was investigating.  The artistic director, Demetrius Christopholous, was being followed.  Susan and Spenser attended a performance.  An actor was shot.      I guess from the photo on the back of the dust jacket, Spenser is the author's alter ego.  Spenser spares few words in the telling of his stories.  Both Spenser and his side-kick, Hawk, speak in clipped tones.  Clearly the demotic style is effective.  The reader doesn't feel smothered, manipulated.    Spenser tells the board the shooting is unusual, taking place in a crowded theater.  The victim, Craig Sampson,  had studied acting in New York and he had been fun.  Port City, the site of a fish processing plant,  has a bigger Chinatown than Boston.  Spenser is threatened by the Chinese boss.  Susan finds a translator for him at Harvard in the Asian Studies department.  They go around to question some of the Chinese residents of Port City.  When Spenser is confronted with five youths from the gang, Death Dragons, Hawk and another Spenser associate intervene.  The police discover one of the boys is carrying an Uzi.      Some research discloses that the victim had served in the armed forces in Taiwan.  Spenser is warned off the investigation by the Chief of Police.  He learns that Rikki Wu, the boss's wife, probably brought the victim to the attention of the head of the theater group.  Spenser visits a relative of the translator and learns of the smuggling of illegal aliens in Port City.  When Mr. Wu is found dead, beaten, the ties between the Chief of Police and the tong unravel.  Another woman, a surprising character under the circumstances, provides the glue.      This is a very strong entry in the Spenser series.	2005-05-24
230589:US	52300235	R3BQA01FXIP6PW	0316172324	968642731	Blink: The Power of Thinking Without Thinking	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Fresh	Is it true a fake can produce intuitive revulsion in the eye of a knowing observer?  A blink is a glance,  fast and frugal decisionmaking.   <br /> <br />The truth of a marriage can be understood by an observer in a short time.  A relationship between people has a distinctive signature.   <br /> <br />Free will is an illusion.  We can be coached, primed.  Gladwell speaks of thin-slicing, the process of making decisions quickly on the basis of very little information.  When you start second-guessing you may be undermining yourself.  Sometimes extra information just confuses the issue.   <br /> <br />Thin slicing is recognizing patterns and making snap judgments.  It turns out that buying jam is a snap decision.  Less choice means more sales.  The face is an enormously rich source of emotion.  Every blink is a series of discrete moving parts. <br /> <br />Music auditions are thin slicing moments.  The use of screens, blind auditions, has changed the composition of orchestras.   <br /> <br />The notes at the end of the book are of great interest.	2005-05-23
233734:US	52300235	R3PDZNBTAZDDSI	0061097861	623172566	Hunting Badger (Joe Leaphorn/Jim Chee Novels)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Out of harmony	Jim Chee is returning to Shiprock.  He is asked by Bernie, Officer Bernadette Manuelito, to find out who was behind a crime.  It seems that Teddy Bai, a Montezuma County Sheriff, is being held as a suspect in a casino shoot-out because he  functioned as a rent-a-cop at the establishment.  There is a belief that he was the inside man.   <br /> <br />Lieutenant Leaphorn is retired.  A Mr. Gershwin calls to ask him for a meeting.  Gershwin claims he does not want well-dressed FBI agents to visit his ranch.  He says he is willing to give Leaphorn the names of the casino crime perpetrators if his name is kept out of the investigation.  Leaphorn wonders if he just wants the three guys to be hassled.  He learns that one of them, Everett Jorie used to be tied up with one of the militias.  Jorie had talked about flying Navy airplanes on his talk show.  (The casino robbers left the scene by flying a plane away from the site.)   <br /> <br />Jim Chee selects a sheriff, Cowboy Dashee, to talk to the FBI about the casino case.  When Leaphorn goes out to Jorie's place he realizes he had been there twenty-five years previously.  Checking the house, Leaphorn determines that Jorie is dead.  An apparent suicide, there is  a note claiming that Ironhard and Baker were involved in the robbery of the casino and the subsequent homicide. Chee learns from his Navajo mentor who is dying that Ironhand is a witch.  When people are sick all of their connections are broken.   <br /> <br />Chee is ordered back to work early from his vacation.  He is to participate in the FBI manhunt.  FBI man, Damon Cabot, young and recently transferred to Salt Lake City from Philadelphia, is in charge.  Ironhand also has the name of Badger.  In the Vietnam War, Leaphorn learns, he was a sharpshooter.  Jim Chee, considering the name Badger, feels that the men may be hiding in old mining tunnels.  The solution to the mystery is surprising and well-written.	2005-05-20
234308:US	52300235	RUF8RX8BUGHI0	039331250X	207837781	A Shower of Summer Days: A Novel	Books	5	9	12	N	N	A monumental indifference to everything outside the demsne	Violet Dene Gordon inherited Dene's Court in Ireland.  It was a grand house.  The family always arrived in the rain, Violet thought.  The servant, Annie, noted that Violet's husband Charles did not show his age and Violet did.  Charles and Violet were not alltogether comfortable with each other.<br /><br />Charles was a good observer.  He was able to reconstruct some of the history.  A ballroom had been designed but had not been completed because the money gave out.  Violet's grandfather had been efficient.  Charles was an enthusiast.  He had learned the language in Burma.  He knew about village customs.  It seemed that Charles used excuses to get away and go and talk with the men at the pub.  Annie knew how to cheer up Violet.<br /><br />Notably, an American niece, Sally, comes to stay with the couple.  She is sent to Ireland by her parents because she has become involved with an actor, Ian, whom the parents believe is misleading her into hoping for a marriage.  Sally believes that Violet and Charles are still in love.  She watches them.  At Vassar Sally had revolted against a sense of responsibility being imposed upon her.  She tries to resist the influence of Violet and Annie and their attempts to become close to her.<br /><br />Later in the summer, Ian, through curiousity, attempts a visit.  The visit is not a success.  The couple parts.<br /><br />The book was inspired by the circumstances of Elizabeth Bowen I learned from reading another book by May Sarton.  This is a psychological story of considerable interest.  The atmosphere of Ireland is very well done.	2005-05-20
239635:US	52300235	R2CT0T71DKJ92X	0316010138	954102735	Good-Bye, Mr. Chips	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Small treasure	Chips was traditional.  Even in retirement he followed the schedule of Brookfield School.  He had no private means and no connections.  He would stay at Brookfield for his entire career.  Chips and Brookfield alike were respectable, not brilliant.   <br /> <br />In 1896 Chips had been forty eight.  He had fallen in love.  His marriage was a success.  Katherine, his wife, broadened his views.  She was always urging that he be more merciful to the boys.  Chip's wife and child died April 1, 1898.  Work at the school gave him something to do.  He was fifty.   <br /> <br />At sixty he came up against a new head, a dynamic and flashy man.  Chips did not like the new style of Latin pronunciation.  He refused to use it in his classics classes.  He told the head, Ralston, that he did not intend to resign.  The masters supported Chips even though they felt that he was hopelessly old-fashioned.  At age 65 under a more accomodating headmaster Chips did retire.  At that stage he moved across the road and took up residence at the establishment of Mrs. Wicketts.  He returned to serve the school near the end of World War I at the time of a manpower shortage.  Later he served as the acting head.  He became known around the school as a pre-war speciman.  There was a story that when the bombs were bursting nearby he never turned a hair.   <br /> <br />Fifteen years after the war's end Mr. Chipping could look back.  His idea to write was brought up short.  Writing tired him.    It is no wonder that this slight literary offering has produced so much enjoyment for its readers.  Hilton writes in a careful understated way.	2005-05-15
239945:US	52300235	R18E8MLJSRN6XI	B0006AUXSS	971619683	Days of the phoenix;: The nineteen-twenties I remember	Books	4	3	3	N	N	In 1920 Westport still had a rustic air.	In the Connecticut of 1920, Westport still had a rustic air.  The author and his wife lived on the Old Post Road.  Westport was an outpost of New York.   <br /> <br />Paul Rosenfeld was the first Westport guest.  Guy Pene duBois and Everett Shinn lived nearby.  The memoir reflects Brooks's abiding interest in American studies in descriptions of Waldo Frank, Sherwood Anderson, Randolph Bourne, and others, and their writings.  His wife, Eleanor Stimson, was the child of two artists.  Brooks thought of Lewis and Sophie Mumford as the new Adam and Eve.  Hugh Lofting had a study not far from the author's house in Westport.  Hendrick Van Loon, humanist, was a Westport neighbor.  Brooks characterizes him as a talkative Plutarch.  Joel Springarn in Troutbeck turned over his houses to artist friends.   <br /> <br />The author has produced a number of more substantial works.  This is of some interest.  It recalls the fervor, the excitement of the arts scene during the first three decades of the twentieth century.  He writes with candor of his own season in hell.   <br /> <br />In the middle of the twenties the writer's own bubble burst.  He was pursued by nightmares.  He could no longer sleep.  A belt was a garrote.  A rope existed to hang one's self.  He shrank from human relations.  He was treated in Stockbridge.  Then he spent eight months in an English hospital. In 1929 he went to another treatment facility.	2005-05-15
240250:US	52300235	R2W8CMUHWY4RZ3	0385494246	654180128	Amsterdam: A Novel	Books	5	1	7	N	N	Secret lives	Molly had been a restaurant critic and gorgeous to wit.  Husband, George Lane, was present at the funeral.  Clive Linley had loved her.  Vernon Halliday had loved her also.  The funeral gathering was at a crematorium because there would be no memorial service. Hart Pullman, Beat poet, was present.  He had known Molly in 1965 in East Village.      Clive Linley could write melody.  He had received a commission.  Symphony writing proved to be arduous.  Vernon was a journalist.  He learned of the existence of some photographs of the foreign minister at about the time he was served with an injunction, (lifted subsequently).   Clive has had  a stucco cream villa since 1970.  By the early eighties he was a youngish wealthy composer.  Vernon enjoyed his visits.  He did some of his growing up at Clive's.      In Amsterdam Vernon and Clive worked at cross-purposes.  George Lane and Julian Garmondy entered the scene for identification duties.  The Dutch have reasonable laws.  This is a droll tale.	2005-05-15
240943:US	52300235	RCYQI2JOMVUPO	0425157474	472732034	Chance (Spenser)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A hostile takeover may be percolating	Spenser is asked to find Julius Ventura's  son-in law, Anthony Meeker.  Ventura gives Spenser a hard look.  He is connected.    Anthony gambles a lot and loses.  He is probably afraid of his wife Shirley's father.  He handles money for Ventura, Shirley believes.  Anthony used to speak to a waitress about his system for winning at gambling.      Susan tells Spenser it is unwise to generalize about the sources of compulsive behavior.  Anthony may have been carrying money betwee Ventura and Gino Fish.  He is probably in Las Vegas.  Spenser decides to go there with Susan and Hawk.      Anthony is found at the Mirage.  Shirley Ventura dies in Las Vegas.  Spenser makes the identification for the police since she is found holding his card.  It seems that Anthony is actually in Las Vegas with a rival tough guy's wife.      Scams and cross-scams cause death and mayhem.  Even the Russians are involved in the action.	2005-05-14
248070:US	52300235	R2F8GEC87VY9GU	0140039260	513006377	Rocks Remain	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Otters play	It is a sequel to RING OF BRIGHT WATER.  It, too, concerns the interactions of otters and humans.   <br /> <br />When the author returned to London after an earthquake in Morocco his otter, Edal, was very sick.  When his party, comprised of employees and friends and himself,  made the seasonal move to Scotland, it was joined shortly by another otter, Teko.  Terry Nutkins came along later to be Teko's keeper.  He had been a volunteer at the London Zoo.   <br /> <br />A telephone was installed at the cottage in Scotland, Camusfearna, in 1960.  The story of the author's two stays in Morocco and the invasion of Camusfearna in 1961 by unwanted visitors following the success of RING OF BRIGHT WATER are among the events set forth in some detail in this volume.  Maxwell uses amusement, irony in his story-telling.   <br /> <br />Tragedy ensued when Edal, in a fit of jealousy over the wearing of Elizabeth's sweater by Terry, attacked Terry viciously in the hand.  Ultimately he lost several fingers.  The author and others prepared a separate enclosure for Teko.  This proved to be wise forsight when Teko attacked another supposed rival for affection, Maxwell's future stepson, Simon.  Later Teko bit another keeper, Jimmy.  The rival in this instance was a deerhound, a dog.  The danger of attack by otter is that it occurrs without warning.   <br /> <br />Edal's former owners visited her after three years.  Surprisingly she remembered them and resumed certain affectionate behavior that had taken place only with them.  Later the author and his collaborators acquired two British otters in quick succession, dubbed Mossy and Monday.   <br /> <br />One is struck by the immense amount of commitment and work the keeping of otters entails.	2005-05-08
257428:US	52300235	R21M63KENANJZS	0425199576	786542099	Bad Business (Spenser)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A fine gaggle of investigators	Randy Frampton is the managing partner of the law firm.  His client is Marlene Rowley.  Trent Rowley's company, Kinergy, does energy trading.   <br /> <br />Susan tells Spenser that when he picks up something he has to know it entirely.  He tails his client's husband.  Someone is tailing the other woman.  Someone else is tailing his client.  The Rowley house, expensive, looks as if it had been assembled by a committee.  Marlene thinks Trent would be running a hardware store somewhere if it weren't for her.   <br /> <br />Spenser has been reading a Simon Schama book for several years and uses it when his stake out involves sitting in his automobile.  The subject of the surveillance turns up dead on the seventh floor of the Kynergy building.  Spenser is summoned to meet with the CEO.  He is invited to go to the Cape to attend a management retreat.  Susan and Spenser decide to go.  They agree that they can smell fear and greed among the participants.  Spenser's room is bugged.   <br /> <br />Afterwards Spenser decides to speak with a female manager of the company.  She is the senior vice-president of development.  The company is a money machine he is informed.  The security chief becomes an apparent suicide.  The female manager says the company is running out of money and she fears for her safety.   <br /> <br />Hawk and Spenser set a trap and catch the CEO in an after-hours tryst.  A forensic audit by Spenser's people is agreed to by the CEO under duress.  Spenser's man finds the money scheme to be byzantine.  Special entities were created to hide debt.   <br /> <br />The book is a good concoction of an Enron-style debacle.	2005-05-01
258435:US	52300235	R9U14CS21EEYJ	0156027321	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Noah's ark awry	The narrator, Pi Patel, double-majored in zoology and religion.  He loves Canada but misses the heat of India.  Ponchiderry, site of his childhood, had a zoo and a toy train.  Before going to Ponchiderry Pi's father ran a hotel in Madras.  Perhaps there is a natural transition from hotelkeeping to zookeeping.  In a zoo, though, the guests never leave their room.   <br /> <br />To a child, the zoo was a paradise on earth.  The best times to visit a zoo are at sunrise and sunset.  Animals are territorial and in the wild live lives of compulsion.  A biologically sound zoo encloses just another territory.  A good zoo has clearly worked out coincidences.  Getting animals used to humans is part of the art of zookeeping.  The flight distance is diminished.  Much hostile and aggressive behavior of animals is social insecurity.   <br /> <br />While the family and the zoo are traveling  across the Pacific to Canada the boat sinks.  The ship had not been a luxury liner.  Pi lands in a lifeboat.  A zebra and a hyena end up in the lifeboat, too.  Next Pi sees that Orange Juice, an orangutan, is present and seasick.  The boat churns with the swimming below it and around it of sharks.  The orangutan, a former pet, is not able to defeat the spotted hyena.  The hyena  had already caused the demise of the zebra.  The hyena is bested by another animal on board, a tiger, Richard Parker.  The name resulted from confusion over the appellations of the animal and a previous owner much to the amusement of Pi's father.   <br /> <br />Pi finds emergency food and water and makes a list of the supplies available.  In the early days to distract the cat Pi throws a rat at him.  Later he works out the territorial issues, he makes a raft from the oars, and the matter of dominant position in order to coexist with the tiger on their sea voyage.  He notes that fear is life's only true opponent.   <br /> <br />They survive 227 days at sea.  After the emergency supplies are exhausted, the vegetarian manuses fishing for sustenance and a solar still to turn salt water into fresh.  Rain and turtles are major disruptions of daily routines.   <br /> <br />The boat lands on a carnivorous island where the tiger eats meerkats and Pi sleeps in a tree until he discerns how truly dangerous their circumstances are.  He sets off again in the lifeboat eventually landing in Mexico.  The tiger, Richard Parker, disappears.   <br /> <br />The Japanese ministry of transport receives word that a survivor of the Japanese ship, Tsimtsum, has surfaced.  Mr. Okamoto speaks with Piscine Molitor Patel, Pi, in English.  Pi is told the carnivorous island is a botanical impossibility.  Mr. Okamoto and his companion do not believe that Pi lived in a lifeboat with a tiger.  Disbelieved, Pi invents a story to satisfy his auditors.   <br /> <br />The tale is a delight.	2005-04-30
259632:US	52300235	R3OKZCWYN5VOTG	0060545607	485010020	With No One As Witness (Thomas Lynley and Barbara Havers Novels)	Books	5	1	8	N	N	Rites of passage	Kimmo Thorne needed ten minutes to score the silver, but he was surprised by the occupants.  There are killings.  Initially the pattern was not seen.  There were all the hallmarks of ritual present for the investigators to see. Lynley is deputed by Hillier to set up an investigative group.  He is working, among other things, to have Havers restored to rank.  He is given Detective Sergeant Winston Nkata to present a multi-cultural image for the press.  Kimmo Thorne is positively identified as one of the victims.   <br /> <br />A profiler is added to the team by Sir David Hillier.  Lynley finds that he must stand up for his command or be second-guessed and under-cut all the way.  His wife Helen is expecting a baby.  His friends Simon and Deborah St.James enter into the plot, too.  <br />Barbara Havers has never worked on a series of homicides before and is beginning to feel the stress of it.  The criminal events are happening all over the metropolitan map.  Apparently the killer sends a block-lettered missive to Lynley whose name has appeared in the newspaper accounts.  <br /> <br />It seems that two or more of the boy victims were involved with a London organization seeking to reform misdirected youths.  The investigators focus on that organization. Simon determines that the culprit probably uses a stun gun to subdue the boys.  Lady Helen has the sense to see that only Tommy is in comfortable enough circumstances to run interference with Hillier and preserve the integrity of the investigation.  Unlike the others, Tommy is able to place his job on the line. <br /> <br />The characters Lynley and Havers and all of their friends and associates are portrayed amply and interestingly in this title.  Unfortunately there is a suspicion that inside people in some fashion corrupt and jeopardize the investigation and other people's lives and security for their own peculiar ends.  Finally, solutions to the case tumble forth and Havers is restored to rank.   <br /> <br />I will not disclose a heartbreaking strand of the plot, evidently causing concern to many of the author's loyal readers, in order to preserve the surprises for the reader.	2005-04-29
264199:US	52300235	RNNJSNCCPJO7M	0701204699	913194039	The Letters of Virginia Woolf: 1932-1935 Vol 5	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Esteemed author	This collection of letters is edited by Nigel Nicholson.  Lytton Strachey died in January 1932.  Ottoline Morrell, hostess at Garsington Manor and Bedford Square, had known him, loved him, and was one of the recipients of a number of letters from Virginia Woolf.      In this period, 1932 to 1935, more substantive letters were exchanged with Ethel Smyth than with anyone else.  During the summer of 1932 Virgina and Leonard spent a month in Greece with Roger Fry and his sister.      Mrs. Woolf declined with thanks an offer to write for THE NEW STATESMAN.  She wrote to Ottoline Morrell that being in London presented a perpetual round of going out to dinner with company.  She advised Ethel Smyth that she dislked scenes.  She felt that Bloomsbury as a word stood for very little.      Virginia Woolf, we learn, preferred the Brontes to Jane Austen.  She thought THE CHERRY ORCHARD could not be acted in English.  She published an essay on Turgenev in THE YALE REVIEW.      At one point Ottoline Morrell is described as a weeping willow in pearls.  The death of Roger Fry was a sad event since he was so much of a friend to everyone.  Virginia Woolf thought that the Victorians, Hardy, Dickens, and Trollope, had a sense of an audience and created their characters mainly through dialogue.    Good manners and kindness are much in evidence in this collection.	2005-04-25
264799:US	52300235	R1KXQJP6N0NV78	B0007DOQ32	784281708	Penguin summer;: An adventure with the birds of the Falkland Islands	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Making a photographic record	The Pettingills embarked on the FITZROY in 1953 to go to the Falkland Islands in search of three kinds of penguins.  There are two main islands.  The area is about the size of Connecticut.   <br /> <br />Sewall Pettingill, the author's husband, a photographer, was backed in the enterprise by the Disney Company.  The Pettingills' stay was to run from October through March.  The first penguin, a flightless bird, was seen 200 miles from land.  Native Falklanders called themselves Kelpers.   <br /> <br />Edwin Cawkell, an ornithologist of the Falklands, mapped the expedition for them.  They were to spend the first six weeks in the vicinity of Stanley.  Then after Christmas they were to spend a month on New Island in the west, and by February, when the Cawkells left for their six months stay in England, the Pettingills, it was anticipated, would be okay on their own. <br /> <br />Looking out over the harbor on the day after arrival, Sewall Pettingill saw a king penguin.  Edwin Cawkell established that it was full-grown, but not yet colored in adult hues.  It was living in the back garden with the chickens, four cats, and a dog.   <br /> <br />There was a memorial to a famous battle undertaken in the Falklands in World War I.  In the center of Stanley was the red brick cathedral of the Church of England.  The Pettingills were cold.  Their indoor themometer registered 46 degrees.   <br /> <br />The first penguins  sighted were a colony of gentoos.  The penguins were oblivious of the men.  Later they encountered jackass penguins.  They do not nest in colonies.  They dig burrows in the peaty soil.   <br /> <br />The Pettingills went to Government House for dinner where there was central heat.  Everything around Stanley is gray and brown.  They were to stay in a hut that had been a look-out structure during the war.  Birds had gotten into it and the place was in very poor condition.  By the end of the week the Pettingills they were glad to be picked up by the Cawkells.   <br/> <br />Later in the visit they saw rockhopper penguins.  When Sewall broke his arm the couple signalled distress and were evacuated from the area, although eventually they were able to return to Kidney Island.  They photographed a sooty albatross who was out of range.   <br /> <br />The Falklands were discovered in 1592 by John Davis and named for Lord Falkland.  House parties were an institution at Falkland Islands.  The author's memory of the Falklands is mostly of endless unrelenting wind.	2005-04-25
266404:US	52300235	R1GIV1N1D5F73J	1400077303	263184134	Titan: The Life of John D. Rockefeller, Sr.	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Longevity	The University of Chicago and the Riverside Church are two institutions which came into existence through Rockefeller largesse.  John D. Rockefeller was a true force in late nineteenth century and early twentieth century America.  His strategic-thinking in the area of business was exceptional, his one-sidedness notable.  Not everyone considered him a force for the good.  He did not distribute money to his children upon their maturity, but kept them on allowances.  His daughters, Alta and Bessie, married cold, remote, self-absorbed men.  Standard Oil attained its peak influence in the 1890's.      Under Theodore Roosevelt Rockefeller's name became short-hand for corporate villainy.  Ida Tarbell began her series on Standard Oil in McClure's Magazine in 1902.  Ida Tarbell's series may be the most impressive thing about Standard Oil.  The rise of Standard Oil was based upon its relationship with the railroads.  There were secret kickbacks.  Rockefeller was both the brains of Standard Oil and a monarch of philanthropy.  Moving from one mode to another he experienced no self-dividedness.  Trying to square philanthropy with self-reliance, he contributed to education and medical research.  His work was influenced by the social gospel movement.  Frederick T. Gates headed the philanthropies.      In retirement Rockefeller devoted about one hour a day to philanthropy.  Winston Churchill felt that Rockefeller's endowment of research was a sort of milestone.  In 1907 Standard Oil received a record fine of $29.4 million.  Reporters saw in Rockefeller a poker face, but there was deep rage.  An appeals court reversed the fine and found in imposing the fine there was an abuse of judicial discretion.  During the 1907 Panic in October Rockefeller seemed civic-minded when he pledged half his wealth to stave off economic collapse.      Purloined letters of Archbold, Rockefeller's successor, concerning bribery resulted in scandal publicized by the Hearst papers.  John D. Rockefeller, Jr.was shocked.  He resigned from the Standard Oil Board in 1910. The company was dismantled in 1911 pursuant to a Supreme Court decision. Rockefeller brought an unprecedented scale and scope to the charitable trust.  He contemplated the formation of a giant foundation.  The Rockefeller Foundation was attuned to the optimism of the Progressive Era.  Initially the focus was on public health and medical education.      I have not sufficient space to outline for the reader the immense task undertaken by Chernow to set forth the social and economic context of Rockefeller's extensive business and charitable activities.	2005-04-23
266474:US	52300235	RAEHIE7GOS9DV	0892550589	923780702	The Unquiet Grave: A Word Cycle by Palinurus	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Famous Word Cycle	The book consists of the doubts and reflections of a year.  Life has no more continuity than a pool in the rocks.  The author asserts that Christianity and Buddhism are stratagems of failure.  Success in life is defined by survival.  One should study a long life, Goethe's.   <br /> <br />The decision to marry balances the fear of bondage against the fear of loneliness.  A man with a will to power can have no friends.  A woman's desire for revenge outlasts her other emotions.  Three faults infect every activity--laziness, vanity, cowardice.  These characteristics are impediments to wisdom. <br /> <br />Happiness rests in the avoidance of angst.  Anxiety at being kept waiting is a form of jealousy.  Connolly relates that the creative moment of a writer comes with the autumn.  Surrealism seems to exist in vast cities.  Works of art need valid myths, belief, vocation.   <br /> <br />No happiness can be obtained through the destruction of another person's happiness.  Reading and routines are sanctuaries.  Civilized people get more out of life than the uncivilized.  Central heating benefitted the north.  Air conditioning will benefit the south.  In all cultures factors of decadence are a constant.   <br /> <br />Ennui is produced through  not fulfilling our potential.  Artists, mystics, naturalists, and mathematicians work in solitude.  The cortex is a machine for thinking.  Tea, coffee, alcohol stimulate.  People consumed with curiousity without love should write maxims.   <br /> <br />Hemingway saturated his books with the memory of physical pleasure.  Art is memory, re-enacted desire.  The English language is like a broad river.  Unhappiness can be valuable.  Bio-physical equilibrium is a source of happiness.   <br /> <br />This cobbled-together account of deep reading and thinking makes a wonderful  book.	2005-04-23
266597:US	52300235	R2O9WME27NSU4E	0375759778	530438268	Prague: A Novel	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Living outside of language	Scott Price liked living outside of language, as a foreigner, in Budapest.  Emily Oliver shared a bungalow with two girls from the embassy.  Charles Gabor was a venture capitalist.  Scott's brother John was in Budapest, too.   <br /> <br />Gabor's parents had left Hungary in 1956.  His parents met in Cleveland.  Charles's, (Karoly's), first language was Hungarian.  Scott Price taught a class in advanced conversation.  John Price had always liked to read.  Pest's 19th century homes had eroded for five or six decades.  Hungarians had all been required to learn Russian.  Mark Payton was a Canadian.  He was a man obsessed with the past.  When Mark learned of the existence of CNN he was reminded of old newsreel footage.  John Price wondered what he sought in post-Communist Central Europe.   <br /> <br />Charles Gabor had a west-facing window with a view of the Danube.  He evaluated business proposals for the financial institutions employing him.  He began to consider his stay in Hungary as coming to a back water, a public relations stunt.  Charles had business school training, he had natural acumen, he must be qualified to run something he thought to himself.   <br /> <br />Then Charles met Imre Horvath of Horvath Press founded in 1808.  The Communists never changed the name of Horvath.  Charles toured the Horvath Verlag offices.  Nadja, an Hungarian pianist, amused John Price and Emily with stories of her life.  John met Imre Horvath.  He did a series called 'Hungarians you should know.'  Mark Payton disappeared.  Imre Horvath had a stroke.  John told Emily he loved her.  Charles and John ran into the artist, Nicky.  Emily is present at the encounter, too. <br /> <br />Charles, to John's surprise and interest, was elevated to the status of a minor celebrity.  To John he know seemd to be a sort of monster.   <br /> <br />The book is good fun.	2005-04-23
266758:US	52300235	R18BWFPJ0ZW4JP	0553576607	93831822	Quieter than Sleep a modern mystery of Emily Dickinson	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Cluster	The heroine has a Ph.D. in English.  The setting is Enfield College, fictitious,  near Lowell, Massachusetts.  Karen Pelletier is an authority on Emily Dickinson.  Avery Mitchell is Enfield's president.  Randy Astin-Berger suffers a non accidental death.   <br /> <br />There had been a faculty party.  Randy had been critical of others and had prevented at least one person from getting tenure.  Detective Piotrowski is one of the officers conducting the investigation.  In time he hires Karen as a researcher to clarify literary matters for the police.  Avery said that all Randy had ever wanted from others was a mirror reflecting his own ideas.  He, Randy, had told Karen that the department was filled with retrograde intellects and that he could further her career.   <br /> <br />Official suspicion is aroused when events, a missing person and an attempted suicide, appear in a cluster.  Randy had been reading the sermons of Henry Ward Beecher.  Later Randy's office is found ransacked.  Karen follows in his footsteps to stumble upon the scholarly piece of information triggering the unfortunate happenings at Enfield.  The book is a good one.  It is well-plotted and has rounded characters.	2005-04-23
266777:US	52300235	RX52XM4DMXY83	0060280778	610990578	Monster (Coretta Scott King Honor Book)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Trust and Distrust	The story is told by the distancing device of a film script.  The layering continues through the imagination of the protoganist who runs a film in his head.  The story's purpose is to present the reality of incarceration.  The subject matter is inherently dramatic, the presentation of a trial in a case of felony-murder and the pre-trial jail-stay of the defendant.   <br /> <br />The title Monster derives from the prosecutor's characterization in her opening of sixteen year old Steve Harmon.  As the reader proceeds through the book it becomes evident that either Steve is innocent or he made a bad choice and his involvement in the case is slim.  Steve has the realization that family and friends may have come to distrust him as he senses counsel for his defense does.   <br /> <br />Suspense is maintained throughout the entire book in notable fashion.  Steve Harmon is a Stuyvesant High School film club student who has the misfortune, (or fortune), to reside in Harlem.	2005-04-23
275714:US	52300235	R2N7EEE956OKV9	0312043546	806454565	Murder in the Blue Room	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Class warfare	It is 1942.  Mrs. Roosevelt and schoolchildren discuss bombs.  Louis Howe, the President's confidant, has been dead for six years.  Missy LeHand is ill.  The Soviet Foreign Minister, Molotov, is visiting.  The Russians bring their own vodka to the cocktail party. They are suspicious of the shaker of martinis.      A golden blonde appears in the Blue Room.  The Secret Service is summoned.  The death is not accidental.  Her name is Emily Ryan.  She was twenty eight years old and an orphan.  Miss Ryan worked for Stephen Early, the President's Press Secretary.      It seems that Emily had saved her carbon paper and by such means slipped stories to a radio commentator.  Mrs. Roosevelt discovers that Don Pettengill, (his mother was a Cabot), is engaged to be married to Barbara Lowell.  Armed with such knowledge she begins to unravel this ably told mystery.	2005-04-16
280494:US	52300235	R380XQVROI2G74	0393300307	382514613	Shadow Of A Man	Books	5	0	2	N	N	A perfect love is founded in despair, (Santayana).	Francis Adams Chabrier was the son of Persis Bradford.  Alan Bradford was her second husband.  The two men were left to face each other when she died suddenly of a heart attack.  Alan, a Chinese scholar, considered that death put a mask on everyone's face.      At the first opportunity Francis left to take a walk on the impersonal streets.  Persis had been a powerful person.  Her first husband had been an aviator and a philosopher.  After his death, Francis, age 12, and Persis moved to Mount Vernon Street in Boston.      When Alan Bradford saw Persis in his fifties he immediately wanted to marry her.  Francis didn't know why Persis had married again.  She had made herself into a good research assistant, learning Chinese.      As with all Sarton novels, this one is highly schematic, which doesn't mean it isn't deeply felt.  The plot moves forward swiftly to an encounter between Francis and his mother's dear friend Solange in Paris.  Among other things this is a coming-of-age novel with a focus on Francis.  He had two wounds, his mother's second marriage and her death, and only the wounded see.	2005-04-12
283968:US	52300235	R5AMM6601JFH3	0393317552	733405472	Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies	Books	5	4	5	N	N	How Environment Shapes History	Yali, from New Guinea, asked why Europeans had developed so much cargo.  Empires with steel weapons were able to exterminate those relying on stone and wood.  Evolutionary biology is an historical science forced to use historical methods.  The starting point is 11,000 B.C.   <br /> <br />Our closest relatives are the gorilla, the common chimpanzee, and the pygmy chimpanzee, (the bonobo).  In the contest of the Spaniards versus Indians in the New World, only the tribes who reduced the military disparity by acquiring and mastering horses and guns were able to prevail.  Europeans overcame the Incas and the Aztecs against numerical odds with their weapons and tactics.  Until World War I the military use of horses transformed warfare.  Transmission of diseases introduced through the presence of Europeans played a role in weakening resistance to European supremacy.   <br /> <br />Plant and animal domestication contribute to greater population density.  There is a higher birthrate through the use of a fixed abode and there is increased food production over hunter-gatherer methods.  The storage of food is possible.  Stored food means a society, a kingdom, can maintain people given special functions such as priests, soldiers, artisans.   <br /> <br />Much of history has consisted of unequal conflicts.  By Roman times almost all of the leading crops of today were being cultivated.  The vast majority of wild plants are unsuitable for cultivation.  Fertile Crescent cereals were productive in the wild.  The Feritle Crescent has biological diversity over small distances.   <br /> <br />To be domesticated a wild mammal must possess many different characteristics.  To be used for food the animals must be herbivores, fast-growing, non-finicky eaters.  They must have decent dispositions and breed in captivity.  They must live in herds, have a dominance structure, and over-lapping territories.   <br /> <br />Eurasia's East-West axis allowed Fertile Crescent crops to spread over the band of the temperate latitudes.  Predominately North-South axies in Africa and the Americas made the diffusion of crops difficult.  Necessity produced the atom bomb, cotton gin, and steam engine.  Complex societies form by merger.  Unlike Russia and the United States, China seems monolithic.  China's head start contributed to developments in neighboring regions.  Human societies in East Asia and the Pacific provide many examples of how environment shapes history.   <br /> <br />The books is fascinating. The author compresses an amazing amount of information between the book's covers.	2005-04-09
287585:US	52300235	R29QF12UM6X66M	0393317153	295681195	Faithful Are the Wounds: A Novel	Books	5	1	5	N	N	Civil liberties adherent	Edward Cavan committed suicide.  Isabel, Mrs. Henry Ferrier, is Edward's sister.  Her viewpoint is the first one described by the author. In his world Edward was famous.  He had written a lot of books.  He had stood up for every issue and was considered a maverick by some people.  Edward was a socialist.  He had campaigned for Henry Wallace.  Isabel felt his politics were not quite correct.   <br /> <br />His student, George Hastings, was told by Edward, after he had an outline for his book, to be prepared for a let-down.  He would never see his subject again as clearly until the work was completed.  George was warned he might experience a creeping crisis of nerve.  Edward Cavan called himself a Christian Socialist.  In the Cold War period, attending a meeting of the Civil Liberties Union, he learned of the application of a sort of loyalty vetting.  His opposition to such a practice was principled.   <br /> <br />Orlando Fosca seemed like an absent-minded professor to his landlady.  Edward Cavan had been like a son to Fosca after his wife died.  Now Edward felt personally betrayed at the meeting by one of his friends, Damon Phillips.  Edward was told he had a morbid sense of responsibility for what happened in the world.  Edward walked in Mt. Auburn cemetery with an old friend, an older single woman whose father had been a dean at Harvard.  The friend, Grace, focused on politics.  She said that old friends ought to be able to help each other. He found he could no longer communicate with Ivan Goldberg, the most gifted man in his department, someone who had read his manuscripts in the past.  Edward told Grace that it seemed that he had fights with everyone at Harvard.   <br /> <br />Damon Phillips had a strong family-feeling and lived in his father's house.  Edward seemed to want to break away from his friends.  He could not compromise.  He thought that intellectuals should show solidarity.  No one could keep Edward from being lonely. After Edward's death Damon was called upon to testify before a Senate Committee.  He found that he could not back down, but had to support a citizen's right to exercise the promptings of his conscience.  This very good book calls to mind the terrible cloud on academic freedom of the McCarthy era.	2005-04-06
292082:US	52300235	R1V95SKOV738JS	0393075060	519685355	A world of light : Portraits and Celebrations	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Joyful recollections	May Sarton was an only child.  The family lived in Cambridge, Massachusetts.  Her father was absorbed in his work.  The author's father, George Sarton, wrote a history of science. He spent his Saturday afternoons at the Museum of Fine Arts.  He founded and edited a scholarly journal, ISIS, for forty years.  He had a poor relationship with Harvard University, he had been unpaid or ill-paid for years, but a good relationship with the staff of Widener Library.  He read THE NEW YORKER with intense interest.  His first ambition had been to become a poet and novelist.<br /><br />Mabel Sarton, the author's mother, was an early-morning person.  In essence she was an artist.  She ws born near London.  Her father worked as an engineer in India.  After her father died she worked as a designer at an interior decorating firm, La Maison Dangotte.  The city of Ghent was a ferment of political and artistic life.  When May Sarton's mother was over thirty, the couple moved to the United States.  The life-giving group she had found in Belgium was never replaced.  The family, now three, settled in Cambridge in 1918.  May attended the Shady Hill School there.<br /><br />Elizabeth Bowen entered fully into relationships with others.  She seemed to be more absent-minded at Bowen Court in Ireland than she was in England.  Edith Forbes Kennedy did some work at Shady Hill in order to gain tuition breaks for her sons' schooling.  Conversation for her was important, really rising to the level of art.<br /><br />S.S. Koteliansky was responsible for the publication of May Sarton's first book.  He told the Huxleys she had some glimmerings of talent.  Louise Bogan was a true poet.  She lived with a minimum of comfort.<br /><br />Other portraits include a Swiss winemaker and the granddaughter of a Harvard President.  Love and respect are conveyed.  One discerns in these pieces some of the models for Sarton's fictional creations.	2005-04-02
292469:US	52300235	RF0EMS2G528S	B0007EBJJU	299788706	Lyubka, the Cossack,: And other stories (A Signet classic)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Linked stories describing warfare and life concretely.	Funny and cheerful, these stories of the gangsters and middlemen of Odessa are linked.  When the adult Babel told stories of his childhood, the results were macabre.   <br /> <br />Babel found himself as a young man in St. Petersburg without papers.  He decided to go see Gorky.  Gorky had tallness, thinness, and vigor.  Babel was told by Maxim Gorky to get out in the world and look at people.  Babel had been submitting stories to Gorky, an editor, and Gorky had rejected the stories, but had told him to keep on writing.   <br /> <br />There are stories of the Red Cavalry.  It was a case of manpower without food, blankets, and soap.  Counter-revolutionaries imperiled the railroads.  Women risked assault with their husbands absent.   <br /> <br />The world pictured by Isaac Babel is an exciting one.  Comrade Trotsky ordered the men not to chop up prisoners anymore.  In the Polish campaign some turncoat Cossacks won a victory over the Sixth Division of the Cavalry.  At Leszniow the front was held by infantry.  The homemade infantry was a great help to the Red Cavalry. Afonka Bida waged a sort of one man war getting horses and other supplies from the peasants.  He claimed a personal horse.   <br /> <br />Vinogradov, division commissar, was to give a lecture to the Second Congress of the Cominterm.  The narrator's division captured Beresteczko.  When he received a cart he ceased to be a pariah among the Cossacks.  The cart formed part of a triangle--killing, cart, blood.  The cart had become a formidable instrument of mobile warfare.  Machine guns were concealed on carts.  Pugachev lauded a fallen fighter of the First Cavalry.   <br /> <br />In Sokal there was a large square bounded by ancient synagogues.  Orthodox Jews extolled the teachings of Rabbi Belz.  Hasidic Jews followed the approach of the Rabbi of Gussyatin.   <br /> <br />There can be no cavalry without horses.  Spent horses were left and draft animals were taken from the village.  Men die, a horse dies in dreadful fashion, and women are used.  The dates of the gory Polish campaign in which Babel participated were 1920-1921.  It cannot be said that Babel treats warfare in a sentimental fashion.   <br /> <br />Following RED CAVALRY there is a a section called 'Afterward'.  In Odessa during the famine the inmates of alms house were lucky.  After the revolution they had jobs as grave diggers and cantors.  Then the house was closed for repairs.  Life is described here brilliantly, concretely, with specificity.	2005-04-02
292559:US	52300235	R26QP0CI9IX27R	0804108862	682361716	A Slipping-Down Life	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Music Supporter	Evie was heavy, virtually friendless, and she listened to the radio.  She heard on the radio an interview with Drumstrings Casey and went to see him perform at the Unicorn, a roadhouse.  She cut his name into the skin of her forehead and provoked a crisis.  She was told that would need a good plastic surgeon for her face.  A photographer and the singer appeared at her bedside in the hospital.  The nurse told her she was going to be famous.   <br /> <br />Anne Tyler writes of loyalty and steadfastness, a quality exhibited by Evie Decker in her pursuit of Drum Casey and his music.  In time Drum moved to a better venue than the Unicorn, and Drum admitted that he hated seeing Evie's cut face.  Unfortunately Drum did not measure-up and he was fired.  Soon he was homeless.   <br /> <br />Secretly Drum slipped into Evie's house to sleep and eat.  Evie and Drum married.  Drum played again at the Unicorn on Saturday nights.  When Evie inherited her father's house, the couple separated.  The couple always seemed ill-matched, unsuited to each other.  The story is both mysterious and convincing in Anne Tyler's rendition of it.	2005-04-02
294295:US	52300235	RR0NTN80SFRV9	0449908747	49896537	Barn Blind: A Novel	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Momentum Only Takes You So Far	Peter, John, Henry, and Margaret Karlson were the children of a father who drove an old Pontiac and a mother who drove a Datsun.  Peter's height came from his mother, Katherine Karlson.  Axel and Kate Karlson had a horse farm.  The farm seemed to take all of Axel's salary and investment earnings and Kate's annual income.   <br /> <br />Kate was concerned that her best rider, her son Peter, and her best horse, MacDougal, did not get along.  Axel feared for his quiet farm-bound children.  While most family members were at the Barrington Horse Show, Axel cleared out the refrigerator and determined their establishment was a monument to waste.   <br /> <br />The novel details Peter's riding feats and victories and John's temper and involvement in a tragic accident.  On another level the monomania of Kate to develop horses and riders even to the point of sacrificing her own family is portrayed interestingly and convincingly.	2005-03-31
295055:US	52300235	R17X0D87RJSK9X	0140296409	929204920	Disgrace: A Novel	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Fatherhood	David Lurie is fifty-two and employed at the Cape Technical University as an adjunct professor of communications.  He had once been a professor of modern languages before Classics and Modern Languages were closed in the 'great rationalization'.  He teaches a course in Romantic Poetry.  His research project centers on Byron in Italy.   <br /> <br />David dates a woman who is taking his class, Melanie Isaacs.  He tells himself she is no more than a child.  Her friend visits his office and the following day his car is vandalized.  Melanie stays away and then withdraws from the class.  Her father contacts him and later learns of the existence of their relationship.  The university charges various improprieties and David elects not to fight the matter and justify his conduct.  He is urged to resign and does so.   <br /> <br />Lurie goes to visit his daughter at her farm.  She is a frontier farmer.  It is suggested that David help on the farm and help at an animal shelter, although he resists changing himself into a better person.  He and his daughter are attacked on her farm and he suffers burns and she suffers deeper, more serious injury.  In the turn of history his daughter has to make some sort of adjustment consistent with political changes in the country.   <br /> <br />His work on Byron starts to take hold as he begins to work on writing an opera from the points of view of the mistress, Teresa, and the daughter, Allegra.   <br /> <br />The book is serious and well-written.  It is no wonder that it won the Booker Prize.	2005-03-31
300145:US	52300235	R15D5XKJHRMHPU	0393311023	644338985	Crucial Conversations	Books	5	3	9	N	N	It is hard for middle-aged people to adjust to an earthquake	Philip, age 50, is anxious about his friend Reed's wife, Poppy.  There is a dark side to her glittering charm.  Philip is surprised to learn that Poppy is separating from Reed.  Their children have left home.  Poppy will claim that the Watergate Hearings have caused her to strive to attain authentic feeling. <br /> <br />In the past Reed helped Philip with a prize-winning project.  Perhaps things have not been harmonious between Poppy and Reed since the Vietnam War when Reed's son Harry was bullied by Reed  not to apply for conscientious objector status.   <br /> <br />Poppy claims that Philip has used their marriage as some sort of second home.  Philip feels that Poppy has a sort of hunger for life.  She says that Reed, her husband, has started to represent everything she hates.   <br /> <br />Philip feels that he is more upset than either Reed or Poppy.  He goes to see Poppy's mother, Evelyn.  He feels that he is involved because it is his life, in a way.  Philip's mother had filled his heart while she lived.  Now she was unattainable.  Poppy and Reed had been a way out of his uncertainties.  Philip goes to see one of the children who was at college in Illinois.  The boy, Emerson, is taking his father's way of dealing with the situation by showing anger and hatred.   <br /> <br />Next Philip has dinner with Reed's mother, Cecilia Whitelaw.  After leaving Cecilia, Philip sees his own special friend, Kathy, a police officer.  One of the characters opines that men may grow outside of marriage, women in it.  At MIT Reed and Philip were called the Red Guard.  In his schooldays Reed was not necessarily conservative.  Philip admired his energy, his gusto.  <br /> <br />Philip comes to feel that he has been used by both Poppy and Reed in the crisis.  He has been called upon to talk with their mothers and their children.   <br /> <br />This book is well done.  It is experimental in its use of close focus, of dramatic material.	2005-03-27
302760:US	52300235	R30785EWMYEO2P	003021081X	638198619	Mary Baker Eddy: The Years of Authority v. 3	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Not blind faith, spiritual understanding	In the 1890's Mary Baker Eddy had a son and  an adopted son, but her real child was the Christian Science movement.  Fearing idolatry, she had her book CHRIST AND CHRISTMAS withdrawn.  The church in Boston was to be built on a triangular plot of filled-in tideland on Norway Street.  When the church was completed, Mrs. Eddy addressed the congregation notably one Sunday on sin and repentance.   <br /> <br />There were two streams of Mary Baker Eddy history.  One was supplied by supporters, the other by opponents of her cause.  Alfred Farlow, Committee on Publication, was one of the people tasked with establishing the official history.  Early Eddy manuscripts showed the residual influence of Quimby.  Mrs. Eddy herself was unable to engage in retrospective analysis since she was concerned about the future of the movement.  In the later years Mrs. Eddy sought to discourage her followers from haunting her drive and using other means to get her attention.   <br /> <br />The controversy with the ambitious Augusta Stetson is recounted.  The challenges of other followers are given in considerable detail.  Finally there is the indication of the issues involved in moving forward after Mrs. Eddy's death to the erection of her movement on the foundation of less personal authority.  The notes at the back of the book are one of the best features of it.	2005-03-24
309876:US	52300235	R3DFVZVNVVYGTK	0452259967	223339447	An Academic Question	Books	5	6	7	N	N	An old man with a box	Professor Maynard always gave a party at the beginning of autumn.  Caroline Grimstone, Caro, is the narrator of the book.  She is married to Alan and has a four year old daughter, Kate.  The university had grown up from a local technical college.  Crispin Maynard heads Alan's department.   <br /> <br />The Pym voice is fully present in this work, notwithstanding the fact that Hazel Holt used two drafts to make a coherent whole of this posthumous work.  A mother and son couple, Coco, (Corcoran), and Kitty Jeffreys are friends of Alan and Caro and also attend the party.  Coco is a research fellow in Caribbean Studies.  Crispin is an historian and Alan an anthropologist, and both men are specialists in the study of pre-literate peoples.  Iris Horniblow is someone who is new in the department and Caro wonders if Alan is interested in her.  Dolly Arborfield is a friend and the sister of Kitty Jeffreys.  Her interests run to old books, junk, and animals.  In her sixties, it seems that Dolly has rather lost contact with people.   <br /> <br />Through Dolly Arborfield, Caro pursues good works by going to an old peoples' home, Normanhurst, to read to a missionary living there.  The paper read is one authored by Crispin Maynard.  The missionary, Mr. Stillingfeet, has a box of papers that even Crispin Maynard has not seen.  In a Henry James-like plot, Caro and Alan distract the old missionarya day prior to his death  with a bag of crisps while Alan gains entry to the box.  Later, Caro, a volunteer at the university library, has to find a way to secrete the manuscript in the librarian's office.  Alan, an up and coming academic, uses the information gained in a piece for a scholarly journal.  It turns out that Crispin knows what has transpired, at least sort of. There is the suggestion in the book that Crispin would have used the advantage gained from seeing the papers had he been in Alan's shoes.   <br /> <br />What Caro really thinks of the matter is not fully disclosed.  Everything is treated in a tone of irony.  This is a very good, and completely modern, book.	2005-03-19
322709:US	52300235	R1IE9HU5V6JJ2B	0156028417	294524829	Maigret and the Killer (Maigret Mystery Series)	Books	4	1	7	N	N	A man who crossed a barrier	The Maigrets ate on a monthly basis with Dr. Pardon and his wife.  Dr. Pardon complained that medical doctors were being changed into clerks because of all of the paperwork required of them.  Superintendent Maigret and Dr. Pardon went out to see a young man lying in the street, a victim of stabbing.  Maigret had become involved in the case involuntarily.      In reporting the death to the family, Maigret learned that the young man's parents were very rich.  The father was a perfume manufacturer.  The young man had had few friends.  He had an unusual hobby, recording conversations.  The tape recorder was recovered.      The tale is taut, lucid.	2005-03-08
326713:US	52300235	R361OBIV9K5ZY9	0394522656	259502822	The Second American Revolution and Other Essays (1976-1982)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Gifted essayist	Vidal writes of F. Scott Fitzgerald whose sad life provides a cautionary tale.  From 1920 to 1940 he published four novels as well as writing short stories and movie scripts.  Fitzgerald personified a high romanticism.  Fitzgerald knew the novel was being superseded by film.<br /><br />Edmund Wilson had a brain to match his liver.  Wilson supported himself by literary journalism.  He was the perfect autodict.  Christopher Isherwood was the rare thing, an objective narcissist.<br /><br />Gore Vidal reports he spent a great deal of his youth in Frank Baum's Land of Oz.  Baum had a lifelong interest in science and gadgetry.  Gore Vidal presents an hilarious review of Doris Lessing's science fiction.  In the next piece he describes Italy, a place where people are free of the burden of taxation.  Vidal opines that Thomas Love Peacock is revived every quarter century.<br /><br />In the 1950's the author worked at MGM as a contract writer.  He could not make an adequate living just writing novels.  Cinema cannot convey complex ideas. Prejudice is the topic of a selection entitled, 'Pink Triangle and Yellow Star.'<br /><br />The piece on Theodore Roosevelt describes him as lively and bumptious.  He had a high-pitched voice and an upper class accent.  He had a trait of ruthless righteousness.  Roosevelt was reckless and domineering in politics.  He helped invent Panama out of a piece of Columbia.  Henry James called the president Theodore Rex.<br /><br />Vidal calls the presidential election a carnival.  He thinks the current configuration of the United States is too homogenized and over-centralized.  He suggests we have a two party system comprised of those who vote versus those who don't.<br /><br />I haven't described all of the lively essays contained in the volume and have neglected to convey sufficiently the intelligent and racy flavor of Gore Vidal's treatment of various subjects pertinent to politics and literature.	2005-03-05
335452:US	52300235	R1W1BPK4Z7ZNMW	B0006E1HDO	642277899	Mary Baker Eddy, an interpretive biography of the founder of Christian Science	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Fusion	The subject matter of early polemical accounts, the persons of significance in her life were interviewed while Mary Baker Eddy still lived.  Thus, the researcher finds a rich store in the early published accounts of her life and the movement she founded.      In 1862 she sought healing from P.C. Quimby in Portland, Maine.  Through contact with Quimby latent capacities she possessed were developed.  Quimby died in 1866.      Several weeks afterwards Mrs. Patterson, (later this second marriage would be terminated by divorce), fell on the ice, undergoing an injury for which she sought alleviation through the reading of Bible passages.  Therefore, cure and revelation followed this pivotal incident.      She moved six times in 1866 and numerous times in 1867 and 1868.  Sarah Bagley, Hiram Crafts, Sally Wentworth, Mrs. Webster of Amesbury, and Richard Kennedy appear in the story of the religion's origins in these years.  By 1870 Mary Baker Glover, she had resumed using the name of her first husband, and Richard Kennedy moved to Lynn, Massachusetts where he was to undertake a practice as a healer.      In 1875 the first edition of SCIENCE AND HEALTH was completed.  In 1877 she married Gilbert Eddy, becoming thus Mary Baker Eddy.  Following Gilbert's death, Calvin Frye became a member of her household, remaining there for the twenty eight years left of her life.     THE CHRISTIAN SCIENCE JOURNAL, beginning in 1883, had as its main purpose the dissemination of an awareness of Christian Science.  Mrs. Eddy was assisted in polishing her writing by James Henry Wiggins, a Unitarian clergyman.  She operated by a single standard, what was good for Christian Science.      Mrs. Eddy used discordant elements in her personality in the service of her movement.  After the founding of the Church, she ceased to have a private life.  The fusion was successful.  The second half of her life was one of great achievement and assistance to others.  This psychoanalytic portrait is excellent.	2005-02-26
335829:US	52300235	RJRAGSIAPBBC0	0688151191	785210771	The Unspeakable: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Donor fatigue	The book would make a good movie.  It is the period of the Vietnam war and some of the resulting instabilities have affected the students at a Catholic seminary near Decorah, Iowa.  An approximately eight year attempt by a priest, Marbury, to feed the hungry, house the homeless has left him on the brink of a nervous breakdown.  Traveling in Pennsylvania he experiences a sort of epiphany, emerging without a voice, but with the power to heal.  A church investigator, Peter Whitmore,  a fellow seminarian twenty years earlier, undertakes an investigation for the Bishop.  Marbury is about to be defrocked, it would seem. <br /> <br />The story concerns moral obtuseness and spiritual blessedness in a mix of past and future events in the parallel routes of the investigator and the investigated.  The condition of muteness  underlies the theme of indeterminancy comprising the plot.	2005-02-26
336081:US	52300235	R364BDXRQUFPT4	0452269865	449659989	Black Water	Books	5	0	5	N	N	Someone's little girl	Joyce Carol Oates has produced a relatively tasteful rendition of a tragedy filling U.S. headlines.  She uses her imagination and writerly skills to reconstruct what  could have happened.  The story is told from the point of view of the young woman, victim, who catches the attention of the charismatic liberal political figure at a holiday party.  Tellingly, the political figure and the accident victim share the same Irish-American identity.  The young woman in Oates's story has an expectation the political figure will return to the scene of the accident and save her.	2005-02-26
341612:US	52300235	R27AV6OM6CPR7E	0060805501	417251098	A Glass of Blessings	Books	5	5	11	N	N	Good works are for the old and middle aged, not for youth	This is truly a great book.  In all of its proportions it is graceful and beguiling.  Themes of love are presented with humor.   <br /> <br />St. Luke's head is called, Pym-like, Father Thames.  At the service, Wilmet Forsyth, wife of Rodney a civil servant, meets her friend Rowena's brother, Piers Longridge.  She and her friend Rowena were Wrens during the war.  They met each other and their husbands while stationed in Italy.   <br /> <br />When Wilmet visits Rowena and her family in the country she goes to the country church.  It seems to her that country churches are surrounded by graves and yew trees.  Wilmet learns that Father Thames carries a sense of disappointment that he never became an Archdeacon.  There is a reception held in honor of the new assistant, Father Ransome.   <br /> <br />Wilmet and her mother-in-law Sybil decide to take evening classes from Piers in Portuguese.  Wilmet explains to Piers that she was named for a character in a Charlotte Yonge novel.  She gives blood and is drafted to help an acquaintance, Mary, find a suitable dress.  It is possible that Wilmet is being pursued by both Piers and Rowena's husband, Harry.  She find the Christmas Eve service beautiful and exhausting. She attends service alone since Sybil and Rodney are agnostics.  Sybil remarks that she doesn't know what is expected when Christians pray for the sick.   <br /> <br />When one of the communicants, (Mary),  experiences her mother's death, she joins an order, but decides later that she is not suited to religious life.  In the end Mary and Father Ransome marry and Sybil marries too, causing Rodney and Wilmet to be turned out of her house.  Rodney and Wilmet find an appropriate flat in the vicinity.  A bare outline of the plot does not do justice to the book.	2005-02-21
345478:US	52300235	RI1A6KZ83SUXG	1401300707	586898955	All Fishermen are Liars: True Tales From the Dry Dock Bar	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Holding a turn	The author began fishing in 1979.  It was lucrative business.  At the end of her swordfishing career, the deckhand pool was shallow.   <br /> <br />The book is structured around the theory that it is time for a good friend and her mentor, Alden, to retire.  Holding a turn is maintaining the status quo, letting the line fun on the drum of the capstun.   <br /> <br />This is a bright and spritely account of fishing and all things nautical.  Even if this is the writer's third nonfiction account of life as a fisherman, she obviously has not exhausted her store of information.	2005-02-18
345716:US	52300235	R1VFUCDIU6UUX3	1559212640	260000807	Some Tame Gazelle	Books	5	3	8	N	N	How English	The characters present at the opening of the book are the young curate, Belinda, and Harriet.  Harriet's manner is blunt and jolly.  Belinda and Harriet Bede are sisters.  Neither has married.   <br /> <br />Belinda loved the archdeacon when she was twenty.  The archdeacon is miffed because Lady Clara Boulding attends the church of a rival, Edward Plowman.  Lady Clara is the daughter of an earl and the widow of a member of parliament.  The archdeacon tends to hate the garden party as an event.   <br /> <br />Edith Livesidge, one of the local residents, is probably called splended because she is tough and wiry and is apt to dig vigorously in her garden.  Agatha Hoccleve, wife of the archdeacon, has very good clothes.  The servants call the archdeacon the Venerable Hoccleve.  Lady Clara Boulding is to open the party officially.  Opening parties is her chief recreation.  Edward Plowman thinks the archdeacon enjoys showing off his knowledge.   <br /> <br />Next the wife of the archdeacon goes off on vacation and the sisters, and probably everyone else in the village, take note of the leave-taking.  Harriet has a tendancy to spoil all of the young curates.  This becomes significant to the plot in two ways.  First there is the marriage of the current office-holder.  Then there is the visit of a former young curate who, amusingly, has managed to become both a bishop and a missionary to Africa.   <br /> <br />During the absence of the archdeacon's wife, his friends, librarians, Mr. Mold and Dr. Parnell, pay a visit.  Harriet and Belinda have a very successful dinner party for them and for others.  Harriet receives a marraige proposal from Mr. Mold, which is declined.  The bishop later proposes to Belinda, and that too is declined.  Belinda explains that she is not in love with the suitor. <br /> <br />The star of the novel is Belinda.  She is kind, dowdy, and self-conscious.	2005-02-18
347542:US	52300235	R2Z5B0MLTUICC3	0525241450	200980518	No Fond Return of Love	Books	5	7	13	N	N	Connections	Everyone knows the story of Barbara Pym, of how she was suddenly faced with a publisher who no longer wanted her work.  She was praised by Philip Larkin as his favorite novelist and she began to write and publish once more.   <br /> <br />Dulcie Mainwaring and Viola Dace are attending a conference about editing and indexing.  Dulcie has just come to realize that her suitor does not want to marry her.  At the conference one of the speakers is Alwyn Forbes, someone known previously to Viola.  Dulcie's niece is going to be moving into her house in the suburbs.  Laurel is ten or more years younger and her point of view is used by the author to convey a jaundiced and knowing view of some of the actions of the characters.   <br /> <br />In time Viola moves into another room in Dulcie's house. She is doing an index for Alwyn Forbes's book gratis.  Dulcie determines where Alwyn's mother-in-law lives and at a nearby jumble sale she sees his estranged wife.  She knows that she is playing a sort of game.  She hears that Alwyn's brother is a clergyman and finds out his name. His church is located near the house of her Uncle Bertram and Aunt Hermione, a brother and sister pair.   <br /> <br />Alwyn and Maurice, the former fiance, attend a dinner planned by Dulcie.  The five present include the younger person, Laurel.  There are endless complications and permutations in this amusing tale.  Viola and Aunt Hermione both end up engaged to marry as it is suggested that it is possible Dulcie and Maurice will reunite.	2005-02-16
347997:US	52300235	R38P8UCTGHDU50	0465044220	148448482	A Gift Imprisoned: The Poetic Life Of Matthew Arnold	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Lines of Influence	This is a book for the generalist about Matthew Arnold's career in poetry.  Things started out promisingly until he undertook to pursue his real vocation as an educational examiner too energetically to permit the gestation of poetic ideas and forms.  Family and property concerns seemingly overtook him too.   <br /> <br />His father, Thomas Arnold, headmaster of Rugby, was a scholar of history, an expert on Thucydides.  He was a contemporary of John Keble, the founder of the Oxford Movement.  Thomas Arnold's vigorous activist brand of Christianity rather ran counter to the Oxford Movement.  Matt had the disadvantage of never escaping the schoolmaster.  The family had a vacation house in the Lake District.  Friendships with Wordsworth and other poets were important to family members.   <br /> <br />Matthew Arnold troubled his parents by seeming to never be serious.  Sent to Winchester he was unpopular and set fire to his own gun.  He returned to Rugby for the fifth and sixth forms.  The boys considered him to be cool, detached.  He gained entry to Baliol and, notwithstanding a second-class degree, won a Fellowship to Oriel.   <br /> <br />At this stage Matthew Arnold became a close friend of Arthur Clough.  Thomas Arnold died around 1842.  Five weeks prior to his death he had been visited by Carlyle.  Carlyle's quality of wild fire excited young readers.  In 1845 Matthew Arnold was poised between dandyism and melancholia.  He was thinking seriously he might be a poet.  The novels of George Sand appealed to him.  Matthew acquired a patron, Lord Lansdowne.  Lord Landsdowne had more than one factotum.  He was Chancellor of the Exchequer.  The Marquis was the last of a generation of remarkable statesment.   <br /> <br />Matt journeyed to Thun, Switzerland to meet a mysterious woman, Marguerite, among other things.  In the following year he courted Frances Wightman in London.  He became an Inspector of Schools.  His wedding ceremony took place at Teddington.  His new lifewas hectic and obscure.  In 1851 England had no system of state education.  Arnold was one of twenty inspectors.  He had a practice not to speak out against contemporaries although he thought Tennyson decorative, not penetrative.  James Froude was a sympathetic reviewer of Arnold's poetry.  He gained a five year Oxford Poetry Professorship.  He wrote Rugby Chapel as a tribute to the memory of his father.  In the 1860's Arnold built his reputation as a metropolitan savant.	2005-02-16
348198:US	52300235	R3G9V8W37NS0FH	0449911217	553771181	In the Beauty of the Lilies: A Novel	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Loss of faith	This books moves from a great grandfather's loss of faith in Paterson, New Jersey, to a Waco-like incident.  Unfortunately the Presbyterian minister, Clarence Wilmot, is much more lifelike than the subsequent characters living in Delaware and New York City, among other places, upon whom the author expends a considerable number of words and much labor.      Clarence Wilmot explained that he would be with the members of his church only for the length of his call.  He had come to believe there was no God.  At Fourth Presbyterian glass windows presented a sextet of Protestant martyrs, Wycliff,  Huss, Calvin, Knox, Cromwell, and Bunyan.  A dying parishner told Clarence there had not been enough damnation from the pulpit.  Clarence had a wife and three children.  He thought that if he resigned the ministry there would be jobs.  He thought it would be hypocrisy to remain in the pulpit.  When Clarence tried to give his resignation, the church leaders offered an August vacation at Ocean Grove.  After he was demitted he fell on the social scale.  Previously he had failed to grasp such a consequence of his actions.  Three years later he was selling encyclopedias door to door.  His son Jared returned from World War One with a limp arm.  Younger son Teddy survived the influenza epidemic.      Following Clarence's death, Teddy and his mother moved to Delaware.  Teddy obtained work in a bottle cap factory and later became a postman.  He had his wife Emily had two children, Esther and Danny.  In the nineteen fifties Esther moved to New York City to jump start her career as an actress and model.  Eventually she did become successful in the movies, and it was her son Clark who joined a peculiar sect.      This intergenerational novel certainly has its moments of rollicking good spirits.  The portrayal of members of the family with a myriad of interests and competencies is energetic.	2005-02-16
348279:US	52300235	R17L5PXIJIME2J	0452267307	985007230	Excellent Women	Books	5	0	14	N	N	Anything may be the business of an unattached woman	Mildred Lathbury was tied up with Father Malory and church affairs when she encountered Helena Napier in her apartment house on the wrong side of Victoria Station.  (Such nice touches are a constant feature of Barbara Pym's writing.)  Mrs. Napier was an anthropologist and Rockingham Napier was in the military service.  Mrs. Napier confessed that Rocky knew nothing about anthropology and could care less.  Mildred answered the door when Helena was out.      Julian Malory and his sister Winifred were Mildred's friends.  Winifred wanted Mildred to move into some rooms at the vicarage and Mildred resisted the idea since she wanted to maintain her privacy.  Later Mildred learned that a Mrs. Gray, a clergyman's widow, was to move into the rooms.      Ultimately Mildred had a role in reviving the marriage of the Napiers and busied herself with numerous other matters in an understanding and humorous way.  This is a splendid example of the achievement of Barbara Pym.	2005-02-16
350638:US	52300235	RU9ZKDB4I3Y0Z	0898758572	890283673	Macaulay's Essays on Milton and Addison	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Literary prodigy	Macaulay's father was a philanthropist.  He read from age three.  He took pleasure in conversation.  His first literary success was an essay on Milton, 1825.  He was appointed a member of the Supreme Council of India.   <br /> <br />Joseph Addison resided at Magdalen College, Oxford for ten years.  He was elected a fellow.  His serious attention was concentrated on Latin Poetry.  His classical knowledge was confined within narrow limits.  Addison imitated Virgil with skill.  He was probably introduced by Dryden to Congreve.  <br /> <br />In 1700 Addison was in France and subsequently in Genoa.  Addison was not mean, he was not cowardly.  He wrote with a delicate and humane sense of humor.  He was in Parliament for nine years.  His influence was the result of his literary talents.  Addison did not speak in the chamber.   <br /> <br />Steele had known Addison from childhood.  The best writing in THE TATLER was the handiwork of Addison.  In 1711 THE SPECTATOR was conceived by Addison.  Steele sketched the two friends.  About three-sevenths of the work was done by Addison.  At the close of 1712 THE SPECTATOR ceased to appear.  Swift showed respect and tenderness for Addison.   <br /> <br />Milton is best known by his poetry.  He admired Euripides.  The only poem of modern times PARADISE LOST can be compared to is THE DIVINE COMEDY.  THE DIVINE COMEDY is a personal narrative.  Milton wrote in an age of philosophers and theologians.  Milton's fiends are wonderful creations.  Dante had intensity of feeling, Milton loftiness of spirit.  The strength of Milton's mind overcame every calamity.   <br /> <br />Macaulay has an admirably compressed style.  His focus is on character and personality in regard to his subjects.	2005-02-14
360098:US	52300235	RD2CNTZIM1NN9	0684151855	978876742	McGarr and the Sienese Conspiracy	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The oil industry is booming	McGarr is in Italy as the books opens, investigating two murders and trying to prevent a third.  All of the men have connections to the security services and some drilling ventures off of Scotland in the North Sea.  As it turns out Peter McGarr and his wife Noreen have had many previous experiences in Italy and are knowledgeable travelers.  The murder that McGarr of Dublin Castle and his opposite number at Scotland Yard seek to prevent is that of the new English ambassador to Italy.  The climax of the action occurs at the Contrada in Sienna, a horse race.   <br /> <br />The story has a great deal to show of the stuffy security bureaucracy and English and Irish misunderstandings.  The atmosphere at an elderly Irish woman's house who provides key information concerning some helicopter over flights is careful, charitable, and very interesting.  The late Bartholomew Gill was a master of the mystery genre.  His thorough knowledge of Ireland where he was schooled is one of the reasons his works are so delightful.  This title is a very good representative of his skill as an author.	2005-02-05
364762:US	52300235	R3W3G284G9VCGD	1559213019	985007230	The Sweet Dove Died	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Entanglements	The definition of entangle is to write or knit together confusedly.  This rather describes the progress of the characters in Barbara Pym's THE SWEET DOVE DIED.      Humphrey Boyce has an antiques shop.  James, his orphaned newphew, commences to work at the shop after finishing at Oxford.  At an auction they meet Leonora Eyre.  Later Humphrey plans to have lunch with Leonora who is in her fifties.  This is a novel of manners and amusement.  Leonora, whose dinner with a friend and two very young men is described as being disappointing, regrets that James is not present, too.  She finagles the interactions with Humphrey to go back to the shop to see James and accepts a ride with James because conveniently he is going in the direction of her house.  James is too young to assume that a woman living alone is to be pitied.      For Christmas Leonora receives a paperweight from Humphrey and a card from James.  She puts James's card near her bedside table.  After Christmas Leonora's new social life with Humphrey and James picks up again.  When the shop is the subject of a burglary Leonora sends flowers.  Through various machinations she actually sends James's young woman friend to Majorca, but she cannot best a male friend Ned who, for a time, captures James's attention.      I am certain Barbara Pym has been compared to Jane Austen many times.  Clearly the thrust of their works differ.  Barbara Pym is not concerned with setting up a young person for life in some sort of matrimonial arrangement.  Nevertheless, the means used, the comedy, the irony, the light touch and excellent writing are similar.  \\"A sweet dove died\\" comes from a Keats poem.	2005-02-01
368752:US	52300235	R1RMDT40L7U2QC	0140274774	887465605	Without Consent	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Naivete betrayed	This is an accomplished crime novel by a British writer that has a satisfying level of complexity in the plot.  Helen West, prosecutor, was to marry Bailey.  Ryan was Bailey's bag carrier.  Elsewhere Aemon Connor and Brigid, his wife, bickered.  There was an allegation of rape against Detective Sergeant Ryan.  Helen West went to see Anna Stirland, a midwife, who had been raped and was not dealing with things well.   <br /> <br />Ryan was suspended from duty and denied accesss to his office.  A co-worker, Sally Smythe, and Ryan kept a book on cases where they believed the complaint but proof was lacking and critical information was missing.  They had begun to theorize that there was a pattern.  The author builds for the reader some of such cases as the mystery progresses.   <br /> <br />Fortunately Bailey is not content to let Ryan twist under the implication he has committed an offense and Helen has a very deep liking for the truth.  They continue to seek answers as a chilling end is reached.	2005-01-29
374973:US	52300235	R1ZDDOZRMFYWI8	0449912116	820977474	Memories of the Ford Administration: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Buchanan and U	The Updike persona is Alfred Clayton, a New Englander, schooled at Middlebury and Dartmouth.  He is an historian.  As the book opens he and his children are watching Nixon's resignation speech, marking the beginning of the Ford administration.  He is babysitting for the children while his wife goes out with another man since the couple is separated.      Alf refers to his wife Norma as the Queen of Disorder.  He calls his mistress Genevieve the Perfect Wife.  She is married to an English professor, a deconstructionist.  The college is named hilariously by Updike Wayward College.      When Alf left his family he took away his little library on James Buchanan, the subject of a book he had been trying to write for a decade.  Buchanan's upbringing began in a log cabin in the middle of Pennsylvania.  Buchanan's life and administration form a complement to the Ford administration.  They are a sort of filigree.      Buchanan and his fiancee separated over a misunderstanding.  Shortly afterwards the young woman, Ann Coleman, died.  As a distraction from his grief, Buchanan ran for public office.    Genevieve told Alf that he had been lower than the cats in the household hierarchy.  Alf describes himself as doing postgraduate work in adultery and child neglect.  When Alf spends the night in his old house because his mother is visiting, he nearly has an asthma attack.      The president of Wayward has a high tech west coast style of governance.  She decorates herself like a year around Christmas tree with bangles and hoops.      In the run-up to the Civil War Buchanan insisted upon the defense of federal forts.  Genevieve's husband is offered a position at Yale and she is inclined to accompany him there.  Alf returns to his family as the Ford administration ends and he and his children watch the inaugural ceremonies of Jimmy Carter.  Amusingly there is a bibliography on Buchanan works.	2005-01-24
375868:US	52300235	R250EMR4D9O7DZ	B0006AVO7W	852192372	Why I am a Christian Scientist	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Scotsman	The author, a Scotsman, was trained to be a minister in the Church of Scotland following the similar careers of his father and grandfather.  While undertaking graduate work, he encountered Christian Science and withdrew from school, leaving the U.S.A. for Canada since his student visa would expire.  He found his foundation in religious studies was advantageous to receiving a clear understanding of Christian Science.<br /><br />His book sketches the achievements of the Church in the areas of its publications, public lectures, and healing mission.  He also gives pertinent information regarding Mary Baker Eddy's life.  He relates the specifics of a spectacular episode in his own life where through the help of a Christian Science practitioner he overcame the dire consequences of an auto crash.	2005-01-24
376507:US	52300235	R3N9X60H0BP95Q	0140177396	371714764	Of Mice and Men	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Brother's Keeper	George's mentally challenged companion liked to pet soft things.  Lennie's failure to understand social mores drove the couple away from good jobs.  Their dream was to get a stake to have a place of their own and for Lennie to have rabbits to tend. <br /> <br />They meet Curley, Curley's wife, the old man,and the boss at the new place.  George explains to one of the hands, Slim, that he used to be mean to Lennie but he can't do that anymore. Lennie is a good worker.  The trouble starts when Curley's wife screams and Lennie becomes afraid.  With her death dreams of betterment evaporate.   <br /> <br />There are touches of magical realism.  Steinback was a worthy successor of Jack London in terms of philosophical bent.	2005-01-23
376685:US	52300235	R10JR1T28MWX4D	0375760520	649819248	Paris 1919: Six Months That Changed the World	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Peace Work	A quarter of the French men between the ages of 18 and 30 died in World War I.  Clemenceau insisted the Peace Conference be held in France.  Wilson and Lloyd George acceded to the request with reluctance.   <br /> <br />Politics and France were Clemenceau's great passion.  He had contempt for convention and profound cynicism.  Lloyd George had known Clemnceau since 1908.  From January to June, except when Wilson went back to the U.S, Clemenceau, Lloyd George, and Wilson met daily.   <br /> <br />The Allies were not really ready for the end of the fighting.  The big four included the above-noted men along with Orlando of Italy.  The Supreme  Council had ten members, but procedure could not be agreed upon.  Complicating things was the fact that eventually the representatives of 29 nations arrived in Paris.  The Supreme Council underwent intense scrutiny from scores of journalists.   <br /> <br />In effect in 1919 Paris was the seat of a world government.  At the time no one knew the limits of such an endeavor.  Russia's absence was noteworthy.  The new regime operated under a virtual blockade.   <br /> <br />The Treaty of Versailles had 440 clauses.  Historical research has shown that Germany was not crushed by an unfair peace treaty.  Hitler used the treaty for his propaganda.   <br /> <br />In 1919 nationalism was still gaining momentum.  The League of Nations lasted for twenty years and was a template available to planners at the end of World War II when the United Nations was being proposed.  The book is a marvellous compilation of facts still pertinent to today's disputes.	2005-01-23
379344:US	52300235	R1ZNBIN01CF4EM	0394308433	885378749	Thomas Mann: profile and perspectives,: With two unpublished letters and a chronological list of important events (Studies in language and literature, SLL 27)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Enigmas of the artist and his art	Thomas Mann tried to solve the enigmas of the artist and his art.  He ascribed special significance to his mother's creole ancestry.  He thought his father's personality determined the pattern of his life.  German bourgeois culture was paramount.  Mann acknowledged a significant amount of identification with the artist figure of DEATH IN VENICE.  Contrarily, though, Thomas Mann had the strength to maintain his lofty place.  Mann persevered in his work.  DR. FAUSTUS was a sort of confession.  It was the achievement of new emotional freedom.   <br /> <br />To Thomas Mann the mark of genius was to discover, adopt, and adapt.  He did not consider original invention important.  His guiding stars were Nietzsche, Wagner, and Schopenauer.  Goethe's harmonious personality influenced Mann.  The voice of Schiller had spoken to him in his youth.  His intellectual awakening took place in the 1880's.  Mann planned a novel on Frederick the Great and never wrote it.  While composing DR. FAUSTUS Mann felt close to Dostoevsky.  He had admired Hesse's DEMIAN and STEPPENWOLF.   <br /> <br />As a young writer, Mann showed noteworthy maturity and soberness.  He had a highly developed sense of order and responsibility.  Mann used solid learning of every kind in his masterpieces.  An emphasis on details was his standard practice.  To Mann the world of letters was a unity.  Mann combined profound emotion with intellectual detachment.  He opposed the established German view that psychology and myth were at opposite poles.   <br /> <br />The author, Mann, constantly balanced reality and symbol.  Mann was a genius of the golden mean.  He was a supporter of humanism and democracy.  A useful chronology and notes appear at the end of this excellent work on Thomas Mann.	2005-01-21
385689:US	52300235	R3LGVP6VUVCMRJ	0375422188	629465826	The Full Cupboard of Life (No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency, Book 5)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Women organizing men	The No. 1 Detective Agency has a picture of the late President, Sir Seretse Khama, on its walls.  He was both an hereditary ruler and an elected official.  Mma Ramotswe had no outstanding matters to investigate as the book begins.  She wants her house and business and that of her fiance to remain typical of old Botswana, exceedingly friendly.  Her fiance, Mr. Maketoni, says they will get married next year or maybe the year after that.      If the matron of the orphan farm wrote a book, she would call it How to Run an Orphan Farm.  Mr. Maketoni heads the matron's list of supporters.  He is credited with chasing a snake away into the bush.  The matron wants Mr. Maketoni to parachute from an airplane as a fundraising stunt.  In the old Botswana people were still willing to do things without prospect of reward.  Mr. Maketoni offers to fix the butcher's Rover car.  He discovers a rival garage has been guilty of fraud when purporting to repair the Rover. The parachute jump is announced in the newspaper.      The characters of the stories are like an ensemble.  It is determined that Charles, one of the apprentices, will do the jump in place of Mr. Maketoni.  Mma Ramatoswe's assistant tells her that Mr. Maketoni is miserable.  It seems that he is perplexed about what to do about the butcher's Rover car.  Mr. Maketoni does not like conflict.  The matron knows the man, the mechanic responsible for the problems with the butcher's car.  She confronts him.  He is a living illustration of the saying that all bullies are cowards at heart.  The matron solves Mr. Maketoni's dilemma.      The matron feels that Mr. Maketoni is a man who needs to be organized by a woman. It is decided that his wedding will be held at the Orphan Farm.  Mma Ramotswe is willing to push things along because she has gotten to the end of waiting.	2005-01-16
386170:US	52300235	R38WLP1QR6UVPJ	0375422986	960033606	The Sunday Philosophy Club : An Isabel Dalhousie Mystery	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A bizz is a feeling of antipathy	While attending a concert of an Iceland symphonic group, Isabel Dalhousie sees a young man fall to his death.  It seems to be an accident.  Trying to soothe herself, she visits her niece the following day and they arrange to have dinner.  In the midst of preparing dinner for her niece, Cat, and Cat's friend Toby, Isabel is pestered by a journalist investigating the young man's death.  She finds out that Cat has encountered the young man.   <br /> <br />Isabel's father, a lawyer, had studied at Harvard and had married someone from Boston. Pursuant to family pressure, he had returned to Edinburgh and had come to consider that his career was in the nature of serving a sentence.  Her father's comment had been the basis for Isabel's decision to study philosophy at Cambridge.  Isabel Dalhouse worked parttime.  She was the editor of a journal called THE REVIEW OF APPLIED ETHICS.  Isabel had never married.   For her niece Cat she wanted her to find happiness.  When Isabel went to Cornell on a fellowship her friend John Liamor took off for California with another woman.  He claimed that America freed him.   <br /> <br />At a gallery affair Isabel meets the supervisor of the young who died,  The name of the supervisor is Paul Hogg.  The young man, Mark Fraser, believed that something was going on at his firm, something in the nature of insider trading.  Meeting Paul Hogg's fiancee, Isabel comes to feel that she is sociopathic and the person who engaged in insider trading.  It is hard to do anything in Edinburgh without it getting known.  The fiancee learns that Isabel has been making inquiries.   <br /> <br />Eventually Isabel finds the solution to this excellent mystery.  The story is clearly narrated and satisfying.	2005-01-16
386229:US	52300235	R1SD03N1WJL32G	0226452379	766996493	Sumerians: Their History, Culture and Character	Books	5	14	19	N	N	Cradle of civilization	Sumer is the lower half of Mesopotamia.  The Sumerians, third millennium B.C., had a flair for  technological invention and  possessed creative intellect. They used irrigation. Their system of writing was used all over the Mideast for two thousand years.  Sumerians cooperated with each other of necessity.  In their agriculture they had surplus, cash crops.  Their culture and civilization spread through trade and military action.  The Sumerians were the first to compile laws and codes.   <br /> <br />A hundred years ago the existence of a Sumerian culture was <br />unsuspected.  Although Sumer existed five thousand years ago, modern man can find his prototype in ancient Sumer.  Scholars looking for Assyrians ran into Sumerians.  Decipherment of Sumerian writing came through Semitic Akkadian known as Assyrian or Babylonian.  For Akkadian the key was found in Old Persian.  Inscriptions at Persepolis led to the decipherment of cuneiform.  Georg Friedrich Grotefend deciphered the Persian cuneiform inscriptions, (the writings at Persepolis were trilingual).  H.C. Rawlinson by 1837 had translated some two hundred lines of a trilingual inscription at Behistun.  Edward Hincks and Jules Oppert confirmed and extended the findings and laid the groundwork for the decipherment of Akkadian and Sumerian.   <br /> <br />Structural analysis revealed to scholars that cuneiform was probably invented by non-Semitic language speakers.  In 1869 Oppert declared the people and their language should be called Sumerian, basing his conclusion of the title, King of Sumer and Akkad, found on some of the inscriptions.  The Sumerian language had affinities to Turkish, Finnish, and Hungarian.   <br /> <br />The first significant excavation of a Sumerian site began in 1877.  Sumerians existed from around 4500 B.C. to 1750 B.C.  Writing developed from its early pictographic form to a syllabic form.  There are lamentations, hymns, and wisdom literature.   <br /> <br />The name of pre-Sumerian settlersis not known.  The first dynasty came after the flood.  Gilgamesh was a Sumerian ruler whose deeds won him reknown.  The first three Sumerian dynasties were Kish, Erech, and Ur.  Sargon, although a Semite, began his career as a cup bearer to a Sumerian king.  Sargon's conquest ranged to Ethiopia, India, and Egypt.  He stationed military garrisons at key outposts.   <br /> <br />The ruler after Sargon was his son, Rimush. He was followed by his brother, Manishtushu who had many military successes.  The invasion of Gutians from the East brought confusion and anarchy to Sumer.  With Hammaurabi, the Semite ruler from Babylonia, the history of Sumer comes to an end.   <br /> <br />Sumerian civilization was urban.  In the third millennium there were a dozen or so city-states.  The population consisted of nobles, commoners, clients, and slaves.  The basic unit was the family.  Written law played a large role in the Sumerian city.   <br /> <br />Many documents have been found describing court proceedings.  Writings on astronomy, mathematical texts, religious temples, and many objects have been unearthed.  Medical doctors, teachers of many kinds of knowledge, musicians, sculptors, and metal workers were among the city dwellers.  The Sumerians developed religious ideas.  Creation was attributed to a divine pantheon.  Sumerian literary works were not all religious in character.  Hundreds of practice tablets have been unearthed.  The Sumerian school was known as the edubba, 'tablet house'.  There is a wealth of data from the Sumerian schools.  The Semitic conquerors, the Akkadians, treasured the Sumerian literary works and the works of Sumerian scholars and had them translated.   <br /> <br />Short translations of texts, tables of language signs and notations, photographs, and other matters of interest appear in the book.  The legacy of Sumer appears in the fields of religion and mathematics among others.	2005-01-15
386766:US	52300235	R1RCBD6GW6U0BG	0440364612	887215129	No Name in the Street	Books	5	2	8	N	N	Trials, assassinations, and funerals	His father arrived on the scene when James was two.  His mother stood between the children and the father.  When King died, Baldwin was working on a screen version of the Malcolm X story.  James Baldwin appeared with Martin Luther King at Carnegie Hall in a newly purchased black suit, and wore the black suit to the funeral two weeks later.  Then he gave the barely worn suit to a friend.   <br /> <br />Baldwin observes that the French did not dare to think that the Algerian situation could be existentialist.  When he went to France he went there to escape racism.  He could live with Africans in Paris in comparative peace.  Baldwin went to Paris with no money.  He frequented Arab cafes.  Baldwin could not undertand why Camus produced William Faulkner's REQUIEM FOR A NUN.  James Baldwin claims that Faulkner is attempting to exorcise a history which is also a curse in his work.  He argues that the cultural pretensions of history are nothing more than a mask for power.  <br /> <br />He knew by 1956 when he saw a picture of a school child being jeered by a crowd while seeking to integrate her school that he would be leaving Europe to return to America to take up the cause.  Returning in 19576 he saw New York in a different way and went to the South.  James Baldwin relates that he has always been struck in America by an emotional poverty.  He says he really didn't know much about terror until he went to the South.  In large ways and small Baldwin found the people in the Civil Rights Movement, facing Southern terror, heroic. Before his trip to the South the author had never seen the horror or the poverty.   <br /> <br />Malcolm X, unlike Frantz Fanon, operated in the Afro-American idiom.  In 1968 James Baldwin was sharing a flat with is sister Paula and his brother David in London.  He learned there of Malcolm's death.  A former resident of Harlem, he distrusted the legend of Malcolm X until he had the opportunity to meet him.   <br /> <br />Uncomfortably, Baldwin came to realize later that in those years, in the fifties and sixties, he was a sort of great black hope of the great white father.  Malcolm X considered himself to be the spiritual property of those who produced him.  He was dangerous because he apprehended the horror of the black condition.  Writing an epilogue in 1971 Baldwin noted that the book had been delayed by trials, assassinations, and funerals.	2005-01-15
387354:US	52300235	R752TI8YWRMCN	0070024413	676635290	Portrait in Brownstone	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Doll Collector	The brisk pace of the book is ideal for the subject matter.  Geraldine Brevoort's suicide had a nasty twist.  Ida Trask Hartley, her cousin, is married to Derrick and has a son, Hugo, and a daughter, Dorcas.  Geraldine falls eight stories from a hotel window.  She collected dolls.  Ida learns of an affair between Geraldine and her husband.    Before Ida's marriage to Derrick, he had been interested in Geraldine.  He continued to pursue Geraldine even after he learned that she was just aboutto be  engaged to marry Talbot Keating.  Derrick was beholden to the family of Ida and Geraldine because he had been given a job by their uncle in his investment firm.  Derrick had a premonition that his cause was hopeless.  He felt that the family operated on the moral principles of children's books.      Ida's dying father tells her that she can be a leader and that he is afraid she will just slide into something. Derrick has secured the love and affection and respect of the whole family even though he lost his head over Geraldine.  Ida is urged to consider his marriage proposal.  Ida does love Derrick and she suits him.  Later, Derrick is successful in business and feels free to drop the name of Ida's uncle from the title of the firm.  This fills Ida with chagrin.      Eventually the Hartleys divide into rival pairs of mother and son, father and daughter.  Dorcas resembles Derrick and Hugo has a razor-sharp wit.  Dorcas marries a publisher first, and then a member of her father's firm.  Her first husband tells her that her father is a tyrant.      Geraldine and her second husband, Freddy Brevoort, live in France for a decade.  France is a haven for irregulars.  After Freddy dies she stays with Ida and Derrick and later moves to an apartment subsidized by Derrick.  In the first year of managing her money he is able to double the funds.  Derrick is not romantic, he is calculating.  In childhood Dorcas adores her father, but later becomes disillusioned and pities her mother.  Theinterlocking family and business interests are described interestingly.  Edith Wharton-like old New York is a cold and hard place.	2005-01-14
391266:US	52300235	R8MYERV9A4B4W	0679735755	577353274	U and I: A True Story	Books	5	9	11	N	N	The consciousness involved in the reading of fiction	Nicholson Baker is reputed to be a miniaturist.  In Baker's opinion Updike's obituary in THE NEW YORKER for Nabokov was a model of its kind.   <br /> <br />In the opening pages a crisis arises when Baker reads an AP story in his local paper that Donald Barthelme has died.  He strives to compose an obituary of Barthleme for THE NEW YORKER.  Baker's obituary comes out eventually in the 'Notes and Comments' section of the magazine.  Baker considers working himself up to a fanatical receptivity of Barthelme's work, but then thinks to himself that Barthelme would never know.  The intellectual surface given to the dead writer's work changes in texture and chemistry.  In the dead, autobiographical fidelity in the work becomes less important.  Baker comes to feel that Updike is more important to him than Barthelme, particularly because Updike is still alive.  Baker resolves to make a book about his obsession with Updike.   <br /> <br />At first Baker seeks to write a commissioned article on Updike.  He contacts THE ATLANTIC.  Baker, 25 years younger than Updike, notes that older writers are wary of younger writers.  THE ATLANTIC responds.  An editor says the results could be good or creepy.   <br /> <br />Nicholson Baker started reading Updike at Christmastime, 1976, when he was on leave from college.  Like the rest of us, Baker's actual coverage of Updike's works is spotty.  Both Baker and Updike have psoriasis.  Baker offers up the facetious suggestion that book reviews, not books, are the engines of intellectual change.  In wonderful fashion, Baker teases out the meaning of, and circumstances   surrounding, an Updike observation made pursuant to reviewing Edmund Wilson's journals that a set piece on a sunset would clog, would break the momentum in the writing of a novel.  Writing involves an unbelievable amount of memory.  A prolific writer works to avoid reapeating himself.   <br /> <br />In the end THE ATLANTIC runs an excerpt of the author's essay on Updike.  Belittling the Franklin Library, the author states that Updike teaches even in his transgressions.  The book is a marvellous piece of writing and encompasses many writerly concerns.	2005-01-12
400572:US	52300235	R2IZYTQ3A6EVR7	0226500667	200661390	A River Runs Through It and Other Stories, Twenty-fifth Anniversary Edition	Books	5	1	8	N	N	Trout fishing in Montana	The river in question is the Blackfoot River.  Fishing at the canyon near the Clearwater Bridge required roll casting, a difficult maneuver.  Of the brothers, Paul and Norman Maclean, Paul was the better fisherman.  Paul practiced what he called shadow casting to entice the fish.   <br /> <br />One of the problems was that Norman never wanted to hear too much about his brother Paul.  When Paul was thirty two a police desk sergeant told Norman that Paul was drinking too much and getting in trouble too much.   <br /> <br />Fishing in the Elkhorn was undertaken by Paul, Norman, and Norman's future brother-in-law, Neal, who was really not up to such exertion.  A fisherman tries to make a world perfect and apart and walks out to a stream to separate himself from others.  When Neal went with Paul and Norman he got sunburned when he fells asleep on the sandbar and the brothers fished the stream in different areas.   <br /> <br />Paul said he would never leave Montana and go to a larger newspaper.  Norman's father, a Presbyterian minister and avid fisherman and hunter was the only man he knew who used beautiful naturally in his speech.   <br /> <br />Other stories in the collection concern Norman's stints as a forest service ranger and logger.	2005-01-05
404329:US	52300235	R30JPGOK1LG60S	0300079389	815542545	Picturing Old New England: Image and Memory	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Shaped regionalism	This is a remarkable book.  It could not exist but for cultural studies and postmodernism.  The time frame is 1865 to 1945.  By 1865 New England was the most highly urbanized area in the U.S.  By 1875 more than half of the Massachusetts residents lived in cities.<br /><br />Maine's greatest period of industrialization occurred between 1880 and 1910.  In the last quarter of the century New England seemed to be thriving, but it was no longer in the economic vanguard.  Also, growth for the cities meant crisis for the countryside.  Rural isolated areas became vacation sites and artistic destinations. In the 1920's Massachusetts lost jobs in textiles and shoes.<br /><br />From the 1870's and on vast numbers of scenic-rural paintings were produced.  In the early 1870's APPLETON'S JOURNAL  ran a series entitled picturesque America.  Chapters included the coast of Maine, Providence, the White Mountains.  A wealth of images were created by artists and writers.  New England became a national memory bank.<br /><br />The pilgrims and the Revolutionary War were historicized.  After the Civil War antiquarianism was evident at all levels of society.  The chapter on yankee modernism encompassing John Marin, Stuart Davis, Marsden Hartley, Edward Hopper, Charles Demuth is delightful.  Artist biographies appear at the back of the book. The pictures are splendid.	2005-01-02
406111:US	52300235	R2H7ML5Z2UR1EZ	0393313905	664152977	The House by the Sea: A Journal	Books	5	7	9	N	N	The sixties are a glorious time	In the first year on the property, 1973, May Sarton lived alone except for her dog, a Shetland shepherd.  The journal begins in 1974.      A longtime companion, Judith, is in a nursing home and visits holidays.  The women enjoy a special program on television about Winston Churchill's life at Thanksgiving.  In December Sarton reads poems at Westbrook College in Portland, Maine.  Later in the journal it is reported she appears at Clark University more than once and Colby College where she receives an honorary degree.      In terms of literary work in this period, May Sarton is preparing a portrait of Elizabeth Bowen.  The death of Julian Huxley leads to memories of him directly after the war when he and his wife were so courteous, so helpful to a very young May Sarton.      She brings herself to understand that Louise Bogan was never able to praise Sarton's work in poetry or in novels.  In the end Louise Bogan received honors, but she was subject to failing creative powers at the same time.  Thus, her circumstances were frightening.      Reading Melanie Klein's theories still May Sarton's sense of insecurity and neediness after she gave generously substantial gifts of money to others. The relentless truth of her former companion's, Judith's, condition hurts Sarton.  She feels abandoned.      Notwithstanding the loss of friends through illness and death and the failure of an urge to write poetry, Sarton believes that the sixties are a good, comfortable age to be.  The pictures in the book are excellent and very welcome.	2004-12-31
407481:US	52300235	R2MC2QX5EJKLB5	0226307743	70948431	Greek Tragedies, Vol. I (Agamemnon, Prometheus Bound, Oedipus the King, Antigone, Hippolytus)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Uprightness of heart	ANTIGONE portrays a sister's honorable act of burying her brother.  HIPPOLYTUS tells of a young man resisting temptation.  Phaedra, faced with love, first elects silence, and then seeks to conquer it with discretion and good sense.  Phaedra's confession to the nurse is related to the husband's son.  Phaedra dies by her own hand and Theseus, the husband, misguidedly orders the banishment of his son.      This is a fabulous collection of some of the best plays ever written.  The translations are excellent.  Aeschylus's AGAMEMNON and PROMETHEUS BOUND  are included.  Brightness, austerity, directness are qualities in the works serving to give joy to the readers.  Cassandra foretells Agememnon's doom.      Prometheus, in PROMETHEUS BOUND believes that one day Zeus will come to him in amity.  Prometheus gave mortals hope, and his conduct is perceived as a criminal enterprise by Zeus.  Prometheus believes that all that the mortals have came from him.  Hermes scolds Prometheus as a thief of fire.  Prometheus avers that there is no disgrace in suffering.      The volume also contains OEDIPUS THE KING, Sophocles.  Creon and Oedipus have been commanded to drive out the pollution from the land.  Creon is brother to Queen Jocasta.  Oedipus believes his father Polybus of Corinth has died a natural death and that he has escaped the prophecy.  He then learns that Polybus is not his father.  Jocasta begs him to stop his inquiries.  As he seeks to unravel the mystery of his birth and his fate, tragedy ensues.	2004-12-30
409426:US	52300235	R3KL5G5D55DQKT	0451514947	639714316	The Cossacks and The Raid	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Going native	This volume includes Tolstoy's first novel and an early story.  The scene of both works is the Caucasus.  Clearly Leo Tolstoy was a first rate writer from the beginning.  His descriptions are magnificent.   <br /> <br />In THE COSSACKS the chief character, Olenin, is set forth as never having managed to complete a university course.  He travels from central Russia to the Caucasus.  The country is wild, beautiful, and warlike.  Cossack families feel a kinship with the Chechen.  Standards of Cossack dress are set by the Circassians.  Cossack women are separated from social life and perform work.  Fuel for house warming is straw and dung.  The village smells of cattle, vegetable, and smoke.  Cossack males spend their time patrolling the countryside.   <br /> <br />May was a time of raiding under cover of the new foliage.  A young Cossack man, Luke, kills a raider while on patrol.  Next, two companies of Caucasian infantry are quartered with the Cossack villagers.  No one bothers to determine if the Cossacks are Old Believers.  Olenin is placed in one of the better houses.  He feels comfortable in the village after undergoing three months of camp life.   <br /> <br />Olenin shares his wine with Uncle Eroshka, an old hunter and story-teller.  Olenin is reminded of James Fenimore Cooper's THE PATHFINDER.  The day after his meeting and hunting trip with Eroshka, Dimitri Olenin hunts pheasants on his own.  It is summertime and he is tormented by mosquitoes.  Nevertheless, he feels supremely happy and does not know why.   <br /> <br />He is prepared to just give Luke a horse.  Understandably Luke is suspicious and distrusts the gesture. Olenin becomes immersed in his life in the Cossack village.  He falls in love with a Cossack girl, Marianka,  who is betrothed to Luke. After Luke is hurt, Marianka spurns Olenin who decides to move to the headquarters at the fortress.   <br /> <br />This work possesses the objectivity of anthropology and the historian's craft.  Tolstoy's story is fresh and appealing.  It has contemporary interest in view of Russia's difficulties in the region.	2004-12-29
414419:US	52300235	R26H0DQLZ5YVJA	0679720200	882163178	The Stranger	Books	5	2	6	N	N	Perceptions of an indifferent son	He learns his mother has died.  He asks for two days off, not realizing that one of the days is Saturday.  Madame Mearsault had lived in a home for the elderly.  Mearsault's boss sounds him out on the idea of moving to Paris where he is thinking of establishing a branch office.      At the beach with friends the sun is burning in his face.  A man pulls out a knife and Mearsault shoots him four times.  His lawyer does not understand him.  He questions him about his feelings at the time of his mother's death.      His friend Marie will not be allowed to come to the prison because she is not his wife.  At night in prison Mearsault feels bugs crawling on his face.  In the beginning of the imprisonment his thoughts are still those of a free man.  The main problem is killing time.      Mearsault is interested in seeing his trial.  In French fashion three judges preside.  A witness reports he was surprised by Mearsault's calm the day of his mother's funeral.  A friend tells the court that Mearsault's presence at the beach was mere chance.  Mearsault says he did not intend to kill the victim.  He blurts out that it happened because of the sun.      Mearsault comes to accept his fate with general indifference.  Camus' smooth and shining style provides just the right balance to tell the story of serial failures of perception by the hero and others as he meets his fate of imprisonment.	2004-12-23
434867:US	52300235	R16JHZQLV4Z4C8	0465092888	12177090	Harriet Jacobs: A Life	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Eye witness	The story of Harriet Jacobs is compelling.  She was a fugitive in the North and in the South.  Her autobiography, INCIDENTS IN THE LIFE OF A SLAVE GIRL, was published prior to Emancipation.  <br /> <br />Her home town was Edenton, North Carolina.  The text of INCIDENTS was authenticated through documents by the author and other researchers.  In her lifetime Jacobs achieved some celebrity as the writer of INCIDENTS.   <br /> <br />Until she was six Harriet did not know she was a slave.  She was born in Chowan County, North Carolina, in 1813.  Prosperity in Edenton ended after the Revolution.  In 1795 a hurricane closed Roanoke Inlet.  A canal through the Great Dismal Swamp impoverished Edenton.   <br /> <br />Harriet's father was a carpenter.  She learned to read and to write and to sew.  A twelve Hatty was moved to another establishment.  She had been willed to a three year old mistress.  Next she learned that her father had died.  He was buried In Providence, (rediscovered, cleared, and reconsecrated in February 2001).  Hatty and her brother John were preoccupied with freedom.  They knew of four people who took passage on a ship to Liberia from Elizabeth City.  Hatty's grandmother became emancipated.  The war of Hatty's life began as she opposed a Dr. Norcom.  She formed an alliance with a person of greater reputation in the community with whom she had two children.  It was a teenager's solution to vulnerability.   <br /> <br />At age 21 in 1835 she ran from Edenton but ended up spending seven years hiding out in the vicinity in very restricted quarters. In her cramped hiding place Harriet Jacobs experienced sensory deprivation.  In 1842 she was taken by boat to Philadelphia.  Workers in the anti-slavery movement were impressed with Hatty's beauty and with her efforts to overcome her isolation.   <br /> <br />Jacobs went to New York, and to Boston, and to England.  She stayed in England for ten months.  Later her freedom was purchased.  Her venture into becoming apublished writer began with a letter to a newspaper.  Her autobiography was anonymous.  L. Maria Child edited the manuscript and supplied an introduction.   <br /> <br />During the Civil War Harriet Jacobs worked in Washington, D.C. as a relief worker among the so-called contrabands, former slaves.  After the war she and her daughter traveled to Savannah and later to England to raise money for some of the destitute former slaves.  They settled in Cambridge, Massachusetts and then went on to Washington, D.C., probably to enable the daughter to obtain a teaching position.	2004-12-04
435171:US	52300235	R3P76WRWKBSNSA	068486214X	889208740	The Worldly Philosophers: The Lives, Times And Ideas Of The Great Economic Thinkers, Seventh Edition	Books	5	1	6	N	N	Snapshot views of the major economists	In the title to the review I mean to suggest that the book, in the jargon of the day, takes the dry subject of economics and presents information on the topic in an extremely reader-friendly fashion.  In the introduction to the book the author notes that it was the result of a suggestion from a publisher friend of his and followed him, through various editions, his entire scholarly career.  It was surprising to him that the book would be popular with readers.   <br /> <br />In the market system there is the lure of gain, not dominance by authority or tradition.  Custom and command are simple.  Economists are needed to explain the market system.  Land, labor, and capital are requisites of a market system.  These are the elements of production.  Enclosure laws in England were a sort of expropriation.   <br /> <br />Adam Smith lectured at Glasgow on Moral Philosophy.  In 1776 THE WEALTH OF NATIONS was published.  Smith had an encyclopedic mind.  The argument is full of detail and observation.  Self-interest and competition form the laws of the market.  Society had a problem of the unprofitable poor.  Smith noted the gain derived from the specialization of labor.  The markets were driven by the laws of accumulation and population.  Smith believed the division of labor increased universal opulence.  THE WEALTH OF NATIONS is a program for action, not a description of Utopia.  Smith's doctrine leads to laissez faire.  The great enemy to Smith's system is monopoly.  Adam Smith shared the 18th century belief in the triumph of rationality.  Smith anticipated Veblen.  He was much more than just an economist.   <br /> <br />Thomas Malthus wrote on the principles of population in 1798.  The essay stated population could outstrip subsistence.  David Ricardo wrote of the competition of the classes.  Industrialists fought for cheap food to reduce the cost of labor.  Malthus was the first professional economist.  He urged the abolition of poor relief and moral restraint.  For his efforts he was abused.  His position was not hard-hearted, it was logical.  Thinking on the population problem has always swung between poles of opinion.  Malthus worried about the general glut of food--commodities without buyers.  Malthus stumbled upon the problem of boom and depression.   <br /> <br />England in the 1820's was gloomy.  Robert Owen was responsible for New Lanark.  At age twenty he became the boy wonder of the textile world.  Owen had suggested the solution to poverty was to make the poort productive.  Saint-Simon loved democracy.  Charles Fourier lacked a program.  Fourier was an adventurer in imagination.  At one time there were over forty phalansteries in the U.S.  The Utopian Socialists were economic reformers.   <br /> <br />The greatest economist of the age was John Stuart Mill.  Mill pointed out the true province of economic law was production, not distribution.  Marx and Engles began to collaborate in 1844.  They wrote a philosophy of history.  The new theory was dialectical and materialist. They saw the base of industrial production was bound to clash with the superstructure of private property.   <br /> <br />A quality of Thorstein Veblen was his alienation from society.  He was a stranger and nonconformist.  Following a PhD program at Yale, Veblen underwent seven years of isolation.  Then he went to Cornell for a year and moved on to Chicago.  Veblen's THEORY OF THE LEISURE CLASS was a sensation.   <br /> <br />John Maynard Keynes had a Victorian boyhood.  He flourished in his schooling at Eton and Cambridge.  The cure for Depression, he asserted, was for the government to open the valve of public spending.  Joseph Schumpeter, an Austrian, presented a static view of capitalism to determine the source of profits.  He wrote of the impact of innovations.  Contrary to Marx, Schumpeter stressed the bourgeois side of capitalism.	2004-12-04
443023:US	52300235	R1GS4UHKFP9G3V	0816140847	140549095	The Bridge of Years (G.K. Hall Large Print Book Series)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Wistaria	The Duchesnes lived on a country road near Brussels.  They were a sort of magic family who nourished the souls of the members of the immediate family, servants, employees, and friends.  At the opening of the book, Melanie, Paul's wife, is rejoicing over the beautiful spring day on a date in 1919.  It is after the war in which so much of real living had been postponed.   <br /> <br />Paul was a philsopher and perhaps he was a philosopher who should have been a poet.  Melanie had inherited the Maison Bernard, a furniture business, from her family.  The war intervened and her plan of having a William Morris-style craft collective had been put on hold.  Paul and Melanie become interested in the rehabilitation of soldiers, in part to avoid facing their own problems in their enterprises.  Paul and Melanie agreed that suffering did not make for generosity.  When Paul's mentor and friend Schmidt visits the servants refuse to serve him because he is German. His visit enables Paul to overcome a five year stall in his work. Afterwards Paul writes out his ideas feverishly in some five or six weeks of single-minded concentration on philosophy.   <br /> <br />Time shifts to 1930.  The couple now has three daughters.  Paul's book made little impression and so after several years he joined the furniture-making business.  The oldest daughter is interested in stage design and enters a competition at her school.  She is disheartened to learn later that her second place prize may have resulted from family influence.   <br /> <br />Paul listens to the radio and comes to see Hitler as a sign of a sort of exasperated nationalism.  Closer to home he becomes aware of Fleming nationalism.  By 1936 the daughters are nearly grown and the servants are planning to leave or they have died.  There is drama surrounding their friend Schmidt who seeks to leave Germany notwithstanding the Nazi affiliations, really because of the Nazi affiliations and influence, of his son and the desire of his wife toremain with their only child.  He manages to leave for Switzerland.  Later he determines that the right thing to do is to fight in Spain.  In 1940 Paul and Melanie learn that Schimdt was killed in the bombardment of Madrid.  The armies of the combatants of World War Two and then the refugees traverse the Belgian soil. <br /> <br />The books is lively, interesting.  I enjoyed Sarton's treatment of European politics, events ranging from 1919 to the 1940's.  Many of the issues she deals with concern status.	2004-11-27
443398:US	52300235	R3PW6UW5NDX8Y9	0618246967	786060827	The Best American Nonrequired Reading 2003 (The Best American Series)	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Mostly the stories are about survival	Sherman Alexie writes of Sacagawea, the Shoshone who accompanied Lewis and Clark.  She died of some mysterious illness when she was only in her twenties.  Lynda Barry's entry is in the nature of a graphic short story.  She covers the interesting subject of the peculiar scent of each person's house.   <br /> <br />Ryan Boudinot writes of having a costume as Hitler for a school harvest carnival.  First he created trouble on the school bus.  His fourth grade teacher was amused and disturbed.  Another student dressed as Anne Frank.  The teacher elected to have a discussion about the Second World War.  The girl playing Anne Frank saw her popularity soar.  Davy, the boy character of the story, decided not to be Hitler that evening.  He and his father found a Frankenstein mask.   <br /> <br />Mark Bowden writes of the tyrant, Saddam Hussein.  In his sixties, he cannot appear to age since his power is based on fear.  He swims, he dyes his hair.  His desk is immaculate.  He reads voraciously which is a good thing since he is fed lies.  His passion is Arabic history and military history.  People have reported it is plesant to sit and talk to Saddam.  As people age, the area of making choices is reduced.  A tyrant has the narrowest field of all.  Power shuts the tyrant off from the world.  Saddam's clan was known to be violent and clever.  Saddam committed his crimes publicly, cloaking them in patriotism.  Things started with ego and ambition and became a political movement.  The conflict in Iraq was a conflict in mentalities, between the city and the village.  The backbone of politics is in the city.  In the city politics is a matter of law, not blood.  Saddam was a man of the village, of tribal loyalty.  His favorite movies were THE GODFATHER and THE OLD MAN AND THE SEA.  The invasion of Kuwait in 1990 was a military miscalculation.  Mark Bowden explains that cruelty is the tyrant's art.   <br /> <br />Judy Budnitz in \\"Visiting Hours,\\" describes visiting her brother Ezra inthe hospital after he suffered a concussion causing short term memory loss.  She tells her parents she is danger of being suspended from school because she has taken time-off to visit her brother.  The family dynamics appear to be conflict-ridden and mysterious.  The brother suffers a new injury to remain in the hospital.   <br /> <br />David Drury states in a piece that a suburb is a delicate thing.  A family whose house burns down inherited the house from an aunt.  The blended family did not really fit into the neighborhood.  Family members did not tend the lawn, and Christmas decorations were taken from the yards of the other houses.  The children did not have the approved kinds of bicycles and they were shunned by the other children.   <br /> <br />Tribute bands are a maligned sector of the rock and roll scene claims Chuck Klosterman in \\"The Pretenders.\\"  Being derivative is not simple.  Fans already exist for the tribute band.  You don't have to beg your friends to come to watch you play.   <br /> <br />This selection of material by Dave Eggers and his advisory group of mostly high school students is quite good.  The idea of having annual volumes for different kinds of writing is great.	2004-11-27
447994:US	52300235	R1S6PZMSFY2X0A	039575514X	584095688	My Antonia	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A sense of community	The writing is timeless.  One reads Willa Cather with confidence that she has shaped the novel for her audience.  The introduction is the beginning of a fictitious memoir Cather has produced for this story.  Having an introduction lends verisimilitude.  It is a device for Jim Burden, now a railroad lawyer,  to tell the story.  He had first heard of Antonia during his initial journey to Nebraska.      Jim Burden and his grandparents lived in a wooden house.  Everyone else lived in sod houses or dugouts--not very roomy.  The Bohemian family, the Shimerdas, lived in a cave in the beginning.  Jim and Antonia Shimerda liked to go to the prairie dog town to watch them and to watch the owls.  After a time Mr. Shimerda, a sensitive, cultured person, discovered a pair of Russians in the farming community.  He made friends with them since they were able to speak with each other.      Once Jim and Antonia encountered a large snake and Antonia said that Jim was brave because he killed the snake with a spade.  Then one of the Russians died and the other one moved away.  The lives of the children centered on their need for warmth and food.  Jim felt his life was as adventurous as that of the family in THE SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON, a book he read to his grandmother while she worked.      In December Jim and the hired man and his grandmother visited the Shimerdas.  As suspected, they were in terrible want.  Mr. Shimerda died in January.  Men sent for the coroner in Black Hawk, and eventually he was buried at the corner of his own property.  Years later when the red grass had almost disappeared from the prairie, Mr. Shimerda's grave was still visible on the land.      By spring the Shimerdas were in their new log house.  Hard work changed Antonia.  She felt that she could not go to school, that she needed to work.  When July came around, Kansas and Nebraska were filled with breathless, brilliant heat and Antonia and her brother worked with Jim's grandparents on the wheat harvest and onother tasks.      Jim had been living with his grandparents for three years when they decided to move to Black Hawk.  The Burdens's neighbor in Black Hawk hired Antonia as their servant.  The neighbor, Mrs. Haring, played the piano and did a great deal to entertain the youth of the town.  A phrase used in the novel has winter coming down savagely on the little town on the prairie.  Tony told stories of Bohemia and the countryside to the Haring children.      In the spring a dancing tent arrived in the town.  Young men belonged to something called the Progressive Euchre Club.  Country girls worked in town to help their immigrant farm families.  The foreign girls were deemed a menace to the social order.  Antonia suffered the indignity of a failed relationship to a scoundrel and was eventually redeemed through marriage to a good person.  Twenty years later Jim is able to visit the vibrant family.	2004-11-22
449194:US	52300235	RLLORFD2DEMUX	0060088877	937627939	The Bridge of San Luis Rey (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	2	8	N	N	A literary practitioner of gracious artistry	One tends to forget how graceful a writer Thornton Wilder was.      The bridge between Lima and Cuzco broke.  It was 1714.  It had been made by the Incas with thin slats.  A little red-haried Franciscan, Brother Juniper, from Italy did something about the rent in the bridge of San Luis Rey.  Brother Juniper wanted to determine why the five people who died had been fated to lose their lives on that bridge.  He wanted to experiment, to explain the ways of God to men.  He spent six years investigating the lives of the victims.      The Marquesa de Montemayor was separated from her daughter, the Condesa, who lived in Spain.  She learned her daughter was expecting a child.  In time she made a typical Peruvian pilgrimage to the shrine of Santa Maria de Cluxambuqua.  Even before the Incan civilization the ground was holy.      Esteban and Manuel were foundlings.  Twins, they invented a secret language for themselves.  The language was a symbol of their identity with one another.  Their unity was broken by a love of women.      Uncle Pio was active, but nothing made him rich.  He came from Europe.  He traveled with a cafe singer, the Perichole.  Uncle Pio never ceased watching Camila, the Perichole.  She became impatient with acting and wanted to become a lady.      A new bridge of stone was built.  Brother Juniper's book was held to be heretical.  There is a land of the living and a land of the dead, and the bridge is love.	2004-11-21
449518:US	52300235	RZ56XUZ088NUG	0060185163	725298314	God's Secretaries: The Making of the King James Bible	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Jointedness	James Stuart was ugly, red-headed, restless.  He was an unlikely hero.  He believed in the possibilities of an encompassing peace.   <br /> <br />The plague afflicted London at the time of James's accession to the throne.  The best way to avoid catching the plague was to leave the city.  The royal supremacy over Church and State was the foundation of James' position.  In Church matters James was faced with contending parties of Presbyterians, Puritans, and others.   <br /> <br />Rather than use the Bishops' Bible or the Geneva Bible, another version was constructed.  The King James Bible became part of the new royal ideology.  The translation work was a tightly organized and managed programme.  The organization created for the task resembled a commercial company.   <br /> <br />Richard Bancroft issued the royal orders to the translators.  The author speaks of jointedness, a quality existing in the culture and particularly characteristic of the manner in which the work of translation was undertaken.  The translation committee was separated into six subcommittees.  Rules provided for continuity and noncontentiousness.   The organization, the setting of tasks of translation, contained a sort of system of checks and balances.   <br /> <br />The Jacobean atmosphere was one of openness, tolerance, discussion.  Lancelot Andrewes was a leader of the enterprise.  He was clever, learned, and had a network of connections.  He was Master of Pembroke College, Cambridge.  The others in the major leadership roles were Hadrian a Saravia, a Protestant Fleming, and John Overall, Dean of St. Paul's.  Saravia was a linguist and Overall a classicist.  Both wee members of the anti-Puritan party in the Church.   <br /> <br />In the first years of James's rule, eighty or so Puritans were expelled from the Church.  Puritans working on the new translation were by definition moderates.  The richness of the King James Bible was caused by the coming together of diverse religious mentalities.<br /> <br />In the Jacobean era there was a love of variegation, of the multiplicity of things.  The author uses a glorious description of Hatfield House, the estate of Robert Cecil, to make his point.  The size of the windows at Hatfield House was immense, letting in the light.  In the new translation the objective was to bring to readers the light of understanding.   <br /> <br />The final printed volume of the Bible appeared in 1611.  Word-counting is not a route to understand a translation.  The King James Bible, as the Tyndale, reflects its historical circumstances.  The Jacobean translation process was social.  The result had a heard rhythm.  T.S. Eliot cited auditory imagination.   <br /> <br />The printshop of Robert Baker produced some anarchy with the copy so that no version of the 1611 Bible is the same.  The translation was not successful when issued.  Some complained that the English used was sixty or so years out of date, but the fact of the matter was that the language used was a kind of English that had never been spoken.  Initially the Geneva Bible was preferred.   <br /> <br />The King James Bible became popular after 1660 and the Restoration.  Subsequent translations have lacked the rich, deep, true, and alive qualities of the seventeenth century phrases.  Appendices include a piece on sixteenth century Bible translations, a comprehensive list with identifying information of the individual translators, bibliography, chronology, and index.  The circumstances surrounding the translation venture and the personalities involved are described vividly and winningly.	2004-11-21
450398:US	52300235	R2FH356ZULH3QJ	0312420080	603120812	Under the Sign of Saturn: Essays	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Self-analysis	This volume has been reread by me more than once.  Sontag explains that her piece on Paul Goodman is being written in a small room in Paris.  The author states she was not a friend of Goodman, although several of their worlds coincided with each other.  She admired Goodman's work immensely.  She describes his voice as cranky, egotistical, American.  She finds him comparable, a unique voice, to D.H. Lawrence.  Goodman wrote poetry, plays, novels, and social criticism.  After the publication of GROWING UP ABSURD in 1960 Goodman was no longer an obscure writer.  Sontag complains that he was often taken for granted, even by his admirers.  She deems his amateurism identical with his genius.   <br /> <br />Susan Sontag asserts that Antonin Artaud failed in his work and his life.  His work consisted of a vast collection of fragments.  Artaud described intellectual distress.  He considered consciousness as process.  A leading theme was the link between suffering and writing.  All of Artaud's writing was in the first person.  He welcomed Surrealism.  Artaud's idea of revolution diverged from the Surrealists.  He started in poetry.  By 1926 in his search for the total art form, Artaud was doing theatrical work.  Sontag holds that Artaud offers the greatest quantity of suffering in literature.   <br /> <br />The author produces a devastating analysis of the pretensions of Leni Riefenstahl.  Sontag's discussion of Alpine movie epics is engaging.  Riefenstahl is identified with the Nazi era.  Sontag contends that her pbotography book, THE LAST OF THE NUBA, completed thirty years after that era continued to exemplify Nazi ideology.   <br /> <br />Walter Benjamin is the subject of the title essay.  Benjamin found Saturnine elements in Baudelaire, Proust, Karl Kraus, and even Goethe.  To him, subject to melancholy, solitutde appeared to be the fit state of man.  Benjamin collected emblem books.  His relations with others were complex, veiled.  Benjamin felt an affinity to the baroque and the Surreal.  He had a microscopic gaze.  Benjamin was a wanderer and a collector.  By miniaturizing things they became portable.  Benjamin wrote that the melancholic permits himself the pleasure of allegory.  His characteristic form was the essay.   <br /> <br />The piece on Elias Canetti stresses the writer's acquisition of languages.  German became the language of his mind.  As a child he had spoken Ladino.  He had a taste for fanciful blends of knowledge.  Canetti was rather close to Freud in technique and interests, but not Freudian.  Sontag describes CROWDS AND POWER as an eccentric book.   <br /> <br />The essays in this volume are both serious and lively.	2004-11-20
450688:US	52300235	R3D7AQQRQZWIXA	0446310786	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Tribal Groups	The book begins with an observation from Charles Lamb that lawyers were children too.  Since its publication date in 1960, this novel has lost none of its popularity.  Atticus Finch, a lawyer, is the narrator's father.  Maycomb is a tired old town.  The family lives on the main residential street.      When Scout is six and her brother Jem is ten, a playmate, Dill, age seven, appears.  He is visiting his aunt for the summer.  Calpurnia, a servant, structures the children's days.  The children are fascinated by the Radley place.  I will not disclose the plot importance of the Radley connection in order to preserve the suspense for the reader.  The description of an Alabama childhood during the Great Depression is priceless.  It is no wonder this one book author could not repeat her achievement when, on the first try, she produced a masterpiece.      At school Jem and Scout are subject to a progressive, John Dewey-style education.  (Amusingly, Jem confuses the new plan with the Dewey decimal system.)  Atticus has to teach Scout the meaning of compromise as she attempts to understand and participate in the confusing world of the first grade. Scout thinks that laughter is coming from the Radley house.  The children believe that Arthur \\"Boo\\" Radley, a former resident of the insane asylum,  lives in the house.  They ask a neighbor, Miss Maudie, if Boo is dead, and she says no.  Atticus tells the children to stop tormenting the man.      The children start to find chewing gum in a knot in a tree on the Radley property.  Later they find a watch and a spelling bee medal in the knot hole, and still later the hole is filled with cement by somebody. Scout hears from a relative that her best friend Dill just gets passed around and does not have a home.  (Truman Capote claimed that he was the model for Dill, and indeed, circumstances of his childhood match the attributes of the character.) In one scene there is a deserted waiting street and a mad dog.  Calpurnia has an alert telephoned to everyone through  Maycomb's telephone operator.  Since the Radleys do not have a telephone, she yells in the direction of the Radley house for the Radleys to stay indoors, too.  In the evolution of this episode, Scout learns that Atticus is a crack shot.      There is a caste system in Maycomb.  Scout's father is handling an unpopular case.  Someone is accused of rape and Scout does not know of what the factors in the crime are.   Atticus sits in front of the jail guarding the life of his client.  A mob went to his yard earlier.  Atticus has a crowd of sullen people surrounding him at the jail.  Scout's conversation with one of the members of the crowd causes the crowd to disperse.  Atticus later cautions the children that a mob in every little southern town is always made up of people, regular people. The trial attracts  numerous spectators.  When the jury convicts an innocent man, Scout and Jem and Dill are shocked.  The man dies in a jail break.      A wonderful feature of the book is that the story is told from a child's perspective.  In addition, the rich oral culture of the region is evident in the book's pages.	2004-11-19
457456:US	52300235	RZF0T0QND33GM	039302220X	138736873	The Magnificent Spinster: A Novel	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Little Women	The narrator, Cam Arnold, recalls Jane Reid, a magnificent person. She, now age 70, used to write impassioned poems for Jane Reid.  Jane Reid was a seventh grade teacher at Warren School.  She was one of five daughters living on an island off the coast of Maine during the summer months.  A family of five girls on an island has an enclosed reality.  One is reminded of the Alcott family living in Concord, Massachusetts, even living in a communal society at Fruitlands.   <br /> <br />Jane met her most significant mentor at Vassar, Frances Thompson.  The narrator of the book is in the process of writing the novel, fictionalizing that is to say, the story of her seventh grade teacher.  As an experiment, per the Dalton plan, the students were given a month's worth of assignments.  Cam rushed through the work and was scolded by Jane for sloppiness.  It was a lesson she took to heart.   <br /> <br />In the late twenties Jane Reid made a decision to turn down a proposal of marriage and remain at the the Warren School.  Miss Reid became a friend to the narrator's mother who taught art at the Warren School.  At the time of Jane's mother's death the narrator, Cam, and her mother were invited to the family's island in Maine.  The island came to signify shelter and peace.  Cam noticed that Jane had a kind of generosity.   <br /> <br />Cam felt that the Sacco-Vanzetti case had been a horror.  She wanted to go to Vassar to study socialism.  Cam was thwarted in her desire to obtain press credentials to cover the war in Spain.  In the end Jane sent Cam to Spain.  Afterwards Cam stayed at Jane's house at Sudbury, built when Jane was thirty-eight, to overcome the experience of witnessing war's brutality.  Some of Cam's hopes, expectations died in that war.  It seemed like a playing field in which Russia and Germany ran experiments.   <br /> <br />In 1941 Jane Reid was forty-five.  Jane's house at Sudbury became a haven for a brother-in-law who suffered a sever heart attack, for her sister who was a widow, and for another sister who had cancer.  A friend, teaching with Jane in 1941, thought her rather beaten down and tired.   <br /> <br />Cam visits a contemporary of Jane Reid, now ninety, to help her round out her picture.  One of the problems facing Cam is that she is an historian, not a novelist.  Jane, at age 45, was ready to resign from the Warren School.  She was becoming a less effective teacher, and children are cruel.  The head of the school, Frances Thompson, was no longer seeking advice from Jane and as a consequence she had lost her nerve.  A new head put her in a position doing remedial work with the students and she excelled at the new task.   <br /> <br />Jay, a cousin, and Jane worked together on the papers of their ancestor and famous author, Benjamin Trueblood.  (Trueblood is a delightful name.)  Jane was told by a director of a community center in Cambridge that she was unusual because she never used money as power.  Jane dreamed of going to Germany after World War II to serve on the Unitarian Committee.  She did manage to learn German in order to help with the reconstruction of the country.  She orchestrated stays for family and friends on the island during the summers and died in her early eighties still embracing a zest for life.   <br /> <br />The novel is just about perfect.	2004-11-13
460163:US	52300235	R2NZZIWVHZ1G9U	074512562X	999810234	An Imperfect Spy	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Crossing the Line	Kate Fansler had passed the statistical point of midlife.  Nostalgia may be a disabling pressure that signifies retreat.  Kate addresses the parents at her old school, the Theban.  At the event she is challenged by a secretary from Schuyler Law School that she has never really done anything for the dispossessed, marginal individual.   <br /> <br />Reed is to start a clinic at Schuyler Law School.  The woman from the secretarial room at Schyler appears in the apartment building of Kate and Reed.  She claims her presence proves her point that middle-aged women are invisible.  The woman claims that reading John LeCarre has convinced her to become a spy.   <br /> <br />The woman has disappeared, shedding her identity.  Prior to that she was a professor.  The woman calls herself Harriet.  Harriet has pursued the couple for reason of Kate's crime-solving reputation.  She wants them to investigate the death of a woman professor at Schuyler Law School.   <br /> <br />Kate meets the faculty member who is to co-teach her literature and law seminar.  Kate is seeking a pleasant change from MIDDLEMARCH.  Trying to understand the men she meets at Schuyler, Harriet tells Kate that she has  never met a group of bonded males swollen with mediocrity and power.  Talking to her male colleague she comes to understand that he has crossed the line, he knows why a women's movement exists.  Contemplating the death of the female faculty member causes Kate to go into her investigative mode.  Kate goes to see the brother of the dead woman, Nellie Rosenbach.   <br /> <br />In the end the mystery surrounding the Harriet character is disclosed.  This book includes the battered woman syndrome and a host of feminist issues.  This may be Carolyn Heilbrun's best Amanda Cross offering.	2004-11-11
472341:US	52300235	R20IVZ83RFRL7	034535947X	363364977	A Trap for Fools (Kate Fansler Novels)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A Forced Retirement	A man's body is found on the Sunday after Thanksgiving on the campus.  Apparently there was an unbroken fall of seven stories from the man's Levy Hall office.  It is Professor Canfield Adams.  The president, Matthew Noble, mentally notes forty or so people with homicidal motives.  Most people have alibis.  Professor Adams recently served on a committee with Kate Fansler.  The solution to the murder escapes everyone as the fall semester gives way to the spring.  Kate is told that she is the university's only hope of solving the crime.      Canfield Adams never seemed to finish a sentence.  He had been a dandy.  Being a detective at her own university makes Kate nervous.  She is afraid that she will fail.  Reed and Kate go to Adams's office.  It is a fact that Professor Adams could have stayed in his position for a long time.  Butler, the security man, tells Kate that Adams was a sorry man.      Kate calls on Cecilia Adams, the widow.  She claims that Adams had been canny.  He spoke of possessing superior understanding.  Cecilia is a relatively youthful second wife.  She points out that since Canfield had been as protective of himself as a turtle there is little reason to believe his death was accidental.  Kate attends an informal gathering of university women.  She asks for help to solve the case and promises anonymity, discretion where required.      She is contacted by Penelope Constable, PC, who had had a personal encounter with the victim in the past.  PC has a listing in WHO'S WHO.  The encounter took place fifteen years earlier in Cambridge.  It is possible Adams was lonely PC relates.  There was a dalliance and then PC and Adams drifted apart.  PC said that basically he was an unloving and untrusting man.  PC, a novelist, tells Kate that she is involved in the long march through institutions.      Slowly Kate gets a feel for how the security of the large university is managed.  Kate meets one of the sons of the victim, Lawrence Adams.  He reports that his father had become a neoconservative.  He was traumatized by Anti-Vietnam events.      One of the characters notes that endless committees have tried to find out who governs academic institutions.  A friend tells Kate that the university asked her to take on the investigation because they knew it couldn't be solved.  Sadly, though, someone else is pushed out a window and found near Riverside Drive.      Canny had flirted with younger women and was rude to older ones, Kate learns.  He lied and blamed others for his mistakes.  Kate is told by a former secretary in Adams's department that the ignorance of the faculty is exceeded only by their impatience.  Kate considers the notion that in the beginning teaching dominates the academic's existence, but that after time passes politics, research and other matters become more predominant.    I won't detail the solution to the mysteries in order to preserve the reader's fun.  This is an excellent crime novel.	2004-10-30
473697:US	52300235	R1G1QFA0W9DZ2Z	0393008320	571248325	The Small Room (Norton Library (Paperback))	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Care of Souls	May Sarton is not Charlotte Bronte and this is not Lucy Snow in VILLETTE, but Lucy Winter. Appropriately she is a college professor in her first year of teaching.  One of the characters explains that every college is a secret society.  This one is Appleton, a fictitious women's college located in New England.  Clearly one of the leaders of the college is Harriet Summerson, another character name evoking a season.   <br /> <br />Lucy thinks that when the girls, the students, arrive, they resemble a flock of starlings in their noisiness.  Lucy discovers that knowing something and teaching something are different.  She is amazed that teaching requires so much vitality.   <br /> <br />Olive Hunt, it seems, is an off-campus power.  She often threatens to change her will to delete a substantial bequest to the college.  The price of excellence may be eccentricity, maladjustment.  She has a relationship with one of the chief participants in a matter of academic misconduct.   <br /> <br />First, the staff is faced with the problem of what to do with a brilliant math student who is insisting upon devoting all of her energy to a single math problem.  The vote of the faculty is close, but the student is allowed to go her lonely way.  Lucy is told by one of the professors that teaching takes the marrow out of the bones.  The relationship between teacher and student is complex and ill-defined.   <br /> <br />Next Lucy runs into a situation where a prize pupil has committed plagiarism.  It is an awful thing for Lucy to contend with in her first yer of teaching.  The source used is Simone Weil.  Lucy first tells Hallie Summerson of the matter and then speaks to the student, Jane.  Jane claims that as a gifted  student at the college she is always expected to jump higher, to achieve more and more, and that such expectations are burdensome to her.  The professor who has promoted the work of the student most strongly does not want her to have to suffer the consequences for her act, fearing that sanctioning the conduct could derail a promising academic career.  She claims that the young are frightfully self-righteous and does not want to have the matter put before the student council.   <br /> <br />The attempt to hush things up fails in the sense that every student on campus seems to know about the matter.  A student tells Lucy that the faculty is distrusted.  There is an implication of favoritism.  Lucy invites Jane to spend the Thanksgiving holiday with her and obtains her reluctant consent to consult a psychiatrist.  Jane has come to be treated as a pariah by the other students.  Lucy is warned by the psychiatrist that things should not be allowed to just slide because Jane is on the verge of a serious breakdown.   <br /> <br />Fortunately the president of the college is responsive to Jane's plight and permits her to go into the college infirmary.  At the same time, though, the college is buzzing with talk about an editorial appearing in the college newspaper, COLLEGE NOTES.  The atmosphere seems to have reached a stage where it is as if students and teachers alike are rats in a cage.  At this point Lucy comes to understand that college teaching may be messy business.  <br /> <br />In the end the professor seeking to protect Jane has to yield, and does so in a dignified manner.  There is an old ham actor in every professor she contends afterward.  Excellence is equated with mutiliation because what is given to the students depletes the donors so drastically.  Everyone survives, strengthened by the various encounters detailed by May Sarton.  The story is told tautly and interestingly.	2004-10-29
480625:US	52300235	R2PVQNHV1UD6HH	0394725808	145117921	Parallel Lives: Five Victorian Marriages	Books	5	10	15	N	N	Victoriana	The author avers that every marriage is a narrative construct.  Phyllis Rose describes the courtship and decision to marry of Jane Welsh and Thomas Carlyle.      The extraordinary and almost exclusive connection of John Ruskin with his parents is depicted.  The thought-out plan of Frances and Charles Kingsley in the first four weeks of marriage is presented by way of contrast to the circumstances of John Ruskin and Effie Gray.  Effie and John were troubled both by their own relationship and pulls and ties from their respective families.  Ruskin was never to express remorse for his behavior.  He did not understnd that he was partly at fault in the break up of his marriage.      The views of Effie and John could not be reconciled.  The story of the Ruskins anticipates MIDDLEMARCH.  Ruskin admired John Everett Millais.  Effie was a model for one of the paintings of Millais.  The Ruskins and Millais and others spent four months together on a sort of extended reading party in Scotland.  After six years the Ruskins reached a stalemate.  Effie sought practical advice from Lady Eastlake whose husband headed the Royal Academy.  She advised her to confide in her parents.  There was a dramatic flight and the serving of papers.  Ruskin's domestic calamities were less important to him  than Turner's death.  Eventually Effie and Millais had eight children.      Harriet and John Taylor were Unitarians.  They had an enlightened circle.  Harriet was introduced to John Stuart Mill by her minister to divert her attention from marital incompatibilities.  The Taylors and Mill formed a triangle.  Two years after her husband's death Harriet agreed to become Mrs. Mill.  Both Harriet and John Stuart Mill had been made lonely by exceptional intelligence.  Mill's mind was a marvel, but he initiated nothing.  Harriet served an executive function in the production of his books and articles.  Mill's autobiography was written as a defense of his wife.      Catherine Hogarth attended a birthday party Charles Dickens gave himself.  She was twenty.  Dickens was astonishing for his outpouring of invention.  Ambitious men marry young.  Dickens had devoted male companions and in the early years of his marriage enjoyed domestic happiness.  After 1850 Dickens changed.  He craved emotional intensity with another person.  At the time of starting LITTLE DORRIT restlessness tormented him.  He turned to the theater, to acting.  Her met Ellen Ternan and began a sentimental attachment.  In later life Kate Dickens felt she and the other children were wicked not to take their mother's part.      The domestic life of George Henry Lewes and George Eliot centered on work.  George Eliot seized her identity as a writer from her union with Lewes.  The couple was spared the pursuit of respectibility.      Notes, bibliography, and a timeline appear at the back of the book.  This book has been well-known and lavishly praised since it was issued.  Nothing about it changes the high estimation bestowed previously.  The book lives up to all of the anticipated pleasure envisioned in the reading of it.	2004-10-23
488343:US	52300235	R287GPABD8F1H5	0345430573	151155247	A Certain Justice (Adam Dalgliesh Mysteries)	Books	4	2	6	N	N	A  very fine lawyer	The murder victim was a barrister, Venetia Aldridge.  It was necessary to change the head of chambers.  Venetia was more senior than Laud.  If a vote were to be taken following Langton's retirement it may have turned out that Venetia had secured the victory, thereby disturbing Laud. Venetia's father had been head of a school.  As a school girl Venetia had learned about the law from one of the teachers at her father's school.  She learned that advocacy could create an atmosphere without scenery, without a curtain, of someone's life.   <br /> <br />Langton, age seventy-three, experienced an episode in a trial when words deserted him.  Venetia's last case had been the defense of a would-be country gentleman.  There had been an altercation concerning a protest against fox hunting.  Venetia had a not quite bright and unsuitable daughter, Octavia.  Octavia had a friendship with a former criminal client of Venetia, someone who had been charged with murdering his aunt. Venetia felt the man for whom she had obtained an acquittal felt contempt for her, not gratitude.  He would gladly humiliate her.   <br /> <br />There is something very bracing about a P.D. James book.  She writes that actions have consequences.  She does a wonderful job of describing lawyers and explaining the appeal of law, the dream of an orderly existence. A scene with Drysdale Laud and Hubert Langton and Venetia unfolds.  A matter of contention is the selection of two new members of chambers.  Venetia supports male candidates for both of the slots which is contrary to the position of Laud and Langton.   <br /> <br />There is a heaviness in P.D. James books.  She writes of tragedy.  Pain in people's lives often cannot be alleviated because they are faced with circumstances not subject to change.  Venetia asks Laud to contact the nearly criminal man with whom Octavia is involved to ask him how much money he would require to leave her alone.  Laud declines to undertake such a mission.  Piers Tarrant, the possessor of an Oxford degree in theology, and Kate Miskin assist Adam Dalgliesh in the investigation of the murder of Venetia Aldridge.  One of the barristers in Venetia's chambers accuses Adam Dalgliesh of a sort of inverted conceit because he is a police officer.  It is learned that that Venetia had been difficult in chambers.  All of the witnesses agreed that she had been a very fine lawyer.   <br /> <br />The minor characters are well-described.  For example there is Valerie, a secretary, with a mentally ill mother.  Mental illness is treated in the round from the perspective of the persons who have to live with it. P.D. Jamers is really at the top of her form in this book.  It is certainly understandable that a murderer cannot be prosecuted for a lack of proof.  The story is both complex and deeply satisfying.	2004-10-16
499904:US	52300235	R1QV0R1NVSXPSB	0345435648	672395112	Indigo Slam (The Elvis Cole)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Counterfeiter	Three children and their father are moving.  To each of them two boxes for belongings have been assigned.  The destination is Salt Lake City.  At the new location different names are to be taken.  The move is to take place under the auspices of the U.S. Marshals.   <br /> <br />Three years later the children are in Los Angeles consulting Elvis Cole because the father has disappeared.  Since they are minors Elvis follows them to learn that they are living in a house in seemingly decent circumstances.  The children used the family car to find his office.  He agrees to take the case for a reduced fee and will not contact the child welfare authorities at the present time.   <br /> <br />The investigation creates a need to travel to Seattle to visit a former associate of the father  It is learned that the father was a printer and a counterfeiter.  He may be on the run from a Ukranian, a Russian mob.  Elvis runs into federal agents in Seattle who are pursuing the case.   <br /> <br />Days later Elvis sees the three children and the father in California.  Later a partner of the father is found to have been tortured to death.  A part of the equation bearing upon current circumstances and mysteries is that the father has cancer.   <br /> <br />The PI, Elvis Cole, is an outstanding character.  The story is exciting.	2004-10-05
515922:US	52300235	RFYX7AG4LLPPV	0060198303	120943125	The Burglar on the Prowl (Block, Lawrence)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Secret  agent	The is quite a confection.  It is one of a series the gifted Lawrence Block has devised with an antiquarian book seller and thief as the chief character.  How clever it is to link the propensity to collect with theft.   <br /> <br />Bernie's book store is on East 11th Street between University Place and Broadway.  His shop is called Barnegat Books.  The local deli is called Two Guys from Kandahar.  Burglary is tax free and involves little paper work.  The proposed subject of a burglary is a plastic surgeon.  He is supposed to have cash in his wall safe.   <br /> <br />The tale is narrated in the first person by Bernie Rhodenbarr.  The burglar Bernie feels guilty about involving his friend Carolyn in a crime and advises her to keep her online date.  Bernie tries to look like a regular guy leading a lawful existence.  He keeps his burglar tools and alternate ID in a closet of his apartment.   <br /> <br />He goes to Riverdale in the Bronx to scope out the plastic surgeon's place.  There is a sort of domestic arms race going on with alarms and lights he thinks to himself.  The story is interesting, intricate, and Latvian.  Bernie even comes to date one of his victims which is an odd method of meeting women.  Prospective readers will find much to enjoy in this book.	2004-09-20
517228:US	52300235	R2RZHLX7WEC8A2	0679741917	687848767	The Immoralist	Books	5	3	11	N	N	Fin de siecle experiments	Michel married Marceline at the behest of his dying father, not for love.  Michel did not know he was rich, the marriage to Marceline brought him nothing, and that he had delicate health.  In North Africa Marceline invited a small boy to visit the couple.  Michel was amused by the child, Bashir.  Michel had a discharge and was seized with a desire for life.  Exercise, nourishment, and will became very important.      Michel came to appreciate how maternal and caressing his wife had become.  As time passed, Michel came to know a great number of children.  Marceline's favorite boys were in general better-behaved than Michel's favorites.  Nevertheless, one of Marceline's friends, Moktir, was seen by Michel stealing scissors.  Afterwards Michel became particularly fond of that boy.      From Tunis they went to Malta then to Syracuse.  Michel became deliberately disdainful of his scholarly learning and his fastidious taste.  In Amalfi he had his beard removed.  He let his hair grow.  At Sorrento he first possessed Marceline.      With his health restored Michel sought a return to work.  The young King Athalric attracted him as an historical subject.  His father had connections in Rome and Florence and Michel had everything needed to resume scholarly work in Ravenna.      Michel returned to his estate in France.  He knew little about the conditions there.  Six farms belonged to him.  Marceline and Michel watched the son of the overseer, Charles, deal with a difficult to manage colt.  He calmed the beast with his voice.  Autumn was spent by Michel on the farms and writing lectures about the unruly Goths.      The couple moved to Passy and resided in an apartment.  Michel found his acquaintances tedious and Marceline felt burdened by social obligations.  Historians accused Michel of too rapid generalization.  Michel encountered his friend Menalque who had a different take on the episode of the boy Moktir and the scissors.  There was no theft, there was an elaborate game.Menalque believed that people suffered from a fear of being alone.  Marceline was expecting a baby.  Returning from a meeting with Menalque Michel learned that Marceline lost the child.  Disease took hold of Marceline.  She desired to return to their farms in Normandy.      At the estates, Michel met the poacher, Alcide, and went out with him on his poaching expeditions.  A relative of Alcide appeared drunk.  The overseer sought to take action and wanted the backing of Michel.  Michel was faced with a dilemma.  Charles entered the pictured and he possessed knowledge of the twists and turns of the situation.  Michel arranged with Marceline to go away.       They covered the ground previously undertaken in their wedding journey.  Marceline was ailing.  The children at Biskra recognized them.  Marceline reached the end of her strength.    This taut and psychologically astute tale remains vibrant, bright, through several rereadings.	2004-09-18
519700:US	52300235	R163APH1UY653U	038549565X	161920063	Ghost Soldiers: The Epic Account of World War II's Greatest Rescue Mission	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Required Reading for Leaders	The title derives from the name for the men placed in captivity in the Philippines.  When General MacArthur abandoned the country in 1942, the ghosts of Bataan were left.  Upon the invasion of Lingayen Gulf by American forces in 1945 there was fear that the prisoners in the camps would be slaughtered by the Japanese.  The Japanese were increasingly turning to frenzied acts.   <br /> <br />The Japanese view of POW camps differed from the American one.  It was felt to be a mark of dishonor to be a POW.   <br />Mass suicide had been attempted by Jjapanese prisoners in Australia.  In 1944 Tokyo issued a kill-all order.   <br /> <br />The Rangers were a new, elite infantry group, patterned on the British commandos.  The real problem at Bataan had been  disease.  Those nearer the quartermaster ate better.  It is a rule of war that rations shrink.  Bataan seemed to be an heroic struggle to prolong a hopeless cause.  The siege was an epic drawdown.  There were increments of material and spiritual depletion.  In 1942 armaments were destroyed in expectation of General King's capitulation.   <br /> <br />On the same day as Robert E. Lee's defeat, April 9th, General King proposed to lay down his arms.  The plan of withdrawal to the Bataan Peninsula had always been based upon the ability to restock.  Unfortunately, Japan had destroyed the U.S. Navy and the army was starving.  Roosevelt and MacArthur purveyed false hope.   <br /> <br />MacArthur had been ordered to leave Corregidor and be evacuated to Australia in March.  General King had no official consent to surrender.  He assumed he would be court-martialed.  The surrender, of necessity, was unconditional.  The defeated foot soldiers on Bataan had no protocol to follow.  The men hoped they would be treated in accordance with the Geneva Convention but feared the worst.  There had been rumors.  <br /> <br />Counting civilians, about 100,000 soldiers and others surrendered.  The Japanese Generals needed to move the prisoners northward.  The Japanese overrated the health and the strength of the prisoners.   <br /> <br />Shifting back to 1945, the Rangers sought to liberate a camp of POWs.  Colonel Mucci, leader of the Rangers, arranged for photographers to accompany them to record their historic mission.  In 1945 for the Japanese it would be Bataan in the reverse.  Ranger outfits typically had naive optimism and moved with improvisational boldness.  Filipino guerillas would lead the Rangers to the prison camp.   <br /> <br />In 1942 American and Filipino prisoners had marched North and the Japanese had marched to the Bataan Peninsula to take Corregidor.  The evacuation to Camp o'Donnell lasted for three weeks for reason of the great numbers of Americans and Filipinos and their weakened condition.  If the corpses had been apportioned along the seventy-five mile route, there would have been a corpse every twenty yards.  This was not premeditated atrocity.  Brutality took place in piecemeal fashion.  The Bataan Death March occurred because the original evacuation scheme was faulty.  Japanese war planners were deficient in improvisational skills.  The prisoners had no vocabulary to describe Camp O'Donnell.  Americans had seen nothing like it since Andersonville.   <br /> <br />The Rangers planned to move the sick prisoners out in water buffalo carts.  Since Camp O'Donnell was overcrowded, the Japanese chose to put prisoners at Cabanatuan, a prewar Philippine Army installation.  It was sixty miles east of Camp O'Donnell.   <br /> <br />The guards in the camp were the dregs and misfits.  The prisoners were obsessed by food.  In December 1942 the Red Cross brought Christmas packages.  The prisoners committed small treacheries of survival.  They were scroungers.  The prisoners lived under the dominion of a culture they truly did not understand.   <br /> <br />To their rescuers, the inmates of the camp seemed like scared vermin.  The Rangers tried to make the prisoners understand the urgency of thesituation.  The Rangers were shocked at the grotesque condition of some of the men.	2004-09-16
521126:US	52300235	R72UME0HCPK64	0449005615	678550726	Seabiscuit: An American Legend (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A  Nuanced Task	Riding Sea Biscuit was a nuanced task.  He needed to be steered.  Sea Biscuit was the premier newsmaker of 1938.  His jockey, Red Pollard, was tragic-faced.  Pollard's father had hunted gold and been an auto mechanic.  Red was odd, bookish, too tall for a jockey. A race horse can travel 40 miles per hour.  He weighs about 1400 pounds.  Jockeys are extraordinary athletes.  In the riding position there is a narrow center of balance.   <br /> <br />Hillenbrand provides back stories to emerge at a point of triangulation, the meeting of the trainer, Smith, the horse, Sea Biscuit, and the jockey, Pollard.  Sea Biscuit's owner, Charles Howard, was a highly successful seller of Buicks and a master of publicity.  He had relied upon his trainer, Tom Smith's intuition when he bought Sea Biscuit.   <br /> <br />Pollard and Sea Biscuit both had huge resources of stamina and an ability to withstand abuse.  In their sport they were both unconventional based upon less than perfect physical attributes.  Sea Biscuit was a Depression Era favorite because he had heart.  Racetracks enjoyed a comeback in the thirties as governments sought to raise funds.  In the first part of the century they had been banned, put out of business, for reason that gambling was involved.   <br /> <br />In 1940 in the San Antonio Pollard had his first win since 1938.  He was riding Sea Biscuit.  The horse was also making a comeback from injury.  At the Santa Anita Handicap Pollard and Sea Biscuit sealed the return of champions.  In six years Sea Biscuit won 33 races and set 13 track records.  To get into the race, Pollard had exhausted his reserves and for a time sorted mail.   <br /> <br />The acknowledgments section avers that history hides in unlikely places.	2004-09-15
521827:US	52300235	R2K0XND8YY1F3T	0140178406	968675587	Aunt Dimity's Death (Aunt Dimity Mystery)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Orienteering, or Using a Compass and a Map	This is a better written than usual mystery story.  Nancy Atherton has chosen to write a series with an English theme in an English style and it comes off beautifully.   <br /> <br />The narrator is surprised to learn that Aunt Dimity has died because she believed Aunt Dimity was a fictitious character created by her mother.  The death is reported by Willis and Willis.   The law firm occupies an old mansion.  The two Willises have looked forward to meeting Lori Shepherd.  The Willises have no servant problem.  They have law students.   <br /> <br />As she had planned, Aunt Dimity's appearance in the story is a surprise.  She was an English woman, a Miss Westwood.  In receiving her letters, in a sense from the dead, Lori also receives a task, to unravel the mystery and write a forward to childhood stories she has been told by her mother.   <br /> <br />Miss Westwood requires that Lori write an introductory essay to a collection of Aunt Dimity tales.  Lori is driven around by the younger of the two lawyers in his father's Silver Shadow.  She needs to complete some errands prior to undertaking a Westwood prescribed trip to England.  Her means are so limited that it takes her only twenty minutes to pack.  She tells her apartment mates, temp service, and a former boss of the proposed journey.  She travels to Maine to see her good friend, Meg Thompson.   <br /> <br />The cottage in England, their destination, (the younger Willis, Bill is accompanying her to England), is located in Finch.  It is lovely, although it seems to be too good to be true.  Lori finds there archive boxes, her mother's letters, her mother's life.  A neighbor gives Lori her mother's recipe for oatmeal cookies.  Derk and Emma Harris, the neighbors, and Bill and Lori use the toasting forks in the cottage for the crumpets.  Derk and Emma and Bill and Lori entertain the Pym sisters, twin daughters of the vicar now about one hundred years old.  The Pyms have long memories.   <br /> <br />There is a surprise in the book and I will not disclose it and spoil the fun.  It has a certain magic.  Anyone who has listened carefully to a parent's stories, and I have a talkative one, will appreciate this book.  Other relationships spotlighted in this book are youthful friendships and love.	2004-09-14
522573:US	52300235	R2QY7I566HVBXA	0393016439	635512419	Anger	Books	5	3	8	N	N	Temperament	Ned Fraser did not see himself as a husband.  He became the unknown admirer of the singer, Anna Lindstrom.  Anna was 34 and feared that her opportunities to make a mark with her art were passing.  Ned encountered her at the swan boats and went for a ride with her.  He had recognized her feeding the swans and introduced himself.  He forgot his appointment at the Ritz.  They ate together at the Somerset Club.  Ned was a banker. He tells Anna during another dinner that her voice has blood, life in it.  He claims that being defensive is very Bostonian.      During the second meal together Ned asks Anna to marry him and she says yes.  She warns him that he is marrying a tigress.  She is fascinated by his dry manner of speaking.  Anna says that getting married is like entering a foreign country.  Anna finds the absence of endearments in Ned's speech off-putting.  Ned finds Anna's criticism insulting.      There is a shift and it is two years later.  Anna and Ned have different temperaments.  Their only safe talk is food and drink.  Ned tires of Anna's scenes.  The scenes help Anna to relieve tension. Anna receives a bad review of her singing with the Boston Symphony.  Ned is afraid to come home to what he considers Anna's irrational anger.  Fortunately she seems calm.    Among other things this is a brilliant exposition of how an artist is able to use anger to serve her art.  Bravo.	2004-09-14
522929:US	52300235	R1TKT6V20XITZZ	082121117X	625097391	The Search for Alexander: An Exhibition	Books	5	9	19	N	N	Homeric  hero	By his career, the frog pond of the Mediterranean was widened to India.  The Greeks invented politics.  By Alexander's march, the old Persian Empire of the East was broken.  In 343 Aristotle was chosen as Alexander's tutor.  In 336 Philip was murdered.  In 334 Alexander crossed into Asia.  He died in Babylon July 10, 323.   <br /> <br />At the simplest level Alexander exerted the dominance of youth.  He kept a dagger and Homer's ILIAD under his pillow.  A huge Greek city in Afghanistan has been newly uncovered through French excavation.  Alexander was born in July 356 B.C.  His father was murdered when he was twenty.  Alexander adorned an expensive tomb for his father.  He was fascinated by Homer's poems.  He was smallish, brisk, with bold and handsome features.  Alexander cast his friendships and ambitions in  light of Homer's ILIAD.   <br /> <br />The competitive drinking of the Macedonian court was famous.  The Macedonian king claimed descent from Argos.  Thebes, the leading power among the city-states, was conquered by Alexander and sacked.  He had set out in 335 with the full range of the standing army of his father and he showed he could control it.  What Philip had established in southern Greece was brushed aside by Alexander in his pursuit of empire.  Demosthenes had been aware of what Philip's ruse entailed.  Athens lost its power over foreign policy, for example.   <br /> <br />The Persian Empire was enormous.  It ranged from the Aegean to the Punjab.  The Persian king was heir to the nobles' consensus.  He maintained rank.  The satraps plotted against each other.  In Persia Alexander moved from victory to victory on a well-stocked royal road.  There were stores in caches as a protection from famine.  Alexander set out for Asia in 334 B.C.  First his destiny was Troy.  He was given a gift of relics from Troy's temple to Athena.  Alexander bettered Philip's poor record as a besieger.  He had to take the Phoenician home cities before he could invade Babylonand Persia.   <br /> <br />Alexander met Darius near the Syrian border.  In Issus the truth was probably that no participant was sure he had won.  At Sidon the Cypriot fleet of 120 ships surrendered to Alexander.  The siege of Tyre is described interestingly.  Earthworks were built at Gaza.  Egypt had paradoxes, huge buildings.  Alexander was later recognized by the pharoah's old titles.  The city of Alexandria was established, the center of Egyptian life for centuries.   <br /> <br />The battle of Gaugamela pitted Alexander's smaller forces against Darius's large army.  The Macedonians made an angled advance.  Darius and his retinue turned away from battle.  Darius's palace was at Persepolis.  The contents of the treasury were a wonder to Alexander.  Persia was put under a satrap.  Alexander wished to take revenge on the Persians for razing Athens.  Persepolis was burned.  Darius's body received royal burial at Persepolis.   <br /> <br />Alexander was the new king of Asia.  He sought to cross the Hind Kush, the eastern Alps of Iran.  The troops were moving on the road through Kandahar to Kabul.  As an invader Alexander's forces  spilled easily from Kabul to the Punjab.  Lahore proved to be the furthest diffusion of Greek art.   <br /> <br />The horse of Alexander, Bucephalas, died on the field.  Alexander was wounded by an arrow.  There was a horrible coastal march from the Indus delta to Kirman.  Losses of men in the desert cannot be computed.  Alexander wished to establish common concord between Europe and Asia.  Worship of Alexander occurred in his lifetime.  He made plans.  He was not in decline.  No unbiased witness has revealed why Alexander died.  He was age thirty two and ten months at the time of his death.   <br /> <br />Any reader will love the beautiful pictures in Robin Lane Fox's splendid work.	2004-09-13
522930:US	52300235	REL5L7FOVO6E0	0375406301	597510778	More Matter: Essays and Criticism	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Information pack rat	One learns here that Helen Keller was not a spontaneous writer and that the author, John Updike, felt as a younger person that it was almost unethical for Sinclair Lewis to mock the pretensions of the middle class.  Updike is indefatigable and inclusive in his enthusiastic embrace of arts and letters. Kierkegaard's method is dictated by his volatile temperament it is reported.  Melville had a great-hearted truthfulness.  For a novelist, it is asserted, the halls of memory and imagination are adjacent spaces.  Updike holds that Edith Wharton was a writer of empathy.  He regrets that the Library of America produced such a skimpy selection of Sinclair Lewis's works.   <br /> <br />Wallace Stevens is of particular interest to Updike because he came from Reading, PA.  He finds that the journals of Edmund Wilson are not quite literature but delightful anyhow.  He believes  that Wilson's energetic entries stimulate our appetite for literature.  Happiness is a recurrent theme in Nabakov.  <br />Updike notes that the way of doing business, a comparative rarity in literature, is covered in GAIN by Richard Powers.  Tom Wolfe is accused by John Updike of serving up preening expert architectural details in A MAN IN FULL.  Alice Munro's stories are compared to those of Tolstoy and Chekhov.  The metier of Marguerite Youcenar was aloofness.  She used dignified diction.  Frank Kermode believed that as a Manxman he was excluded from the life and the language of the English.  Martin Amis's NIGHT TRAIN   resembles the American tough guy school of crime fiction.   <br /> <br />John  Cheever cloaked family facts in the mythifying Wapshot chronicles.  Theodore Dreiser was so dependent on other people for editorial services that his last two novels could be described as collaborations.  Arguably Dreiser never recovered from the suppression of SISTER CARRIE by his own publisher.  F. Scott Fitzgerald's life has become more celebrated than his fiction.  Raymond Chandler felt tht Scott Fitzgerald just missed being a great writer.  It is the wise suggestion of Updike that Fitzgerald, like Wordsworth, experienced in youth something transcendent.  Biographies are called great scholastic mounds.  Some of the more interesting essays involve one of two subjects--art and the NEW YORKER magazine.	2004-09-13
529267:US	52300235	R1YQH6T8E1DVEP	0674439503	609759893	I Remember: Sketch for an Autobiography	Books	5	6	14	N	N	Early influences	Pasternak was born in 1890.  The art school of his father was under the ministry of the Imperial Court.  The family lived in aparments there.  His father illustrated Tolstoy's RESURRECTION.    Boris was betwitched by Scriabin, by the freshness of his spirit.  The negative side of Scriabin was his egocentric nature.  The author's father saw Gorky.  Mayakovsky and Blok read poems.      As a schoolboy the author was intoxicated by the work of Hamsun and Andrey Bely.  He went to the University of Marburg in 1912.  The author liked the early lyric poetry of Mayakovsky very much.  In the poems of Pasternak and Mayakovsky there were technical similarities.      Essenin treated his life like a fairy tale.  Both Essenin and Mayakovsky committed suicide.  A quite substantial set of notes completes the text.	2004-09-07
532165:US	52300235	R1MZC417BE0KOW	0446404136	490503860	Double	Books	3	0	4	N	N	Female private investigators are strange	When Sharon McCone was home visiting her family, her mother wanted her to speak to her brother John who was planning to fight for custody of his children.  Her father, retired Navy, was a cabint maker and the husband of her sister Charlene was a musician.  Sharon was supposed to be the stable, the together member of her family.  She was in town attending a convention.  Sharon's friend Elaine Picard was in charge of hotel security.  The Nameless Detective, Wolf, was also at the convention which was being held in San Diego.   <br /> <br />Elaine Picard fell from a balcony.  Her death did not seem to be the result of an accident.  Wolf witnessed the fall.  He and Sharon proceeded to investigate the matter, informally.  Sharon was nearly arrested for having committed a breaking and entering at Picard's residence.  I should tell the prospective reader that the narration is in the first person, double first person that is to say.   <br /> <br />Sharon discovered that Elaine had written to her lawyer that the hotel was being used for some illegal purpose and that she had not yet determined the nature of the illegal acts.  Sharon felt that Elaine's death had something to do with the disappearance of a business tycoon.  There was a chain reaction as the deaths and disappearances in the case escalated.	2004-09-05
532747:US	52300235	R1OZTMTHLQMMGD	0445406259	462161082	Eye of the Storm	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Investigator in the Family	The Sacramento delta is a constant victim of hostile elements.  Sharon McCone is worried about her younger sister, Patsy McCone.  Her destination is Appleby Island.   <br /> <br />McCone is a staff investigator at a law cooperative, All Souls, in San Francisco.  Her sister wants her to investigate mysterious events on the island.  People in the area have heard  about the curse of the island all of their lives and so it is not surprising that it is hard to find workers.   <br /> <br />The strange events, Sharon thinks, may have been caused by an out-of-sorts child who does not like the new home.  Her nephew Andrew, she learns, is considered weird.  Oftentimes what is really involved in a mystery story is the mystery of human nature.   <br /> <br />Men working on the island saw a hermit's ghost it is rumored.  The funding for the renovation of the mansion on the island to turn it into a boatel is in jeopardy because the trustee of one of the participants received an anonymous letter warning it is a bad investment.  The story is exciting and colorful.	2004-09-04
533897:US	52300235	ROSDUASIL6Z77	0374523355	609258159	The Nightmare of Reason: A Life of Franz Kafka	Books	5	9	14	N	N	A combination of innate nobility and tact	Photographs of Franz Kafka at age thirty and age forty appear in the center of the book.  Through the years, nothing has been subtracted from the world's consciousness of his genius.  He was born in a Prague still solidly embedded in the middle ages.  His father, Hermann Kafka, had clawed his way out of poverty.  In 1848 full citizenship rights had been granted the roughly four hundred thousand Jews within the Hapsburg Empire.  Hermann did not have to exaggerate the hardships of his youth.   <br /> <br />The world of Freud was the world of Kafka.  Kafka, named for the emperor, felt that his  childhood had crippled him.  Family life focused on his father's drygoods store.  Hermann had a booming parade-ground voice.  Kafka denounced school as the conspiracy of the grown-ups.  He had life-long difficulty over face-to-face meetings with authority figures.  Over ninety per cent of the Jewish children in Bohemia received their education in German.  For eight years Franz attended the German National Humanistic Gymnasium.  Among other things, pupils were trained to work in a bureaucracy.  They did many pointless tasks.   <br /> <br /> <br />Kafka noted that to him writing was a form of prayer.  In his age literature had taken the place of faith, ritual, and tradition.  The productivity of writers in Austro-Hungary was staggering.  The western Jews faced a dilemma.  The sons, who seemed to be out of the business game, wrote.  At the university Franz moved from philosophy to chemistry to the study of law. In 1902 he met Max Brod at a student society called the Hall.  Brod recognized Kafka's genius.  He came to believe Kafka would become the most important writer of his time.  Brod had zest for life.  The young Kafka was a striking combination of innate nobility and tact.  He was both a middle class Jewish law student, at least until his graduation in 1906, and an underground hermit.   <br /> <br />Franz Kafka once compared insurance to the religion of primitive man.  The Workmen's Accident Insurance Institute was part of the Austro-Hungarian bureaucracy.  Kafka's superiors claimed he had exceptional faculty for conceptualization.  He was granted Civil Service tenure in 1910.  Franz became a vegetarian, he  practiced body-building, and sought to break his creative paralysis.  He began in 1910 to keep detailed notebooks.  The diaries inspired him to develop working methods.   <br /> <br />In the fall of 1910 Kafka went to Paris with Otto and Max Brod.  He was ill, but returned the following year and had better luck.  In 1911 he attended a lecture of Karl Kraus and in the same year he met Kurt Tucholsky.  Kafka became fascinated with the Yiddish theater.  Subsequesntly he became interested in Jewish history and studied Hebrew.  He also followed the affairs of the Zionists and the agricultural settlers in Palestine.  In 1912 he gave a speech on the Yiddish language.  The speech has been preserved by the notes taken by Elsa Taussig, Max Brod's wife.   <br /> <br />He read voraciously.  Writing justified his life and his not living his life.  Kafka's first novel was AMERIKA.  Kurt Wolff became his publisher.  In 1912 as he was preparing his manuscript he met Felice Bauer through Max Brod.  The courtship lasted five years.  Felice preserved the leters.  His unfinished novel, THE TRIAL, arose from his involvement with Felice Bauer.  Later he had tuberculosis and he determined that the illness was a reason for him to terminate the relationship.   <br /> <br />By 1921 Kafka could not longer meet the physical demands of his job.  Visits by old friends tired him and depressed him.  He corresponded with another friend, Milena, and wrote THE CASTLE his most elaborately autobiographical work.  At some point in 1922 he pleaded with Milena not to write him again.  His letters to her have also been preserved. In the end, Kafka, who feared death, surrendered to Dora Dymant.  He stayed in a sanitorium near Vienna.  Dora joined him there.  He died in 1924 of tuberculosis of the larynx, (hungry and thirsty).	2004-09-03
534797:US	52300235	RGV3BD1MQYSBI	0440503965	303418238	The Town That Started the Civil War: The True Story of the Community That Stood Up to Slavery--and Changed a Nation Forever	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Town and gown	The Ohio River, pursuing a serpentine course between Ohio and Kentucky, was useful to the underground railroad.  After 1849 Kentucky became a major market for the purchase and sale of slaves. The river froze over in 1855-56.  John and Dina escaped from John Parks Glenn Bacon.   They left on two horses with Frank from a neighboring area.  Four miles into Ohio they encountered a Quaker.  They stayed with him for two weeks and when fit to travel were sent on their way.  Eventually John and Frank were taken to a college community, Oberlin.   <br /> <br />The fugitive slave law was a paradox.  It drove many of the Northerners into the antislavery camp.  It was signed into law by Millard Fillmore in 1850.  Jerry was saved by a mob in Syracuse, N.Y. and transported to Canada and freedom.  States passed personal liberty laws.  The real life travails of Anthony Burns, Margaret Garner, (Toni Morrison evidently used this episode in BELOVED, the killing of a child to spare her from being enslaved), and Joshua Glover did not excite as much attention as the woes of the characters in UNCLE TOM'S CABIN.  Mrs. Stowe had lived in Cincinnati for eighteen years.  Three hundred thousand copies of the novel were sold in the first year.   <br /> <br />In Oberlin the college's atmosphere pervaded the town.  Even the hotel was a temperance hotel.  Black families resided in the town and were members of the First Church.  School and town had both been founded in 1833.  Oberlin became a haven for renegade teachers at Lane Theological Seminary in Cincinnati who favored  immediate emancipation.  Charles Grandison Finney was one of the presidents of Oberlin College.  He was pastor of First Church.   <br /> <br />In 1858 the tone of Oberlin was tense.  Slave hunters had made three attempts to seize black families.  The man, John Price, was taken to Wellington, Ohio by hunters.  Abolitionists in Oberlin endevored to act.  The campus was astir.  Many young men and others rushed to Wellington.  Johnwas removed and returned to Oberlin to a hideaway at the home of Professor James Fairchild.  John's captors were pleased to escape the wrath of the crowd gathered at Wellington.   <br /> <br />Thirty-seven of the Oberlin rescuers were indicted.  The Rescue Case had an impact on public opinion.  Defense attorneys were aware they were playing to the press.  Oberlin was called by one person the Babylon of Abolitionism.  The defense tried to raise as an issue the constitutionality of the fugitive slave law.  The defendants were found guilty.  The rescuers were jailed.  The rescue of John Price had been accomplished primarily by the black residents and white students.	2004-09-02
535127:US	52300235	R1PM20KNR3EOVU	067973371X	933385853	Means of Ascent (The Years of Lyndon Johnson)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	How to steal an election	Seven years of LBJ's life are covered in this volume commencing in 1941.  Desperate fear drove Johnson, and in 1941 he lost a race for a senate seat to Pappy O'Daniel.  He no longer looked like a winner.  He did not want to be like his idealistic, romantic father--rigidly honest.  Lyndon Johnson thought it was humiliating to let someone else steal an election from him.  FDR told him he had to learn that when the election is over, sit on the ballot boxes.   <br /> <br />Johnson ridiculed politicians who fought for ideas and principles.  Pearl Harbor prevented him from pursuing a senatorial seat in 1942.   Johnson was a naval reserve officer.  He made it seem as if he would be called upon to fight, but he angled for a stateside position after he learned that absent training he would have no leadership role in the armed forces.  Roosevelt was focused on Stalingrad and Guadalcanal and thus was not available to support Johnson in his political squabbles.   <br /> <br />In the House, as in the war, Johnson was not allowed to lead.  He gave no speeches and introduced no bills.  He grabbed for money.  His means was a radio station, KTBC in Austin.  At first it was a sundowner and employees wondered from day to day when it would go out of business.  Johnson got an option to purchase the station by luck, salesmanship, and an appointment to a service academy he had supplied.  The FCC was to approve the sale to Mrs. Johnson.   <br /> <br />In the future there would be a galaxy of television and radio stations.  In 1943 Lyndon Johnson, through his link to Sam Rayburn, helped the FCC survive congressional scrutiny.   Johnson told the employees of the station to work hard and to be loyal.  The employees saw the way Johnson treated Lady Bird.  Salaries were low and hours were long.  Johnson liked power best and he was really happier in politics than business where he had to suit his customer in order to sell radio time.  After Roosevelt's death Johnson was no longer an insider.   <br /> <br />In 1948 a former governor of Texas, Coke Stevenson, ran in the Democratic primary for the senatorial seat.  Robert Caro portrays him admiringly for reason of his incorruptibility.  Self-educated, he suffered from a narrow viewpoint.  He was a segregationist, an inexcusable position in today's terms.  In 1948 Johnson used George Parr, boss of Duval County, to help round up votes for him.  Johnson was also helped in the Valley by the machinations of Alvin Wirtz.  Caro's tone in much of the book, (which  is natural given his informants), is that of a Texas storyteller.  Johnson campaigned with a helicopter, the Johnson City Windmill and its smaller successor, and people gathered to see the contraption.   <br /> <br />In the run-off primary the Johnson campaign was even more brash and money-ridden. After the polls closed and the votes were counted, George Parr announced that through oversight the votes had not been counted for one of the precincts.  New votes would be coming in from the Valley.  Seventy two hours after the polls closed was a deadline and at that point Stevenson had a lead of three hundred or so votes.  The lead was reduced and when Precinct 13 in Jim Wells County filed an amended return, Johnson was in the lead by 87 votes.   <br /> <br />Johnson worked to prevent box 13 from being opened.  Alvin Wirtz obtained a restraining order.  Later to avoid a hearing on the substance of the voting irregularity charge, Johnson's lawyers, through a strategy devised by Abe Fortas, successfully sought a stay of the proceedings from Justice Black.  Johnson did prevail and became known as 'Landslide Lyndon'.   Caro interviewed a number of people concerning the mysterious ballot box.  Even knowing the outcome the reader savors the details put forth in such entertaining and masterly fashion by Robert Caro.	2004-09-02
536782:US	52300235	R26RLIPD90X4AY	0670849472	199021721	Jorge Luis Borges: Selected Non-Fictions	Books	5	4	9	N	N	Mandarin	Kafka knew the pathetic result of procrastination.  Resultantly he ordered Max Brod to destroy his work.  Two ideas govern Kafka's work, Borges maintains, subordination and infinity.  His works contain infinite hierarchies. Kipling and Nietzsche shadow both Jack London and Ernest Hemingway who were both men of action.      Borges blocks out a personal library wonderfully and amusingly.  He compares Kierkegaard to Hamlet!  Useful notes appear at the back of the book.  The volume contains 161 pieces.  The introduction of Eliot Weinberger notes that Borges was a master of concision.  Borges characterizes James Joyce as a millionaire of words and styles.      As a young man he postulated that all literature is autobiographical.  He charges the belief in the inferiority of translations is a superstition.  For reason of causality, temporal succession, texts always seem right.  Rereading makes them better, more inevitable.  The English have an appetite for adventure and legality Borge asserts.  A detective narrative encompasses both passions.  Borges writes of Croce, Dreiser, S.S. VanDine, Spengler, V. Woolf, T.S. Eliot, and many other writers.  He finds Aldous Huxley's fame excessive.  He claims for Huxley an intolerable lucidity.      Novelists present a memory of reality.  Borges casts MOBY DICK as the infinite novel.  One of the pieces is called \\"The History of the Tango.\\"  Borges proclaims the tango is sexual and violent.  It has a compensatory function.  Swift and Flaubert were fascinated by madness.  The concepts espoused by Carlyle are an obvious Presbyterian legacy.  Emerson professed a fantastic philosophy, monism.  The Germans were very moved by Defoe's ROBINSON CRUSOE and produced countless imitations.      Gibbon's DECLINE AND FALL OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE has been a recognized masterpiece for two hundred years.  Swedenborg anticipated the nebular theory of Laplace and Kant.  He would have liked to talk to Sir Isaac Newton.  Borges describes his blindness, an hereditary affliction of his father and grandmother too.  He explains that the blind live in a world that is inconvenient.  Milton, the historian Prescott, and James Joyce were blind.      This is an appropriate selection of prose works of an incredibly bright mind.	2004-08-31
538575:US	52300235	R34A4322QNCC03	0451408683	597920549	The Case Has Altered	Books	4	0	0	N	N	We get set on an answer, nearly impossible to dislodge.	The writing is smooth, competent.  The location is the fens.  Two women from the same area are murdered by different means.  Richard Jury arrives, even though Scotland Yard has not received a summons for help.      The scene is set in an interesting fashion by this experienced author.  A friend of Jury's, Jennifer Kennington, is a suspect.  She was a house guest at Fengate. Fengate is a problem since another guest there, Max Owen's first wife, Verna, and a maid servant are the victims in question.  Since Jury wants to have a police plant in the house, Melrose Plant, (interesting play on the name), pretends to be an antiques specialist.  Jury knows which pieces Max Owen wants to have valued and so Marshall Trueblood teaches Melrose about these specific pieces.      The title is, surely not surprising to readers of this series, the name of a pub.  In a scene where Melrose Plant is drinking Old Peculiar one wonders whether there really is such a thing.  Max Owen has an eclectic collection, Matisse next to Landseer, and that sort of thing.  Grace Owen calls her husband's sculpture hall the cold ladies.  Melrose finds it difficult to impersonate an antiques dealer.  Max Owen thinks that most dealers have a talent for the past.  Max is enthralled with his possessions.  He admits that he really wants someone to talk to about them.    Any prospective reader will find this enjoyable.  It is possible to obtain stray information.  For example, I did not know that Limehouse had been gentrified.	2004-08-30
542367:US	52300235	R3SU6VXYNH7P4B	0609805525	932177455	Spirit Dive: An African American's Journey to Uncover a Sunken Slave Ship's Past	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Shackles	The author notes that as a ten year old in Detroit he loved the program SEA HUNT.  Scuba diving led to a journey to uncover a slave ship's past.  The book opens with a timeline of events significant to the operation of the HENRIETTA MARIE.   <br /> <br />Mel Fisher is probably the most well known treasure hunter in the world.  Moe Molinar, a successful black treasure hunter, found the shackles.  Additional diving in 1973 produced more rusted shackles.  They were stored in a warehouse in Key West.  The first artifact identifying the wreck was a bell inscribed HENRIETTA MARIE, 1699.  This was discovered by David Moore, an archeologist, in the Gulf of Mexico.   <br /> <br />The author conducted research at the National Maritime Museum in Greenwich, England.  David Moore and the author were haunted by the one hundred shackles found in the wreck of the HENRIETTA MARIE.  Their presence showed without a doubt the ship's purpose.  The author had been taught by his mother to use the story of slavery for inspiration.   <br /> <br />On its second slave voyage, and what proved to be its last, two hundred fifty Africans began the trip.  Landfall after the Middle Passage was a location in Jamaica, Port Royal, where the African people were sold for three thousand one hundred forty four pounds.  In the Florida straits the HENRIETTA MARIE was blindsided by strong winds.  The ship sank thirty seven miles west of Key West.   <br /> <br />In Jamaica Michael Cottman, the author, may have met descendants of the people transported on the HENRIETTA MARIE.  They had the same surname as a family of Jamaican plantation owners and English manufacturers of the cannon installed on the HENRIETTA MARIE.  The meeting in Jamaica occurred after four years of research.   <br /> <br />In 1992 Michael Cottman attended his first national conference of the National Association of Black Scuba Divers.  It was the organization's second national meeting.  Safe diving practice means sticking to a buddy system.The association of black divers grew out of the need to obtain partners to follow the sport of scuba diving.   <br /> <br />The dive to the HENRIETTA MARIE was undertaken in May, 1993.  It was quite an accomplishment to find the wreck after an absence of nine years; sand shifts, currents move and displace objects.  Visibility underwater is frequently poor.  Having located the wreck of the slave ship the HENRIETTA MARIE  on New Ground Reef, the divers paid tribute to those ancestors and others who lost their lives during the Middle Passage.  The dive was a sort of pilgrimage.   <br /> <br />In 1996 Cottman went to Dakar, to Goree Island.  Historians believe the HENRIETTA MARIE once sailed along the West Coast of Africa.  In 1996 since there were severe problems in Nigeria, Cottman elected to travel to Senegal.  Michael Cottman and his guide went to a structure named the House of Slaves.  Goree Island was a place of mass suffering and tormented souls.   <br /> <br />The book is moving.  The terrible wound inflicted, slavery, needs to be discussed in this country.  There is a Holocaust Museum memorializing a European event.  No museum memorializes the peculiar institution.	2004-08-26
545380:US	52300235	RBZY53QH83PSK	0375726403	340719393	Empire Falls	Books	5	4	7	N	N	A Sense of Personal Failure	Empire Falls has been losing population due to the closing of the mills.  Miles Roby runs a diner for the widow of the rich man and previous owner of the mills, C.B. Whiting.  Miles is to receive the Empire Grill in the event of the death of Francine Whiting.  Miles's father had been a house painter.  School friends let him know that where he had lived had been labeled the joke house. Miles is separated from his wife.  He has a daughter in high school, a brother who now helps out at the grill, and a father who still embarasses him.  In the Key West the father, Max, is often mistaken for a local, a conch.  Miles is forty two years old and, according to his brother, he is wasting his life.  His mother-in-law, Bea, feels that he is the nicest, kindest man in town.   <br /> <br />During Miles's childhood Max was jailed for being a town nuisance.  The family's cars were repossessed so often he had once asked his mother if his father, who was absent frequently, had been repossessed.  Miles had nearly failed driver's ed. because he had no car to practice on and had nearly killed the instructor.  His mother's employer, Mrs. Whiting, had offered to be his coach and to use her Lincoln for practice.  Miles knew there was a price--friendship with the socially-nil crippled Cindy Whiting.  Over time the Whitings seemed to become his mother's other family.   <br /> <br />At a football game Miles learns from a friend, the high school principal, his daughter's art work has been selected for a regional competition.  Miles sees his mother's photograph in a newspaper column of the 'remember when' sort showing her in the shirt factory where she had been employed at the time.  A catastrophe, I will leave to the prospective reader to discover and delineate, overtakes the characters just prior to the time Miles begins to discern some of the factors determining his personal circumstances and fate.  The book invokes powerful emotion in the reader.  If the ending seems too melodramatic for some tastes, assuredly the journey to that point is delightful.	2004-08-24
545978:US	52300235	R32412BRVLF473	0061094129	746809256	Legal Tender (Rosato & Associates Series)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Philadelphia Story	This is clever writing.  The narrator is Benedetta, a trial attorney and movement follower.  Her law firm in Philadelphia pursues lawsuits of social importance.  A friend at a white shoe firm tells Bennie that he has heard that two of the associates in her firm are defecting.  He tells her that socialism does not work, autocracy does.  She finds out that actually three associates are seeking other jobs.  The two partners wanted to do well and do good.  Then Mark, the other partner, (they are no longer involved romantically), tells Bennie it, the law firm, is finished.  Mark has already found her new office space.    Philadelphia's police administration building is called the Roundhouse.  Bennie feels her career crash and burn.  She speaks of reporters laying techno-siege to the townhouse where the firm is located.  She provides the police with a tip to prevent crime and the police decide that she has something to do with a bombing.  Bennie goes to the high-powered law firm and invents a ghost lawyer in order to hide in plain sight.  The story is full of action and interest.	2004-08-23
546203:US	52300235	R2J9ZE1986MWYD	0781210348	458430836	The Ohio Guide	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Buckeye snapshots	Oxford was planned in 1809 when the Ohio legislature established Miami University.  Sandusky was a shipping port on the Great Lakes.  Permanent settlers came in 1816.  Cholera struck in 1849.  Previously there had been smaller outbreaks.  Sandusky  is noted for making wine.      Springfield is a National Pike town.  It was on the route of the Great Ohio Stage Company in Cumberland, Maryland.  Steubenville, Marietta and Chillicothe were the mother towns of the state.  They are in proximity to West Virginia and Pennsylvania.  Marietta is the oldest settlement in Ohio, the pioneer city in the Northwest Territory.      Akron became a center for rubber manufacturing in the first two decades of the 20th century.  Cleveland and many of the cities in Ohio such as Youngstown were notable centers of steel, brass and iron making.  Organization of the Standard Oil Company in 1870 made Cleveland a force in oil.  Tom Johnson was the famous mayor of Cleveland in the Progressive Era.      The book features twenty-three automobile tours-- a thoughtful plan of the WPA Guides.  Interesting black and white photographs abound.  There are seventeen essays on special topics and nineteen profiles of cities.  Coal is worked in the eastern and southern section of the state.  Glaciers covered two thirds of the state in the late Cenozoic era.      The first people were known as mound builders.  The most advanced mound builder culture is the Hopewell.  Among the first historic Indians were the Erie.  Others included the Miami and the Shawnee.  The Wyandotte, of Iroquois stock, were the most powerful tribe in the Northwest Territory after the Revolution.  Also present were the Tuscarora, Seneca, Delaware, Ottawa, Cherokee.  Ohio, home of many presidents, is known as a barometer state.      Rogers Clark won the Northwest Territory for the thirteen colonies.  Before the Civil War, Lane Seminary in Cincinnati and later Oberlin became centers of anti-slavery activity.  Ohio-born writers include James Thurber, Sherwood Anderson and Hart Crane.  Ohio has been an area of concentrated and innovative industrial development.  Names such as Rockefeller, Wright, Willys, Procter, Gamble, Kroger, Olds, and Kettering are recognizable.      The book describes Finnish and Slovenian families in Ohio and many other cultures and customs of individuals and groups.  In buildings Ohio has experienced the gothic style, steamboat gothic, romanesque, Greek revival.  When the guide was written a contemporary painter, Charles  Burchfield,  saw possibilites in the main street of the small towns.  A really important writer who began in Ohio is William Dean Howells.  The outstanding poet was Paul Laurence Dunbar.  There is a chronology at the end of the book.	2004-08-23
546640:US	52300235	RFWTSGXWAIBD8	0345349520	135390452	Vanity Dies Hard	Books	3	1	11	N	N	Confusion	Alice begged a ride from her brother to visit Nesta Drage in Orphingham, (Constable had painted the river).  Alice is unable to find her.  She goes to ask someone named Daphne about her.  It seems that Alice has married Andrew who is considerably younger than she is.  They do not have children for reason of her age.  Alice is a sort of heiress and so there is a suggestion that Andrew did well monetarily in the match, although Alice's better nature wants to insist upon the existence of love.  She finds out there is a redirection notice on Nesta's address of Saulsby.  It seems that new address is 193 Dorcas Street, Paddington.   <br /> <br />Andrew tells her she is an innocent and he'd rather she not pursue Nesta at the new place.  Alice becomes sick with a virus.  Her brother Hugo refuses to accompany her to London.  Hugo feels that Nesta is manic-depressive.  At the address in Paddington, the Endymion Hotel, Nesta has not been seen for three months.  A so-called Mr. Drage, Nesta was supposed to have been a widow, had just come to collect her mail it is learned.  Andrew calls Alice, Bell.  He commiserates with her.   <br /> <br />A for-hire car firm asks Alice about Nesta Drage.  Alice pays the bill for her.  Nesta has left a wooden trunk with Daphne and her father.  Daphne and Alice open the trunk and find there nearly all of Nesta's belongings.  Alice goes to the police.  The official says he will not list Nesta as a missing person yet, but he will keep her circumstances in mind.   <br /> <br />Her doctor, Harry, lets it slip to Alice, that somehow Andrew and Nesta were involved with each other.  Andrew claims that Nesta was repulsive to him.  Alice discovers that Saulsby is an address used in Trollope-- it is made-up.  Andrew is a fervid Trollope reader.	2004-08-23
546999:US	52300235	R16V260WFAHCRN	0812966937	742340053	The Gambler (Modern Library Classics)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Misfit	Dostoyevsky felt the gambling rooms were as hellish as the penal settlements he portrayed in THE HOUSE OF THE DEAD.  He dictated the story to the woman who was to become his second wife.  Five years after completing THE GAMBLER Dostoyevsky was able to stop gambling. Alexei, the General and Paulina are three of the main characters.  Alexei is a tutor, an unimportant person.  Paulina is the stepdaughter of the General.  The General is waiting for his relative, a character known as the Grandmother to die.      Alexei goes to play roulette for Paulina.  He loses everything quickly.  The General is infatuated with Mlle. Blanche, a much younger woman.  Alexei claims Russians are incapable of accumulating capital.  Roulette is made for them.  Alexei learns from Paulina that the General has mortgaged everything. Paulina dares Alexei to insult another guest at the establishment, a baroness.  There are times when Russians abroad become excessively nervous.  The General calls Alexei to account for his actions.      The Grandmother surprises everyone by arriving in town.  She says she knows about the telegrams being sent asking if she is dead yet and clearly she is alive at present.  The Grandmother has a wheel chair and the manager of the hotel gives her a good hotel room.  Grandmother wants to go to the roulette table with Alexei who has been discharged by the General and Martha, her servant. The family hesitates to accompany her because she is eccentric.  She wins by putting her money on zero.  Paulina wants Alexei to deliver a letter for her to an Englishman.  The General wants Alexei to stop acting as the Grandmother's guide, and to save them.  The old woman, sleepless, plays again and loses.  She wants to have her chair wheeled to the money changers to cash in some of her Russian bonds.      Alexei goes to Paris with Mlle. Blanche.  After a week the General arrives.  Later Blanche and the General marry.  Alexei gambles, wins, loses, and moves to Germany, guarding his small stake.  Humiliation is the mainstay of friendship Alexei concludes when the Englishman visits.  This skeletal rendition of some of the points of the plot fails to portray adequately the wonderful and colorful writing Dostoyevsky employs to present his all too-human actors.	2004-08-23
551439:US	52300235	R371MAPZ5NG2MQ	0380730359	165181769	Gone, Baby, Gone: A Novel	Books	3	1	7	N	N	Portrait of Evil	300 children disappear each year and never return.  Amanda McCready disappears from the neighborhood.  She is four and a half.  Once running away and abduction are ruled out, disappearance is a murder.  The private detectives, Angela Gennaro and Patrick Kenzie, ask questions about the mother at a bar.  The mother has been afraid to admit that she left the child alone and went there on the evening in question.   <br /> <br />The private detectives speak with the police, but nothing good can come when a child has been missing for eighty hours.  The mother passed a polygraph.  The child lived in the middle unit of a triple decker in Dorchester.  The missing child was taken to play T Ball by her aunt and uncle.  Parents of some of the other players describe the youngster as unusually subdued. <br /> <br />The investigation continues.  It is October and New England is brilliant with color at that time of the year.  Police and PIs go to Charlestown to pursue leads where there is a code of silence.  (The book is replete with street information and ties, the private investigator, Angie, lost her own father two decades earlier through a mob hit.)   <br /> <br />It seems the officers are faced with a kidnapping since there is a ransom note, but the foursome, two officers and two private detectives, elects to proceed without federal involvement.  One person who has bearing on the plot was victimized by schoolyard bullies and the author presents with ability a truthful rendering of such a character. Lieutenants of a crime syndicate seem to be ready to take over the rackets as their leader remains imprisoned and impotent.  The kidnapped child appears somewhere in the equation.   <br /> <br />The narrator, Patrick Kenzie, finds the uniformed state police officers to be agressively Teutonic.  They enter the picture as a promise is made to produce the victim in an area of granite quarries.  The Boston police, also present at the scene, are described as looking like the waiting roomof a soup kitchen.   <br /> <br />The Boston atmosphere is apt.  The book is well done.  The story is so sad.	2004-08-18
552073:US	52300235	R1ZA3DAUBHJ1FV	0316546550	76846676	Point of No Return	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Gray Flannel Man	This is a nearly perfect novel of manners.  Charles Gray has a wife, Nancy.  He is from Clyde, Massachusetts.  It is 1947.  Charles and Nancy live in a bedroom community.  He works for a small bank.  Their children are Evelyn and Billy.  Charles has risen in life to be able to take the 8:30 train to work.      Working in a bank one becomes used to being an exhibit.  One morning Malcolm Bryant, a throwback to the Clyde days, presents himself at the bank.  Bryant has written a book about Clyde called THE YANKEE PERSEPOLIS.  Charles meets Malcolm at the Harvard Club where Malcolm points out to another dinner companion that Charles has a repressed quality.      Charles's own family appears in Malcolm's book under disguised names.  Charles remembers Malcolm giving his father a cigar.  This could be called pacifying the head man.  The discussion of their family painting seems to Charles to be a crude breach of hospitality.  Charles is described as a likable Dartmouth boy.  Charles accuses Malcolm of merely wanting to fill in the case history.  Charles's rival for a vice president's position attended the Harvard Business School, and Charles hears about the case method all too often.      Charles is to return to Clyde on business for his employer.  Marquand, as a suitable successor to Sinclair Lewis, gives an accurate and humorous portrayal of an organization man.  Charles's father was brilliant and unstable.  Malcolm Bryant had said that Clyde was a beautiful, static, organized community.  He was doing a social survey and had just returned from Borneo.  He thought the firemen's muster was a folk custom.	2004-08-18
553292:US	52300235	R1IUYQN1QQCS6M	0060164573	616125621	Selected Poems 1947-1995	Books	5	2	2	N	N	American original	Ginsberg writes in the forward he has consulted fellow verse men.  The collection encompasses the entire career.  Son of a poet, he is an accomplished writer of poetry early in his career as evidenced by \\"The Shrouded Stranger\\".  Ginsberg used craft to control emotion and outrage and harness his imagination in, for instance, \\"Siesta in Xbalba\\".  He was very concerned to assist the reader by placing words on the page carefully.   <br /> <br />HOWL is dedicated to Jack Kerouac, William Burroughs and Neal Cassady.  Ginsberg's images have seeped into our language.  It is no surprise to run into sutra, neon-lit, angel, holy, visions, omens, hallucinations.  His great predecessor Walt Whitman is cited.   <br /> <br />Surely one of the century's greatest poems is Ginsberg's poem to his mother, KADDISH.  The mother, Naomi, his father, Louis, his brother, Eugene, his home, Paterson, are all featured in the work.  Ginsberg wrote in remembrance of Frank O'Hara, chatty prophet and poet of building glass.  The Cedar Bar is empty without him it is asserted.  <br /> <br />The Bob Dylan influenced \\"September in Jessore Road\\" is topical and one of the poems provided with musical accompaniment.  In 'Ego Confession\\" Ginsberg wants to be known as the most brilliant man in America.  Certainly he was a titan.  The \\"Plutonian Ode\\" mockingly lists places corrupted by radioactivity.  In the end the poet chimes that he dreamed a dream of homeless places.   <br /> <br />The poem GREEN AUTOMOBILE is addressed to Neal Cassady and it is emblematic of the whole collection.  Notes in the back contain pictures of friends and notable subjects.  A touching picture of Allen, Louis and Naomi at the 1940 World's Fair is included.	2004-08-17
556480:US	52300235	REL0KBA6KJBB9	1570719713	169069034	First Lady: A Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Finding the Pattern	This is a good southern story conveyed with intelligence and flair.  Cuddy Mangum is the police chief.  His friend, Justin Savile heads the homicide division.  He serves as the narrator.  He knows Cuddy loves the governor's wife and will not reveal the fact.   <br /> <br />There is an unsolved murder, the victim having the same  appearance as one in another jurisdiction.  Bubba Percy, state house press secretary, goes to Cuddy to report the death of a noted new blues singer, Mavis Mahan.  The governor is mixed up with the singer and the sheriff and others seem to be asserting control over the investigation awfully quickly.  Cuddy claims it is a suspicious death within his city's, Hillston's, limits.  Justin discerns that the person involved in the homicide simply resembles the singer.  Soon the identification emerges of Lucy Griggs.   <br /> <br />Hillston is supposed to be a small city in the Piedmont of North Carolina.  Cuddy tells a lot of state officials to resign before he charges them with conspiracy to tamper with a crime scene and destroy evidence.  The governor's wife has always felt she belongs to the state because it made her family wealthy.  The wife of the governor sends a message to Cuddy via Justin not to hurt himself on her behalf.   <br /> <br />Cuddy needs to establish who is the perpetrator of the serial crimes.  Whoever he is, he is close to the Hillston police department.  This is way better than the usual crime story.  There are many colorful characters and much realistic detail.  The plot is convoluted but reasonable in the bizarre world of tormented miscreants.	2004-08-14
556934:US	52300235	R12031990SB0JZ	0670031399	390297151	Rumpole Rests His Case	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Reading Between the Lines	Rumpole is emboldened by Erskine-Brown's claret to sing.  He is to go to Norfolk to Coldsands Church Christmans Day because the rector is a son of a school friend of Hilda, and from Hilda's judgment there is no appeal.  Eric, the rector, is having a problem with the church tower.  He refers to praying as knee work.  Rumpole discovers the rich man Eric hopes to use to have the tower repaired is an old client of his.  Rumpole consents to remain mum on that point if the man contributes to Eric's cause.   <br /> <br />In another story 'she who must be obeyed' attends a school reunion and learns a past victim of her school girl humor did not leave the establishment for reason of the teasing.  In another yarn Hilda has arranged for their flat to be featured on a make-over program on television.  Rumpole is thankful when circumstances induce Hilda to leave the flat in its present state.   <br /> <br />Rumpole refuses Erskine-Brown's  offer of five hours of Wagner.  Claude tells Rumpole that he and Phillada are having a separation.  Rumpole undertakes to speak with Philly.  It seems she has met someone, a politician, who is set up in a drug matter and becomes Rumpole's next client.  In another instance Rumpole has a client who, in front of a judge in the throes of terminal irritation, decides to make a false confession to increase the drama for the sake of the jury.   <br /> <br />One judge is characterized as conducting the proceedings as if Old Bailey were a summary and prejudicial offshoot of the Spanish Inquisition.  Rumpole collapses.  He could be said to have collapsed in the workplace if one were to call Old Bailey a workplace.  Hilda tells him that the criminals he is so fond of will just have to go off to prison quietly.   <br /> <br />Of course the whole thing is a wonderful amount of fun.  John Mortimer's ability to crank out these droll tales is awesome.	2004-08-13
557095:US	52300235	R1AWYQVKK9MQRS	0804108749	809918350	Saint Maybe	Books	5	1	6	N	N	Actions have consequences	Ian is the youngest child of the Bedloe family.  His brother Danny marries a woman, Lucy, with two children, Agatha and Thomas.  Subsequently Ian becomes suspicious of the morals of Danny's wife and shares his misgivings with Danny.  Danny dies when he crashes his automobile.  Ian feels responsible for Danny's death.   <br /> <br />The story is told from shifting viewpoints, first Ian, then Agatha, Thomas, Daphne.  While Ian is away at college he receives a call from his mother telling him that his brother's widow Lucy has died.  Ian learns from a former babysitter that Lucy had been a shoplifter and was not going out to meet a lover that evening before Danny's accident.  This of course changed things in Ian's estimation since even he had shoplifted with his friends.   <br /> <br />When Ian returns home for Christmas break Lucy's three children are still with his parents and the laundry is undone and the presents are unwrapped.  He busies himself performing the chores.  Returning from his vacation job as a mover Ian passes the Church of the Second Chance. Ian learns there that he has to offer God reparations if he wants to be forgiven.   <br /> <br />Ian drops out of college and apprentices himself to a furniture maker to help his parents raise the children.  By the time two of the children are young teenagers Ian feels as if he has been atoning and atoning and is beginning to hate God for not forgiving him. The minister tells Ian to view his burden as a gift and to lean into it.  Raising the children and building furniture is his life.  Ian, through an investigator, manages to locate the children's paternal grandmother.   <br /> <br />Ian is told he has to forgive his brother and his wife.  The children decide Ian should meet Daphne's teacher.  Daphne uses the name Saint Maybe for Ian because he is so careful.  When Ian's mother Bee dies, Daphne feels the vacancy keenly.  Without Bee the house is a mess.  Tthere are no provisions for the cat and so forth.  Bee wasthe executive.  Now everything and everyone still living at home look shabby.  Daphne is still living at home at age 22.  To put the house in order she hires a clutter counselor.  I will not continue the story and ruin it for the reader.  Suffice to say it is wonderful. This is the work of Anne Tyler that is most fully realized.	2004-08-13
557222:US	52300235	R1YSK5NT31DHXH	0345377966	588814086	The Proud Highway: Saga of a Desperate Southern Gentleman, 1955-1967 (The Fear and Loathing Letters, Vol. 1)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Literary to His Finger Tips	William J. Kennedy writes that odd things happen when you intersect with Hunter Thompson.  Kennedy's introduction  describes him as a masterful prose sylist.  Douglas Brinkley, the editor, notes that Hunter Thompson took over Kierkegaard's phrase 'fear and loathing'.  Thompson, Brinkely reports, had a ritual of typing letters at night.  Brinkley believes that Orwell was a supreme influence of Thompson's style.      The letters written during Thompson's service in the Air Force evidence a young person literary to his finger tips.  The editor uses notes to orient the reader by saying, for instance, now he is reading F. Scott FitzGerald, or John Dos Passos.  Like many young people suffering from maladjustment, he was also reading with great interest THE OUTSIDER and THE FOUNTAINHEAD.  Thompson worked as a copy boy at TIME.  Henry Luce set up a free bar for the employees on Sunday evenings.  Hunter details in one of the letters how he took some of Henry Luce's things.      After being fired by TIME for insubordination, Thompson went to work at the MIDDLETOWN DAILY RECORD.  He lost that job when he abused the candy machine.  He thought LIE DOWN IN DARKNESS  was great and wrote a letter to William Styron. (Actually, by reading this collection I learned to take a more charitable view of the journalistic posturing and strutting engaged in by Ernest Hemingway as his way of overcoming the terrible resistance of the blank white page to literary production.)      Thompson moved to San Juan to write for a bowling newspaper.  Photographs show Thompson the Outlaw of Big Sur and Joan Baez, his neighbor.  It was 1961 and he was 33.  Thompson had a piece on Big Sur accepted by ROGUE.  When his piece was published he was evicted for spreading gossip in a smutty magazine.  Thompson sold a short story to ROGUE.      In 1962 he was in Bogata, Colombia.  He went on to Peru, Equador, Bolivia, and Brazil doing pieces for THE NATIONAL OBSERVER.  Carey McWilliams of THE NATION had Hunter Thompson cover the Free Speech Movement.  By 1966 Thompson had his book on the Hell's Angels ready for publication by Random House.  In a letter to Tom Wolfe Thompson described Colorado as one of those squalid-shaped states.      The writing is very lively and energetic.  The editor's presentation of Hunter Thompson is fair and sharp.	2004-08-13
558014:US	52300235	R2WEFIR20WDMV4	0140200436	220273414	Introducing Shakespeare (Pelican)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Working playwright	The works of Shakespeare collected in a household are symbols of English culture.  In Shakespeare's day the stage was not respectable.  Dryden deemed Shakespeare naturally learned. In 1709 Shakespeare was established as a classic by Nathanael Rowe.  Pope praised him lavishly.  Dr. Johnson wrote his famous preface to Shakespeare.  To Coleridge Shakespeare was an emanation of the Godhead.<br /><br />The life of Shakespeare is constructed from documents, tradition, literary references, and his work.  All writers betray their origin.  In 1592, age 28, William Shakespeare emerged as a person in English life.  Henslowe's DIARY 1592-1602 gives a pretty good account of theater conditions.  From 1594 Shakespeare belonged to the Lord Chamberlain's Company.  In 1603 the company became the King's Players.  His burial is recorded in 1616.<br /><br />He was regarded as a great writer from the first.  Shakespeare studies may be divided into the scholarly, the literary and the dramatic.  Studies have been made of the texts, punctuation, words and terms, poetic techniques, and readers' responses, appreciation.  Harley Granville Barker 1910-1913 had the plays acted just as they were written.<br /><br />Greene, Kyd and Marlowe had all died by 1594.  For a short time Shakespeare was the only dramatist with a reputation.  Drama is most imediately affected by material circumstances.  The average life of a new play was about 10 performances.  The Elizabethan actor was a busy man.  The company was a fellowship of players.  They worked in a share system.<br /><br />There is a list of the plays with approximate dates and a discussion of the measures taken to establish the Shakespeare canon.  In style the best and worst of Shakespeare's immature style appears in ROMEO AND JULIET.  THE MERCHANT OF VENICE, two years later, is more advanced.  In the first part of HENRY IV he shows he is a master fo the medium.  LEAR, 1606, shows concentration of thought in its language.  In MACBETH imagery is thickly clotted.  ANTONY AND CLEOPATRA, 1607, has a sort of resonance.  Some see THE TEMPEST as the final and greatest play.  In editing the editor's worst difficulties come when there are two or more early texts.<br /><br />The book is simple and enlightening.  The author is a great scholar of Shakespeare and provides a nice overview of the field.	2004-08-13
559994:US	52300235	RH4OQQCKVAZDN	0743255097	511028652	Your God Is Too Small: A Guide for Believers and Skeptics Alike	Books	5	44	61	N	N	A  Not Too Small Argument	People have knowledge of God through conscience.  However, a feeling of guilt and failure may be quite false.  People can be trained to feel that certain things are not done.  Some people are abnormally afraid of God.      A child might think that God is an old gentleman living in heaven.  Children may outgrow the meek and mild Saviour and find their heroes elsewhere.  The meek and mild idea operates below the conscious level of many Christians.  Thoughts and actions may be inhibited.      Phillips identifies absolute perfection as a false god.  He claims the one hundred percent standard is a real menace.  It is a prescription for guilt and misery.  Followers of religion have found God to be their refuge and strength.  It is not right to view God as party leader of a particular view.  No denomination has a monopoly of God's grace.  The 'outsider' sees clearly the advantages of a unified Christian front.      Another too small idea views God as a sort of managing director.  We should not model God on what we know of man.  To some the image of God is a blur of disappointment.  Such people do not know the terms under which we inhabit the planet.  It is necessary to see the immensely broad sweep of the Creator's activity.  The vastness seems to depersonalize God.      Beauty and goodness and the search for truth exert an effect on man.  True love and self-sacrifice have always been the most moving human attributes.  Christ taught that love should go out to other people and out to God.  The truth taught by Jesus is the right way to live.  The purpose of life is loving God and doing his will.  Christ deemed pride, self-righteousness and the exploitation of others sinful.  The follower of the new way is called to spread the good news.	2004-08-10
561747:US	52300235	R1EMYJLBVI3RRX	0393318842	378020067	She Came to Stay	Books	5	5	8	N	N	A Proud Emotional Creature	Francoise and Pierre Labrousse are a couple.  Xaviere is a student from Rouen.  Xaviere's real life has yet to begin.  Pierre suggests that perhaps he and Francoise can help Xaviere manage to live in Paris.   <br /> <br />When Xaviere comes to live in the same hotel as Francoise, she spends much of her time alone in her room.  After the rehearsal of Pierre's play, Pierre and Francoise go to a bar by habit.  When Pierre becomes interested in a person he is able to carry on a conversation for hours with angelic ferocity.  This is part of his generosity.  Francoise persuades Xaviere to accompany her to the bar.   <br /> <br />An example of Xaviere's thinking is Xaviere holds that concerts are a ridiculous convention since it is silly to arrange to hear music at a certain time.  Pierre speaks of his confounded mania for making a conquest.  While Pierre is acting Francoise is able to work on her novel.  After Xaviere moves to Paris Francoise finds that she has little free time.   <br /> <br />At a party Francoise and Pierre's sister Elisabeth view the actresses as having an embalmed youth to their appearances.  Francoise believes that the life of Pierre and hers that is perfect as to form is beginning to lose its substance.  She  becomes ill and has to move to a nursing home for care.  The night of the New Year's Eve party Pierre had offered to give up Xaviere and now it seems to Francoise that Xaviere and Pierre are in love.   <br /> <br />When Francoise and Pierre are in the presence of Xaviere she becomes upset because she, Xaviere, feels her feelings are being dissected.  Since Pierre and Francoise are supposed to have a perfect love, she, Francoise,  becomes annoyed when Pierre and Xaviere bring their love to her attention.  Francoise endeavors to focus on everyone as part of a trio.  Elisabeth thinks that Xaviere is a sly fickle girl.  Francoise comes to the realization that watching Xaviere so closely is squalid.   <br /> <br />Both Pierre and Francoise seek to influence Xaviere and she suffers from their attention.  In the end Francoise chooses to be alone, Pierre is in the service, (it is 1940 or so and the war is going on), and Xaviere is estranged.  (Alternatively Francoise and Xaviere end up dead.)  <br /> <br />This is the novel, I have read, in which the author worked out her ideas about freedom, existentialism, and in turn transmitted them to Jean Paul Sartre for philosophical exposition.  I have also read that situations such as the one described here gave rise to ethical complaints from parents causing De Beauvoir to lose her license to teach. The book has always been too schematic for my tastes as fiction qua fiction, but one cannot help being intrigued by the historical notoriety of the book.	2004-08-09
563587:US	52300235	R3M0LFUN4CGPD1	0446358916	889557842	Ferguson Affair	Books	3	2	14	N	N	Pygmalion	William Gunnarson is an attorney.  His client, Ella Barker, is a nurse.  She possesses a diamond ring taken in a burglary.  She has been threatened.  In nine out of seventeen burglaries the victim was in the hospital.   <br /> <br />Broadman, a pawnbroker, dies from an assault.  He is suspected of being a fence.  Gunnarson's client gives him a lead to a friend of hers, a lifeguard who, it seems, has recently run off with a movie star.  Later Gunnarson learns the movie star has been kidnapped and the chief suspect, at least for an earlier crime, has been shot by a police officer.  Gunnarson's wife Sally is upset he does not spend more time with her.   <br /> <br />More deaths and confusion ensue in the sordid and convoluted plot.  It is possible the movie star is a willing participant in her own disappearance.  It is also possible she has a double.	2004-08-07
564685:US	52300235	R372MF2WSS72MU	0399500278	526353736	Art	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Bloomsbury Sensibility	The book was written ninety years ago.  People who repond instantly to art may not be capable of talking about it.  One must start with the personal experience, a peculiar emotion.  It is possible for theories of aesthetics to have general validity.   <br /> <br />How quaint to be discussing Landseer, Frith, Alma Tadema.  What is primitive tends to move people.  For appreciation we need only a sense of form and color.  The aesthetically challenged will remember paintings by their subjects.  People are more humble about appreciating music than the visual arts.   <br /> <br />Clive Bell says that significant form moves him.  He claims there are only two kinds of art--good and bad.  He sees Post Impressionism as a return to first principles.  The artist has got to feel the necessity of making his work right.   <br /> <br />Religion like art is concerned with the world of emotional reality.  There is a connection of religion and art and it is history.  The moral justification for art may be considered to be linked to pleasure, goodness, beauty, utility.  It may be a matter of valuation.  If art produces a good state of mind, and it does, it is ethical.   <br /> <br />Greek civilization was sick by the time of sack of Corinth.  Materialism infected the ages of Marcus Aurelius and Queen Victoria.  The paintings in the catacombs are classical.  Bell seeks to identify eras of enthusiasm.  One has to think of what has survived successfully.  Every artist sacrifices form to substance.   <br /> <br />Bell calls Giotto a peak.  Afterwards there was a long decline.  It is claimed that all of the artists of the nineteenth century are ominous.  Modern artists owe a debt to Cezanne.  He showed a method.  Humans need to be freed from erudition and well-meaning efforts to induce art appreciation.	2004-08-05
564953:US	52300235	R2WC4YL2ML25RH	0821411896	446781875	Wound And The Bow: Seven Studies In Literature	Books	5	14	21	N	N	Parentless and helpless child	Dickens was Dostoyevsky's master.  Shaw and Chesterton saw Dickens as a very great writer.  His grandfather had been a butler and his grandmother a housekeeper.  When Charles's father went to Marshalsea Prison when he was twelve his life changed.  His whole nature was penetrated by grief and humiliation.  Wilson's theory is that the literary work is compensation for the wound.  In the middle of his career Dickens experienced a mounting dislike for the top layers of middle class society.  Dickens invented a new literary genre, the novel of the social group.  In LITTLE DORRIT the fable was presented through imprisoning states of mind.  Dickens was emotionally unstable, almost as unstable as Dostoyevsky.<br /><br />The wound of Kipling also occurred in his childhood when his parents left him in the care of a heartless aunt while they returned to India.  The trauma is recounted by Kipling in BAA, BAA BLACK SHEEP.  Kipling's sister termed the place the 'house of desolation'.  Kipling's work was shot through with hate.  Kipling's failure of nerve may be explained by the fact that he lacked faith in the artist's vocation.  Some stories show Kipling's morbid permanent sense of injury.  Inescapable illness dominates the later Kipling.<br /><br />The theme of Casanova's Memoirs is the many things life may hold.  Edith Wharton's later work dulled the reputation of her earlier work.  Kipling, Dickens, Wharton were all maladjusted.  Edith Wharton writes of the conflict between the individual and the social group.  Mrs. Wharton was always aware of the pit of misery, the wastefulness of the plutocracy.  Wilson believes that Mrs. Wharton's genius was triggered by an exceptional emotional strain.<br /><br />Hemingway possessed an exceptional mimetic gift.  He mastered a precise and clear style.  The actual title of the collection of essays is derived from Wilson's essay on Sophocles's play, PHILOCTETES.  There is the conception that superior strength is inseparable from disability.disability.	2004-08-05
565986:US	52300235	RVJRQVTLE84C	0060956402	723179563	The Blue Nile	Books	5	11	14	N	N	The Emperor Theodore	The river is 2750 miles long.  The source is located in Ethiopia.  It is 6000 feet above sea level.  Lake Tana is the source of the river.  After the Tisisat Falls, the river makes a great gash across the Ethiopian plateau.  The Blue Nile joins the White Nile at Khartoum.  The Blue Nile brings life down from the mountains to the desert and the delta.   <br /> <br />In the 18th century James Bruce declared that he had been to the source of the Blue Nile.  He was brave and determined and a dedicated amateur.  Bruce thought the Blue Nile was the main stream and the White Nile was a tributary.  Affairs in Ethiopia were nightmarish.  The Ethiopian warriors were impressed by the power of his rifle.  His book appeared in 1790, seventeen years after his expedition.   <br /> <br />Bonaparte dreamed of Alexandrian conquests.  He felt that as a man of the Mediterranean he understood Islamic rulers.  When he decided to take Egypt, the secret of his destination was well-kept.  The garrison at Malta was taken in the first assault.  At the time Alexandria had been decimated but Cairo was flourishing.  Memphis had decayed into nothing.  The Mamelukes, a military oligarchy, had been the rulers in fact for the five hundred years before the advent of the French.  Alexandria was captured easily and then Cairo was occupied.   <br /> <br />Up to 1798 Egyptology did not exist.  The French Navy was defeated by Lord Nelson and in 1801 a force of English and Turkish soldiers forced the French to leave Egypt.  Almost all of Bonaparte's plans for the westernization of Egypt were eventually carried out.  Egypt, the Suadan and Ethiopia were drawn into a new scheme of international politics.   <br /> <br />After Waterloo England was the great sea power.  Muhammad Ali, the ruler of Egypt, hesitated to go into the Sudan and Ethiopia fearing to antagonize the British.  A French traveler, Cailliaud, reported on the ruins at Meroe and his account formed the basis of all subsequent archaeology at the site.  Flaubert visited the Upper Nile in 1850 and provided a description of its gaudy squalor and sensual excitement.  Luxor became an English watering place.   <br /> <br />The politics of Ethiopia became bound up with the politics of its ruler, the Emperor Theodore, a raging reformer and tyrant.  When he imprisoned the British consul and the actions of the Queen's representative did not result in the freeing of the consul, an expedition in  1868 was mounted to achieve that objective.  The expedition was under the auspices of General Namier and the Indian Army.  At a point when the Ethiopians preferred surrender to the superior forces, the Emperor Theodore killed himself.  He was buried by Coptic priests.  The empire collpsed entirely.   <br /> <br />Colonel R.E. Cheesman, age 84, the last of the African explorers appears on the author's acknowledgment page.  The book is wonderfully enlightening and compelling.	2004-08-04
567971:US	52300235	RV2QVR3KDOYUK	0679720227	169376079	The Fall	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Cartesian Frenchman	The setting is a bar in Amsterdam.  The speaker is Jean-Baptiste Clamence, a lawyer.  The name of the bar is Mexico City.  Clamence says he is a judge-penitent.  In Paris he specialized in representing victims and in being on the right side.  He had scorn for judges.  His courtesy was famous.  He was considered generous.  He always wanted to be lofty. <br /> <br />A turning point had been reached when a woman previously unknown to him had committed suicide.  He did not know for certain, he did not read the papers after the incident.  He had failed to acknowledge her.  For a long time he had lived an illusion of shared general agreement.  Basic truths are simply truths we discover after all the others.   <br /> <br />He never believed human affairs were serious matters.  The term justice gave him strange fits of rage.  He felt stifled.  He wanted to break open the wax figure presented everywhere.  He states that for thirty years he was in love only with himself.  Truth is a colossal bore.  The character finds his vocation at last in public confession.	2004-08-03
568034:US	52300235	R1YQMXPI631J5T	0553579991	669135791	The Raven and the Nightingale	Books	3	0	1	N	N	A  Ph.D. is not a credential for guilt or innocence	It is Enfield College in western New England, (one thinks of names of actual colleges, Elmira, Endicott), and Professor Pelletier is teaching Poe to freshmen.  Poe was not emotionally balanced.  Maybe dead women turned him on.      Karen Pelletier from Lowell, Massachusetts, a grittier place, was in her third year at Enfield.  Students at Enfield felt a sense of entitlement.  The professor ate dinner with a friend from the sociology department on maternity leave.  Elliot Corbin, a Poe scholar, wants to be the Palaver, (yes, Palaver), Endowed Chair and the department  head, Miles Jewell, dislikes him.  His office is next to Karen Pelletier's.      There is a nineteenth century American literature Study Group that meets monthly.  A colleague tells Karen she should be discussing Poe as a discursive function.  Enfield College received a bequest for a research center, stipulating that Karen be the director of it.  Karen has a special delivery package mailed to her in conjunction with her leadership of the center.  Other people in the department would be happy to derail the intended women's center and use the funds for other kinds of literary studies.    Elliot Corbin becomes a homicide victim.  Karen's name is found at the crime scene.  Lieutenant Piotrowski gives her the news and stays for a plate of her Thanksgiving fare.  The lieutenant asks Karen to help with the investigation.      Karen rewards herself with cookies and CNN to get her grading completed.  The semester is tight and the pace is brutal as everything must be fit into the period between Labor Day and Christmas.  It turns out that there is a missing student, Mike Vitale, who bears a striking resemblance to the dead man.  The work is a lot of fun to read and seems to be a realistic portrayal of academic life.	2004-08-03
568989:US	52300235	RT8TOBFJHMCKK	0440129613	194399773	The Godwulf Manuscript (Spencer, No. 1) (Spenser)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Doing what is feasible and prudent	The university president sought the return of a manuscript that had survived the pillage of church property under Henry VIII.  A group was trying to extort money from the university for its safe return.  Spenser arranges to see the secretary of a radical students' organization by running into her, Terry Orchard, after class.  She denies her organization is trying to ransom the manuscript.  Spenser is reminded by someone that on a college campus he is on the other side.   <br /> <br />Much later that evening Terry calls Spenser for help.  (Around ten years before the writing of this book I spent some time in the same environs.  It interested me to note how coarsened things had become and how BU under Silberman's presidency was undoubtedly cleaned up.)  There is a homicide and Spenser instructs Terry not to speak until her lawyer is available.  Spenser used to work out of the Suffolk Co. D.A.'s office.  In West Newton, as elsewhere, status ascends as the hill rises.  A nice touch is a novel by Joyce Carol Oates at Terry Orchard's house.   <br /> <br />This story runs forward without Susan and Hawk.  Apparently Robert Parker introduced them as characters later.  Spenser is directed to an English professor who taught a course entitled the Rhetoric of Revolution.  Spenser works out at the Boston YMCA.  A PI investigating a professor, Lowell Hayden, would be a problem for the university.  Terry flees her home and her mother believes she is staying with a group in Cambridge.  Spenser enters an apartment in a neighborhood of triple deckers and keeps her out of harm's way.   <br /> <br />The story moves swiftly and surely as the professor hides his involvement in radical group politics and drug dealing.	2004-08-02
569200:US	52300235	R2VKZ3LH19UYRK	0142437344	247841222	A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Word drunk	Wordplay is immediately brought to the reader's attention.  It is hard to think of a more word drunk person than James Joyce.    Even at Christmas Stephen Dedalus's family argued about Parnell.  At school Stephen was accused by the English master of uttering heresy in his essay.  He was tormented by other boys when he claimed Byron was a better poet than Tennyson.      James Joyce casts this story of his exquisitely sensitive, exquisitely gifted younger self into a tale of schooling under the Jesuits, being subject to the whims of everyone about him.  It is said of the character that at Belvedere, one of the schools he attended, he had battled the squalor around him and the riot of his mind.      At the college everyone makes a retreat for the feast of St. Francis Xavier.  Stephen sought to bring his senses under rigorous discipline for spiritual reasons.  He tried to mortify sight, hearing, taste, smell.  At the end of the restraint and piety he was still easily subject to imperfection to his surprise.  His soul had a sensation of desolation, spiritual dryness.  A priest asked Stephen if had had a call to the vocation.  Stephen was destined not to be in an order, but to be on the outside and to have to make his way.      Finally Stephen is a university student.  His mother has to wash him he is so dirty.  He searches for the essence of beauty.  He talks of Aquinas with the other students.  He says he has lost his faith, but not his self-respect.  There is beauty.  There are women.      Speaking of faith, it seems blasphemous to attempt a review of this masterpiece.	2004-08-02
569792:US	52300235	R1BYLDY3IV3UUK	0385240899	68237838	The Floating Opera and The End of the Road	Books	5	4	9	N	N	Men are  attracted to the bon mot, not the mot juste	In THE FLOATING OPERA the main character's name is Todd Andrews.  The focus is on a day, June 21, 1937.  Todd is 54 years old and six feet tall.  The Floating Opera is the name of a showboat.  Jane Mack is Todd's mistress.  Harrison Mack, her husband, is Todd's excellent friend.  The hero has a weak heart and as a consequence rents a room at his hotel by the day.  The author describes a breakfast of Maryland beaten biscuits, doublers, Cambridge, and the Choptank River.  As a boy Andrews labored on a dinghy when he wanted a schooner.  In 1935 the narrator began building his second boat, systematically.  Miss Clara Malloy is described as the Mary Pickford of the Chesapeake.  She is part of the show Andrews sees.  On the enumerated date Andrews is to commit suicide, but then changes his mind. <br /> <br />The main character of THE END OF THE ROAD is Jacob Horner.  He seeks to obtain a position at a teachers college located on the Eastern Shore.  He moves from Baltimore to Wicomico, deciding to reside there whether or not he is hired.  He finds, to his surprise, a really perfect room to rent.  He arrives at his interview 24 hours early.  It had been rescheduled because one member of the panel was with the Boy Scouts at Camp Rodney.  The recorded music he owns is all Mozart except for a manic Russian piece, Gliere.  Both novels recount a single man's friendship with a married couple.  The people are special, the kinds found in universities.  They live their lives in programatic fashion.   There is a willed quality to their marital existence.  Jacob is being treated in a kind of therapy to make him conscious of his existence to overcome paralysis.  He is afraid of violence and experiences self-contempt because he has been a deceiver.  There is a pregnancy and tragedy ensues. <br /> <br />Both novels are entertaining and accomplished.  Each is filled with the lure and the lore of Maryland's Eastern Shore.     <br /> <br />	2004-08-01
571464:US	52300235	R3COS7K1FVGPV0	0517799928	513052766	Morse's Greatest Mystery	Books	3	1	5	N	N	Studied ambiguity	The prisoner was Muldoon.  Morse and the other police officers were to link him to terrorism and ensure his stay at the Oxford prison.  Lewis, the second in command, was  patient with the irrascible nature of his boss, Chief Inspector Morse.   <br /> <br />A car thief shares Morse's idea that Die Walkure is the greatest opera ever composed.  The car thief pinched a car and returned it, as Morse explained to Lewis.  The deception ran on several different levels.   <br /> <br />Dexter includes a story he wrote narrated by Dr. Watson and featuring Sherlock Holmes and his brother Mycroft.  Watson solves the mystery.  In another matter Morse opines that the person who finds the body is the prime suspect.  The stories are very modern.	2004-07-30
571519:US	52300235	R33OLZQDYAK2HC	0395537568	484619137	Twenty-One: Selected Stories	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The past is like a picture gallery	In the autumn there is a special stiff atmosphere to Illinois small towns.  A narrator functioned as a driver in his father's quest to be lieutenant governor.  They were shunned by the gubernatorial candidate because they were losing.  The campaign manager left and the advance men joined other campaigns.  Tom Lewis, the son, now middle-aged, is a U.S. Congressman.  His seat is safe.  In his hideaway office there is the New York Edition of Henry James.  To be a Congressman he was compelled  to give up his artist female friend, Jo.   <br /> <br />Marshall, Harry and Jan are traveling in France.  Jan and Marshall go to Germany.  Returning to Paris, they learn that Harry has gone to Cyprus.  A woman journalist, Paige, from North Carolina has a patron.  In various war zones journalists behave like a large unruly family.  She asks what is the difference between sex and violence, ecstasy and fear.  Mostly she keeps her fear to herself.  In her eighth year she learns her parents are separating after forty years of marriage.  An English journalist is highly reckless.  He has a sense of limitless possibility.  He drifts out of her life.  In Africa she is in the hospital.  She can pay.  The bed is hers.  Journalists visit her. <br /> <br />Flaubert gives a Congressman his taste for politics.  He is forty.  He has been in the House since age 28.  Burns, a state department employee, a linguist, is being loaned to the CIA.  His first year at Langley is disagreeable.  In his spare time Burns played backgammon as a substitute for diplomacy. <br /> <br />A Senator's press relations are handled by Gloria Noone.  Fatalism has served the Senator well in politics.  He hired Noone when she was precise about Iowa having seven districts.  The task at hand is to prepare a statement concerning his marital separation. <br /> <br />A medal of honor winner states that after action reports are only half right.  He is a captain.  He claims his wife understands that his job is soldiering.  Changesof administration sweep out government lawyers and even have impact on the private firms.  A man named Paul Candler is, as he says, trying to get back into the game.  Formerly he was counsel to the president.  The office in the proposed firm is only one third the size of the one he had previously.  Habits die hard. <br /> <br />Connor was a magazine journalist.  His wife was French and had a sense of order.  He was transferred to a war zone.  The zone resembled a prison.  She had dinner parties.  Then she left to return to Paris.  He is able to spend two years stationed in London, but the marriage has failed.  He believes the result would have been different with children. <br /> <br />In another story there is a woman journalist in a war zone who has fallen in love with a fellow journalist.  Mention is made of works by Henry James, Flaubert, and others.  She goes away and upon her return something is wrong.  In the hyper stimulating scene of war he has forgotten her.  A man travels with nothing but Walter Lippmann's A PREFACE TO MORALS.  He and a friend avoid hotel bars and play bridge.  A war zone is a neurotic's refuge.  A character's life is enlarged and grows in harmony with the war.  Eventually a man who reports on the war and writes to his children frees himself of facts all together. <br /> <br />Stories are set in Washington D.C., war zones, Boston, the Midwest, and Vermont-- the Northeast Kingdom.  The stories in the latter half of the book hold more interest than those at the beginning.  Formerly I preferred the political stories, but now I have come to enjoy the others.	2004-07-30
572234:US	52300235	R3RSP0GL6NJI0Y	0517174405	827766658	With Bleeding Footsteps	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Coping with injuries, slightings and overwhelmings	This is a measured account of Mary Baker Eddy's life by a biographer with psychoanalytic training.  Lee Johnson, Director of the Archives of the Mother Church and Robert Peel read early versions of the manuscript.  Thomas also spoke with Stephen Gottschalk.  He contends Mary Baker Eddy is elusive to the historian.  He claims that as a famed religious leader she reinvented herself.   <br /> <br />Her father was severally clerk of the Congregational Church, coroner, Justice of the Peace.  He was a Calvinist.  By the 1820's and 1830's Calvinism was losing its force.  In the 19th century however there was a vestigial Puritanism  and this was evident in the Bakers' family religion.  Mary had a highly memorable personality even as a child.  Illnesses may very well have filled her with a sort of unspeakable anxiety.  She seemed to have a precocious awareness of suffering and death.  She sought exterior order, neatness, to mask the fragile inner self.   <br /> <br />She experienced early widowhood and her tie to her son George was impeded by illness.  Phrenology and spritualism were two of the fads of the day.  Spiritualism was considered a science and it was also a surrogate religion.  The death of Mary's mother in 1849 triggered events such as her father's remarriage a year later, the displacement of Mary and her son from Mark Baker's home, and the separation of Mary from her son.  George was sent to live with foster parents in North Groton.  Mary remarried.  In 1856 her son was moved to Minnesota.   <br /> <br />In 1859 she and her second husband Daniel Patterson retreated from North Groton and moved to the village of Rumney.  In 1862 her husband, sightseeing, was captured by the rebels at Bull Run.  She had been investigating homeopathy and hydropathy and the Graham diet to cure her illnesses.  Homeopathy was seen as a way station to Christian Science by its discoverer.  Followers of homeopathy saw disease as fundamentally a matter of spirit.  There was close connectionto both mesmerism and Swedenborgianism.   <br /> <br />In 1862, at age forty-two, Mrs. Patterson went to Portland, Maine seeking the services of a healer, Phineas Parkhurst Quimby.  Quimby had a restless imagination.  He was an inventor.  Through practicing mesmerism he came to the conclusion that a cure was to be found by mind.  He understood disease to have a psychosomatic root.  Quimby had brimming self-confidence and bottomless empathy.  Mary was cured but in January 1863 suffered a relapse.  She returned to Portland in the summer of 1863.  Quimby died in 1866.   <br /> <br />That same year, 1866, the fall in Lynn took place, the event providing the condition precedent to the  discovery of Christian Science.  In the future Mary Baker Eddy would be spiritually integrated, but personally she would remain vulnerable to stresses and strains.  She married Gilbert Eddy in 1877.  He died in 1882.  The years of Eddy's religious leadership are recounted in comprehensible terms.  The seeming contradictions of her personality are considered on psychoanalytic and historical grounds.   <br /> <br />A facet of Mrs. Eddy's leadership was her ability to draw out the best in her students.  Deep emotional attachments, however, between the teacher and the students played havoc with spiritual intentions.  Difficulties with Emma Hopkins, Clara Choate and Josephine Woodbury, among others, are detailed.  During the late 1880's and the 1890's the students' glorification of Mrs. Eddy became excessive.   <br /> <br />As an executive Mrs. Eddy was able to combine rational and nonrational decision-making processes.  She was never at ease with the physical grandeur of her church.  This work was fifteen years in the making.  The achievement of its author repays the time spent.  The life of Mary Baker Eddy is endlessly fascinating to the students of the religion she founded and to others.  Mrs. Eddy exemplifies 19th century lives.  The endnotes to the volume are of special interest.	2004-07-29
572890:US	52300235	R2HQXDEQL8LRTD	0807847267	589590754	An Outer Banks Reader	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Life-Saving Service and Other Reports	Nags Head became a summer resort in the 1830's.  Ocracoke and Silver Lake are described in a piece written in 1956 concerning spending vacations on that island.  Tea is made from the leaves of yaupons.      Commercial hunters and others gravitated to Currituck Sound as a paricularly rich hunting area in the 1880's.  Rachel Carson describes the plenitude of the life forms on the barrier islands.  Blue fish have a histroy of population surges.  A 31 pound blue was caught in 1972.      Early settlers on the Outer Banks told of large areas of lush forest.  Logging and grazing denuded many acres of the banks.  From a geological viewpoint the Outer Banks are one of the most dynamic areas under the jurisdiction of the National Park Service.  Nags Head Woods is the most diverse forest on the Atlantic coast.      Cape Hatteras National Seashore was conceived in 1933.  It is only a third as large as the original plan.  It is interspersed with development.  Cape Lookout National Seashore, by contrast, is an unstructured experience.  There are no camp sites, no life guards.  The attraction is surf fishing.  Portsmouth Island remained populated into the 20th century.  The hurricanes of 1933 and 1944 were devastating.  In 1956 the population was 17 and by 1971 only two people remained.      In 1874 the Life-Saving Service opened. (The Outer Banks are known as the graveyard of the Atlantic.)  Initially there were seven stations, later there were twenty five.  Pea Island at Roanoke Island was manned by an all Black crew.  Etheridge, the leader, ran the station with military precision.      Confederate privateers used Hatteras Inlet as a rendezvous.  Hatteras was captured by federal forces in 1861.  In 1862 at the Battle of Roanoke Island, the Burnside Expedition gained control of the northeast quadrant of the state.  There are articles on whaling and on the 'banks' ponies.  The 19th century visitor would have seen windmills used for grinding corn.      The sharpie, the shad boat and spritesail skiff are among the sail-powered work boats used in the 19th century.  Fishing, an independent way of making a living, is fraught with physical danger and financial risk.      The Midgetts were legendary surfmen and stations keepers.  Now, (1937), three Coast Guard stations are headed by Midgetts.  The Elizabethan Gardens endure as a memorial to the English settlers as does the Lost Colony dramatic production.      Until the 1990's Ernie Bowden was a rancher on Currituck Banks.  Most of the crab houses are in Engelhard on the Pamlico Sound.  There are also several in Wanchese. In 1864 a Freeman's Colony was established on Roanoke Island.      The volume is chock full of history and trivia enabling the visitor to enjoy the area from his regular residence after the end of the vacation period.	2004-07-29
573315:US	52300235	R2CC28FEHJFAG0	0875102247	480894479	Christian Science: A Sourcebook of Contemporary Materials	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An absolute faith that all things are possible	The book was prepared to tell non-Christian Scientists about Christian Science.  The writings in the collection are reliable expressions of what Christian Scientists believe.  The roots of Mary Baker Eddy's teachings are in Puritanism.  In Christian Science there is an emphasis on practical regeneration and healing.  It is little understood and often misunderstood.  Healing in Christian Science is not a cure of bodily ills, but sprititual regeneration.  Mrs. Eddy hesitated to institutionalize Christian Science.   <br /> <br />At the core of every dilemma is an individual's sense of alienation.  Also, there is no substitute for compassion.  Healing is one way of worship.  Prayer involves faith founded on spiritual understanding.  There is emphasis in the teaching of respect for the rights of others.  The founding of THE CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR marks the high point of social concern in the Christian Science movement.  The book contains a useful table of sources and an index.  It serves as a good introduction for students of religion.	2004-07-28
573696:US	52300235	R342I7869AIIR5	1400041414	10533115	The Murder Room (Adam Dalgliesh Mystery Series #12)	Books	5	1	6	N	N	Specific to its age	Adam Dalgliesh visited the Dupayne Museum before a body was found there.  A room at the Dupayne was called the murder room.  The Dupayne specialized in things related to the nineteen twenties and thirties.  In the murder room the most notorious cases of the interwar years were covered.  There was a library with first editions.  Dalgliesh felt the writers interpreted the interwar years more effectively than the visual artists.      Marcus, Neville and Caroline Dupayne made museum decisions.  James Calder-Hale served as an unpaid curator.  He was writing a book.  For a mystery story the characters are wonderfully rounded.  The three Dupaynes, trustees of their father's estate and museum, failed to agree to sign the lease for the museum.    There is a fire at the museum at a garage where a trustee's car is parked.  The unpaid curator, it seems, works as an informant for MI5.  Both Adam and the probable burn victim, Neville, drive Jaguars.  Neville, a psychiatrist, had not been sufficiently detached for his own peace of mind.  Another victim is found in the murder room.      This is a great and good offering of a talented and conscientious crime novelist.	2004-07-28
577875:US	52300235	R1ITBIUFE39JOL	B00005W07H	934010788	Heat : an 87th Precinct novel	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Nagging the thing called death around the clock	The officers report to a location of a homicide or a suicide.  One of the officers is encountering friction with his wife, a model, who doesn't understand the necessities of police work conflict with a social calendar.  The writing is sharp and competent.  The reader is brought into the story immediately.   <br /> <br />The deceased had been an alcoholic.  He was in his second marriage.  Two years previously his father had committed suicide by gunfire.  He had remarked recently that his father had the right idea.  His wife had been away from him for a week.   <br /> <br />When Halloran left prison after twelve years he went to look up his daughter Moira.  The death being investigated becomes less a matter of self-infliction as it is learned that the deceased person had a phobia about swallowing pills.  Halloran is part of the action because he has an insane amount of resentment against one of the officers that he intends to discharge.   <br /> <br />The officers continue to puzzle out the facts surrounding the death of the alcoholic.  It seems his father had left him a substantial number of valuable paintings.  The targeted police officer is stalking his wife.  He and his wife talk.  He is in homicide, nagging that thing called death around the clock.   <br /> <br />The author links up all of the strands of the story to a successful conclusion.  The pseudonymous writer wrote a number of works in different genres.  His professionalism shines through in this effort.  The story is satisfyingly complex and is told in a compelling, brisk and terse way.	2004-07-24
578103:US	52300235	R5LZNBV7N18EV	0553212478	655343360	Frankenstein	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Romantic delight	Rereading this work one wonders is it silly or not, and if it is not silly, why couldn't Mary Shelley have repeated her achievement.  She lived a long life, enjoying fame as Shelley's widow.<br /><br />The work is seemingly as marvellous as ever.  The wild story is perfectly balanced by the writing done in the classical style of the times.  Frankenstein is, of course, a variant of the Prometheus myth.  Both Byron and Shelley were working on the myth in their poetic careers when this novel was composed, rather as a lark.<br /><br />Mary Shelley describes Scotland and Switzerland, places of particular and significant happiness to her.  Victor Frankenstein discovers he has the power of bestowing animation.  He beholds the monster he created on a day in November.<br /><br />Victor learns from his father of the death of his younger brother William.  Returning to his father's house, he discovers that a girl, Justine Moritz, is suspected of having committed the murderous deed.  Victor puts forth the claim that Justine is innocent.  Poor Justine is convicted and seeking absolution at the point of her execution, she makes a false confession.  Victor feels that he is really the murderer.  His visage shows despair, subject to detection by his cousin Elizabeth.<br /><br />Victor finds the demon at Mount Blanc.  The monster reminds him that he is his creation.  The monster recounts to Victor his adventures in voyeurism.  He surreptitiously assisted the cottagers upon whom he spied.  He gathered wood for them.  From them he became aware of language and began to note their poverty.  The monster educated himself by means of the works of Goethe, Plutarch and Milton.  By showing himself, the monster caused the family to depart.<br /><br />He wants Victor to produce a female.  Victor fears the disappointed fiend, but finds he cannot overcome his repugnance to make a mate for the creature.  He is also faced with the duty and desire to wed his cousin, but he is conscious of the threat of  death to his bride should he wed.  Victor undergoes the death of his friend Clerval and imprisonment in Ireland.  His fiendish adversary pursues him to the end.  The finale is operatic.  The doubling effect throughout the novel is masterly.e wed.  Victor undergoes the death of his friend Clerval and imprisonment in Ireland.  His fiendish adversary pursues him to the end.  The finale is operatic.  The doubling effect throughout the novel is masterly.	2004-07-24
578333:US	52300235	R27S013383BE6A	0394757688	849452523	The Long Goodbye	Books	5	1	5	N	N	An author's attributes	Raymond Chandler was a master.  Terry Lennox, one of the main characters shares some of the author's attributes.  He has a propensity to drink too much and has an English accent.  He has a two hundred dollar suitcase checked in a locker.  Englishmen do not shake hands all the time it is observed.  Marlowe says that guys like Terry always say they are sorry and it is always too late.<br /><br />When Marlowe returns from taking Terry to Mexico he is met by the homicide detectives.  Sylvia Lennox is found in the guest house at the back of the property, battered.  The servants know all about lights and cars at unreasonable hours.  The shamus finds himself in custody.  Someone, not Terry Lennox, supplies a lawyer, gratis.  A newspaperman friend tells Marlowe someone is building a wall round the case.<br /><br />The author, as we know, is masterful.  He creates an atmosphere, a spell with his writing.  He is highly literate and this is gratifying to the well-read reader who is sort of slumming by reading detective fiction.  Marlowe's next client, or perhaps problem is Roger Wade, a genre writer given to excessive drinking.  Marlowe meets Linda Loring, someone who has known Terry Lennox, and is a  sister of Sylvia.  There used to be gambling in Idle Valley where Roger Wade lives.  Then it became quiet.  As many readers know, there is a surprise ending.  It is hard to exaggerate the excellence of Chandler's achievement.	2004-07-24
591240:US	52300235	R3OF2B3A7KBZH3	0743260244	924900643	Against All Enemies: Inside America's War on Terror	Books	5	16	24	N	N	Tireless advocate	The Afghan defeat of the Soviet Union caused the Arab fighters to believe they had destroyed a super power.  Sadam's incursion into Kuwait was opposed by the U.S. to guard the Saudis' eastern oil fields.  Famously, Richard Clarke served Reagan, both Bush presidencies, and Clinton.  He was the man in charge in Washington at the time of the 9/11 disaster.  <br />Clarke headed several terrorism funding studies between 1995 and 2000.  It is fascinating to see how a national security assessment works:  for example, the summer Olympic Games in Atlanta, Georgia.  Afterwards there was a plan devised called National Security Special Events.  The first years of the Clinton administration  saw terrorism increase.  There had been an escalation in counter-terrorism funding.  By 1993, 1994 it seemed that Osama bin Laden had a greater role in events than just being a donor.   <br />The book is both interesting and heavy-going.  Clearly, as could be observed in the news programs several months ago, the author is a contentious personality.  There was a rumor that Clarke was a bin Laden target.  Surveillance revealed that the threat was probably bogus.  <br />In 1998 U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania were struck.  Richard Clarke did not think a number of people cooperated  in his counter-terrorism efforts including Louis Freeh and the FBI, Robert Rubin, many officials in Saudi Arabia and Pakistan, Boutros Boutros-Ghali, Barbara Bodine, and Paul Wolfowitz.  The FBI was straitjacketed by guidelines promulgated after Watergate.  <br />C. Rice was the fourth National Security Advisor Clarke had worked for and the seventh he had worked with.  Clarke believed that she and her deputy Steve Hadley were still working in the Cold War paradigm.  She viewed the NSC as a foreign policy coordination mechanism.  She also decided to downgrade the position of National Coordinator for Counter-terrorism.  Iraqi sponsored terrorism against the U.S. had ceased in 1993.  <br />Terrorism is laced with subtlety, nuance.  President Bush is results-oriented.  The problem was the inner circle was not interested in analysis.	2004-07-13
609890:US	52300235	R2TO1Z9RR84HQI	0020188609	17516197	The Case of the Constant Suicides: A Dr. Gideon Fell Mystery	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Locked  Room  Puzzle	There were airstrike warnings.  Alan Campbell, professor, found his sleeping compartment on the train to Glasgow.  Campbell was involved with another person of the same name in a dispute currently lining the letters pages of an historical journal.  He met his adversary, a woman as it turned out, on the train.  Unwillingly they had to share the compartment since there had evidently been a mistake in the booking of the train and no other seats were available. They were both going to the Castle Shira.  A distant cousin, Angus Campbell, had been murdered.  By accident they took a journalist named Swan with them to the castle, they had believed that he was also someone distantly related to Angus.  <br />Angus would not have committed suicide, he had insurance policies with suicide clauses; nevertheless, it seemed that he could not have been murdered, either.  Angus had had a common law wife, but she was so filled with the idea that she must be respectable that she had probably filched Angus's diary to prevent others from seeing his private musings and discovering his relationship with her.  <br />Not finding the diary impeded the investigation of Dr. Fell and others called to the scene.  Amusingly a journalist, a lawyer, and an insurance agent were all present to sort out the details of Angus's death.  In the course of their highly interesting stay at the castle, the two Campbell cousins become interested in each other to a great degree.  Two other men encounter danger and the death of one ensued and the near death of the other occurred prior to the ultimate unraveling of the mystery.  <br />The story is clever and highly satisfying to the reader.  The Scots atmosphere is delightful.	2004-06-29
610647:US	52300235	RBX29EAAAERH8	087483385X	56124377	Haunted Bayou and Other Cajun Ghost Stories	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Spirit tales	Acadian people brought superstition and ghost stories with them in the 1760's the author states.  The volume contains both original and traditional stories.  <br />A bass fisherman encounters ghosts in the \\"Haunted Bayou.\\"  Burning balls of light are involved in \\"The Fifolet.\\"  Rapadeen's demise happens with a fifolet.  A soldier sees the ghost of Jean Lafitte.  Delmar Gulley is a character analogous to the ones found in Mark Twain.  Some boys seek his assistance as  a spirit tamer.  The Theriot brothers claim the fifolet has led them to treasure.  In the end the fate of Gulley is unknown.  <br />A story of onions is a fable pointing to the adage that great riches do not insure happiness.  'Stepmother killed us, papa ate us,' is a song in the story of bones.  \\"Madame Longfingers\\" or Madame Grand Doights is a witch children fear according to the introduction to the selection.  Rufus tries to build a witch trap with crawfish.  <br />A cauchemar is a personification of a nightmare.  Tony Benoit possesses a souped up '57 Chevy.  He is the most popular boy in his high school.  His friend Irene says she does not fear the bayou bogeyman or swamp creature.  Tony wants to scare her on lovers' lane.  Perhaps a real ghost appears.  The Cajun werewolf is loupgarou.  Guillaume and Dupre love the same girl.  One is a werewolf.  <br />There is a glossary in the back of the book.  Readers will enjoy the stories.	2004-06-29
614263:US	52300235	R3L062N9L070BF	0671726099	983910507	Decision Traps: The Ten Barriers to Decision-Making and How to Overcome Them	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Too much belief in personal judgment	Most decisionmakers make the same kinds of error.  There needs to be a frame for each problem.  There should be avoidance of plunging in and relying too heavily on supposed good judgment.  Drawing boundaries are part of framing the questions.  Managers are apt to draw narrow boundaries.      Sometimes there is a failure to draw a boundary line.  There is the sunken cost fallacy, basing current and future changes in operation on past expenditures for equipment.  One is influenced by reference points in the the problem frame.  Some decisions make sense through several different frames.  In such a case there can be certainty that the decision is a good one.      Good communicators align their communications with the listeners' frames.  Virtually all people put too much trust in their own opinions.  Most people favor data supporting current belief.  Wrongly we associate confidence with competence.  One should be a realist when making a decision and an optimist when implementing it. Rules of thumb and other decisionmaking shortcuts are called heuristics.  The disadvantages of intuitive decisionmaking are more profound than people realize.      Members of groups may agree prematurely on wrong decisions.  Groups may suffer from too much cohesiveness, harmony, pressure, insulation, and strong leadership.  In group think people practice self-censorship, pressure others, give in to an illusion of invulnerability and erroneous stereotyping.  Groups composed of people of mixed types of personality are useful--receptive versus focused and thinking versus feeling types.      The book is written in veritable outline form, presumably to get the attention of busy managers.  It has a extensive notes supplementing the text giving a student of business and other  fields an opportunity to pursue related lines of inquiry.	2004-06-26
615060:US	52300235	RA8VHZQ42WOYP	0142437328	338260366	The Awakening and Selected Stories (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Supremely important rediscovery	The author, Kate Chopin, began to write when she was age thirty six.  She had a ten year productive career the introduction by Nina Baym discloses.  She died at age fifty three.  Her work went out of print to be revived in the early 1960's.  She wrote two novels and close to one hundred stories following the death of her husband and her mother.  <br />Women, including Kate Chopin, writing after the Civil War turned to regionalism.  By 1893 railroads had wrought a tremendous change.  Regional writing, as the introduction points out, is tourism of the imagination.  The stories are short and skilfully done.  Even the use of dialect for the Cajun and Creole speakers is not off-putting.  The stories have a wonderful stripped down to the essence quality.  One is reminded of Chekhov.  <br />In THE AWAKENING it is noted that the summer colony staying at the Lebrun cottages are almost entirely Creole.  An exception is Edna Pontellier.  She came from old Presbyterian Kentucky stock.  Even as a child Edna tended to live in her own world.  She feels a sense a of exaltation when she learns to swim.  She has children, a husband, and becomes infatuated with a young friend, Robert Lebrun.  Later Robert leaves to go to Mexico.  Returning to New Orleans, Edna spends time with the people she has met at Grand Isles.  Her husband is caught up in his household furnishings.  When she decides to leave to live by herself in a smaller house, he prudently closes their large marital house to avoid gossip.  Her absolute disregard for her duties as a wife shocks her husband.  Her doctor can find no trace of the morbid condition ascribed to her.  Robert Lebrun returns.  He shows reserve.  Leonce her husband and her children are part of Edna's life.  She yields to the water of the gulf.  <br />Kate Chopin was a writer of major achievement.  One regrets, as outlined in the introduction, that there were no literary works produced by her in the last five years of her life.  She was discouraged by thecritical and moralistic response to her masterpiece, THE AWAKENING.	2004-06-25
615323:US	52300235	R1Q4LPSIDQE0GT	0553574574	956782258	Beach Music	Books	5	3	7	N	N	Case Studies	To fans telling the story again and overwriting are cause to rejoice.  The main character is a widower of one year.  He has a young daughter and determines to move to Europe.  Jack McCall has been blamed by his wife's family for her death.  His sister-in-law seeks him out in Rome.  Jack had been in love with his wife's mother when he was a boy.  Jack survives in Europe by writing about beautiful cities and great places to eat.      Mike, Capers, Jordan, Ledare, and Jack were students in the same high school group.  Mike Hess is doing better than anyone.  He has appeared in PEOPLE MAGAZINE.  Capers Middleton is running for Governor of South Carolina.  Jordan Elliott has joined the Benedictine Order.  For all intents and purposes Jordan has vanished.  There is a suspense build-up as the reader wonders what it is that Jordan has done to make him hide away in various monasteries.      Jack has four brothers-- Tee, Dallas, Dupree and John Hardin.  Their father used to be a man of substance.  Unfortunately he was the town drunk, too.  The father had loved Tolstoy but could not bring himself to love his own family.  Jack returns to South Carolina upon learning that his mother is hospitalized.  Mike sets up a meeting that includes Ledare and Capers in order to obtain the help of his classmates to create a miniseries.  (Actually the author uses a delightful conceit here, that of having a group of high school friends gather together to produce a miniseries.)  Capers begs Jack to support his political career.  It turns out that Capers took child custody from Ledare through the use of private eyes and other machinations and even arranged to kill her favorite tree.       The writing is sensuous.  The story is very very moving.	2004-06-25
619447:US	52300235	R3RAVWTCD4CDIM	1569470928	282675960	The Mind-Murders (Grijpstra De Grier Series)	Books	5	9	21	N	N	We live in patterns	It was a Friday night in the summertime.  Grijpstra and DeGier were faced with a stuck window.  They had overstayed their shift and the weekend had really started.  <br />Police constables may have thrown a handicapped man into a canal.  The constables are called Ketchup and Karate.  Grijpstra and DeGier take off in search of Rea Fortune since her belongings have vanished.  They interview their suspect, Frits Fortune.  His wife had wanted him to sell his business and he did not want to.  It would vary his routine.  A corpse is found on the roof of his house, that of his dog Babette.  <br />The detectives run down Fortune's relatives, Aunt Coba and Uncle Henry.  They are dressed in antique unisex.  They say that as a child Fortune had beheaded his toy bear.  Grijpstra believes that Rea Fortune is a woman of unfulfilled fantasy.  Ketchup and Karate, the constables, contend that Fortune's relatives are mad.  <br />One of the characters reports that everyone has gone to the beach to annoy the tourists.  Amsterdam seems deserted.  Rea Fortune appears.  She is charged with attempted murder of her husband.  Perhaps Mrs. Fortune was merely persuading her husband to sell his business.  DeGier is giving up smoking and his suffering is detailed in the book.  At one point he wants to snatch a nearly full pack of cigarettes from someone.  <br />Two dead people have been found in trunks of cars in Amsterdam.  The first was an accidental death, an overdose.  The other death was from natural causes, an ulcer.  Ulcers may be caused by a malfunctioning of the mind.  It turns out that the police officers had seen the second person staggering on the previous day.  <br />DeGier goes to see a female constable, Asta.  Mr. Boronski, the ulcer case, was found dead in Karl Muller's car.  Muller said the men did business together.  DeGier and Asta interview Muller.  Asta takes notes.  The two interview the hotel manager.  Asta points out that the hotel is hollow, not what it seems.  DeGier plays flute and Grijpstra plays some drums he has gotten from the police lost and found department while they discuss the Boronski case with Asta.  The two police officers, trailing Muller, catch some street muggers.  <br />Asta arrests Muller.  She goes into the canal to retrieve Muller's dropped case. The officers suspect cocaine.  First they had a murder and no corpse and now they have a corpse and no crime except for drugs which is not their department.  German police officers appeared to subject Muller to some rough interrogation.  The Commissaris describes to DeGier and Asta how fear strengthened one man and destroyed another.  The solution is that someone did a secret favor.  This series is tops.  The author is masterful.	2004-06-22
620241:US	52300235	R3DAJTNTOKA0QR	0804113475	376970861	Ladder of Years	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Impostor complex	Anne Tyler writes that years of dealing with teenagers had turned Delia Grinstead into a pacifist.  She has an adventure at the grocery store impersonating the girlfriend of a jilted husband, but no one in her family of two college students, high school age son, Carroll, and doctor husband, Sam, is in a frame of mind to hear about it.  Her father, also a doctor, had lived with them, (they, in fact, lived in his house), but was now deceased.  Delia's sister Linda had been married to a French literature professor.  <br />The family is to go on their annual trip to the Delaware shore.  Delia's sister Eliza is unmarried.  Delia has started to visit Adrian, the man she met in the supermarket.  He is a producer of a newsletter.  Tyler describes Delia's mother-in-law as a guest who feels it her duty to point out the damning flaws in the household.  Her presence makes Delia feel inadequate.  Before going to the shore they always have Sam's mother over for dinner to make up for not taking her with them.  <br />Since the death of Delia's father Sam has been redoing the house and yard.  An old lady arrives at dinnertime to tell Delia to leave Adrian alone.  The garbled statements of the woman save Delia.  She decides that Adrian is shallow, anyway.  They have to take the cat to the beach with them because workmen are sanding the floors at their house in Baltimore.  <br />Delia considers to herself that Sam gets her all riled up, (they had exchanged words, questions about Adrian and the old woman's message), and then, in lofty fashion, removes himself.  After that sort of quarrel with Sam, Delia walks down the beach by herself, and returning to the cottage  she persuades a repairman to give her a ride in the RV he has borrowed from his brother.  He lets her out at an inland town per her request.  She has only Sam's beach robe, her bathing suit and beach shoes on.  <br />She goes to a dime store and purchases underwear and to a dress shop where she buys a dress.  She sees a place advertising rooms for rent and stops there and arranges for weekly accomodations.  She finds a job working for the local lawyer.  Three or so days later she reads in the newspaper that she has disappeared.  No one seems to know the color of her hair or her eyes when her family evidently makes a report to the police.  <br />At the end of the week her sister Eliza shows up in the park where she is eating her lunch.  The repairman had contacted the family following the story in the newspaper.  Eliza says that Sam is roaming the house like a zombie.  Delia's children do not know what to think.  Delia expects Sam to show up in Bay Borough, but he writes a letter saying he will not invade her privacy.  She has always felt redundant, that her sisters or her husband can handle any of her tasks, that she, Delia, is merely playing house.  <br />A private detective brings Delia a stray cat.  Her landlady tells her to keep the cat.  After becoming annoyed with her lawyer-employer, as in the case of her husband the charge is bossiness, Delia goes to an interview for a job as a live-in sitter and companion.  She spends Christmas on her own while the boy goes to see his mother and her employer visits friends.  She thinks of her family in Baltimore eating goose.  <br />They visit the boy Noah's grandfather at a place called Senior City.  The grandfather, Nat, explains that the people there are organized in a vertical pattern with the most disabled on the top floor.  Delia starts to bring the kinds of pickly foods to Nat that her father liked.  In Bay Borough Delia runs into her son Carroll who claims that Eliza is making a play for Sam.  Nat is to be evicted because his new wife is expecting a baby.  The next summer Delia goes to Ocean City for a week's vacation.  Delia returns to Baltimore for her daughter's wedding.  The daughter gets the jitters and doesn't get married, at least initially.  Delia decides the past year and a half has been a time trip.  The book is wonderfully sensitive and wonderfully funny.	2004-06-22
621045:US	52300235	R2J4OH8E12SUGD	0316544973	617813938	Controversy and other essays in journalism, 1950-1975	Books	5	14	17	N	N	Obituary writer	The author's death gives rise to another look at his collection of essays.  The late William Manchester wrote history interestingly.  He wrote the longest Presidential obituary in history.  Jacqueline Kennedy preferred that Manchester write the history of her husband.  At the time William Manchester was working on the Krupp project.  Surrogates of the family read the manuscript when completed.  There had been some overwriting and revisions and rewriting were undertaken.  There was anxiety over Johnson's reaction.  The book was to be serialized in LOOK MAGAZINE.  The essay &quot;Controversy&quot; details the travails of the historian as Manchester sought to guard the text from frivolous editorial changes.  Manchester found being a celebrity difficult business.  <br />He puts to rest the popular assumption that newspapers were responsible for the Spanish American War.  Manchester contends the newspapers reflected the times.  The irregular forces in the war included aristocrats and journalists.  There were thousands of casualities at San Juan.  When the Spanish surrendered reporters wanted the honor of running up the American flag.  There had not been any real fighting in Manila.  Cuba was free, Guam and Puerto Rico were ceded to the United States.  Later the US got the Philippines for twenty million dollars.  The war against the Filipinos seeking independence lasted for three years.  Death from disease reached an horrendous level.  <br />In the Great War the Americans joined forces in England and France on the verge of collapse.  The world was perched between Victorian times and the machine age.  There were military cliques, stodgy officers.  The tank, airplane, submarine and poison gas were deplored.  The great armies squatted on the Western front year after year.  After Nivelle and Passchendaele American reserves were welcomed.  US Marines took Belleau Wood.  Camouflaged transports were ferrying American troops across the Atlantic.  German hopes faded with the summer poppies in 1918.  At Amiens a corner was turned toward allied victory.  <br />The Treasury Department has seven different police forces.  During World War II the Treasury Department basement was President Roosevelt's air raid shelter.  The Customs Bureau is older than the department.  Smuggling still exists.  Persons turning in tips are rewarded by twenty five percent of the value of goods seized up to fifty thousand dollars.  The Federal Reserve System is not part of the Treasury.  In 1863 a third of all American money was bogus.  <br />The Great Bank Holiday was an idea of at least a year's duration.  Arthur Krock thought that Washington was like a capital in wartime at the time of the Hoover-Roosevelt transition.  As the week of the holiday wore on, the absence of change became crippling.  People used credit, barter, and improvised scrip.  Everyone assumed that at the end of the holiday there would be the formal adoption of scrip.  To the Treasury Secretary the idea was appalling.  New legislation was enacted.  Hoarders were to be punished.  New currency was to be issued.  Prying open the rigid fists of hoarders was the real trick.  In one week they had taken fifteen percent of the currency.  Congress could not make an ex post facto law and so publicity had to be used.  Banks opened for the return of gold, the Federal Reserve Board had declared ominously that it had a list.  Money was removed from mattresses.  The Federal Reserve Bank sought information on withdrawals during the previous two years.  More money was brought in and the money supply rose dramatically.  The national moratorium was extended while strong banks were separated from weak.  The panic ended without currency chaos or the nationalization of the banks. <br />Other essays in the collection concern Mencken, Reuther, the Marines, Stevenson, The New York Times, Rockefeller, and fraternal organizations.  Each topic is an occasion for the presentation of new material and pertinent observations.	2004-06-21
621476:US	52300235	RP61JA7ALWMQ3	0684195658	620509931	Mrs. Pargeter's Pound of Flesh: A Mrs. Pargeter Mystery	Books	4	2	3	N	N	The difficulty with mud is keeping it muddy	Mrs. Pargeter is at a health spa, but she does not seem to dislike her body.  The health spa business relies upon the emotions of guilt and envy.  Mrs. Pargeter and her friend Kim Thurrocks are attending gratis.  The late Mr. Pargeter had had business connections with the owner.  Mrs. Pargeter is not inclined to eat the diet food.  Eating creme brulee pleases the chef.  <br />There are shady characters at the spa, but only Mrs. Pargeter seems to notice and she is not concerned.  She witnesses an overly thin girl being wheeled from the premises.  She hires a detective to find some answers.  The supposed decedent is an only child.  The detective has the name of Truffler Mason.  At the spa the Dead Sea Mud Bath treatment is based on a book.  The difficulty with mud is keeping it muddy.  The basement of the place is divided into cubicles for the mud treatment.  <br />The boyfriend of the university student, the thin girl,  is located. Eventually Mrs. Pargeter travels to Cambridge to interview some of the girl's fellow students.  At the spa the customers aree dressed in Mind over Fatty Matter leotards.  These costumes accentuate their bulges.  <br />Mrs. Pargeter discovers an employee disabled by the mud and finds the response of the physician suspicious.  Mr. Pargeter had been involved in questionable schemes and so Mrs. Pargeter's frame of reference is broad-based, liberal.  It is discovered a whole line of goods has emerged from the concept of Mind over Fatty Matter.  Mrs. Pargeter uses an investigative journalist to challenge the creator of the concept in search of clues to explain the doubtful scenes she has encountered at the spa.  <br />Along the way it is discovered that the owner of the spa, Arkwright, acually belongs to a Rotary Club.  It turns out an experimental treatment to alter body shape underlies the problems at the spa.  The writing is accomplished and merry.	2004-06-21
622496:US	52300235	R1O5ODP4GKMGE8	0375501568	81872394	Beyond Belief: The Secret Gospel of Thomas	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Discerning spirits	A church is a heterogeneous community.  Irenaeus wrote that many people came to Christianity for miracles.  Christians were generous.  To join the peculiar Christian society a candidate often had to repudiate his or her family.  Various groups interpreted baptism in different ways.  Communion was a misunderstood ceremony.  It was described by critics as a sort of cannibalism.  People struggled to reconcile Jesus's divine mission with the crucifixion.  Jewish tradition suggests a wealth of associations with sacrifice.  The gospel writers sought to connect Jesus's death with the Passover.  <br />The Nag Hammadi texts are transforming what we know of Christianity.  The author learned Greek in college and in graduate school learned of the existence of the Nag Hammadi texts discovered in 1945.  They revealed a diversity within the Chrisitian movement.  The discoveries were an intellectual and spiritual challenge.  <br />Research establishes what the Gospel of John is for and what it is against.  It is the claim of John that Jesus is God manifested in human form.  The Gospel of John and the Gospel of Thomas are similar.  They do take Jesus's private teachings in sharply different directions.  John pictures Jesus as a divine being who descends to earth.  <br />Christian teaching about Jesus does not follow a simple evolutionary pattern.  Pagels considers the question how did John prevail over Thomas.  Irenaeus championed the Gospel of John.  He believed that only the books of Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John were eye witness accounts of the events described.  The early church had a plethora of secret writings and revelations.  Egyptian monks treasured the writings, but in 367 C.E. Athanasius, Bishop of Alexandria, ordered the secret writings destroyed.  Only the canonical writings were supposed to survive, but someone disobeyed the order and the cache at Nag Hammadi is the result.  <br />Irenaeus, two hundred years before Athanasius, detested the writings and denounced them.The Gospel of John shines with paradox, mystery.  Irenaeus insisted upon the cannon of truth.  Irenaeus sought a united and unanimous &quot;catholic church&quot;.  Irenaeus was dismayed at the way certain practices were dividing Christians from each other.  Christianity involves belief and practice.  What Irenaeus invisioned was accomplished by the Emperor Constantine and the Council at Nicaea.<br />The book is a distillation of the author's research for the general reader.  It is wholly successful in conveying the fascinating information concerning the various strands comprising the development of the early Church.	2004-06-20
622663:US	52300235	R3064REGGL5Z9I	0345467639	94214553	Sweet Death, Kind Death	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A different view of middle age	Kate Fansler attended the memorial service for Patrice Umphelby, a professor at Clare College.  At the time she did not think that she knew Patrice but later she learned from Patrices's biographers Herbert and Archer that she had met her once in Scotland.  <br />Kate is someone who evades memories.  Her husband Reed works in the office of the DA notwithstanding the fact that most people over forty pursue other legal careers.  By the end of the book it is learned that Reed plans to begin teaching at Columbia Law School.  <br />Kate is asked by the president of Clare College to serve on a board of advisors for an institute being set up by her friend  Madeline, a psychoanalyst, and to investigate the death of Patrice.  Patrice wrote in a journal that the human mind has trouble taking in aging.  <br />Madeline is of the opinion that Patrice was appreciated insufficiently at Clare College.  She was eccentric but sane.  Clare College it is charged was not receptive to the unorthodox.  Indeed, foul play is uncovered by Kate Fansler evidencing professional jealousy and a different view of middle age.  The book is a nearly perfect mystery story.  The views of the issues and the personalities are expressed in interesting and cogent language.	2004-06-20
625666:US	52300235	R2OEA2VX2IGGFN	0786867175	590874516	Leap of Faith: Memoirs of an Unexpected Life	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Faithful consort	She was the spouse of a king, Hussein of Jordan.  Lisa Halaby met the king in 1976.  Her father had been an airline executive and head of the Federal Aviation Administration.  The Halaby family had Arab roots. Hussein was a pan-Arabist.  Founded in 1921, Jordan became independent in 1946.  The king was an aviator.  He was a composed smiling man.  <br />The Halaby Galleries in Dallas had been the family business of her grandparents.  Her upbringing in the US had involved a lot of moving.  She attended Princeton as a member of the first class of women.  Afterwards she worked in Iran.  Lisa Halaby was interested in special challenges facing women.  New oil wealth exacerbated problems in Iran.  Tehran was a trap for pollution from refineries.  <br />Marietta Tree was an old friend.  It was arranged by Lisa's father she would meet King Hussein.  Lisa was included in that party.  At the time she was working for her father at Jordan Air Services.  Around the same time that Lisa Halaby started to work in Jordan, Queen Alia was killed in a helicopter accident.  Hussein loved to create surprises.  He asked Lisa Halaby to supervise the repair of his palace, but she told him that she did not have the expertise to carry out the task.  Jordan was a crossroads.  In addition to the traditional dwellers of the towns and cities and the Bedouins there were Circassians from the Caucasus and Chechens.  More than ninety percent of the Jordanians are Sunni Muslims.  Palestinians comprise a significant portion of the population.  <br />Marrying Hussein, Queen Noor had to adjust to a loss of privacy.  She was the king's fourth wife.  He already had eight children.  In 1990 Queen Noor represented Hussein at the United Nations International Summit for Children.  She assumed an active role in the Royal Society for the Conservation of Nature.  Her background in urban planning and architecture caused her to consider how to manage growth in Jordan more effectively. Two years after her marriage the queen returned to America.  Children were born in 1980 and 1981.  The king loved the chaos of family life.  When there were four new children, two boys and two girls, the sister of Queen Noor demanded that they send their beagle dog to her for better care.  Living with teenagers, the stepchildren, was difficult.  One time the step children presented Queen Noor and King Hussein with a list of fifty four grievances.  <br />Earlier the country had benefitted from the oil boom in the region.  Later, after the run, austerity measures were imposed.  The IMF insisted on draconian controls.  In 1989 there was rioting.  Noor sent her four children to Jackson Hole, Wyoming for the summer to visit an aunt and to spend time outside of the royal cocoon. The First Gulf War brought distress to Jordan when aid from the US was stopped.  Refugees appeared at the Jordanian borders.  Queen Noor spoke out about the humanitarian consequences of war.  Monitoring the news broadcasts, the queen and king played Tetris.  Prince Charles reached out to the couple who were being shunned by many of the leaders for their stance of neutrality.  <br />Before the UN deadline to withdraw from Kuwait, King Hussein made three trips to Iraq to try to convince Sadam to end the incursion.  Hussein and Noor found out on CNN that war had started.  The king saw the possiblity of anti-colonialist fury spiraling out of control.  Some of the king's older children served in the military forces during the crisis and did not receive special treatment.  <br />Jordan lost aid from Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.  The devastation of Irag resulted in Jordan's losing its major trading partner.  In 1992 King Hussein went to the Mayo Clinic.  As a precautionary measure a kidney was removed.  It was King Hussein's goal to advance Jordan to true monarchical democracy.  In 1998 King Hussein left his sickbed to go to Wye Plantation to assist in the peace process.  In 1999 the king designated his son Abdullah Crown Prince.  He diedthat year.  This  book, an American's view of a crisis area, is beguiling.	2004-06-17
627000:US	52300235	R2Y6RPBFMJTJWF	1594200068	745553598	Free Culture: How Big Media Uses Technology and the Law to Lock Down Culture and Control Creativity	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Feudalism depended on maximum control and concentration	A free culture supports and protects creators.  The internet has established the ability for thousands to participate in the building and cultivation of culture.  Laws regulating intellectual property have been laws against piracy.  Copyright law regulates both republishing and transforming the work of another.  <br />Disney's great creativity was built on the work of others.  In  1928 the average term of copyright was thirty years.  Today public domain is presumptive only for work created before the Great Depression.  In the world free culture has been broadly exploited.  Japan has a huge market of knock off comics and does not have many lawyers.  <br />We celebrate property but there is plenty of value not subject to the strictures of property law.  George Eastman created roll film and the upshot was the era of mass photography.  The real significance was not economic but social.  Now the internet allows creations to be shared, web logs, blogs, have grown dramatically.  Blogs are a virtual public meeting.  They are unchoreographed public discourse.  Bloggers are amateur journalists.  <br />John Seely Brown of Xerox believes we learn by tinkering.  Recording music, radio, cable TV all were technologies involving forms of piracy.  The piracy problems were solved by legislation.  Peer to peer sharing was made famous by Napster.  It is not clear that the file sharing has caused the decline in the sale of CDs.  <br />In 1710 the British parliament adopted the first copyright act.  In the last three hundred years the concept of copyright has been applied ever more broadly.  The copyright law was a limitation on the power of book sellers.  A decision in 1774 in the House of Lords held the limitation in the Copyright Act set forth the notion of a Public Domain.  The common laws right of a publisher's monopoly was broken.  <br />A documentary film maker could not rely on the fair use doctrine in showing a short glimpse of THE SIMPSONS in an employee break room.  The authorclaims that Jack Valenti analyzes intellectual property improperly.  In 1790 Congress enacted the first copyright law.  In 1976 the law changed the scheme and for all works created after 1978 there was only one copyright term, the author's life plus fifty years.  For corporations the term was seventy-five years.  An amendment to the law extended the term for an individual to ninety five years.  Copyright protects derivative uses also.  <br />Technology researchers have been warned they may be in violation of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act.  Technologies of the internet are open to snoops as well as sharers.  The change in concentration and integration of the media is cause for concern. There should be an evaluation of the loss of independence. The author cautions that in the case of internet technology a land grab is taking place.  Currently there is a widely punitive system tending to stifle creativity.  The author believes that a reasonable balance between opposing interests in the area of intellectual property has been lost.	2004-06-16
630066:US	52300235	R2P5NTP3VI1MVO	B00005WP67	599292714	A Prelude: Landscapes, Characters & Conversations from the Earlier Years of My Life	Books	5	2	2	N	N	My trip abroad and other journal gleanings	The volume begins with Wilson's first trip to Europe in 1908.  He notes the Azores, Gibraltar, Spanish villages, and Italy.  He mentions Capri.  The expedition, a family enterprise, included Kimballs, Wilsons, and Knoxes.  The Knoxes reminded Wilson of characters in THE CHERRY ORCHARD.  The account continues amusingly by describing the journey through Italian and German cities.<br /><br />Wilson explains that before he went away to school he was preoccupied with his family.  Edmund's relatives were extremely varied.  His father and mother belonged to the local gentry.  Edmund's father was Attorney General of New Jersey.  His best friend as a boy was his cousin Sandy.  By the time the cousins were both at Princeton, though, they only nodded to each other since they had such different interests.  Edmund attended Hill School, while Sandy went to Exeter or Andover.<br /><br />The atmosphere at the family home in Red Bank became oppressive as Wilson's father began to seek treatment for his neurasthenia at sanitoriums and hi mother succumbed to partial deafness.  Edmund accepted any invitations to visit classmates under the circumstances. Wilson is depressed, he writes, to think of so many people he met at Princeton and elsewhere who had excellent training and opportunities and failed to live up to them.  He observes that New Englanders and New Yorkers are different.  He met both kinds in the schools he attended. He reports his most interesting professors at Princeton were Norman Kemp Smith and Christian Gauss.  Both men had been recruited for the Princeton faculty  by Woodrow Wilson.<br /><br />Following Princeton, Wilson's stint in the army is covered.  He enlisted in a hospital unit in August 1917 and was not mustered out until July 1919.  The first wounded men he met had been attacked by mustard gas.  He shares the gruesome details with us.  Wilson lists the considerable number of books and pamphlets read from August 1917.  After the Armistice Wilson had more leisurefor reading.<br /><br />The volume recounts contemporary events through the eyes of a school boy and young man.  Wilson's wonderful capacity for generalization links specific incidents and details for the reader giving the book a 'you are there' quality.  Edmund Wilson's writing here can serve as a model of clarity and craftsmanship.	2004-06-14
631830:US	52300235	R2YW598KCB61X9	0192554018	91974521	Father and Son (Oxford English Memoirs & Travels)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Science and Religion	I love this story of Philip and Edmund Gosse.  There is generational conflict.  <br />Philip Gosse, son of a painter of miniatures, was a miniaturist.  As a young man he went from Poole, England to New Foundland for six years and to Alabama for three.  In Alabama he taught school.  In 1832 he began his entomologic collection. <br />Philip left his Methodist chapel and joined a small group of Plymouth Brethren.  In 1844 Philip was sent to Jamaica.  He became a successful writer of scientific books.  In 1848 he married Emily Bowes.  She fell to writing religious tracts.  The son, Edmund, born in 1849, suffered deprivations.  He had few toys, no playmates and no reading except for religious tracts and the Bible.  <br />In 1849 Philip purchased a microscope.  He grew in knowledge and number of publications and received honors.  In 1852 he invented the marine aquarium.  In 1857 Philip Gosse sought to present a unified scientific and biblical version of geologic time to refute Darwinism.  Before the book's publication his career had met with resounding success. After OMPHALOS he faced failure and ridicule.  <br />The secular education of the son was neglected.  Eventually Edmund reacted against the loneliness and religion of his childhood.  Edmund became a Bohemian prophet without the taint of Bohemianism it is asserted in the introduction to the book.  An American tour made him a public figure.  Edmund Gosse's reputation plunged when he was found to have written an error-filled account of Swinburne.  He became famous for having Sunday afternoon parties for all of the important people of his day.  The introduction to the book by William Irvine claims that Edmund Gosse was inspired to write FATHER AND SON after he wrote a biography of another literary figure, Coventry Patmore.  <br />The book claims to be a record of the struggle of two temperaments.  Certainly temperament and spirit are featured notably in the work.  Edmund's mother had rigor of spirit.  She practiced constant self-denial.  She was stronger than her husband.  <br />The parents visited no one.  Edmund's mother's brothers visited them.  The brothers had been helped through Cambridge by her employment as a teacher at a mouldering Irish estate.  The author has the idea that his mother was suited by nature to be a novelist. His mother's death when he was seven left a gap that his father sought to fill.  <br />In his eighth year his father instructed him in the Epistles of the New Testament.  The emphasis was doctrinal.  The attitude of the father toward natural selection was critical to his career as noted above.  After  the failure to refute Darwin's theory the family moved to the sea shore.  In Devonshire marine creatures were collected and documented by the father.  The village in Devon is described as open and squalid.  The father's life work was really the practical study of animal forms in detail.  The study of British sea anemones was ready for the press in 1859.  <br />Edmund was taught Latin by his father.  When Edmund was eleven his father remarried.  His father permitted him to read the poems but not the novels of Scott.  Then he was allowed to read Dickens.  He read PICKWICK with rapture.  He was sent to a boarding school run by some Plymouth Brethren.  At age fifteen he fell under the spell of Shakespeare.  Later the poetry of the Romatic era interested him greatly. <br />The book is of great interest to us in its sensitive descriptions presented from a child's perspective of a household bereft and subject to religious mania.  Since great literature was not presented to Edmund in childhood, evidently his response to it in later life was more acute.  Notwithstanding the narrow channels in which his parents exercised their gifts as writers, they transmitted to him through genetic endowment or by example the vocation he was to follow as an adult.	2004-06-12
632109:US	52300235	R2OWB6JARMULN	0743229045	499014129	The Resurrectionists: A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Existential adventure	The hero is a pragmatist in a Godless world.  The protagonist, Frank Cassidy, had not had a day off in two years when he quits his job in New Jersey to go the the Upper Peninsula, Michigan for reason of a death in the family.  He steals a car and later robs a man named Melvin.  Frank's brother-cousin and his wife, Norman and Martha, dread the arrival of Frank and Honey and Robert Lee and Ernie, the children.  <br />In the boarding house where they stay there is a hint of opulence.  It is learned that the body of the deceased uncle, Ward, is being held by the authorities.  Honey feels they should try to get jobs in the town.  Frank works as a security guard and Honey in the business office of a college undergoing a transition from a community college to a four years residential college with a Great Books curriculum.  <br />For Thanksgiving it is decided to eat at Cedar Lodge and stay there through the long weekend.  Listed winter activities are ice skating and ice fishing.  In a telephone call Frank learns that his cousin Norman is collapsing.  Norman upended the sheriff's car when served with papers of foreclosure.  Frank and his family go to Norman's place where it is discovered the dairy herd has been killed.  In the end Frank uncovers and clarifies mysteries that have always surrounded his boyhood.  The atmosphere created by the author matches the subject of the search for meaning by being indeterminate, foggy, bewildering.  The children are presented in interesting realistic detail.	2004-06-12
650680:US	52300235	RO85B2RJTPOMM	0449003981	832554018	A Patchwork Planet (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Overflowing with good writing	Barnaby Gaitlin is an employee of Rent-A-Back.  He has a daughter, Opal, who lives in Philadelphia with her mother, Natalie, and Natalie's second husband.  Natalie believes it is detrimental to his daughter's well-being for him to visit her once a month.      When the story opens Barnaby is three weeks short of thirty.  He has not completed college.  He has not found his life work.  He is a member of a notable family that even has a charitable foundation bearing its name. He meets Sophia on the train between Baltimore and Philadelphia.  Sophia Maynard visits her mother every week.  Fortunately Barnaby does not stop visiting his child because it turns out that Opal does care about him.      Barnaby celebrates his birthday at his parent's house.  Sophia arranges to have Barnaby work five hours a week for her aunt.  In one of the scenes Barnaby and his mother attend Opal's dance recital.  It is related that Barnaby thinks of his mother as spiny-backed.  (She changed the spelling of her first name on her wedding invitations to honor the acquisition of her new foundation-endowed married name.)      The book is hilarious.  Barnaby reports he has an aversion to restaurant dishes with dropped g's in their names.  Barnaby had taken a sort of voyeuristic pleasure in the burglaries committed in his youth.  On the Rent-A-Back gig Anne Tyler gives him a similarly-charged propensity to enumerate carefully people's personal effects.      The book has exuberance.  It is overflowing with good writing.	2004-05-29
663252:US	52300235	R1Z2ETWAE9IPWA	0595309879	681184360	The Smithy Miracles	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A hermit and magical realism	The author, Glover, gave himself a problem.  Writing about a hermit means there won't be much by way of characterization.  The book is self-published, but the author has had journalism experience.  The locale of the story is the Great Dismal Swamp, a delicious prospect for a book.  <br />Sonny's father had served in the Civil War.  He could subsist in the swamp on peanuts and other foraged food.  Before the war the swamp had given refuge to escaping slaves.  Lake Drummond bubbled up on the Virginia side.  <br />The game warden was surprised to encounter Sonny.  He offered to give him a bus ticket to leave.  Sonny had run into a bear, a puma and assorted other animals.  He had watched bogs quench forest fires.  Hunters, fishermen, campers sometimes built campfires or tossed cigarettes into the underbrush; but the Great Dismal was deep peat and a fire could smolder for months.<br />He, a man of color, was shot.  Pellets tore past his head.  Men chased him.  Sonny sought to find Churchland and his father.  He was told Churchland had disappeared.  It was all Chesapeake City now it seemed.  In addition there would no longer be a blacksmith.  Sonny followed the railroad ties.  The blacksmith shop was sighted on Route 17.  <br />The book is well-written but the story is hard to follow because the focus is blurred.  It is written in dialect.  Time periods are confused deliberately.  The setting is wonderful, but the rendering of the narrative is faulty.  It is an interesting attempt.	2004-05-18
666515:US	52300235	R2A6F9M5FGZFJE	0449007340	264028601	Murder in Hell's Kitchen (Manhattan Mysteries (Paperback))	Books	5	1	5	N	N	Romantic story	The five stars are granted for reason that this is not only an excellent procedural but a romantic story.  The romance snaps into place at the end.  I won't disclose the details.  Jane Bauer is concerned with something known as the City Hall Park case.  She is taken off that case and put on a task force to solve old homicides.  <br />It seems to Jane that the initial session is all hype and cheer-leading.  She wonders if other groups got more promising cases.  Her team's case is set in a rent-controlled building.  Four and a half years later all of the former tenants have moved.  Such attrition is unusual.  <br />It is a truism that a detective never loses interest in his old cases.  Jane talked to Bracken, the investigating officer, about their case, termed the Quill case.  It turns out that suspicious circumstances followed other in habitants of Quill's building.  <br />Jane had grown to love her job in the police force.  Retiring from it could be a problem for her. She is to move to a new expensive apartment and is slated to start a new job as an insurance investigator. <br />She likes the havoc below 14th Street.  Most of the people in Quill's building had been sad older people, but not Jerry Hutchins.  One of the original investigators thought that he did not fit.  She flew to Omaha to pursue the investigation.  She was in search of Hutchins.  The officer assisting Jane in Omaha is injured.  A badly beaten Hutchins is located, eventually.  Obviously someone in New York City knew that the trail of the case had shifted to Nebraska.  <br />A child Jane gave up for adoption surfaces.  The real victim in the cold case used an alias.  The plot is exciting and satisfying.	2004-05-16
676355:US	52300235	REHSHAT4U3JP0	9997408993	423797785	Search	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Realism	It is a work of fiction, written in a realistic manner, in the first person.  The book is not part of the author's STRANGERS AND BROTHERS sequence.  The narrator received the gift of a telescope from his father.  He kept a record of his watchings, of the rings of Saturn, for example.  His astronomical phase lasted for several years.  A school teacher lectured on Bohr and Rutherford.  The narrator, Arthur Miles, went home and read everything he could discover about atoms.  This was when he determined to pursue a research career as a scientist.  In general science in the school was an arid business.  The teacher had lost heart, falling down over the strictures of the logical method of teaching science.  <br />Arthur's family was very poor.  His father was the secretary of a small trade association.  He had a happy childhood, reading widely in an eclectic way.  Miles went up to Kings College, London.  Others exceeded him in their theoretical grasp of systematic physics.  He had friends, Hunt and Charles Sheriff.  Charles and Arthur both needed to get firsts to pursue research.  It was anticipated Hunt would be an economic pundit.  <br />Arthur learned crystallographic methods at the Royal Institution.  The staff was good to him, an instance of scientific unselfishness. Subsequently he went to Cambridge and to Germany.  He began to shift to becoming a science writer.  Later he felt that he in a way repudaited science when he learned that his friend Charles Sheriff had committed scientific deception and he did not write to the journal in which the work was published with a correction.  <br />The account of personal and scholarly crises is absorbing and of great interest to the general reader.  One tends to believe that Snow has portrayed the scientific world of his day accurately.	2004-05-08
676405:US	52300235	R3TQVC41G6W0JZ	B00005X0HX	148661368	The triple thinkers : twelve essays on literary subjects	Books	5	10	23	N	N	An attempt to give meaning to experience	Edmund Wilson admits he may have been guilty about giving too favorable an impression of imperfect works.  In this book of essays he wrote of Paul Elmer More of Princeton.  More had come out of the old mid-western world.  He was provincial.  More was part of the great controversy over humanism.  He was more sensible and less pretentious than Babbitt Wilson contended.  More had been on the NATION with Oswald Garrison Villard.  More had done a series of books on Greek philsophy and Christianity.  More believed that Santayana was a half-way Platonist.  The moralist in More had always been at war with the poet.  More read detective stories and graded them from A to D.      Wilson wrote of poetry.  He said that in the 19th century a new conception of poetry appeared.  The romantics redefined poetry.  Also, no long poems would be really  popular again, it was predicted, correctly.  Verse as a technique was passing out of fashion.  Poetry became specialized machines.  Poetry came to mean primarily lyric verse.  Wilson spoke of Falubert, a writer of prose, of being in Dante's class.  Flaubert had a desire to give verse-rhythm to prose.  No verse technique is more obsolete today than blank verse.      Wilson was famous for his knowledge of Russian authors.  He wrote on Pushkin.  Pushkin came into world literature by way of the Russian novel.  Pushkin learned the tone of easy negligence from Byron.  Pushkin can make us see and l-earn things as Keats does.  Pushkin, who has written a novel in verse, is more vigorous than Jane Austen.  The hero of EVGENY ONEGIN had a fatal weakness.  Pushkin married the same year ONEGIN was finished.  Pushkin, writing THE BRONZE HORSEMAN, knew well what it was to have one's life under ruthless authority.  The poet was descended from boyars.      A.E. Housman believed that the arts and science could be defended on the ground that the desire for knowledge is one of the human appetites.  Houseman regrded knowledge as a superior sort of pastime.  As a scholar Housman was a giver of life.  Housman's real favorite was the poet Propertius, but his area of study was Manilius.  There was an element of perversity, of self-mortification in Housman's career.  Wilson wrote that Housman's anger is tragic, like Swift's.  Housman was compelled to suprress himself even more completely.  Housman, as was the case of T.E. Lawrence, had an almost insane wish to conceal his talents and accomplishments.  He was one of a group of men who received semi-monastic training at an English university.      Flaubert's nihilism and ascetism were notable.  Flaubert, 1820-1881, was close to the historians of his era.  Flaubert termed the artist a triple thinker.  He was primarily a social critic.      Other essays in the collection deal with Henry James, John Jay Chapman, George Bernard Shaw, Ben Jonson, and Alfred Rolfe, Wilson's Greek teacher at his prep school.  Every morsel of information in the collection is worth having.	2004-05-08
678449:US	52300235	R2PCR6QPD9U97R	0425185257	570648164	Reservations for Murder (Lighthouse Inn Mysteries, No. 2)	Books	4	1	5	N	N	Gossip spread like kudzu	The preface notes a manuscript of the author's was plucked from a slush pile.  Alex's housekeeper, Elise, for his Hatteras Inn, a replica of the Hatteras Light, situated in the foothills of North Carolina, argued with him that the inn needed to attract a wealthier clientele.  She said that friendship should not get in the way of the goals for the inn.  The conversation arose because a fair was scheduled to take place on the property.  <br />Someone killed one of the blacksmiths.  Alex persuaded the sheriff to let the fair continue.  Alex called his former girlfriend, a lawyer, to the scene in case any of the fair participants needed to be defended as they were being questioned by the sheriff.  <br />The fair attracted a huge crowd, more to see the crime scene than to see the artisans at work.  The victim was trying to drive another blacksmith out of business.  Everyone in town knew that the sheriff depended upon Alex to help him solve mysteries.  <br />Gossip spread like kudzu in the town.  Elise the housekeeper had to leave because her father was to have a heart operation.  Everyone thought that she was gone for good.  <br />Many people had hated the victim.  Next a Marilyn Baxter is believed to have been kidnapped and is then found-- her absence caused by an overdose.  I don't want to give away any more of the plot of this well-written story.	2004-05-06
680392:US	52300235	R10E6REJZF2HWG	0141185465	239341529	All My Sons (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	War crimes	The action takes place in less than 24 hours.  According to the introduction by Christopher Bigsby, Miller is most concerned with the fractures in relationships.  The main character, Bigsby contends, Joe Keller, does not understand the social contract.  <br />In the opening it is established that Keller had two sons and now has one.  His neighbor is a doctor.  Keller lives in a substantial house with, it is evident, a tree-shaded yard.  The doctor's wife wants him to treat patients to get the fees, even if the treatment is unnecessary.  Kate Keller wants to believe the dead son, Larry, is coming home again.  Chris, the remaining son, wants to confront his mother with the truth.  <br />Chris also tells his father he is going to ask his brother's fiancee to marry him.  Ann has been in New York for three and a half years.  Kate Keller doesn't understand why she is visiting now.  His mother, Kate, surmises that Chris wants to marry Ann.  Ann's father has been imprisoned for causing defective parts to be sold for military planes.  The actual culprit is the owner of the business, Joe Keller.  <br />At an earlier stage in the drama Ann doesn't know her father is innocent.  Chris was moved by the comraderie and loyalty of the men with whom he served in the armed forces.  The doctor's wife tells Ann about Joe's perfidy.  Chris had not yet learned part way through the action of the play that his father was responsible for the defective parts.  Joe was acquitted at his trial.  <br />Ann's brother George tells her that Chris's father destroyed their family.  It seems that Joe had told their father to weld over the defective cylinder heads.  Joe wouldn't come down to see the parts.  He was sick with the flu he claimed, but he promised to take responsibility.  In court Joe denied making the phoned instructions.  <br />George wants to go and talk to Chris's father.  Kate Keller tells Chris his brother is alive because if he's dead his father, Joe Keller, killed him.  Through his mother's statements Chris learns that his father did have a role in releasing the defective parts.  Joe Keller claims he kept the family factory profitable for Chris's sake.  <br />The writer of the introduction claims that the success of the play scared the playwright who had produced nothing comparable yet in his career when the play was produced in 1947.  It is very very good.  Nothing about it is dated.	2004-05-05
698302:US	52300235	R3KLC4NKSPQQA6	0394433351	161451712	Light in August	Books	5	1	8	N	N	I come from Alabama	Lena came from Alabama.  She traveled to Mississippi looking for Lucas Burch.  Beside Lena Grove, Gail Hightower, Joe Christmas, and Joe Brown are characters in the story.  Hightower's wife had jumped or fallen from a hotel window and had died.  He had been the Presbyterian minister.  Even the Ku Klux Klan had not managed to persuade Hightower to leave Jefferson.<br /><br />Hightower and Byron Burch commence to discuss a fire at Mrs. Burden's house.  Christmas and Brown lived in a structure in the back.  Mrs. Burden had started praying over Joe Christmas.  It was not her fault she had gotten too old.<br /><br />Joe Christmas went from an orphanage to the home of the McEacherns, a Presbyterian couple.  As a teenager he started to see a waitress in town.  McEachern watched Joe.  He ordered the waitress away.  Joe went to Chicago, to Detroit.  Finally, age 33, he was on a Mississippi country road in the vicinity of the Burden house.  During the first four or five months of his stay in a cabin on her property, Joe and Mrs. Burden would stand and talk like strangers.  Later she told him she was pregnant.  Now he had a partner in the whiskey business--Brown.<br /><br />After the fire and Joanna Burden's death, the people searched for Christmas.  Brown was placed in jail for safe-keeping.  Christmas ran off to Mottstown.  He becomes obsessed with getting food.  Joe Christmas is killed.  He is sent across the square with a deputy and unidentified men take him.<br /><br />Gavin Stevens is the district attorney, a Harvard graduate.  Stevens tells the authorities that Christmas will plead guilty and take a life sentence.  His death follows.  Lena's baby is born around the time Joe Christmas dies.  The mother of the baby had started her journey in Alabama and three months later she is in Tennesee.	2004-04-21
698881:US	52300235	R3N80P0OQKMONI	0226743497	984881557	Staying On: A Novel (Phoenix Fiction)	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Self-Deception	This is a coda to the wonderful RAJ QUARTET.  It is nearly as good as the other four novels.  Tusker Smalley dies of a heart attack.  At the the time of his death Mrs. Bhoolabhoy owns Smith's Hotel. Tusker and Lucy stay in a lodge on the property.  The hotel is no longer the grand place it used to be.  Now the Shiraz, a newer enterprise, is the really stylish establishment.  <br />Paul Scott portrays Mr. Bhoolabhoy in hilarious terms.  Mr. Bhoolabhoy functions as management at his wife's place of business and also considers himself Tusker's best friend.  Just before his death Tusker Smalley fired his servant Ibrahim.  Ibrahim had been fired on other occasions by either Tusker or his wife, Lucy, but of course in this instance the action is final.  <br />The Smalleys are the last of Pankot's permanent retired British residents.  Hearing of the death of Colonel Layton in England, Lucy commences to write to Sarah Layton.  It is learned subsequently that Sarah married Guy Perron and a friend of theirs, David Tucker, is scheduled to visit Pankot and complicates the action by causing Lucy to make provision for his stay under the circumstances where she does not truly understand Tusker's careful stewardship of the couple's rather limited resources.  <br />Through the memory of Lucy the book circles back to the earlier incidents of Mabel Layton's death at Rose Cottage, the fate of her house guest, Barbie,  and the residency of Tusker and Lucy at that abode.  Mr. Bhoolabhoy has always felt that Lucy's presence in Smith's dining room makes the place seem less seedy.  In the end Mrs. Bhoolabhoy sells out to a consortium and Tusker dies clutching the notice to quit prepared by his dear friend, Frank Bhoolabhoy, the management of Smith's Hotel.	2004-04-20
710321:US	52300235	RBP6EJNUNL9WJ	0345380371	546668910	Rising Sun	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Special services liaison	To the Japanese business is war by other means.  What is the Nakamoto murder and 12 years after this book's writing can it still hold a reader's attention?  The answer is yes.      Special services is a diplomatic detail in the LAPD.  A homicide is reported at the Nakamoto Tower.  A caucasian woman has died.  Peter J. Smith has been assigned to the Special Services detail for the past six months.  An experienced officer, John Connor, tells Smith that a foreigner can never master the etiquette of bowing.      The ninety seven floor building had been constructed from prefab units from Nagasaki.  In the 1970's 150,000 Japanese students a year were studying in America while 200 U.S. students were studying in Japan.  Peter Smith is dealing with Mr. Ishiguro.  A very important business reception is taking place and Mr. Ishiguro does not want his guests to be bothered by any aspects of the investigation whatsoever.  Every homicide scene has energy.      The author states that Japanese people are sensitive to context and behave appropriately under the circumstances.  There is a shadow world in New York and Los Angeles and other American cities available only to the Japanese.  Two men had already searched the victim's apartment.  In Japan every criminal is caught.  There is a ninety nine per cent conviction rate.  In the U.S. it is seventeen per cent.  A crime occurred with the expectation it would not be solved.      In Japan scandal is the most common way of revising the pecking order.  Officer Smith would like to find a house suitable for raising his daughter but has found that the real estate prices are beyond his means.  National cultures clashing create fragility in understanding as does the clash of business cultures.  Out of the blue it would seem the two police officers are the subjects of bribery attempts by the Japanese.      The solution of the crime is elaborate and laid out with care.  All in all the story is very engrossing.	2004-04-12
711036:US	52300235	R2TQVO0LO7WKC9	0452262828	255640535	The Garrick Year	Books	5	10	30	N	N	Excellent examples of resilience	People are committed to careers and children.  They are not always committed to each other, alas.  Sophy and the narrator Emma are excellent examples of resilience.  <br />Emma is married to David, an actor.  He wants to go to Hereford for seven months.  She wants to remain where they are since she has a chance at a newsreader position.  Emma's father was a theologian.  Flora was born thirteen months after the meeting of Emma Lawrence and David Evans.  Garrick had been born in Hereford.  Emma had been brought up in Cambridge.  <br />The couple met Sophy Brent in Hereford.  Sophy was surprised that Emma and David had two children under the age of two.  Emma thought the furniture in their house was frightfully ugly.  When the couple attended a reception, David was aggressive and Emma was formal.  Emma saw David give his tie away with a broad theatrical gensture to a girl while attending a social gathering.  She encountered the parents of an old school friend, Mary.  <br />Later people returned with Emma and David for drinks.  Emma felt that actors talked in generalities, robbing their conversation of interest.  Emma, not an actress, finds herself confronted with issues of a performance and audience.  Emma had become so accustomed to a bright and superficial flow of information being exchanged at cocktail parties that she was no longer the serious person her friend Mary knew.  <br />Emma commenced to have a liason with a director, Wyndham Farrar.  Since her marriage to David Evans she had not been involved with anyone else.  Wyndham would not be staying at the place much longer as his theatrical duties ceased.  Emma realized that David and Sophy, his leading lady, were having an affair.  David faulted her for picking Wyndham and having a relationship right under everyone's nose.  An automobile mishap brings everyone to his or her senses.	2004-04-11
711466:US	52300235	R2MRO3VARTT76W	0060008490	168598481	Death in Dublin: A Novel of Suspense (Peter McGarr Mysteries)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Images are aids to understanding	Everyone has an inner voice, the voice of God.  McGarr's wife Noreen had been murdered two years earlier.  There was a theft at Trinity library of two volumes of the Book of Kells.  The guard, Sloane, was killed.  He had died with a sap in his hand.  Raymond Sloane's son had a nose ring.  Raymond had had a drug problem.  In the end he had given his wife some money to cover having gone into their savings for old age.  A bar owner recalls a meeting the deceased had with two people.      McGarr is superseded in the investigation by an officer of the Garda, a Trinity graduate, known as the communicator.  This causes McGarr to mobilize his people to work all the harder.  McGarr realizes that in one way he has been freed.  He does not have to make himself available to the press.  McGarr becomes involved with Kara Kennedy the assistant librarian notwithstanding the fact that she is technically a suspect until the investigation ends.      It turns out that the head librarian at Trinity is burdened with drugs and debts.  McGarr gets into trouble with the Garda and is placed on administrative leave.  The son of the murdered guard is involved in some fashion in the demands for ransom.  The chief investigator from the Garda is compromised but with the chief librarian comatose he is not in much danger of having his corrupt conduct disclosed.      Gill was an American journalist and a graduate of Trinity College the book cover discloses.  He died in 2002 and wrote this book in the McGarr series about five years earlier.  This title has more violence in it than some of the other books in the series.	2004-04-11
711470:US	52300235	R2S122KU412FZS	0396084214	405928048	Waiting for the End of the World (Midnight Novel of Suspense)	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Campernoyles is an archaic word for mushrooms.	Dougal was waiting for Hanbury.  Dougal had fallen for Hanbury's studied ambiguity.  Malcolm was Dougal's insurance policy.  They were in a library in a shapeless northern suburb of London.  Hanbury was in a taxi at the exit.  Mute hostility flickered between Hanbury and Malcolm.<br />Hanbury had money to turn over to him conditioned upon the performance of a service by Dougal of conducting a surveillance.  He was to keep an eye on Alexander Vertag the leader of a sect.  When Dougal went to pay his rent now that he could afford to do so, he discovered that his rent had already been  paid for him by Hanbury.  Unexpectedly Vertag turns out to be charming and with no trouble Dougal is made his private secretary.<br />A killing takes place, and Zelda, a friend of Dougal, emerges.  Zelda had returned to school and obtained a masters degree in library science.  Zelda is kidnapped and transported to a castle.  Dougal, who had been inclined to drop out of Hanbury's scheme, had to stay involved for Zelda's sake.  Dougal and Zelda end up being strung out in a creepy room.  They do not know why they are being bound and held.  They manage to untie each other and plot an escape.  William Dougal and Zelda are rescued by Malcolm.<br />It turns out that James Hanbury and Zelda are in league with each other.  Hanbury and Zelda are CIA operatives.  This is a tale of spooks told in a spooky manner complete with a spooky atmosphere.  In this instance a more linear format would have decreased the fuzziness in the story-telling without sacrificing the tension generated.	2004-04-11
714130:US	52300235	R2LRGUWG4835IQ	0345452372	914196507	The Edge of Doom	Books	4	0	3	N	N	Brief Encounter Redux	Kate Fansler was surprised to hear from her oldest brother, Laurence.  Laurence told her she had a lot in common with Edith Wharton.  Laurence said that Edith Wharton had had no children and had love affairs.  Laurence was making a parallel between the gap in ages  Edith Wharton and her brothers and Kate and her brothers and the question of paternity such a circumstance might suggest.  Laurence claimed that Kate's  real father had come to his office the other day.  The man had suggested that the matter could be settled through DNA testing.  The man did seem to be her father.  His name was Jay Smith.  There was a resemblance.  he was an architect.  Talk of DNA in police dramas, LAW AND ORDER, caused Smith to come forward he claimed.  <br />It is wondered if discovering a relationship so late in life should make a difference.  Kate's husband wants to investigate further.  Jay supplied Reed with a resume.  Jay had guessed why Reed wanted to see him.  Kate's mother had been tolerant.  She had permitted Kate to grow up and become the woman and have the career that suited her.  <br />Next Jay Smith disappears.  Jay may have used another man's career to prepare his resume.  A note from Jay said to tell Reed it was not as bad as it looked.  Later Kate heard from all three of her outraged brothers.  To recover from the meeting with the brothers, Kate and Reed went to the Frick.  They discovered that Jay had been in the Witness Protection Program.  <br />As suddenly as he disappeared Jay reappeared.  He said that someone was trying to kill him.  Restoration work in New York City can get really nasty.  Jay had become the accomplice of an art thief.  In the 1970's art theft became a federal crime.  Jay Smith's name was phoney, his real name was Dyson, and so he really did not fake his career on his resume, he was the other man, Dyson.  <br />The book mentions a lecture on Shakespeare's comedies of forgiveness.  Kate asked the lecturer that if a father sought a lost daughter washe unconsciously seeking redemption.  Kate sought permission from Laurence to read her mother's notebooks.  The information contained in the notebooks was not germane to the search.  <br />Reed and Kate developed a plan to get Jay out of their apartment safely.  Unfortunately Jay does get kidnapped.  Kate discovered her Fansler father knew all along that his paternity was bogus.  Jay had gotten stuck in a long ago passion, like a fly in amber.  Then Jay was out of her life.  His story and his motives for his conduct were mixed.  Kate could say that nothing violent had happened.  <br />The writing is bright, serviceable and the plotting adequate.  The motivations of the characters are muddled, perhaps as they are in real life.	2004-04-08
714845:US	52300235	RL23EJX7N8ZQY	0156155516	689518606	Cat and Mouse	Books	5	1	7	N	N	World War II boyhood	Mahlke was asleep in the grass.  The narrator was on a ball team and had a tooth ache.  The caretaker's black cat was present and jumped at Mahlke's neck, his Adam's apple.  The crematorium between the United Cemeteries and the Engineering School was operating.  <br />Shortly after the outbreak of war Joachim Mahlke turned fourteen.  Mahlke was an only child.  His father was dead.  Mahlke had an English screw driver.  He lived in Osterzeile.  In front of his house there was ceramic frog.  His room was in the attic.  <br />He and the boys raised a phonograph from a sunken Polish vessel, a mine sweeper.  The boys built a raft to haul it ashore.  The naval battle in the Gulf of Danzig had lasted a month.  <br />A big tall character, a Latvian, turned up in their class in 1941.  His first name was Karel. Karel drew Mahlke full face. Mahlke became infatuated with serious music.  He whistled tunes dedicated to the virgin.  He bullied the boys.  <br />A lieutenant commander spoke at their school.  Pilenz, the narrator, dubbed Mahlke the Great Mahlke.  Mahlke was expelled and transferred to the Horst Wessel School.  He received a special wartime diploma, as did many of the others, and was drafted into the Reich Special Labor Service.  Sergeant Mahlke returned to the school to give a talk.  <br />An atmosphere of deprivation and adventure is portrayed given the  wartime conditions.	2004-04-08
715165:US	52300235	RXLGHBBSC8F8U	0743255453	937109510	The Price of Loyalty: George W. Bush, the White House, and the Education of Paul O'Neill	Books	5	8	16	N	N	Ideas were tossed out without the weight of consequences	The author explains his exceptional opportunity to peruse O'Neill's papers.  He required the assistance of his very able researcher, alan Wirzbicki.  Paul O'Neill is amazingly loyal.  O'Neill's portfolio was wider than he could have possibly imagined.  The book has a 'hear it now' quality.  Paul O'Neill, formerly CEO of Alcoa, was, as Secretary of the Treasury, no longer the top man.  Secretary of the Treasury was a hard spot for a maverick to inhabit.  <br />What evolved was that the pragmatism of O'Neill, Whitman, and other centrists in the executive and legislative branches was crushed.  Meetings cabinet secretaries had with the President were often scripted.  O'Neill was troubled by how disengaged the President seemed.  O'Neill felt that in committee work good process had to be embraced to insure a good outcome.  In the 1970's Powell had worked for O'Neill as a White House fellow.  Bush's cabinet members addressed each other formally.  In the Nixon administration O'Neill and others had been forced to produce Brandeis briefs.  O'Neill pressed everywhere he could for an authentic discussion.  <br />This is a sort of Mr. Smith goes to Washington story.  The irony of the situation is that this Mr. Smith thought he knew the context in which he would be compelled to work since he was a sort of insider based upon his previous government experience.  The book shows that Alan Greenspan saw that in the area of CEO behavior managements were too often inadequate.  Greenspan and O'Neill felt that CEOs had to be motivated by fear of the abyss.  Perhaps the CEO had to be kept honest by imposing a reasonable investor, a negligence standard.  This was a higher standard than GAAP, Generally Accepted Accounting Practices.  It was all coming due--Enron, Global Crossing, Tyco. There was a crisis of transparency, of auditor ethics, of disclosure.  Having CEOs certify financial statements was put on the table.  <br />O'Neill's nickname by POTUS changed from Pablo to the Big O.  Afterthe midterm election O'Neill ran into the ideology of the administration, a sort of absolutism.  The President had praetorian guards, so to speak.  In the administration ideas were tossed out without the weight of consequence.  O'Neill was told the President wanted a new team.  To help with the transition, O'Neill stayed until December 31, 2002.	2004-04-08
725200:US	52300235	R1D1CMS02WCLA1	0375503560	289789448	Wonderful Town: New York Stories from The New Yorker	Books	5	10	14	N	N	Wonderful collection	The opening author is John Cheever.  A corporate man and a corporate secretary meet at her place for a drink.  He is estranged from his wife, the father of a friend of his son, and, finally, the woman, who manages to humiliate him.      There is a story by Roth about a fictitious quiz show contestant.  Tales by John O'Hara, Laurie Colwin, Jonathan Franzen, and Frank Conroy appear.  The Franzen entry was used as a chapter or at least an incident in CORRECTIONS.      A character in a Nabokov story has referential mania.  Jamaica Kincaid in her account of an overseas visitor speaks of day old food stored in a  refrigerator.  John McNulty writes of a bar, of course, and Hortense Calisher of Greenwich Village.      J.D. Salinger's contribution is a story featuring Holden Caulfield and Pencey Prep.  Renata Adler writes in stylish fashion using a fictional \\"I\\" of life in a brownstone.  Isaac Bashevis Singer comes along with yiddish-speaking cafeteria goers.  Veronica Geng has a take on conspicuous consumption.      Susan Sontag provides a surprisingly buoyant account of chronic illness.  The narrator of Julie Hecht's story believes that buildings in New York should be built to the specifications of Prince Charles.  \\"Mentocrats\\" by Edward Newhouse concerns schoolboys promoting the idea of a mental aristocracy.  Daniel Menaker has a character say that the banality of evil is outstripped by the banality of anxiety neurosis.  The psychiatrist in the story tells the first character he doesn't have the courage of his own contempt.      In eliminating some regrets you create others according to Jeffrey Eugenides.  Dorothy Parker, E.B. White, Elizabeth Hardwick, Bernard Malamud, and Saul Bellow are all present in this collection of stories.  Bellow's story gives rise to the thought that everyone has burdens.  Remnick's selections are a joy.	2004-03-31
726226:US	52300235	R3KBFC7JXD8RXM	0553208845	36215520	Siddhartha	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Buddhism revealed	This is an account of Buddhism by the famous German writer Hesse.  Siddhartha was Brahmin's son.  He practiced meditation with his friend, Govinda.  He sought permission from his father to become an ascetic.  One of Siddhartha's goals was to conquer the self.  Siddhartha and his friend Govinda went in search of Gotama's abode.  They saw the Buddha.  He seemed to be smiling inwardly.  Govinda elected to follow Gotama.  After Siddhartha's encounter with the Buddha he ceased to be his father's son.  Govinda became a monk.  Siddhartha was alone.<br />Siddhartha found he was separated from people because he had been an ascetic.  For a long time he lived the life of the world without belonging to it.  With the exception of a woman, Kamala, he had no close friends.  Gradually Siddhartha acquired the characteristics of ordinary people.  He talked about Gotama.  Finally the vice of acquisitiveness caught him.  He experienced terrible and expressive anxiety during games of dice.  He became hard and mean in business.  He became nauseated with himself.  He came to understand that passion was related to death.<br />Siddhartha left the garden and town and never returned.  Siddhartha wished for oblivion.  He sank back murmuring Om on his lips.  He met Govinda, the friend of his youth, who was dressed in a yellow gown.  Govinda was on a pilgrimage.  Siddhartha said he was making a pilgrimage, too, notwithstanding his worldly appearance.  (The wheel of appearances moves quickly.)  In his youth he had learned fasting, waiting, and thinking.  Too much knowledge, too many holy verses had hindered Siddhartha in the struggle with the self.  He felt that he had been full of arrogance.<br />He resolved to go to the ferryman who had taken him to the town.  He gave the man his clothes and wanted to remain there as his assistant.  The ferryman invited him to his hut.  A lesson to be learned from the river is that there is no such thing as time.  For many years there were two ferrymen.  Kamala and her son, little Siddhartha, were making a pilgrimage to the dying Gotama.  Kamala collapsed at the ferry.  Seeing her son, Siddhartha realized it was his son.  Kamal died.  She had found peace.<br />The boy was eleven and spoiled.  Siddhartha had blind love for his son.  The boy ran away.  The wound of his son's departure lasted a long time.  He thought yearningly and bitterly about his son.  Vasudeva, the ferryman, listened to his troubles.  Govinda, although a monk, was still restless in his heart.  He ran into Siddhartha in his role as a ferryman who told him he was seeking too much.  Siddhartha had found out that knowledge could be communicated but not wisdom.  Govinda kissed Siddhartha's mask, his smiling face.Kamala and her son, little Siddhartha, were making a pilgrimage to the dying Gotama.  Kamala collapsed at the ferry.  Seeing her son, Siddhartha realized it was his son.  Kamal died.  She had found peace.  <br />The boy was eleven and spoiled.  Siddhartha had blind love for his son.  The boy ran away.  The wound of his son's departure lasted a long time.  He thought yearningly and bitterly about his son.  Vasudeva, the ferryman, listened to his troubles.  Govinda, although a monk, was still restless in his heart.  He ran into Siddhartha in his role as a ferryman who told him he was seeking too much.  Siddhartha had found out that knowledge could be communicated but not wisdom.  Govinda kissed Siddhartha's mask, his smiling face.	2004-03-30
730175:US	52300235	R2I2J5L5HR3TTT	0525198423	898869615	Search for God	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Abraham was a searcher	Job refused to accept his suffering.  The first chapter of GENESIS tells of two creations.  The early stories in GENESIS are half legend.  Abraham ws a searcher.  The first quality evidenced in Jacob is ambition.  Jacob was forced to flee Esau's wrath for stealing his birthright. To the Hebrews, Moses was a great deliverer.  The Israelites followed Moses out of Egypt because he had beaten the magicians.  The Israelites were a democratic people.  The BOOK OF RUTH highlights the worth of individuals.  Gideon's wisdom is set forth in JUDGES.  <br />Samuel fought in vain against the principle of kingship.  Saul was thwarted in trying to create a succession for his son by a stronger contender, David.  David was the best king, subservient to God.  After the fall of Saul and Jonathan, the logic of events made David king.  David, through sheer genius, declared Jerusalem his capital city. Solomon, David's son, introduced the idea of an absolute monarchy into Israel.  The people revolted against his son.  Elijah, the prophet, initiated an avalanche that overwhelmed the royal dynasty.  Elijah refused to believe that God was a bringer of evil.  Elisha was his single disciple.  <br />Amos said he was not a prophet.  He claimed that amid the love of gold the nation had forgotten its love of truth.  Hosea attacked the multitude of altars.  The northern kingdon of Israel fell but Judah remained.  Isaiah was a citizen of Jerusalem.  In the &quot;Dooms&quot; of ISAIAH it was prophesied that a penalty would be paid for breaking the everlasting covenant.  Isaiah protected against the idolatry of Judah. The religion of the people was physical, that of the prophets was mental.  Micah was convinced the God of Israel should be worshipped in none of the usual ways.  Habakkuk was convinced that evil could not endure, that eventually it would fall of its own weight.  Nebuchadnezzar put the royal family into captivity in Babylonia.  THE BOOK OF LAMENTATIONS closed Judah's history.  It is traditionally assumed to be the work of Jeremiah.  <br />Jeremiah stood alone.  He was scourged and imprisoned.  He was born of priestly family.  Members of his own class opposed him.  He urged that the safety of the city was based upon the people's understanding of God.  Jeremiah tried to take his case to the common people.  During the siege of Jersalem Jeremiah became even more unpopular.  Baruch was Jeremiah's secretary.  He gathered together the scattered prophecies for the BOOK OF JEREMIAH. Jeremiah preached the doctrine of individual responsibility in Jersalem and Ezekial did the same in Babylonia.  Ezekial used vivid and literal pictures.  The BOOK OF DANIEL is a product of the persecution four centuries after the Babylonian exile.  The great book of the redemption of Israel, ISAIAH, was written during the Babylonian Exile.  <br />The BOOK OF PSALMS is a pilgrimage  towards God.  It describes many different moods.  The prophets were heretics to their contemporaries.  By the first century three sects had emerged in Judea, the Essenes, the Sadducees, and the Pharisees.  The author deems the raising of Lazarus to be the critical event depicted in JOHN.  It served to show  that Jesus had fulfilled his ministry.  Chute's views are unconventional and compelling in this well-written account of the believers' deistic search.	2004-03-27
731215:US	52300235	R3OXM4SKIMBG0A	0393310698	398190923	The Autobiography of Charles Darwin: 1809-1882	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A mind becoming a machine to grind out general laws	Darwin wrote his autobiography between the ages of 67 and 73.  In the publisher's introduction it is noted that Charles Darwin  tells of the slow maturing of his mind.  A family tree is provided.  Charles Darwin was the grandson of Erasmus Darwin and the son of Robert and Emma, nee Wedgwood.  His mother died when he was eight.  In boyhood he had a passion for collecting.<br />Charles Darwin went to Dr. Butler's school in Shrewsbury until age sixteen.  As a young boy he enjoyed solitary walks.  Dr. Butler's school was strictly classical.  He found the odes of Horace to his liking.  He reports his father had excellent powers of observation.  The father was a physician who hated the sight of blood but was able to divine the character of others.  He possessed an extraordinary memory for dates and other facts.  Charles Darwin was taught Euclid by a private tutor.  Clear geometric proofs gave him intense satisfaction.  As a boy Darwin enjoyed literature, Shakespeare included.  Later in life he lost his pleasure in poetry.  He was the cousin of Francis Galton.  He once wondered why every gentleman did not become an ornithologist.  He assisted his brother in chemical experiments.<br />Charles was sent to Edinburgh University with his brother.  In his second year he met several young men fond of natural science.  He attended meetings of the Plinian Society.  He also went to meetings of the Wernerian Society.  At Edinburgh he saw Audubon and Walter Scott.  He liked shooting but was half-ashamed of his zeal.<br />After two years at Edinburgh in medical studies it was decided Charles should be a clergyman.  He spent three years at Cambridge.  He studied Euclid and Paley's NATURAL THEOLOGY among other things.  He should have attended but did not the lectures of Sedgwick on geology.  He did attend Henslow's lectures on Botany.  He acquired a strong taste for music.  He was introduced to entomology by his second cousin, W. Darwin Fox.<br />At Cambridge Darwin took long walks with Professor Henslow.  After 1831 Darwin began to study biology.  The existence of a volute shell from the tropics at a site in the English midlands made Darwin realize completely that science is the grouping of facts so that general conclusions or laws can be found.  After a short geological tour in Wales he learned tht he could volunteer as a naturalist for the Beagle expedition.  It lasted for five years.  His participation was permitted by his father when his uncle gave his considered opinion that it was an opportunity in which Charles should be engaged.  On the voyage his habit of energetic industry and concentrated attention was crucial to his development as a scientist.<br />His love of science gradually preponderated over other tastes.  He worked on the ORIGIN OF SPECIES  for twenty years.  He felt enormously indebted to Charles Lyell.  He lived with his family in the country and felt compelled to give up dinner parties because they were too exciting.  He knew a wide range of people including Thomas Huxley, Charles Babbage, and Herbert Spencer.  In October 1838 he read Malthus's POPULATION.  The struggle for existence provided a basis for his theory.<br />In 1857 he received Wallace's essay and spent the following thirteen months preparing  the ORIGIN OF SPECIES.  Two condensed sketches were written prior to the longer work.  THE DESCENT OF MAN  took three years to write.  Darwin says that his mind became a sort of machine for grinding out general laws.lks with Professor Henslow.  After 1831 Darwin began to study biology.  The existence of a volute shell from the tropics at a site in the English midlands made Darwin realize completely that science is the grouping of facts so that general conclusions or laws can be found.  After a short geological tour in Wales he learned tht he could volunteer as a naturalist for the Beagle expedition.  It lasted for five years.  His participation was permitted by his father when his uncle gave his considered opinion that it was an opportunity in which Charles should be engaged.  On the voyage his habit of energetic industry and concentrated attention was crucial to his development as a scientist.  <br />His love of science gradually preponderated over other tastes.  He worked on the ORIGIN OF SPECIES  for twenty years.  He felt enormously indebted to Charles Lyell.  He lived with his family in the country and felt compelled to give up dinner parties because they were too exciting.  He knew a wide range of people including Thomas Huxley, Charles Babbage, and Herbert Spencer.  In October 1838 he read Malthus's POPULATION.  The struggle for existence provided a basis for his theory.  <br />In 1857 he received Wallace's essay and spent the following thirteen months preparing  the ORIGIN OF SPECIES.  Two condensed sketches were written prior to the longer work.  THE DESCENT OF MAN  took three years to write.  Darwin says that his mind became a sort of machine for grinding out general laws.	2004-03-26
732976:US	52300235	R3T60WGZKFBOB7	0312145594	872767435	The Castle of Indolence: On Poetry, Poets, and Poetasters	Books	5	1	7	N	N	Stamina is a factor in greatness	Poetry has lost its audience.  Disch claims that poetry workshops encourage indolence.  English poets learned their craft translating Latin and Greek poetry in school.  The author cites the sheer lyric loveliness of the poems of Kathleen Raine.  Peter Whigham's surest claim to poetic fame is as a translator of Catullus and other classical poets.  Whigham was in fealty to Ezra Pound.  <br />Kenneth Fearing wrote genre fiction.  Fearing's poems are sort of proto-Pop art, but what they lack is a persona.  In the beginning Fearing's critical reception was disenchantment. Many poets have exciting alternate careers.  For the most part, the high productivity poet is a thing of the past.  Good poets do tend to be hard workers.  Disch does complain that poets have a free lunch mentality.  Poetry is not a route to money.  Poets, as contrasted to novelists, have artistic longevity.  Poets tend to be less given to alcoholism.  <br />Vikram Seth and James Merrill have produced long narrative poems.  In modern times the form is unusual.  Long poems have also been produced by Ezra Pound, Marilyn Hacker, John Berryman, and A.R. Ammons.  Disch asserts that country living produces longer thoughts.  THE GOLDEN GATE by Vikram Seth is set in San Francisco.  Seth emulates Pushkin.  <br />Christopher Fry was a practitioner of verse drama.  Thomas Hardy wrote THE DYNASTS, T.S. Eliot, MURDER IN THE CATHEDRAL.  Fry wrote civic pageants, operas for children.  Fry's first full-length play was THE FIRSBORN.  The strengths of the play are the strengths of classic theater.  Fry, as someone who pleases the actors, is on par with Wilde, Sheridan, Congreve, and Shaw.  Fry's LADY'S NOT FOR BURNING still gets revived.  <br />James Joyce urged silence, exile, cunning in the early days of modernism.  poets are authorities on death.  Americans are squeamish about death, but not poets.  Raymond Carver's poems may be enjoyed for their anecdotal value.  Charles Bukowski's work has similar appeal.  A creative writing course cannot teach someone to be a first class poet.  Disch believes that Albert Goldbarth is one of the most considerable poets.  He uses flamboyant language, but his primary gift is visual.  While Goldbarth is expansive, Philip Levine, another good poet, is not.  Levine's work is terse, self-effacing.  John Hollander of all living poets may be the most masterful.  Hollander understands that stamina is a factor in greatness in poetry.	2004-03-25
733144:US	52300235	R263EYGDMYYNFM	0807100625	813473083	Darwin and the Modern World View (Rockwell Lectures Series)	Books	5	1	7	N	N	Organic evolution	Natural science ideas had an impact on philosophy and religion.  Progress in science undermined the static view of nature held by both Christians and deists.  The methods of science extended the study of man and society. The belief in the divine inspiration of the Bible had been under attack for more than a century prior to Darwin's ORIGIN OF SPECIES.  The response of Christianity to evolutionary biology, comparative religion, and biblical scholarship was varied.  In the Protestant world there is no central authority.  Lyman Abbott contended the sacred authors apprehended truth gradually and imperfectly.<br /><br />In the 18th and 19th century there was a general decline in theology.  Revelation according to John Baillie is not a body of supernaturally-communicated propositions but a series of events of God's disclosing.  Inspiration is the divine illumination.  In Darwin's time natural theology was in high vogue.  In William Paley's NATURAL THEOLOGY (1802) there was a conviction of the permanence and wise design of the world.  At the same time, paleontology and geology were giving rise to the view of perpetual change.  Darwin's belief in God as the creator slipped slowly away from him.  Henry Ward Beecher was confident evolutionary science would provide a basis for natural theology.<br /><br />Karl Barth rejected natural theology and evolutionary modernism.  Paul Tillich erased the distinction between revealed and natural theology.  Etienne Gilson claimed that science describes what natural things are.  Catholic thought distinguished between scientific theories and philosophical views.  To Henri Bergson and William James the universe was a dynamic flux.  To Alfred North Whitehead ideas of organism served to correct ideas of mechanism when considering universal processes.<br /><br />Modern biologists generally do not care for theistic explanations. R. A. Fisher and Theodosius Dobzhansky both emphasized the creative aspects of organic evolution.  Chance may determinecombination, but there is necessity of mutual reactions to the whole ecological situation.  Father Teilhard de Charden attempted to cast evolutionary theory into Christian perspective.<br /><br />Comte, Rousseau, and Marx all developed theories of social evolution independently of theories of biological evolution.  In the work of Herbert Spencer social evolution is linked to organic evolution.  Both Darwin and Spencer had to face the problem of measuring progress in social science.  Early in the 20th century a strong reaction set in against social evolutionism.  Cultural evolution has been propounded by Alfred Louis Kroeber and others.  Kroeber's anthropology distinguished between the historical and the scientific approach.	2004-03-25
735038:US	52300235	R3FLUTGPU3BJ2S	B0000VV2HO	664205831	Stranger Shores: Literary Essays 1986-1999	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Novelist and literary observer	Coetzee writes that T.S. Eliot was invested in his English identity by 1944.  Eliot wrote an essay about Virgil, about the Aeneid, about the classics at that time.  He sensed the war would bring about change.  The classics are what survives.  The music of Bach, for example, has survived.  <br />The author disliked watching the TV version of Richardson's CLARISSA.  He writes that in 1740 there was an idea of beauty.  Lovelace is a rake.  Richardson is a Christian, but not a religious writer.  Clarissa is trapped in a certain mythic dualism.  She suffers ontological damage.  Clarissa's self-interpretation carries conviction.  Lovelace is a thoroughly debased version of the lover worshipper of female beauty.  <br />The principal subject of the Dutch writer, Marcellus Emants, is love and marriage.  He is pessimistic and is interested in psychological processes.  The Dutch writer Harry Mulisch wrote a fictional account of the story of his own parents.  A theme of his has been the failure of the imagination in the face of the atrocious evil of, say, Auschwitz.  Mulisch has an intensely felt personal preoccupation with the historical trauma of European facism.  <br />Cees Nooteboom, another Dutch novelist, is too intelligent to commit himself to constructing the grand illusions of realism.  Nooteboom has a version of Andersen's &quot;The Snow Queen.&quot;  Nooteboom's initial reputation was gained as a travel writer.  One of the constants of his life has been his love of Spain.  Religious tourism makes up a large part of the tourism industry in Europe.  <br />Coetzee notes that Rainer Maria Rilke was attracted to a non-German identity.  Rilke visited Russia and after Word War I visited Switzerland.  He was attacked as a cultural renegade but claimed he was merely being a good European.  Rilke had a gift for languages.  <br />Edwin and Willa Muir became professional translators.  They produced translations of Kafka.  Edwin Muir was also a poet of some note.  At any rate, the Muir's conception of Kafka was that he was a religious writer.  Coetzee claims that the Muir monopoly has assumed a scandalous air in that it has produced numerous misreadings.  Their knowledge of German terms pertaining to law and the legal bureaucracy was sketchy. The Muirs are uncertain guides to the everyday material culture of middle Europe.  Max Brod, who delivered Kafka to the world, was, of course, no ordinary editor.  He saved Kafka's manuscripts  from destruction.  Coetzee describes Kafka's language as clear, specific, and neutral.  His language may have been influenced by the precision of good legal prose.  <br />Robert Musil served the Hapsburg Empire in World War I and died during World War II.  THE MAN WITHOUT QUALITIES was left unfinished.  In 1938 Musil and his wife became trapped in Switzerland.  Musil thought German culture was retrogressive in compartmentalizing intellect from feeling.  Nietzsche's influence on Musil was decisive.  <br />1865-1871 were the years of Dostoevsky's greatest achievement.  Dostoevsky's biographer calls him a literary proletarian.  His second wife was able to divorce his gambling mania from his personality.  In Dostoevsky's novels there are competing voices and discourses.  Dostevsky's historical intuitions were usually right.  <br />Joseph Brodsky criticizes Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn for refusing to accept that humankind is radically bad.  The author writes of A.S. Byatt, Aharon Appelfeld, Naguib Mahfouz, Nadine Gordimer and Doris Lessing in addition to the literary figures covered above at greater length.  <br />The essays by this Nobel Prize winner are useful guides to various writers and works without being overly scholarly.	2004-03-23
738370:US	52300235	RDYBMOF88WBRR	0425059367	887907548	Masques	Books	3	2	2	N	N	He was selected  King of the Masque	Having fun was a theme of Mardi Gras.  Voodoo was mentioned in the guide book.  The Pirate's Head Hotel had atmosphere.  Steve Giroux was from San Francisco.  He thought there was a kind of craziness to the carnival.  He had been separated from his wife for six months.  Someone called him about a photograph.  The problem was he knew nothing of such a picture.  New Orleans reminds him of Venice where he had gone five years previously on a package tour.  The crowd of masked people in the streets makes him feel claustrophobic.  His date for the evening is dressed as a voodoo queen.  They go to a jazz club on Dauphine Street.  He is astonished to discover that the woman, Juleen, believes in voodoo.  She had been born in Metairie.<br />It is the following day.  His memory of the previous evening is not clear.  A woman named Mona invites him to have lunch with her.  She has also gone through the aftershock of divorce.  Again someone, in a menacing manner, seeks to take a phtograph from him and Steve knows nothing about it.  The book is full of--well--voodooish atmosphere.  Two days later Steve is still wondering whether Juleen is dead or alive.  He receives a mysterious package at his hotel.  It is a doll seemingly spurting blood.  <br />Steven decides to tell Mona of the macabre events that have overtaken him.  He feels a sense of relief.  Later he runs into further causes of befuddlement, some of which involve the woman Mona.  He finds that he is a sort of jester in a comic masque.  &quot;If I ever cease to love, if I ever cease to love....&quot;  Bill Pronzini does a professional and exciting job in the writing of this story on the theme of Mardi Gras.	2004-03-20
738600:US	52300235	RX4OLTCOFS79L	1400042070	669988222	The Amateur Marriage: A Novel	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Family members lost and found	Michael and Pauline married after Michael was discharged from the service during World War II.  An accident in training had produced in him a decided limp.  They were married, surprising the customers of Michael's mother's store and St. Cassian's parish.  Pauline and Michael's mother became friends.      Later there was a baby, Lindy.  A grocery store's business comes in waves.  Michael experienced Pauline's absence as a form of feeling.  Additional children were named George and Karen.  The family moved to housing in the outskirts of the city.  It was Elmview Acres established in 1947.  Michael's mother lived with them.  She was called Mother Anton. Pauline still returned to the old neighborhood to play cards.      The story shifts and Lindy has attained the age of seventeen.  Her favorite author is Jack Kerouac.  Lindy was wild, but her room was neat.  Mother Anton had died when Karen was in kindergarten.  When Lindy failed to come home one night her sister and brother covered up for her.  Eventually the police were called.  The last time it seemed that Lindy would show up any minute, but she did not.  After Lindy's leaving, Karen and George became mute and withdrawn.      The Anne Tyler books are reassuring.  Less than perfect families are portrayed.  Somehow family members muddle along to suitable outcomes.	2004-03-20
755329:US	52300235	R2DWATYHNH4BHI	0749310618	719341536	To Love and Be Wise	Books	4	4	8	N	N	Ambiguity	Marta Hallard is an actress, Alan Grant a Detective-Superintendent at Scotland Yard.  Grant is useful as an escort.  Leslie Searle, an American and a photographer, is invited to spend the weekend at Salcott St. Mary at the home of Lavinia Fitch and Walter Whitmore and other family members.  Leslie Searle seems to be famous.  Lavinia's sister, Emma, dislikes him.  Emma's daughter Liz, secretary to her Aunt Lavinia, likes him very much.  <br />Toby Tullis, an actor, has a place in Salcott.  He is so famous he is surprised that Searle has never heard of him.  Perhaps Searle, who photographs celebrities, is having him on.  Walter and Searle decide to do a book together.  Walter is a broadcaster for the BBC.  His trademark is an unself-conscious friendliness.  Liz is engaged to Walter.  <br />Lavinia feels a wrongness and a fascination with Searle.  Liz is clearly fascinated.  The book plan is for Walter to do the text and for Searle to provide the illustrations.  It is to be a portrait of a particular river its entire length, from the source to the sea.  The pair intends to use a canoe.  The work is to have the title CANOES ON THE RUSHMERE.  <br />At the start they are to sleep in a cave.  Five days later they walk into the pub, the Swan, where they usually drank.  The men seemed to have been having a personal discussion and none of the others ventured to their area.  Afterwards Searle said that Walter left in order to avoid throttling him.  Searle disappears.  <br />Alan Grant arrives to question the BBC commentator, Walter Whitmore.  He reported the disappearance the morning following the evening at the pub.  Grant thinks the disppearance has an aspect of the sawn lady about it.  Grant asks Walter if Searle is the person he purports to be, a photographer of celebrities.  Perhaps Searle lost his way in the dark and fell into the river.  <br />The room Searle occupied is devoid of atmosphere.  Walter Whitmore seems to be deteriorating, visibly.  The press has reached him.  Grant's friend Marta functions as a sounding board.  The next development is that Searle's shoe is discovered.  The solution to the mystery is another instance of Josephine Tey's (Elizabeth McKintosh's) resourceful use of an identity theme.	2004-03-07
755451:US	52300235	RVXZJZ2LCFI86	0394417089	638542947	The Black Swan	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Search for Love	It is Mann's final novella.  It is a twist on the matter of deceitfulness.  The greatest deceit is self-deceit.  The story was inspired by an anecdote given to Mann by his wife Katia according to the forward by Carlos Baker.  <br />The setting of the story is the 1920's.  Rosalie is a widow and a Rhinelander.  Her daughter Anna, nearly age 30, is her dearest companion.  Her son Eduard, considerably younger than Anna, wants his mother to hire Ken Keaton, a young American, as his English teacher.  His mother accedes to his wish.  Rosalie is vivacious in Mr. Keaton's presence.  She is beginning to lose her heart to him.  Rosalie possesses self-knowledge, she is ashamed.  Rosalie comes to rejoice in her torment.  Her son and daughter see the situation and her son says to her he has learned a sufficient amount of English and the services of Mr. Keaton are no longer required.  <br />During the social season Ken Keaton is seen in other people's houses.  Rosalie confesses to Anna that she loves Ken Keaton.  Anna points out he has little to inspire such passion and suffering.  She characterizes her mother's enchantment as absurd.  Rosalie is led to use restraint so that under no circumstances would young Eduard feel compelled to defend her honor.  <br />She misreads her own physiological state.  She has come to believe that her love has wrought a change in her middle-aged condition.  Her death is swift.  During the last hospitalization she remembers the black swan.  <br />The formality of the language employed is notable.  The descriptions of Rosalie's malady may be held to be excessively clinical.	2004-03-07
763576:US	52300235	R1XVFO0GKYEYUC	0061043494	769540204	Gaudy Night (Lord Peter Wimsey Mysteries)	Books	5	6	12	N	N	When Lord Peter almost fights a duel	Five stars for a genre book is unusual, but deserved in this instance.  An alternate title to this review could be Harry Potter for adults.  I am struck by the leisurely pace of Dorothy Sayers and the richness and the variety of the storytelling in this work.  <br />Shrewsbury College is imaginary.  Balliol College, Lord Peter Wimsey's school, does exist.  Dorothy Sayers's own college was Somerville.  The action of the book takes place in 1935.  Harriet Vane is notorious.  She has been tried for a murder.  She had taken a first in English.  A letter arrived entreating her to attend the Shrewsbury Gaudy. <br />Harriet has broken all her old ties.  She thought to herself when at the scene that that she had always had great affection for the Dean.  The Warden greeted Harriet graciously.  Miss Lydgate was the English tutor.  She reminded Harriet that she always had had a scholarly mind.  <br />Even Oxford did not offer Harriet a respite from Lord Peter Wimsey and the marriage question.  Harriet was questioned about his lordship.  Not knowing the identification of a wrongdoer, one does tend to suspect everyone.  There had been some unexplained events of nasty messages in chalk and newspaper cuttings and petty vandalism.  <br />Following the Gaudy, Harriet heard nothing of Shrewsbury until she was summoned to attend the opeing of a new library.  The Dean wrote that there had been unpleasantness.  The disturbances came to be characterized under the heading of the poison pen.  It was learned that one of the students was being bothered with more than thirty anonymous messages.  Her death while on the water was averted through quick-thinking by Harriet and others.  <br />Harriet had never connected Peter and Oxford in her mind when he showed up at chapel.  An acquaintance said that Wimsey very much exemplified the Oxford manner.  In a serious discussion Lord Peter admits that he has been running away from himself for twenty years.  Lord Peter, being somebody, is able to giveone of the female historians access to an out of the way source.  <br />Eventually a discussion at dinner leads to a consideration of false results in scholarship.  Scientists do not suppress facts.  They do not publish falsehoods.  Historians follow a similar ethical path.  The descriptions of Lord Peter are particularly telling in this scene.  He is clearly brilliant, disinterested, capable of superior work.  The impression one has had of him as a sort of joke is altered.  <br />There were no problems at Shrewsbury until a Miss DeVine arrived.  In her former placement she uncovered a scholarly misdeed.  The college servants are called scouts.  The scouts and the faculty are the groups from which the wrongdoer must emerge since the students have alibis.  The mystery is decoded by Harriet and Lord Peter.	2004-03-01
764741:US	52300235	R3MZYTTT294Q0J	0156182890	67896780	The Cocktail Party	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Absurdist Merry Go Round	The piece may be considered a precursor to Edward Albee's works.  The opening is the Chamberlaynes' flat.  Julia occupies the center of the storytelling.  Edward is the host.  Julia describes herself as a tough old woman.  Edward claims his wife Lavinia is tending an old aunt in the depths of Essex.     After most of the guests exit, Edward is left with the unidentified guest.  It is learned that Lavinia has actually left Edward.  Edward is told to resign himself to feeling ridiculous.  Alex and Peter return.  Peter is concerned about his friend, Celia.  Alex doesn't want Edward to be alone.      Celia then contacts Edward.  She understands that Lavinia has left him.  Edward fails to watch the dinner on the stove that Alex cooks for him and it is ruined.  Julia returns.  Celia remains and announces her interest in Edward to him.  Julia's call interrupts the discussion.  Her spectacles were left in the kitchen.      The unidentified guest reappears.  He tells Edward he will change his mind, but he is not free to change it.  Celia and Peter come again.   They say Lavinia telegraphed Julia.  Lavinia arrives, knowing nothing about a telegram.  Peter is going to California and Celia may be going away.      Julia enters and next Alex.  Everyone then leaves to accomodate the couple, Edward and Lavinia.  Lavinia says she forgot all about the party.  Edward tells how he invented an aunt.      In another act Edward tells a doctor how he cannot live with and cannot live without his wife.  He says the death of the spirit is terrifying.  Lavinia arrives and claims that she merely wanted to talk about her husband, not to meet him in the doctor's office.  The doctor says that they are both too ill to enter his sanatorium.  He characterizes them as self-deceivers.  Celia will enter the sanatorium.      Act Three centers again on the drawing room of the Chamberlaynes.  It is two years later.  Julia and Alex appear and there is talk of tigers.  Peter enters, having left Los Angeles three days earlier.  He is a screeen writer.  It is learned that Celia has died in a gruesome manner.  Peter is disturbed because he doesn't think anything he does is important if Celia is dead.  The physician notes that Celia has paid the highest price in suffering.  Every moment is a fresh beginning.	2004-03-01
766854:US	52300235	R110CR06ENJTW9	0935296808	210173979	Interviews and Encounters with Stanley Kunitz	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Long lived poet	None of Kunitz's contemporaries has lived as long.  He finds the intellect and passions inseparable.  Dante's influence in Stanely Kunitz's poetry is internal.  Almost all his poems are devotional.<br />Kunitz taught hundreds of students. His students say he taught them to love their places of origin.  Kunitz speaks of language changing into meaning.  Language reaches the poet in a shapeless rush.  Every artist is born into a style.<br />Kunitz's association with Theodore Roethke began when they were both young men.  Kunitz first began to teach in the late forties at Bennington.  He edited a periodical while in high school at the Classical High School in Worcester, MA.  After college, Harvard, he worked for a newspaper in Worcester and then he worked for a publisher in New York City.  He found an office existence intolerable and moved to a farm in Connecticut.  Later he moved to Bucks County and then to Provincetown.  He finds that New York City depletes him.  He is happiest in Provincetown.<br />He was born in Worcester in 1905 to Russian immigrant parents.  His father died just prior to his birth.  His mother had a flourishing business based upon her own dress designs.  His household had full sets of Dickens and Tolstoy and other writers.  He did not return to Worcester until 1963 when Clark University granted him an honorary degree.  Donne, Herbert, Blake and Wordsworth were poetic influences. The Wasteland&quot; shook his world.<br />He believes a poet needs to keep his wilderness alive inside him.  Kunitz has been asked how does a poet garden.  He writes at night, sometimes until dawn.  Gardening is an aspect of his meditative life.  Structure has always been enormously important to Kunitz.  Kunitz claims he is enchanted with every step in the process of making things grow.  Louise Gluck, Kunitz's student, reports he taught habits of  thought.  A sampling of poems appears in the appendix of the book.	2004-02-28
776118:US	52300235	RGZOECHJM3VNA	038076363X	196238931	The Sins of the Fathers (Matthew Scudder)	Books	4	0	3	N	N	Alcohol attracts depressives	Matt Scudder is still drinking in this yarn.  He is an ex-cop and is not a licensed private investigator.  He does favors for people.  A father wants him to find out why his daughter died.  He had not been in contact with her for three years.  Scudder is no longer a police officer because he has lost faith.  A ricochet bullet targeted at miscreants killed an innocent child.  <br />Reviewing the records with the help of his police contacts, Matt concludes that it seems to be case of a murder suicide, the suicide taking place while the murderer was in custody.  The persons involved in the crime were roommates.  Richard Vanderpoel was a minister's son.  He was employed as a clerk in the antiques business.  Scudder sees the attorney who visited Richard at the Tombs.  Richard's father is tall and rail thin.  <br />Scudder arranges to see a former roommate of the victim.  The victim, Wendy, is described as having a little girl quality.  Both Richard and Wendy played out patterns in life representing relationships with and the loss of parents.<br />Scudder books depict the consequences of caring about people's fate too much.  What results is a sense of exhaustion, a sense of loss.  This volume follows the pattern.	2004-02-21
776526:US	52300235	R20JF0LM2NDJNY	0140263349	498305098	When Harlem Was in Vogue	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A zesty account	Claude McKay and Jean Toomer helped to launch the Harlem Renaissance and chose to live elsewhere. Sterling Brown denied  that a Harlem Renaissance had ever existed.  It began as a somewhat forced phenomenon.  <br />DuBois believed the history of the world was the history of groups.  War experiences spurred people to seek decisive change.  Unfortunately a number of racial incidents took place directly after Word War I.  The historian Carter Woodson was witness to a riot in Washington D.C.  <br />Black Harlem ran from 130th to 145th Streets.  Jazz and blues in Harlem were produced by persons from the Great Migration--Mamie Smith, Perry Bradford, and others.  There were new stars in Harlem.  Claude McKay and James Weldon Johnson became personal friends.  MacKay's HARLEM SHADOWS appeared in 1922.  Countee Cullen said that on the whole he liked CANE by Jean Toomer.  Countee Cullen's only serious rival in Harlem was Langston Hughes.  <br />Alain Locke and Charles Johnson, a sociologist, made contributions to the intellectual life of the Harlem leadership.  Arna Bontemps and Zora Neale Thurston were also notable figures.  Many motives animated the Lost Generation Caucasian supporters.  The motives included guilt, Christianity, inherited abolitionism.  <br />There were rent parties in Harlem and other evidence of stress and overcrowding.  Nonetheless the twenties was a time of artistic triumph with such musical personalities James P. Johnson, Willie the Lion Smith, Fats Waller, and Duke Ellington seeking and finding engagements.  There were success stories.  Even in the Depression people were generally well-dressed and happy.  Harlem was filled with strivers and professionals.  <br />1925 was year one of the Harlem Renaissance.  James Weldon Johnson's ancestors had been free, literate, and prosperous before the Civil War.  He and his brother composed an opera.  The mid twenties solidified the Harlem Renaissance.  Harlem was Afro-America's Paris.  LULU BELLE (1926) sent whites to Harlem in unprecedented numbers.  Factually speaking, though, most of Harlem was sober and hardworking.  <br />The Rosenwald Fund and the Harmon Fund were influential by promoting and rewarding African American artistic achievement.  Alain Locke had been a sort of custodian of the Harlem Renaissance.  Claude McKay's last novel appeared in 1933.  Sugar Hill, Strivers' Row and the Dunbar were landmarks of the Renaissance.  The last novel of the Renaissance was Zora Neale Thurston's JONAH'S GOURD VINE.  <br />The book covers other topics interestingly, revealing many bits of information previously unknown to this reader.  Photographs are included and an appendix of sources.	2004-02-21
783205:US	52300235	RQ336U279K8VF	0333061268	316284700	Masters Snow CP	Books	5	2	2	N	N	College politics	Lewis Eliot learns from Paul Jago  that Vernon Royce, the Master of the college,  has inoperable cancer.  Roy Calvert is a student of the Master and a beloved friend of the family.  It is believed that the Master's daughter Joan is half in love with Calvert.  The Master's wife, Lady Muriel, decides to keep the true state of things a secret from the Master.  The Master is to be told he has an ulcer and needs rest.  <br />Brown orders a bottle of claret to celebrate the achievement of Winslow's son.  Young Luke and the other named members of the college discuss the Master's circumstances.  Crystal and Brown are both capable of running things.  They believe a Master can be found inside the college.  It is believed that Crawford and Jago will be considered for the post.  <br />It is learned that Nightingale and Pilbrow are back from vacation.  The oldest among them, Gay, is subject to a flickering memory.  He seems to forget that Royce is the current Master.  Nightingale has been frustrated, unlucky, and envy has never left him alone.  He is a theoretical chemist.  At one time he had promise.  Roy Calvert has always found the intimate formality of the college humorous.  <br />Lewis says that his choice is Jago.  Arthur Brown is for Jago and Chrystal thinks he can manage him.  Brown actively dislikes Crawford and has regard for Jago.  Brown is a politician by nature.  Brown, Eliot, and Chrystal go to see Jago.  Mrs. Jago is a sensitive sort who with her temperament drives Jago's friends away from him.  It is anticipated that Crawford, Despard, and Winslow will be opposed to having Jago as the Master.  Jago is more extravagant than many men and loves display more.  <br />Francis Getliffe, a scientist and Lewis's particular friend,  says that he is worried about the talk of Jago as Master.  Getliffe would rather have someone of the left fill the office and would rather support a scientist.  Jago is an English scholar with an interest in the colonial figure William Bradford.  <br />Roy Calvert becomes Lady Muriel's mainstay in the nearly year-long process of the death of her husband.  Nightingale wants to get a college office out of the change and Jago is disinclined to see such a thing happen.  Following a feast held for a potential benefactor of the college, the Master is told the true medical view of his health.  He says that it is hard to think without a future.  <br />The group supporting Jago loses its clear majority when Nightingale goes over to the other side.  The Master lives for a longer time than expected.  Winslow's son fails the final examination although the nephew of the expected benefactor gains a third class degree.  With Winslow downcast, Roy Calvert, consumed by his own depression, speaks wildly to him.  <br />Jago's pride is mountainous.  His diffidence is intense.  He is vulnerable.  He has never used his powers, he has never been able to compete.  Pilbrow, after traveling abroad and in view of national and international issues, decides to shift his vote from Jago to Crawford.  There seems to be a deadlock.  <br />Chrystal suggests a third candidate-- Brown.  Chrystal announces he is moving his vote over to Crawford.  Perhaps envy and pique and vanity changed the circumstances of voting for Chrystal.  Jago is easier with proteges than with friends.  He has a proud nature and is unable to unbend.  <br />The nuances of character and circumstances are fascinating in this novel.  This skeletal summary of the plot is insufficient to demonstrate that the reader comes to care deeply about the outcome of the election described in full by the author.	2004-02-16
786019:US	52300235	R1JFX4GDL0QHJV	B00005WAV6	221430970	Lost languages	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Continuous change	All languages undergo continuous change.  Latin and Greek are typical examples of inflectional languages.  In 1786 the common origin of English and Sanskrit was predicted. <br />The ancient Egyptians used a combination of ideograms and phonograms.  The Greeks evolved the first true alphabet.  The Etruscan alphabet had twenty six letters.  The Romans borrowed twenty one of them.  Greek and Latin were brought to Egypt.  The Egyptian language using an expanded Greek alphabet survived in its Coptic form because of its use by Christians.  <br />Knowledge of hieroglyphic writing was lost from 400 AD to 1800.  The Rosetta Stone changed the situation.  Jean Francois Champollion and others guessed correctly that the hieroglyphic forms contained phonetic expression.  The hieroglyphs were neither exclusively symbolic nor exclusively phonetic.  For the most part Champollion's ideas happened to be right.  <br />Cuneiform was used by the Semitic Accadians and by other Mesopotamian peoples.  George Frederick Grotefend became interested in deciphering the cuneiform writings.  He obtained phonetic values for twelve cuneiform signs.  Henry Rawlinson found additional signs to raise the number to eighteen and wrote a paper on deciphering Old Persian cuneiform inscriptions.  By 1850 Rawlinson had ascertained the values of 150 characters and 500 words of an unknown language, (Sumerian?), of the Behistun trilingual text.  The other writings of the inscription were Elamite and Persian.  <br />The book describes the work of Michael Ventris in the decipherment of the Linear B Text.  The Etruscan language continues to baffle scholars.  Knowledge of the Mayan glyphs was lost through whole sale destruction of Mayan records.  The Mayan system is primarily ideographic.  This is evident since illiterate groups still speak a Mayan language.	2004-02-14
786713:US	52300235	RDPN0CTDE687B	0891909036	387421049	Dead As a Dinosaur: A Mr. and Mrs. North Mystery	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Paleozoological mysteries	Mr. and Mrs. North exist pursuant to the popularity of Nora and Nick Charles of THE THIN MAN.    As was the case in the Dashiell Hammett work, Mr. and Mrs. North are a smart urban couple--stylish.  The setting is New York City.  The series gave rise to a television show.  <br />Gerald North lives with his wife Pamela and their three cats in an apartment.  He is a typical New Yorker.  There is a likelihood of finding him eating eggs benedict in a famous night club.  He is a publisher.  <br />A Dr. Preson decides someone is trying to drive him crazy by producing streams of people through want ads--tree surgeons, masons, various kinds of other people.  Preson is a curator of fossil mammals, a paleozoologist.  Dr. Preson is one of Jerry North's published authors.  <br />A house invader enters Preson's apartment and takes the labels off of the bones there.  The labels are on the bones merely as a convenience.  Preson's sister Laura drinks some milk from his refrigerator.  It is laced with phenobarbital.  <br />Preson's family reports that he is an excitable man.  His family has been concerned about him for about a year.  Then it is learned that Preson has succumbed to an overdose of barbituates.  Orpheus Preson dies of repiratory paralysis.  <br />It is hard for Pam and Jerry North to disentangle the mysteries surrounding Preson's demise.  They had believed the paleozoologist to be sane.  The Norths set off in search of the manuscript for volume two.  The manuscript is located, but it is incomplete.  <br />The decedent had been connected with an institute, a small museum.  It is a musty, dusty affair.  Pretty soon Preson's family is prepared to contest the will and his brother-in-law turns up murdered at the institute.  Needless to say, the North couple is charming.	2004-02-13
788969:US	52300235	R34UNIO55MNF8Q	0812504321	244802770	The Call of the Wild (Tor Classics)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Principles of Leadership	Buck, a dog, lived in California in the Santa Clara Valley.  He was top dog at Judge Miller's place.  He weighed one hundred forty pounds.<br />In 1897 the Klondike strike drove all manner of men to the Northland.  A gardener sold Buck.  He was put in a crate.  For two days he did not eat or drink.  He was broken brutally with a club.<br />Buck was purchased by Perrault, a French-Canadian.  He traveled by ship to Alaska.  Mixed breed dogs and huskies, the sled dogs, are described interestingly by London.  Buck toiled in the traces for an unending number of days.  He found newborn cunning and ceased being a fussy eater.<br />Buck's team encountered a starving group of dogs, (a walking and  menacing example of the danger in the North to which animals and men were subject), who attacked the food with manic intensity.  Perrault and his partner Francois sought to save their dogs from the famished beasts.  The members of the team were wounded grievously.  Nothing remotely edible had escaped the famished huskies.<br />It is evident that Jack London loved the play of ideas swirling about a scene containing both the wild ancestors and the domesticated carnivores.  Buck may have been a strange Southland dog, but potentially he was a ferocious one.  Inevitably his mettle would be tested in a clash for leadership with a dog named Spitz.<br />The party sought to reach Dawson.  There were many men and countless dogs in Dawson.  Afterwards they, Buck's party of men and dogs, went onto the Yukon Trail.  The first day they accomplished a fifty mile run.  Buck continued to challenge Spitz.  He also gave way to wild delight.  He sampled ecstacy, the summit of life in the great chase for prey.  Buck bested Spitz.  Next Buck prevailed on the men through rebellion to place him at the lead position.  Buck became the giver of the law, (this is another theme running through Jack London's works).<br />For fourteen days they averaged forty miles.  After Skagway Francois and Perrault left for other pursuits.  Buck and the dogs carried the mail.  In less than five months they traveled twenty five hundred miles.  The team, exhausted, fell into the hands of inexperienced owners.  The sled was overloaded.  A fourteen dog team meant starvation because it was not possible to carry enough dog food for the journey.<br />The reality of Arctic conditions became too harsh for the people to bear.  In their own misery they became callous to the suffering of the animals.  At John Thornton's camp Buck refused to get up because he sensed that something was amiss.  Thornton undertook to save Buck and the other members of the team and people drowned in the thawed ice.  Buck became lavish in his love for Thornton.  In the course of time he rubbed noses with a wolf, the call of the wild.  Following Thornton's death Buck joined the wolf pack and became a  ghost dog.  In a London tale Social Darwinism, the struggle for existence, overwhelms everything else.  The story is sharp, brutal, compelling.lt left for other pursuits.  Buck and the dogs carried the mail.  In less than five months they traveled twenty five hundred miles.  The team, exhausted, fell into the hands of inexperienced owners.  The sled was overloaded.  A fourteen dog team meant starvation because it was not possible to carry enough dog food for the journey.  <br />The reality of Arctic conditions became too harsh for the people to bear.  In their own misery they became callous to the suffering of the animals.  At John Thornton's camp Buck refused to get up because he sensed that something was amiss.  Thornton undertook to save Buck and the other members of the team and people drowned in the thawed ice.  Buck became lavish in his love for Thornton.  In the course of time he rubbed noses with a wolf, the call of the wild.  Following Thornton's death Buck joined the wolf pack and became a  ghost dog.  In a London tale Social Darwinism, the struggle for existence, overwhelms everything else.  The story is sharp, brutal, compelling.	2004-02-11
789445:US	52300235	R21G0Q0P4XVH27	0060959568	538516238	Strange Fruit: The Biography of a Song	Books	5	8	14	N	N	Red diaper tale	The book has an introduction by Hilton Als.  In early 1939 Billie Holiday sang \\"Strange Fruit.\\"  It made the audience nervous.  Someone clapped and then everyone clapped at the night club, Cafe Society.      Billie Holiday performed the song countless times.  The song encountered great resistance.  It was banned by South African Radio during the existence of apartheid.  The song was written by a white Jewish school teacher from New York City, Abel Meeropol, writing under the pen name Lewis Allan.  He is better known as the adoptive father of the sons of the Rosenbergs.  He brought the song to Billie Holiday.      Billie Holiday embellished things in her ghost-written autobiography.   Cafe Society was the brainchild of Barney Josephson.  Meeropol felt that Billie Holiday was not comfortable with the song.  Josh White also performed the song.      Lynching was a conspicuous theme in black fiction, theater, and art, but not in music.  Lynching brutalized feelings everywhere.    The U.S. Congress refused over and over again to pass an anti-lynching law. The performance on record is elegant and understated.  There was a sense of inherent drama in a Billie Holiday presentation.  The record sold ten thousand copies the first week by some accounts.  The song made one sit up and listen and think.  Hearing the record was an epic event for the fifteen year old Ned Rorem.      The title of the song was used by Lillian Smith for her anti-segregation novel.  When Billie Holiday moved to the other jazz clubs \\"Strange Fruit\\" went over well.  The book is part oral history.  The collage style is effective.  When Billie Holiday was depressed she added \\"Strange Fruit\\" to the program.      In the American mainstream \\"Strange Fruit\\" was too sensitve to sing.  The song made its way into a song book used by Pete Seeger and other folk singers.  The song was learned by a number of the red diaper babies of the 1950's era.  Nina Simone performed the song in the 1960's.  The book contains a 'Strange Fruit\\" discography.	2004-02-11
789972:US	52300235	R1VJI4MV7O9IZC	0744800048	706844587	The Life of John Berryman	Books	5	5	12	N	N	A member of the middle generation of American poets	John Berryman belonged to the middle generation of American poets.  Berryman was a fan of Saul Bellow.  Literary success and critical acclaim came late to him.  HOMAGE TO MISTRESS BRADSTREET and DREAM SONGS are notable achievements.  He knew artistic ecstacy and alcoholic degradation.<br />Berryman was troubled, flamboyant.  His father committed suicide when he ws eleven.  John Berryman attended Kent School.  He was remembered as rather gawky, clumsy.  He had an insincere career at school.  There was an emphasis on games.  Berryman showed immense academic and literary promise.<br />After five years at Kent Berryman went to Columbia.  In the initial years extracurricular activities consumed his time and he even failed a course by his life-long mentor and friend, Mark Van Doren.  Retaking that course and redeeming himself in other ways, he graduated Phi Beta Kappa and went on to Cambridge.  At Cambridge his arrogance and set of affectations alienated a number of people.  His supervisor was George Rylands.  He met Eliot and Auden and Yeats.  Studying Yeats, he discovered in that poet the importance of personal symbols.  Berryman believed that Yeats united contemplation and action as a complete man.<br />Berryman's beginning as a university teacher took place at Wayne State University.  He taught many places and is typically associated with Princeton and the University of Minnesota where he spent the longest periods of his adult life.  He was subject to mental breakdowns from over-work, and during the last four years of his life, hospitalization for his condition of alcoholism.  Many of his physical ills were psychosomatic.<br />The author describes his friendships with many people including Bhain Campbell and Delmore Schwartz.  Berryman in his diaries had a deep and terrible need to stress mostly torment and crisis.  He had a painful sense of competition towards other poets.  He wrote on Stephen Crane and Ezra Pound and Shakespeare.  He was incisive and inventive in the classroom.  Among his students even a Berryman style developed.<br />In 1962 Robert Lowell suggested that Berryman publish a provisional volume of Dream Songs.  In 1966 a piece showing him to be temperamental and sensational appeared in LIFE.  After undergoing treatment at Hazelden, among other places, he wrote a fictional account of his experience in RECOVERY.	2004-02-11
794836:US	52300235	R32PKA9F9DVDJO	0140187960	369646587	A Son of the Middle Border (Twentiety-Century Classics)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	American Gothic	It is exciting to stumble upon this classic work and to ascertain it is absolutely readable and fresh.  This work is constantly cited in support of regional factors constituting part of the experience of American writers of the late nineteenth and early twentieth century.  In 1863 Garland's father made the last payment on the mortgage on his farm and that same day he enlisted as a soldier in the Civil War.      The father was born in Maine.  The family moved west via the Erie Canal and the Great Lakes, landing in Milwaukee.  The children were told stories of the war and of the prairies of Wisconsin.  The farm was near the LaCrosse River in western Wisconsin.      The author's grandfather was an Adventist, believing in the second coming.  The McClintocks, maternal relatives, were farmers.  The author's Grandfather Garland was a carpenter.  Hamlin received his first literary instruction from his paternal, New England, grandfather.      To his father change was alluring.  The father was eager to sell the farm in 1868 and push away onward to Iowa.  The new farm was right on the edge of Looking Glass Prairie.  When the family moved in February the children whined and the mother conveyed worry.  His mother was in terror of the ice.  At ten Hamlin was plowing at the family's third farm, located in Mitchell County near the Minnesota line.  The name of the town was Osage.  The schoolhouse was the center of social life on the bare prairie.  The family rented land for their crops and broke sod and built a homestead on their new land.  In addition to prairie there were hazel thickets.  The curriculum pursued in the school was set forth in the McGuffey Readers.  A singing school was started in Osage.  Social changes were in progress.  There were no more quilting bees and barn raisings.  The women visited less often.  Singing was confined to hymn tunes.      Garland tries to dispel the merry yeoman fantasy.  The cowyard smelled of manure.  Most farming duties require the lapse ofyears to seem beautiful.  Haying was a season of charm.  The author recalls buying his first deck of cards.      Growing up in the West were organizations called the Patrons of Husbandry, the Grange.  The Lyceum took the place of the singing schools.  Amusements had changed.  The father was asked to become the official grain buyer for the country.  He was to take charge of the new elevator in Osage.  The family changed from farm to village, renting a house on the edge of town.      The family returned to the farm after a year. The wheat harvest was in jeopardy from the chinch bug.  Hamlin went to Cedar Valley Seminary for two years.  Grain buying had declined with grain growing and the border was moving.  Many of the settlers were going to Dakota.      Hamlin and his brother Franklin went to Boston and various places on the East Coast.  Broadway in New York seemed to be an abnormal congestion of human souls.  Later Hamlin took a job being a school teacher in the Midwest.  He was persuaded to go to Boston to study literature and found himself in a school for oratory, and with the passage of time, a teacher of literature himself.  Returning West after seven years he saw that every house had its stamp of solid strugge.  As to pioneering, the free land was gone.  Garland was excited to meet William Dean Howells and to be considered by him a fellow writer.	2004-02-07
795588:US	52300235	R2HV24T9E0D8BA	0385413726	244095611	From Beirut to Jerusalem	Books	5	0	10	N	N	It was important to feel that Israel was right	In the 1980's Friedman could not feel that the Israeli incursion into Lebanon was sound policy.  He wrote the articles for THE NEW YORK TIMES  detailing the massacres in Palestinian camps by the Phalangist forces.  Likud blamed Sharon's unsuccessful war in Lebanon on the Labor Party.      In Lebanon Amin Gemayel tried to exclude the Shiites and Druse leaders.  Gemayel did not foster national reconciliation.  The democracy Lebanon had in the past was a sectarian balance of power.  Lebanon still has more books published than other countries in the Arab world and still has a freer press.      Both the Labor and Likud parties in Israel fell in love with the ancient biblical lands acquired in 1967.  After Labor was ousted the settlements grew.  After Begin came to power in 1977 and after the Camp David Accords in 1978 it was obvious that he could not annex the West Bank.  A pragmatic policy was pursued.      David Ben Gurion had realized his first consituency was the facts, the second one his people.  In contrast, Peres, Rabin, and Shamir were weak leaders.  They were technocrats.  By the late 1980's the author believes that Israel and its leaders were afflicted with symbiotic paralysis.  The Zionist revolution was meant to liberate.      Because of the holocaust, Israelis have the sense of living on borrowed time.  In the 1950's the holocaust was a secret shame.  The heroic people were the Zionists.  This changed after the Eichmann trial in 1961.  Survivors and victims were no longer seen as sheep led to the slaughter.  Awareness was heightened in 1967.  The 1973 war brought an even heavier burden.  Israelis live in a very dynamic state.  An observer believes that what really holds Israel together is a kind of tribal security.  About half of the Israelis are unobservant.      The question of Palestine went into remission in the years between 1948 and 1967.  Palestinian identity was born after 1967.  Previously many inhabitants of Gaza took on Egyptian attributes and West Bank residents even had the possibility of becoming Jordanian citizens.  Palestinians suffered an identity bind after 1967.      Some Israelis do not want to be colonizers.  Jewish settlers find their sense of home in history, in the Bible.  Others rarely visit the occupied territories.  In 1985 Israel revived the British Mandate policy of administrative detention.  Defense lawyers were not allowed to see the evidence.  Defense was a mockery.  There was a mask of law--military courts.  The Shin Bet, the security forces, used interrogation and confession to avoid burdening the court system.  Interrogators chose to hide the use of physical pressure and lie to the Court.  Events between Palestinians and Israelis are often seen as acts of war.  The author believes the Israelis engage in moral double book keeping.      The Intifada, starting in 1987, was triggered by the death of a Palestinian boy.  The use of stones consituted massive nonlethal civil disobedience.  Israel has a high profile in the Western news media.  News from Israel is intuitively familiar and relevant to the Western ear.  Modern Israel is both unsettling and exciting to the Christian world.  Israel is expected to be a yardstick of morality and a receptacle of hope.  The Palestinians have recieved more attention than any other refugee community.	2004-02-07
800573:US	52300235	RJ2U3M7GPI8P7	0679722645	951875669	The Maltese Falcon	Books	4	2	6	N	N	Counterfeit	The mystery story is a morality tale and the tough guy genre started here.  The very title is exotic.  Dashiell Hammett was Raymond Chandler's model.  <br />Sam Spade is described as a blond Satan.  His partner is Miles Archer.  They are hired to secure the return of a Miss Wonderly's sister.  Through the San Francisco PD Spade is  called out because his partner is down, his Webley-Fosbery is missing a bullet.  Miles Archer was supposed to be tailing Floyd Thursby.  Thursby has been shot, too.  Spade was involved with Archer's wife.  There are, needless to say, complcations.<br />Spade discovers that Miss Wonderly's name is really Brigid O'Shaughnessy.  Soon Brigid is confronted with Spade's observation that she is feeding him rehearsed lines.  A man named Flitcraft disappeared from a Tacoma suburb.  When Spade found him in Spokane he and his wife divorced quietly.  The man changed his life when he was nearly killed on a sidewalk by a falling beam.  Brigid is surprised that Sam Spade takes such a high-handed manner with the police.<br />Brigid claims that she and Floyd Thursby and Joe Cairo were involved in a plot to obtain the black bird, the Maltese falcon.  She has not touched it and has only seen it once.  It is possible police brutality was the norm in 1929 when THE MALTESE FALCON was written.  At any rate, midway through the story, Joe Cairo receives a going over.  Brigid is to stay with Spade's secretary, Effie Perrine, because it is feared she is in danger.   <br />The Maltese falcon has to do with tribute paid by the crusaders.  The treasured piece ended up in the hands of a Greek dealer.  It belongs to either a Russian general or to the King of Spain.  It is discovered that Thursby was a bodyguard to a gangster, after all this is prohibition, who had immense gambling debts.  Spade feels that his clients are entitled to a decent amount of secrecy and refuses to have discussions with the police who are attempting to disentangle the issues.  Brigid, instead of staying with Effie,  goes to the boat La Paloma, and the dying captain delivers the bird to Spade.  <br />In San Francisco I ate at John's Grill twice.  From that location Sam Spade lurches into the finale of this crime novel, walking into a trap with Brigid.  The story is high in  atmospherics, ultimately dated, and curious.  What is pictured is a man beset by evil forces on all sides.  Under the circumstances a person has to take a line and stick to it.  Brigid's attempt at trickery backfires and the treasure is a counterfeit.	2004-02-03
802376:US	52300235	R3NND3GWEMJ2DB	0684853787	999464161	Bobos In Paradise: The New Upper Class and How They Got There	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Bohemians merged into  the bourgeoisie--a clever notion	The author discovered in the college educated that rebel attitudes and social climbing are mixed together.  This is a consequence of the information age.  The WASP establishment had a service ethic.  WASPs were uncomfortable with ambition but had a sense of obligation.  Now old society has given away to a sense of accomplishment, a meritocracy.  A person's status is calculated by taking his net worth and multiplying it by his antimaterialistic attitudes.  There has been a profound cultural shift.      Bourgeoisie tastes began in America around 1720.  Franklin's writings capture the values of parlor society.  Bohemia was born when the French literati reacted to materialism.  The bohemian realm was art.  In the 1960's the Bohemian subculture turned into a mass movement.  A response was formulated by neoconservatives.      The Bobo renounces accumulation and embraces cultivation.  A capacious kitchen with durable appliances is a sign that you do your own chores.  People judge each other on the costliness of their gear.  Brooks writes of status inversion.  (I think here he misjudges the situation which is simply a matter of styles going in and out of fashion.)  Thorstein Veblen wrote of such matters of inverted snobbery in his discussion of conspicuous consumption; in other words, seemingly inconspicuous consumption may also be taken to be conspicuous consumption in some instances. Some of Brooks's descriptions are in actuality triumphs of marketing.      Workers in Bobo capitalism are creators.  Brooks talks about status income  disequilibrium suffered  by some intellectuals.  Millionaires fear that they have achieved success but have not achieved significance.  The social role of the intellectual has been transformed.      Nowadays Brooks contends there is a great pastiche, a mixture of autonomy and community.  President Clinton leaves behind a third way approach.  Bobos have learned restraint and sobriety.      The book includes discourses on countercultural capitalists and Latte Towns.  It is funny.  The author seems to be, among other things, a well-schooled American Studies person.  He is a journalist and television commentator.  It would be interesting if he moved to fiction a la Tom Wolfe.	2004-02-01
803812:US	52300235	R3CL0BPT7U4ZMN	034540288X	861735579	The Lost World	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Extinction	Life on earth has been marked by a steady amount of extinction.  Ian Malcolm, mathematician gave a talk entitled \\"Life at the Edge of Chaos.\\"  Two self-organizing behaviors are of significance to evolution, adaptation and the location of complex systems at the edge of chaos.  A person in the audience proposed that dinosaurs had not become extinct and that somewhere there was a lost world.  Richard Levine, the curious millionaire paleontologist, sees an aberrant form in Costa Rica.  It is not a lizard.  Aberrant forms are always destroyed.  They seem to be attracted by the soy bean fields.  Rain forest is a good environment for concealment.  Costa Rica has one of the richest ecologies in the world.<br /><br />Ian Malcolm and Richard Levine engage in a an arm chair search of the string of islands off of the Costa Rica coast. The wildly fluctuating Levine is seized with one of his enthusiasms and sets off on an adventure dragging other characters in the book in his wake as events unfold.  I loved CONGO and JURASSIC PARK and so had looked forward to reading this book.<br /><br />In a sneak visit to the site, Levine's guide is suddenly snatched away from him.  He had been entranced to see a maussaur, the tiniest dinosaur.  There were rumors that unknown animals were showing up in Costa Rica.<br /><br />The book focuses on two children, assistants to Richard Levine and Thorne, a retired engineering professor.  Thorne is something of a materials scientist.  The children, Arby and Kelly, are appealing.  When the trio reached Levine by satellite phone they detected distress and endeavored to try to find him.  They did not realize initially that he was probably in the vicinity of Costa Rica.<br /><br />The adventure is far-fetched and exciting.	2004-01-31
804257:US	52300235	R3T74R73IP9FNC	0679756973	941603910	An Anthropologist On Mars: Seven Paradoxical Tales	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Color blindness and autism	What if a painter is color blind.  Absolute color blindness is a rare condition.  Sacks encountered a painter who had been injured.  The color blindness experienced meant to the painter that everything appeared wrong.  He particularly missed the colors of spring.  Things were leaden.  The artist did derive pleasure from looking at drawings.  He did start painting again, black and white paintings.  As time passed there was evidenced in the painting a lessening of fear and depression.<br /><br />Sacks describes a a surgeon with Tourette's syndrome.  Writers on temporal lobe epilepsy have spoken of the doubling of consciousness.  One of the subjects of the essays, Franco, has a prodigious memory and a gift for painting.  He paints the town of his boyhood incessantly.  His Pontito is minutely accurate.  Returning to the town was not the intense experience Franco expected.  Everything seemed small.<br /><br />Sacks writes of the savant syndrome in a child called Stephen, an accomplished artist.  He has extraordinary powers of visual perception.  Savant talents seem to have a more autonomous even automatic quality than normal ones.<br /><br />The anthropologist on Mars is Temple Grandin.  Her work devising cattle chutes is described.  She is constantly trying to understand her own autism.<br /><br />Oliver Sack's medical stories are sui generis.  Running into them is always a delight.	2004-01-31
806122:US	52300235	R9OY1YU7MAD7U	0312422180	713832506	The Time of Our Singing: A Novel	Books	5	1	5	N	N	Homeschooling	Joseph accompanies his brother Jonah on the piano.  At age 20 Jonah is named America's next voice.  Jonah has a three and a half octave voice.  Joey feels he is average as a musician and his brother is outstanding, the possessor of an unearthly voice.      The father, David Strom, is a German Jewish physicist.  The mother is African American.  Jonah attends the Boyleston Academy of Music on a full scholarship.  It is now the back story, 1939.  Marian Anderson was turned away by the DAR Hall and sings at the Washington Mall.  Delia, the mother, is living in her father's house in Philadelphia.  She wants to go to Washington to hear Marian Anderson sing.  David Strom is present, too, a guest of George Gamow.  Strom wanders in the crowd, lost inside a Social Realist drawing.      Jonah went from being homeschooled to the Boyleston Academy in 1952.  His brother Joey follows him there the next year.  It turns out that Jonah had probably been tormented as the only child of color.  Jonah and Joey had to struggle to keep up with their classmates.  Jonah becomes friends with an outcast girl in the school, the daughter of professional musicians.  She conveys to Jonah much musical lore and theory.      The book is challenging and vibrant.  In addition to the music, there are a number of scenes involving politics and family harmony or disharmony.  In many respects this work is more realistic, less utopian, than some of the other novels of this writer.	2004-01-29
807716:US	52300235	R258GBHG3HKMIG	0380815931	307888158	In the Beginning...was the Command Line	Books	5	1	6	N	N	Writer's dilemma, the eldritch power to unwrite things	Romance and image are important to technology, as is interface.  From the command line grew a number of applications.  This book is an essay on the early history and sociology of the personal computer.  The author considers Apple, Microsoft, Linux, and Be, Inc. and makes analogies.  <br />HTML files are just telegrams.  The introduction of the Mac started a sort of holy war in the computer world.  Even after the introduction of Windows, the underlying differences remained.  Microsoft's disregard of aesthetics was discussed at length by Mac users.  <br />Some people think Microsoft is too powerful, others that it is too tacky.  Bill Gates did not make Microsoft work by selling the best software or by selling it at the cheapest price.  Apple is wedded to harware, Microsoft to its OS, operating system.  Perhaps both should jetison these areas.  Microsoft is more successful in software applications.  The operating systems market is a death trap.  <br />Americans have a preference for mediated experience.  Contemporary culture is a two-tiered system.  A minority of people run the show.  The minority understands how everything works.  The OS has become an intellectual labor-saving device.  One should, however, be wary.  The GUIs, graphic user interfaces, use bad metaphors.  For instance, the document is lost forever when the computer crashes.  The GUI has become a sort of meta interface for household items and everyday thinking.  <br />Apple created a machine that discouraged hacking.  The price had fallen drastically for IBM compatible PCs by the mid nineties, and they could be hacked.  Stephenson found that Unix was hard to learn.  A sort of acculturation takes place.  After the crash of his powerbook and the loss of a large and important file, he sought to use Linux.  He notes that Linus Torvalds deserves a lot of credit, but he could not have created Linux without the help of other people.  Linux is open source software.  Editor, compiler, and linker form the core ofa software development system.  Linux deals with errors better than the commercial systems the author used in the past.  <br />This book is a wonderful compilation of PC  history and practice for the general technically-challenged reader.  An overview of the industry in terms of business and marketing issues is presented.  Bravo!	2004-01-28
808914:US	52300235	R1IYO79U6IG38	0140094385	539733955	Amusing Ourselves to Death: Public Discourse in the Age of Show Business	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Aldous Huxley's soma	Neil Postman was a media ecologist.  Las Vegas is entirely devoted to entertainment.  Journalists spend more time with blow dryers than with scripts.  Economics is less science than performance art.  <br />There has been a media metaphor shift.  Epistemology is concerned with the origins and nature of knowledge.  Television is a philosophy of rhetoric.  A metaphor of generative force has resonance, acquires universal significance.  Truth is a kind of cultural prejudice.  The author asserts that public discourse has changed.  <br />The settlers of America were dedicated and skillful readers.  Knowledge was made manifest through the printed page.  Reading was not an elitist activity.  The Lyceum Movement had as its purpose the diffusion of knowledge.  <br />Oratory was based on the printed word.  People of television culture need plain language.  The listeners at the Lincoln and Douglas debates were grandchildren of the Enlightenment.  Lincoln and Douglas wrote all their speeches and planned their rebuttals in writing in advance.  Their listeners were able to process the information.  <br />Reading encourages rationality.  The printed word in the past had a monopoly on intelligence and intellect.  Reading had a sacred element in it because there was little leisure.  <br />The telegraph destroyed the prevailing definition of information.  The photograph was the perfect complement to the telegraph, a flood of headlines.  Unfortunately the sense of context was largely illusory.  <br />Currently our use of other media is largely orchestrated by television.  Television is now the background radiation of the social and intellectual universe.  Every technology has an agenda of its own.  American television is dedicated to supplying its audience with entertainment.  A television news show is a stylized dramatic performance.  <br />Television is the paradigm for our conception of public information.  In the age of television the paragraph has become the unit of news.  It is now inevitable that Americans accomodate themselves to the philosophy of the television commercial.  Television is a speed of light medium, a present-centered medium.  <br />Sesame Street undermines the traditional idea of school.  Sesame Street does not encourage children to love school, it encourages them to love television.  John Dewey said the least important thing about learning is the content of the lesson.  Television is the third great crisis in education, following the invention of the alphabet and the printing press.  <br />Television has the attention and the cognitive habits of the youth.  It requires no prerequisites, and has no perplexity and exposition.  Postman makes the case forcefully and well that a substantial and significant change in the relationship of media to education is at hand.	2004-01-27
813591:US	52300235	R3JTCBNI2STOU6	1583962727	7474548	Resurrection	Books	5	10	17	N	N	Responsibility	In the prison yard the name called out was Maslova.  Her story was a common one.  She was an orphan raised by maiden ladies of the land-owning class.  She was spoiled and declined offers of marriage.      The nephew of the old ladies, a prince, came to stay with them when the girl was sixteen.  Five months later she knew she was pregnant.  The ladies let her leave pursuant to her own request.  Her baby died in a foundling hospital.      Katusha as she then was called moved from position to position.  By this time Katusha could go into service or enjoy the easier life as a resident of a house.  Katusha Maslova chose the life of chronic sin as Tolstoy characterizes the situation.  She lived this way for seven years.      Prince Dmitry Ivanovich Nekhlyuda, her seducer, was summoned to serve on the jury in criminal court.  The prisoners were brought into the courtroom.  The third prisoner was Maslova.  The prince thought to himself, no it cannot be.  He wondered, whether Katusha Maslova recognized him.      Maslova's attorney asserted that she had been led into a life of debauchery by a man who remained unpunished.  Viewing her, Nekhlyudov believed that Katusha was certainly the same person she had been in her youth.  Nekhlyudov felt she was innocent of both the theft and poisoning charges.      The jury made a mistake in writing out its findings for the court.  As to Maslova, what was omitted was a finding negating an intent to take a life.  Her sentence, therefore, was penal servitude in Siberia.      The President of the court advised Nekhlyudov to speak with the advocates to correct the mistake.  Nekhlyudov felt that since he had something to do with Maslova getting on the wrong path, he must take measures to correct her situation.  Once he realized that he was bad, others were no longer so disgusting to him.      Marriage with Missy, a member of his class, no longer seemed so probable.  Nekhlyudov came to see that the persons being tried in the law courts were notthe evil-doers he had previously supposed.  Indeed, he himself was a deceiver and a rake and no one was trying to punish him.  He told the procurator he wanted to follow and marry the prisoner Maslova.  He stated that he now considered all judging useless, immoral.      Maslova dealt with her pain by the trick of disassociation.  Nekhlyudov's initial words to her centered on his wish for forgiveness.  Nekhlyudov expected Katusha Maslova to be pleased.  She was not.  Furthermore, it seemed she was not ashamed of her position.  She is a convict and he is a gentleman and  prince.  She does not believe he really wants to marry her.      The prince tries to put his affairs in order to enable him to travel to Siberia if necessary.  He rents the land from one estate to the peasants for a nominal rent.  Maslova's position of appeal to the Senate is denied.  As Nekhlyudov  prepares his things to follow Maslova and the prisoners to Siberia, he perceives that he has lived through something very hard and very joyful and that he has experienced an inner change.      The description of the procedures used in the transport of prisoners are as fascinating now as when written since, inter alia, the camps of the Czar were the predecessors of the camps of Stalin.  The theme is the blindness of the upper classes to the suffering of those below them.      Maslova is allowed to join the political prisoners and thereby escape the harassment of the general convicts.  Maslova values and admires the political prisoners.  Nekhlyudov comes to change his mind about the revolutionists, (they were being treated  harshly, as if in time of war).      Through the prince's efforts, Maslova's sentence to hard labor is commuted to exile.  Maslova seeks to release Nekhlyudov from his self-imposed task by marrying another person, one of the political prisoners.	2004-01-24
813900:US	52300235	RQOB70S8IQKV1	0792265343	334141703	Southwestern Homelands (National Geographic Directions)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Homelands are emotional homes	In the upper Rockies movement south is pervasive.  There is a yearning for nomadism.  In the Southwest landforms are impossible to ignore.  Human settlement runs up against aridity in the Southwest. The author first visited the Southwest in 1968 after attending writers' school at the University of Iowa.  By 1976 Kittredge was saying that the American West was a manufactured story and it was in need of retelling.  Kittredge writes that Edward Abbey wrote that the desert says nothing.  Doug Peacock showed him that the Sonoran Desert ecology was as complex as that of a rain forest.  It is an Arizona custom to seek wild flowers in the spring.  <br />The most secure homeland is the coherent self.  Homelands are emotional homes.  Homelands may be vast or small, overlapping, defined in many ways.  Native cultures are stoic, mystical, ironic, and practical.  High cultures in the Southwest were on the frontier.  The pueblos were built to support a ceremonial system.  The growth of native cultures in the Southwest was interrupted by Spanish warriors and Catholic priests.  The Spanish never converted the Navajo to Catholicism or exerted much political control.  <br />Richard Wetherill and his brothers found the concentration of cliff dwellings in 1888, now the center piece of Mesa Verde National Park.  Eventually they found 182 sites on Mesa Verde.  They were the first to discover evidence of the Basketmakers who lived in the Southwest two thousand years before the Anasazi. Elaborate communal rituals sanctify vital relationships between communities and the natural world.  The author was told by Gloria Emerson, a Navajo, to think of the mountains as books, instructing people.  The Hopi believe in repetition and order, (not in contemporary man's belief in the need to reinvent one's self).  The Hopi live in a one-to-one trade-off relationship with sacredness.  The Hopi encourage rain to fall for the corn.  Without rain, there is no corn.  When the Hopi die they become benevolentbeings known as Kachinas, becoming Cloud People.  The Hopis are one of the few precontact cultures surviving in the United States.  Everything in Hopi belief is dependent on rainfall.  Hopi pueblos and Zuni pueblos are notable for their isolation.  Ruth Benedict viewed Zuni culture as Apollonian.  <br />A couple of hundred years ago the culture of Spanish New Mexico solidified into a caste system.  Intellectuals and artists tried to carve out utopian communities at Carmel, Provincetown, Woodstock.  Homelands are cemented by networks of story.  The colony of the 1920's in Taos/Santa Fe was inspired and orchestrated by Mabel Dodge Luhan.  In 1918 she built an adobe mansion near Taos Pueblo. She put up famous people including Edward Weston, Paul Strand, Ansel Adams, Aldous Huxley, Georgia O'Keefe, and D.H. Lawrence.  Lawrence, who was initially entranced, moved on, but his widow, Frieda, lived out her life in New Mexico.  Georgia O'Keefe came to New Miexico in 1929.  In 1940 she bought an adobe house at Ghost Ranch.  After 1946 she moved to New Mexico to stay where she died in 1986 at age 98.  Mabel Dodge Luhan visualized an oasis culture.  <br />Robert Oppenheimer took a pack trip in the area in 1937.  He proposed the site for a weapons laboratory in 1942.  The New Mexico corridor now has the highest percentage of Ph.D.'s.  Santa Fe style is a look.  Obsessional people gravitate to deserts. The author has encountered enclaves based on class-distinction.  Going to resorts is like going to another country.  Kittredge believes a deeply anti-democratic culture is forming in the Southwest.  Emotionally gridlocked communities are everywhere in the Southwest.  <br />The real issue in negotiating with rural enclaves is respect.  If killing off species to extinction is insanity, shouldn't killing rural communities be considered insanity?  Maintaining responsible educated social coherency in rural America is needed.  Unfortunately for ranchers, the range livestock industry is not understood as necessary.  NAFTA has spawned maquiladoras at the Mexican border closing plants in the US and Canada.  Kittredge maintains that drugs are a huge shadow economy in Mexico and that if the war on drugs succeeded, Mexico's economy would be shattered.  Economic stimulus and social aid should be aimed at the disenfranchised   in urban ghettos and backland villages.  Charles Borden in JUAREZ has collected pictures by street phtotographers of horrific conditions.  <br />Tucson began as a desert trading center.  It is asserted that there has been almost no urban planning in Tucson. Tucson is a city in transit.  More than 90% of the future world population will be located in metroplexes.  An unintended consequence of the Interstate Highway Act is the explosion of expressway systems in cities.  Integrated neighborhoods have withered.  <BR>There are three city planning models based on Paris, (classic), New York, (skyscraper), and Las Vegas with malls and strip development.  Cities organized on a strip-mall model tend to lack stories.	2004-01-24
819349:US	52300235	R3KZII27ZTPWU8	0380699370	408109054	Murder and the First Lady (An Eleanor Roosevelt Mystery)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Curiouser and curiouser	It is reported that an employee of the usher staff has become a crime victim.  Pamela Rush-Hodgeborne, one of Mrs. Roosevelt's secretaries, is a suspect.  She is taken to jail where Mrs. Roosevelt visits her.  The girl's former employer, a member of the English nobility, urges Mrs. Roosevelt to get to the bottom of the matter on Pamela's behalf.  <br />Pamela was formerly a member of the entourage of the Countess of Crittenden.  Mrs. Roosevelt tells Pamela that proof of her innocence is merely waiting to be found.  The current crime seems to be related to an earlier one of the theft of the Earl of Crittenden's gems.  The victim is a rather slippery fellow.  He is the son of a Congressman, a machine politician.  Pamela feels that he was superficial and insincere.  The tainted bottle of bitters found in Pamela's apartment was provided by the victim.  It is necessary to ascertain who beside Pamela had access to the bottle.<br />The writing is witty and entertaining.  The plot is fairly convoluted and involves a false identity.  Throughout the book Mrs. Roosevelt's wonderful interest in people of every sort is portrayed.	2004-01-20
822048:US	52300235	RN37319F7UZW1	0743222156	948276415	The Dinner Club: How the Masters of the Internet Universe Rode the Rise and Fall of the Greatest Boom in History	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Personalities	As is the case with a lot of business reporting, this is personality-driven.  Capital Investors consisted of a group of friends mainly working in the technology sector and situated in Washington, D.C.  Michael Maccoby called Capital Investors productive narcissists.  <br />There were twenty six members of the all male club.  In Washington there is proximity to political and economic elites.  Social networking was a chief reason to keep attending the group functions.  The friendships were calculated.  <br />Exclusive investing groups are rare.  A woman has said that in times of economic turmoil, Capital Investors has become a support group.  Investing clubs and other tech networking groups served as social interaction during the rise of the technology sector businesses.  <br />Steve Case called 2000 the internet century.  In the late 1990's AOL was talking to everyone, treating everything as a possible acquisition.  In a market frenzy one should know that if everyone is getting into your business, it is time to sell.  In the year 2000 in the tech world there was a blinders-on overworked mentality prevailing.  <br />By 2001 talk shifted to pink slips, the dearth of venture capital, the market.  In the downturn the group's portfolio of companies was fading.  <br />In March 2000 MicroStrategy was advised by its auditors it had to restate earnings for two previous years.  The stock price fell by sixty per cent in one day.  The CEO of the company, Michael Saylor, was one of the members of the dinner club, Capital Investors.  <br />Among the Capital Investors, Saylor fell the hardest.  Other members of the group include the afore-mentioned Steve Case, James Kimsey, Art Marks, Mario Moreno, Alex Mandl, Jeong Kim, Bill Melton, Raul Fernandez, Ted Leonsis, Bill Gorog, Russ Ramsey, Mark Warner, Al Berkeley, Jonathan Silver, Raj Singh, Marc Andressen, John Sidgmore, Alan Spoon.	2004-01-18
822320:US	52300235	R3ESLWJ7QIL72E	0397005830	40591472	004: Henry James: The Treacherous Years, 1895-1901.	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Undramatic exit	James's entry to theater life occurred through invitation and the desire for more income from his writing.  He found writing dialogue more difficult than he had supposed.  He found that provincial success could be limited to the provinces.  Tthe success did excite him and make him seem more youthful.  <br />His play THE AMERICAN was to open at the Strand in London.  The first night in September 1891 was a dubious success.  Robert Lincoln, the American minister, was present.  The writing in the play was obscure.  THE AMERICAN, the play, was more melodramatic than the novel.  James's work in the theater was work against the grain. <br />The deafness of James's friend Constance Fenimore Woolson made her solitary.  She had moved from Florence to Oxford.  She then proceeded to arrange to spend a winter in Venice.  Toward Christmas she began to look for unfurnished apartments.  She died in January in 1894 having succumbed to melancholy.  He felt he had some responsibility for her end.  He wrote in THE ALTAR OF THE DEAD of the strange mutual vision of a man and a woman causing him to recall his friend Fenimore.  Later he would write in THE BEAST IN THE JUNGLE of muted antagonisms.  <br />Minny Temple had died when James was twenty seven.  In Novemeber 1894 he set down the notes that a decade later would become THE WINGS OF THE DOVE.  At the same time he was concerned with his play, GUY DOMVILLE.  In 1894 he had published four comedies that had little chance of production after having made the rounds for two years.  <br />GUY DOMVILLE opened in January 1895.  H.G. Wells, George Bernard Shaw, and Arnold Bennett were present.  When the author went on to the stage opening night, he was booed.  OWEN WINGRAVE  is rooted in James's vision of the Civil War.  The vivid tale is one of the most deterministic James ever wrote.  Ellen Terry invited James to write a one act play for her American tour.  She had witnessed his humiliation.  <br />Between 1895 and 1900 James regressed as evidenced by the novels he wrote.  James had a sense of being misunderstood.  THE SPOILS OF POYNTON is a story of an old house and old things.  James seems at odds with his characters and his plot.  James was now using a scenic method and play-writing technique.  <br />He had writers' cramp.  He engaged a stenographer while writing WHAT MAISIE KNEW.  After several years of dictating, the later manner of Henry James emerged.  Typewriters were large.  He could no longer travel and write.  In 1897 James acquired Lamb House at Rye.  He wrote THE TURN OF THE SCREW, a story of a haunted governess. <br />James and H.G. Wells were good friends during the Edwardian years.  In THE AMBASSADORS the message was that man must live with full intensity.  At age fifty seven in 1900 James felt that this was the case. He had shaved his beard.  His new novel was about the rigidities of New England and the relaxed atmosphere of Europe.  In the novel the author reconciled himself to diminished omniscience.	2004-01-17
822393:US	52300235	R10V592KOJEFNG	0246105321	839110354	Henry James: The Master, 1901-1916 v. 5	Books	5	0	7	N	N	New York Edition	In THE WINGS OF THE DOVE James was returning to the myth of the sacred woman.  For some years the master, Henry James, had been pursued by a formidable woman, Edith Wharton.  They did not meet until 1903.  She was cosmopolitan, as he was.  She caught the histrionic aspect of James.  <br />THE GOLDEN BOWL was delivered to Scribners for publication in 1904.  There had always been triangles in James's life-- that of his mother, his aunt, and his father, for example.  <br />James spent four years in preparing the New York Edition of his work.  In this task he saw himself as a sort of American Balzac.  They both ended up with the same number of volumes for the collected works, twenty three.  James created eighteen prefaces which have had scholarly influence.<br />Hugh Walpole was a young friend of the elderly James.	2004-01-17
822704:US	52300235	R3OQ9QJWQVTQ7W	0397002165	592113034	3: Henry James: The Middle Years, 1881-95	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Consummate word artist	Of course this book is both magnificent and famous.  Leon Edel devoted the better part of his scholarly life to the task of writing the biography of Henry James.  James lived for seventy-three years and wrote for fifty of them.  Edel writes that the biographical process is appealing.  <br />Henry James's father was a student of Swedenborg.  He was born in 1843.  His father died in 1882.  His primary school in Albany is described in THE PORTRAIT OF A LADY.  By nine or ten he was an inveterate theater-goer.  School was present in his life with more regularity than church.  Henry James, Senior feared pedantry and rigidity.  Henry's childhood was itinerant.  <br />When Henry James was writing THE BOSTONIANS he had before him the circumstances of his sister, Alice.  PRINCESS CASAMASSIMA may have been loosely written because it reflected his distraction and fatigue at that time.  In THE PRINCESS most of the action took place on Sundays or in the evening when impoverished Londoners had their abbreviated hours of leisure.  The hero of the novel, Hyacinth Robinson, is another version of the artist manque depicted ten years earlier in RODERICK HUDSON.  Both Roderick and Hyacinth, in their dividedness committed acts of self-destruction.  Jasmes had known radicals from childhood.  The politics are naive.  The workers of the time were naive.  <br />James felt he was aristocrat by birth who had to labor for his bread.  Constance Fenimore Wooson was James's excellent friend.  Her grand-uncle was James Fenimore Cooper.  Francis Boott and Lizzie Boott, father and daughter, were other dear expatriate friends of Henry James.  Lizzie Boott, after six years of indecision, married Frank Duveneck, a painter from Cincinnati.  Duveneck had married an heiress.  Lizzie was forty years old.  Years later he recreated the psychological situation in THE GOLDEN BOWL.  Fenimore, his name for Constance Fenimore Woolson, was his landlady in Florence.  In the winter of 1887 he let his sister Alice move to his lodgings in London.  He described Florentine society as polyglot.  <br />In his 'Italian phase' James wrote between THE PRINCESS CASAMASSIMA and THE TRAGIC MUSE, eight or ten tales and a short novel.  In THE ASPERN PAPERS James attempted to recapture the visitable past, that is to say the generation still within reach of memory.  The extinction of the line between public and private was treated by James in THE REVERBERATOR.  Lizzie Boott Duveneck died at age forty two leaving behind her husband, her father, and her child.	2004-01-17
823035:US	52300235	R32TR33AJVLVO	382280228X	68861201	Edward Hopper	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Ambiguity	Edward Hopper was called a bad painter by noted critic Clement Greenberg.  Europeans see Hopper as American due to his subject matter.  Hopper reveals the fractures beneath the scenes.  The ambiguous quality has a dimension of aesthetic openness.  <br />Hopper's nearly over-determined realism shades into fantasy.  The author speaks of the conflict in many of the paintings of energy and inertia.  Hopper's life was quiet and orderly.  He was nurtured by the European tradition.  He later perfected a technique of contrast contouring.  <br />Hopper wrote admiringly of the Ohio artist Charles Burchfield.  Hopper showed a meticulous use of detail in his paintings.  The book contains much intelligent discussion of the artist, beautiful illustrations, and a detailed chronology.	2004-01-17
828575:US	52300235	R3KZ19DECJ0JKR	0156658992	30158	The Nine Tailors	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Identity Quest	Change ringing is an ancient craft.  Lord Peter Wimsey and Bunter have been held up at four A.M. New Years Eve.  A snow storm and a bridge cause their car to be upended in a ditch.  The rector of the parish offers to put them up for the night.  Wimsey thinks the church is impressive.  He calls it a young cathedral.  The rector claims that East Anglia is famous for the size and splendor of its parish churches.  <br />The term tailors refers to bell ringing.  Wimsey is solicited to engage in a very great task of nine hours duration, that of change ringing.  It seems that additional manpower is needed since many of the men of the village have been felled by influenza.  <br />Subsequently, at the death of Sir Henry, the local lord,  nine tailors and forty six strokes are rung.  Making plans for the burial, an unknown body is discovered. To clear up the mystery, Lord Peter's help is sought.  The man is between forty five and fifty years of age.  The face has been battered and the ankles may have been tightly bound.  On the arms there are pressure marks.  The cause of death is suffocation.  <br />Wimsey speaks with the heir, Hilary, and learns that the body may have been placed in the crypt at the time of her mother's death.  There is already a local mystery of considerable importance.  Emeralds were stolen and have never been recovered.  <br />The setting of the story is fictitious.  Nonetheless the area in the vicinity of Cambridge and the inhabitants there receive compelling descriptions by Dorothy Sayers.  A Frenchwoman, Suzanne Legros, writes her husband a letter using the English pseudonym of Paul Taylor.  It is addressed to one of the village post offices in the fens, poste restante.  Bunter comes into possession of it.  It is passed on through Wimsey and the authorities and provides the basis for the unraveling of the mystery.  <br />Another factor leading to the solution is an experience undergone by Wimsey, that of remaining in the bell tower at the time the bells are rung. There is additional excitement in fourteen days of flooding resulting in the death of one of the main actors of this tale.	2004-01-13
829411:US	52300235	RGJ1JX6EPRDIY	1569470170	183959132	Outsider in Amsterdam (Grijpstra & de Gier Mysteries)	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Winning pair	The outsider of the story is Papuan.  DeGier and Grijpstra are Dutch police officers.  At the scene of a crime or at the scene of a suicide the pair come upon a letter from an Eastern religious society.  There is an altar of sorts in the room.  DeGier has an idea that he has seen the man previously.  Then he realizes that the long hair and the heavy mustache remind him of a portrait in a museum.  The man resembles a portrait of a Dutch statesman in the sixteenth century.  There is a bruise.  The man was hit by a stick or possibly by a fist.  <br />Another victim is found, a woman.  This was turning out to be an unusually busy shift.  The pair decides that because perpetrators of homicide are scarce in Amsterdam, the matters are probably related to each other.  Suicidal people lose their self-discipline. This man has a neatly trimmed beard.  <br />They interview a small man about forty years old, a Papuan.  He relates that he has been in Holland for eight years.  In 1965 he could choose to be Indonesian or Dutch.  He decided to claim Dutch citizenship.  VanMeteren had been a policeman in New Guinea.  <br />The doctor's report becomes available.  There is a trace of opium in the stomach of the hanged man.  The deceased man, Piet, had a sort of religious society and a bar.  The bar made money.  At the time of his demise two drug whole sale sellers were in the bar.  <br />Returning to the scene of the incident, DeGier and Grijpstra learn that there has been a break-in during the previous evening.  Some of the inhabitants are moving to a houseboat.  It is ascertained that the man, Piet, was hit in the head with a dictionary by one of the members of his household.  One of the girls present tells the officers that the hook in the ceiling has always been present.  <br />Concerning his characteristics, the officers are told that Piet said that nothing really exists.  Everything is an illusion.  He spoke of the Japanese samuri.  Piet's neurotic mother is removed by the city'shealth service.  <br />Grijpstra plays drums, DeGier plays a flute.  VanMeteren enters playing a wooden instrument.  His instrument is a wooden drum from the forests of New Guinea.  He has been stymied in regaining his status in the Netherlands.  Much to his frustration, he is only a traffic warden.  <br />VanMeteren has a 1943 Harley motorcycle.  One of the officers recalls the machine fondly as the means of transportation of the liberators in World War II. There is money missing.  Piet had just taken out a mortage on the building in which his society and bar are located.  <br />It is not necessary to go further in delineating the plot.  I do not want to interfere with the readers' enjoyment.  The book has both excellent characterizations and excellent story-telling.  The series is a real hit.	2004-01-13
831348:US	52300235	R3KYPO4G1S31TD	0786868538	796777389	The Greatest Experiment Ever Performed On Women: Exploding the Estrogen Myth	Books	4	6	10	N	N	Synthetic hormones have become environmental hazards	The experiment began in 1938 and continued for sixty five years.  The drugs involved were synthetic hormones.  Animal parts have been used in health care through the ages.  <br />This is a spritely account of the recent estrogen, (Prempro consists of a premarin and provera combination), trials and the results.  It was determined that the use of the drug subjected women to a greater risk of cancer and stroke and cardiac incidents resulting in more harm than benefit in the scale of things. <br />The issue of the use of synthetic hormones in medical treatment is controversial.  The author is a long-standing health issues journalist.  She has produced a readable and interesting analysis of the inventors, the manufacturers, and the consumers of the synthetic hormones.	2004-01-11
833430:US	52300235	R35O5H8FEKQ06B	0520011163	141147351	Culture, Language and Personality: Selected Essays	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Frontiersman in anthropology and linguistics	Sapir's principal field of study was language.  This book contains nine essays from the SELECTED WRITINGS OF EDWARD SAPIR IN LANGUAGE, CULTURE AND PERSONALITY.  Edward Sapir was born in Lauenberg, Germany in 1884.  His early education was is Richmond, Virginia and in New York City.  He graduated from Columbia University in 1904 and with Franz Boas's encouragement he took an M.A. in Germany and a Ph.D. in anthropology.  Much of his work concerned American Indian languages and culture.  <br />Every group of human beings has speech and a well-ordered language.  Language is a perfect means of expression.  Language is primarily a system of phonetic symbols.  Phonetic language takes precedence over other kinds of communicative symbolism.  All languages are also phonemic.  There are a fixed number of phonetic stations.  Languages differ widely in their phonemic structure.  The fundamental theory of sound symbolism remains the same everywhere.<br />All grammars have the same degree of fixity.  Language is felt to be a perfect symbolic system.  Once the form of a language is established it can project potential meanings onto experience.  Forms predetermine certain modes of observation.  Language interpenetrates actual experience.  Language is learned early and piecemeal.  It is rarely a purely referential organization.<br />Language is primarily a vocal actualization of the tendancies to see realities symbolically.  Language is a great socializer.  There is no correspondence between the form of a language and the form of a culture.  The cultural significance of a language form is much more submerged.<br />Linguistics began it scientific career with the reconstruction of the Indo-European languages.  The value of linguistics to cultural studies and anthropology has been recognized.  Language is a guide to social reality.  Language may be thought of as a symbolic guide to culture.  Psychologists concern themselves with linguistic data.  A drawback in applying language to unrelated areas is that language to a very great extent is self-contained.  Where interest in language has transcended narrow limits, both historical problems and human behavior need to be studied.  <br />Language is primarily a social or cultural product, not a biological product.  The culture of the group and the individual are interdependent.  The self seeks mastery.  What constitutes spiritual serenity must be answered afresh for every culture.  Religion does not presuppose a definite belief in God.  Cultural anthropology may be useful to psychiatry.  <br />This scholarly work, influential to generations of students of human behavior, contains numerous ideas of great interest to the informed general reader.  The writing and the theories are not heavy fare. Enjoyment of the work is not limited to those who have training or experience in sociology or anthropology or linguistics.  Apparently the book constitutes a fair representation of the man and the scope of his scholarlarship.	2004-01-10
842054:US	52300235	R1VSI3097EU0OD	0440135842	142763746	Help the Poor Struggler	Books	4	31	36	N	N	Connecting the dots	The tiny hamlet of Clerihew Marsh is the site of the murder of Rose Mulvanney.  Her five year old daughter calls the operator to summon assistance.  Wiggins and Richard Jury are interested in another matter years later in Dorchester.  The victim is Simon Riley, son of a butcher.  It is wondered if Davey White in Wynchcoombe is somehow connected to the incident of Simon Riley.  The second boy has been placed in a church.  His grandfather and guardian is vicar there.  <br />Help the Poor Struggler is, not surprisingly in a book from the Richard Jury series, a pub.  Molly Singer wears off the rack Oxfam clothes.  She will not speak to the police.  The latest victim is Angela Thorne.  She is wrapped in a cape belonging to Molly Singer.  It seems that Molly Singer is Mary Mulvanney, a daughter of the years-ago murder victim.  <br />It is pleasant to read a Richard Jury mystery because he appears complete with ensemble players.  Half-way through this book Melrose Plant turns up at the Jack and Hammer along with the Long Piddleton antiques dealer, Marshall Trueblood.  Jessica Ashcroft, a child and Jury's candidate for next victim, is all ready to service Plant's Rolls Royce which fails just outside the wall of the Ashcroft manor house.  She claims to know about cars and welcomes him into the premises which is the plan as conceived by Plant and Jury.  <br />Chief Superintendent Racer is concerned over the nonsolution of the cases.  As Jury continues his investigation he surmises that the cases are connected since the sites, Princeton, Clerihew Marsh, and Wynchcoombe are equidistant from each other and from Ascroft Manor.  Simon's stepmother has an Ashcroft connection it is ascertained.  The vicar of Wynchcoombe is related too.  <br />The story is well-plotted. This is a lovely book.  The character of the child, Jessica Ashcroft, is just right.	2004-01-04
842246:US	52300235	R3HB3KU0AUS5NL	0312203977	453372686	Another World: A Novel	Books	5	0	5	N	N	Survivor's guilt	Gareth is Fran's son.  Miranda, a stepchild, is to visit for six weeks.  Nick meets Miranda at the train.  Their house says Fanshawe 1898.  Miranda points out it is like Wuthering Heights.<br />When Gareth isn't in school he plays computer games.  The authorities at his school feel that he has a propensity to bully younger children.  His mother Fran disagrees with the assessment.  Jasper is the baby of the family.  Another child is expected.  Nick and Gareth, his stepson, do not get along.  Miranda is visiting because her mother, Barbara, has been hospitalized for a nervous breakdown.  <br />The family scrapes wallpaper in order to redecorate.  A sort of Victorian portrait is discovered.  Unfortunately the portrait of the family is anatomically correct and not in very good taste. <br />Nick visits his grandfather Geordie at the hospital.  Nick's father had been the headmaster, and his mother the matron, of a small preparatory school.  As a boy Nick had been devious and deceitful trying to curry favor with others.<br />Geordie is 101 years old.  He has cancer.  He seems to be having flashbacks of his service during World War I.  The story with Geordie is that he believes that his mother said that she wished his brother had survived the war instead of him.  <br />Nick reads that a child of the Fanshawes, the previous owners, died under mysterious circumstances.  Members of the family were acquitted in a murder trial.  When Nick's family goes to the beach, Gareth throws stones in the direction of the baby, Jasper, and wounds him.  Miranda witnesses the incident but denies being present.  <br />The grandfather dies.  Just before this happens Nick learns more details of Geordie's experience in the war.  Gareth is to start a new school and is upset.  One of the themes of this excellent novel is the complexity of truth.	2004-01-04
842567:US	52300235	R12XY63U7FH7I0	0451410556	149763335	The Blue Last	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Screen memory	The Blue Last is the name of a pub subject to bombing during World War II.  The mother of a young baby died.  There is a mystery as to whether a young nursemaid substituted her child for the deceased baby who would inherit a considerable fortune.  Richard Jury lost his own parents during the war and does not like to think of such things.      Mickey Haggerty, a police officer, presents the case to Jury for solution.  Mickey is afflicted with a fast-acting cancer.  He feels that he lacks the time to puzzle out the answers.  Simon Croft is writing a memoir of World War II.  He has connections to the owners of The Blue Last. Jury of Scotland Yard and Mickey of the municipal police force  jointly investigate his murder.  It was made to look like a burglary, but the scratches came from inside the house.      Richard Jury meets Gemma, a ward, nine years old.  She believes she has been the subject of a homicide attempt.  The child, Benny, who runs a delivery service, knows her.  Jury questions Benny about Gemma Trimm.  He says she is sort of invisible.  People do not notice her.  Perhaps she is making up things to attract attention.      Melrose Plant and Marshall Trueblood travel to Italy to try to authenticate a possible Masaccio painting Trueblood has acquired.  Jury decides not to participate in their proposed trip to Florence.  Benny, the child delivery person, lives under the bridge.  The number of orphaned persons in this work is astounding.      Jury has an opportunity to interview Simon Croft's sister.  He ascertains from her she does not care for Kitty Riordan, the nursemaid or for Maisie, the child who grew up after the demolition of the pub by bombing.  Melrose Plant, having returned from Italy, goes undercover as a gardener at the lodge.  It is believed that the death of Simon Croft is the result of an inside job.      Jury and Plant consider Gemma Trimm. It is unlikely that there are two cases of hidden identity in the household.  The history of Bletchley Park and the Enigma code are involved in the solution to this mystery.  There is a surprise ending I will not disclose.      The tale is rich and diverse.  There are at least three plot strands, each of which standing alone would make compelling reading.	2004-01-03
844242:US	52300235	R31D6E0L5NQYLU	0517094576	263572796	Bernard Shaw II: The Pursuit of Power	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A word intoxicated polymath	George Bernard Shaw and his wife Charlotte rented the Rectory at Ayot St. Lawrence for fourteen years and bought it shortly after Word War I.  In the 1930's for electricity they made use of a private generating plant.  They kept a maisonette at Adelphi Terrace, London.  Charlotte Shaw was a nervous and furious traveler.  Shaw preferred to remain in one place in order to do his work, but he could write on the move.    George Bernard Shaw infuriated people when he spoke to them with sweet forbearance.  Shaw started his war against censorship in 1892.  One of his techniques was to exploit censorship absurdities.  When he was blocked his words surged out immoderately.  By the way, his war against censorship was unsuccessful.  The artists failed to present a unified front and failed to make a unified case.  Shaw felt a strangeness.  He was a sojourner on the planet rather than an inhabitant of it.  He injected this note into his play CAESAR AND CLEOPATRA.      Shaw's marriage was a marriage blanc.  His potency arose from his role in public life.  By 1903 Shaw had written twelve plays and was almost totally unknown to British audiences.  His wife felt that Shaw was not so much an artist as a reformer.  She treated him as an employer and as a child.    Harley Granville Barker became a sort of imaginary child to Shaw and Charlotte.  (Barker seemed to be all things to all people.)  Shaw's plays found a home at the Court Theatre.  Mrs. Patrick Campbell thrilled George Bernard Shaw.  He wanted her for his play PYGMALION.      Shaw's mother died in 1913.  His love for Stella Campbell intensified.  PYGMALION marks the climax of Shaw's career as a writer of comedies.  It has vitality and charm.  The supposed model for Henry Higgins was Henry Sweet. In some respects the model for Henry Higgins was Shaw himself.  Stella worked hard at Eliza Dolittle.  During World War I Shaw was a pacifist who though ahead to the future.    This is the second of a four volume treatment of Shaw's life.  The account is interesting and lively.  I was surprised to learn at the Amazon site that this work, the other volumes of the series, and even the the one volume abridgement by the author, Michael Holroyd, have gone out of print.  I daresay the problem is the relative unpopularity of George Bernard Shaw at this time.  Certainly it cannot be the fault of the biography itself which is first rate.	2004-01-02
845372:US	52300235	RLYJ0NE48IH70	0425177068	105065636	Family Honor (Sunny Randall)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Family secrets	Sunny and Richie were married for nine years.  They had had a house in Marblehead.  Richie refused the house.  Sunny wrapped her paintings in order to move her things.  Her mother said she was disappointed.  Her father offered to help with a divorce or with whatever she needed.  Families offer protection to their members.  Protection is the theme of Parker's story.<br />Sunny was a cop, her father was a cop.  Richie resembled her father although he came from a crime family.  Sunny moved to investigation and then to private investigation.  She is hired to find a teenage runaway.  The mother seems too perfect. Sunny  is pursuing an MFA nights.  She still paints and lives in a loft.  The missing girl, Millicent, attended a girls school.  The school provided a classical education.  Millicent had been missing for ten days.  At the school she had no friends, no interests, no achievements.  <br />Sunny discovered that Millicent had been to a youth shelter.  The person running the shelter said that the kids seemed to have equal measures of defiance and guilt.  Sunny needs her ex-husband's help to get her into areas of activity to find Millicent, (Milly).  Sunny finds the girl through the connections that Richie Burke makes available to her.  Since Milly isn't talking convincingly, Sunny has the the girl move in with her.  <br />It develops that others are looking for the girl.  They have to go to the mattresses and move to a friend's apartment in the South End.  An interesting subtext in the story is that families teach its members how to function, and that no one seems to have taken any time to teach Milly how to function.<br />Parker writes that in Boston organized crime is an oxymoron.  There are loose groups.  When Sunny returns to her loft, she finds that it had been tossed.  The insurance company sends a clean up team to the loft.  Sunny is able to identify her primary interest as keeping the girl safe.  Through the intervention of Richie Sunny could return to her loft and begin to solve the mystery. This is a strong and enjoyable effort by Robert Parker, writing from his strengths such as knowledge of the Boston environs and police networking.	2004-01-01
845559:US	52300235	R1T61TB35IQ0IU	0440221463	472161856	All Our Yesterdays	Books	4	3	7	N	N	Three generations	In this melodramatic tale Chris's grandfather was Conn Sheridan who sniped at British troops during the Easter uprising and became an officer in the IRA.  Later he went to prison because he was betrayed by a woman and ended up moving to Boston, becoming a police officer.  Chris feels frustrated because he has only been to graduate school and feels that he has never done anything.<br />In Boston Conn marries the daughter of a judge.  In 1932 his son Gus is born.  When a child, Maureen Burns, is discovered in a church basement, Conn learns that the homicide in the commission of a felony was caused by the son of the woman who betrayed him to the authorities.  The perpetrator is sent to Zurich and the matter is officially listed as unsolved.<br />Conn dies walking into gunfire.  His son Gus becomes a police officer.  The child of Gus and his wife Peggy, Chris, was sickly and precocious. Moving forward to adulthood, Chris becomes interested in a grandchild of Conn's longstanding love interest.  The strands in the story become disentangled when Chris undertakes a job as a special investigative prosecutor.	2004-01-01
845850:US	52300235	R36RGTXX5GRO69	0375408282	153296191	The Reader (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Right of survivorship	Hepatitis made him weak.  He was fifteen years old.  Michael Berg, the narrator, knew every building, every garden, every fence on his way to school.  Being ill is an enchanting interlude.  The fever sharpens the imagination.  He encounters Hanna and vists her frequently.  <br />His last years of school and first years of university were happy.  Parents had played a variety of roles in the Third Reich.  Everyone condemned parents to a sentence of shame.  Michael enrolls in a seminar on the camps.  The group attends a trial.  Hanna Schmitz, one of the defendants, had been Michael's friend.  She had served at Auschwitz until early in 1944.  <br />Hanna makes a bad impression on the court.  Michael comes to realize that she cannot read or write.  She refused promotions in her industrial job.  She sought out the job with the SS as a guard.  She describes the confusion on the march westward from the camps and receives a life sentence.  <br />The narrator tries to speak to his father.  In those years there was little direct observation that made life in those camps real.  The few images available were derived from Allied photographs.  <br />The student movement was a generational conflict.  Coming to terms with the Nazi past was one of the issues of contention inalterably.  For the narrator's generation, collective guilt was a lived reality.  Legal history was to be his metier.  History involves building bridges between the past and the present.  He worked on legal codes and drafts of the enlightenment.  The codes were based upon the belief that order was intrinsic to the world.  <br />The narrator sends Hanna tapes of his reading, the Odyssey, Chekhov, Kafka.  In the fourth year he receives a note from Hanna.  The note is child-like.  It provides verification of his theory that she could not read or write in the past. I will not disclose further details of the plot or the ending of this fine work.	2004-01-01
848425:US	52300235	R3HY3IEAFL5V1J	0684853523	44310359	On Writing:  A Memoir of the Craft	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Story spinner	Stephen King's memoir on writing is effective.  He advises privacy for story-spinning, a public forum for the revision, re-write stage of work.  His upbringing was by some measures meagre, sad, deprived.  Events of his childhood served later as fuel to his writerly imagination.  He resembled his mother in the possession of grit, fortitude.  The family confrontation breaking the cycle of his addiction illness is described forthrightly and humorously.  Stephen King fans, readers curious about his autobiography, and readers interested in becoming writers should all enjoy this book.	2003-12-30
849087:US	52300235	R28VJWRWUN0KK1	0140071083	514925319	The Haunting of Hill House	Books	5	1	10	N	N	A Ghastly Environment	The author uses a droll and funny style to tell her story.  She was an accomplished writer and observer of human nature and it shows.  She had a sense of humor and understood, probably too well, darkness and melancholy.    Eleanor Vance, the heroine, is to go to Hill House, reportedly haunted.  What the thirty-two year old woman lacked is a life of adventure. She had cared for her mother for eleven years. She is to be at Hill House with Dr. Montague, an investigator, and Luke Sanderson, the nephew of the owner.  She meets Dudley, the caretaker, who is reluctant to open the gates.  The house is a maniacal juxtaposition of line and place.  Hill House is a house of despair.    Eleanor meets Theodora, another of the guests.  They have connecting bathrooms.  Mrs. Dudley, the caretaker's wife, says that she leaves before dark.  She seems to take offense at criticism of the house.  Hill House has a number of little odd rooms.      It is pointed out that no one knows why some houses are called haunted.  This house is associated with suicide, madness, and lawsuits.  The landlady is frank about the house's undesirability.  Dr. Montague obtains a short lease to carry out his researches.  Theodora has telepathic ability.  Eleanor was involved with a poltergeist in the past.    Ghost stories are a subversive genre and Shirley Jackson is a subversive writer.  She was a large-sized woman who saw clearly the dynamics of groups, of collective life.	2003-12-30
864021:US	52300235	R2S54T1BLLSIBL	0380777169	660458055	Silence of the Hams (Jane Jeffry Mysteries, No. 7)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	There is a sort of euphoria if you burn your bridges	Hams are relevant to delis and lawyers.  A lawyer appears under a rack of hams.  Robert Stonecipher has made a nuisance of himself in the community trying to shut down people's businesses. Two mothers, Shelley and Jane, are bored with Cub Scouts and school awards assemblies and decide to team up to thwart Robert Stonecipher.  Everyone shows up for the opening of a new deli and, as previously mentioned, Stonecipher is discovered under a rack of hams.  <br />Under the circumstances nearly everyone in the community is a suspect until it is learned that Stonecipher died of natural causes.  Next his secretary departs life and her death renews the efforts of the police officer, Mel, Jane's friend, to trace the possiblity that some people were being blackmailed by the pair.  The solution to the mystery is of the psychological kind and is well done.  The women, Jane and Shelley, along with Jane's son Mike, and Mel are delightfully rendered by the author.	2003-12-15
873757:US	52300235	R1FGBJT5GBZ8IT	9990229910	653784815	Murder in the Oval Office	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The wisdom of Eleanor Roosevelt	This is another outing in the series Elliott Roosevelt wrote featuring his mother in a fictitious Nancy Drew-like role.  Elliott was named for Mrs. Roosevelt's father, a sad and unlucky man, who had significant influence over his daughter's development.  Elliott was, perhaps, the difficult child of the Roosevelt clan.  He was notably entrepreneurial.  When people criticized the Roosevelt children, Eleanor Roosevelt is purported to have said that the people elected only the president and that the presidential children had to make a living.  It is believed that Elliott Roosevelt understood his mother's personality.  <br />The book opens with a scene at the White House pool.  Jimmy Farley, Missy LeHand, and Harry Hopkins are swimming with the President.  Louis Howe never came into the water and the President never splashed him.  That morning Eleanor Roosevelt had gone horseback riding with Lorena Hickcock.<br />A presidential dinner including Charles and Mary Beard, Upton Sinclair, Sam Rayburn, Cordell Hull, Carter Glass, and Robert LaFolette is described.  Louis Howe learns of a problem of a possible suicide in the White House.  He decides to let the President learn of the matter the following day. Perhaps a crime has been committed.  The police seek to preserve the scene.  There may be a need to lift finger prints.  The deceased was on a congressional committee focused on banking regulation.  Of special concern were auditing standards.  Mrs. Roosevelt becomes convinced that it was not a suicide.  Someone summoned the victim to the oval office from the dinner.  It is not clear how the perpetrator left the office.<br />Mrs. Roosevelt visits the widow the following day.  She is cautioned by her associates not to become sentimental just because the widow is pregnant.  A locked room mystery is involved.  The gun has been wiped clean.  Colmer, the victim, had a saturnine personality.  A number of celebrities are drawn into this tale, Sally Rand included.  The book is nicely written and well paced.	2003-12-07
875832:US	52300235	R3MGP0EBBDTZKP	0676511090	679302392	Wildlife	Books	5	1	3	N	N	House on Fire	The setting is Great Falls, Montana.  The father, a golf pro, is seeking tips in the oil boom.  He, the father, loses his job at the Wheatland Club.  The dismissal is unfair.  The problem of theft is quickly solved and he is invited to be reinstated but in his wounded vanity he does nothing.  He undergoes an informal separation from his wife pursuing a firefighting career.  <br />The son is dismayed to learn of the mother's interest in someone else.  The break-up of the family becomes formal when she declines to resume marital habitation upon her husband's return.  The father, drunk, sets fire to the other man's house.  There aren't really dire consequences to the action, just a continuation of fractured relationships.  The author's deadpan style is compelling and appropriate to the subject matter.  The influence of Raymond Carver is evident.	2003-12-05
875938:US	52300235	RP5I2NJO4WHD8	0297783572	660971706	Bartleby in Manhattan and Other Essays	Books	5	2	7	N	N	Scrivener	Selma, Martin Luther King, the pitiful biography of Lee Harvey Oswald open this collection of thoughtful and timeless essays.<br /><br />In \\"Domestic Manners\\" Hardwick notes that in the 60's the temptations of self-destruction were everywhere.  John Reed, she reports, was a charming American enthusiast of revolution.  As a journalist he was able to seize upon the revolutionary moment.  (This observation, it strikes me, is ironic.)  He was a radical idealist, in short, having been a treasured child of the bourgeoisie.  Reed met Bill Haywood in 1913.  Haywood had outstanding courage and revolutionary politics.  Reed was noticeable and he was vivid.  His uniqueness was precisely fulfilled in his prose.  For Reed the October Revolution was pageantry.  Louise Bryant met Reed when he was visiting his family in Portland.  Reed was a morally attractive man.  He was not deep and reflective.<br /><br />The power of terror speaks most clearly to those who have used it Hardwick states in considering a Lincoln Center production of the play DANTON'S DEATH.  The playwright is notable for his existentialism and his alienation.  THE INVESTIGATION is taken from the 1946 testimony of SS men attached to the concentration camp at Auschwitz.  The stage is a bare courtroom.  A trial is inevitably a case history.  Peter Weiss's play is a dream, a sublimation.  Hardwick states the New York production of it was not good.  Self-loving earnestness is an American curse in her estimation.<br /><br />Shakespeare's TIMON OF ATHENS is about the philanthropy the rich confer upon each other.  In distress Timon's servants are loyal but his friends are not.<br /><br />Simone Weil died of voluntary starvation according to the coroner.  For her, willed deprivation was not new.  She did not undergo deprivation for a pay-off.  She sought to share in the misery of mankind.  Her reading of history and culture was enormous.  She was inclined to look upon history as alive.  She wrote a moving literary essay onthe ILLIAD.<br /><br />In the piece on Thomas Mann Hardwick says that he was never young.  The achievement of his youth was BUDDENBROOKS.  As an artist Mann was steady.  All his life Mann studied to understand the great artist.  Mann had the rare gift of creating characters out of ideas.  Homoerotic currents are strong in his writing.<br /><br />In the title essay Hardwick points to Bartleby's reduction of language to essence.  Melville's brothers were lawyers in the vicinity of Wall Street.  Bartleby is found to be living in the office day and night.  Hardwick's writing is so clear and so forceful she makes ideas previously considered exciting once again.  I cannot think of a better essayist.	2003-12-05
879209:US	52300235	R23BI3AV5BN7OS	0679723390	314509680	Speak, Memory: An Autobiography Revisited	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Nostalgia	As a young child Vladimir Nabokov had an aptitude for mathematics.  The Nabokov household had about fifty servants.  As an emigre family Vladimir and his brother were in Cambridge and his parents and sisters and another brother were in Berlin.  His mother by 1930 occupied an apartment in Prague and received a small pension from the Czech government.<br />Nabokov's ancestors had numerous and diverse contacts with the world of letters.  Nabokov says that his nostalgia is nostalgia for a lost childhood not lost banknotes.  The kind of Russian family to which Nabokov belonged had a leaning toward English products, Pears soap, English toothpaste.  Vladimir learned to read English before he learned to read Russian.  <br />One is always at home in one's past.  Vladimir found his own French governess and his mother's governess living in retirement in Lausanne, Switzerland.  The women spoke to one another then, although in the past when they were in the same house they ignored one another.  <br />He was born in St. Petersburg in 1899.  The tutor started in 1906.  When he was eleven his father decided that he should attend school.  His father belonged to the great classless intelligentsia in Russia.  In 1917-18 the family was put into a position of utter insecurity.  His father became a minister of justice and the family was lodged near Yalta.  In 1919 three Nabokov families fled Russia via the Crimea and Greece.  From 1920 to 1940 Nabokov spent time preparing chess problems.  <br />The book has pictures and an index.  The publishing history of the book's parts appears in the forward.  The book has charm.  The fascination of the study of butterflies is treated by the author.  Another subject covered is an extensive catalogue of both near and distant ancestors of the Nabokovs.	2003-12-03
880368:US	52300235	R2ITIS0PYB2UMD	0380441497	141279547	Eighth Day	Books	5	1	6	N	N	Midwestern fables	There is a poor John mine is southern Illinois in Coaltown.  The mine mechanic is charged with and convicted of the murder of the general manager. The two leading families in the town had been those of the general manager and the mine mechanic. The better man of the two was the mechanic.  He had worked with the manager and had given him credit for things he accomplished.      The mechanic is sentenced to death but escapes through the work of an unknown group of men.  One of the daughters decides that in order to carry on she and her family must run a boarding house.  At the time people feared being relegated to the poor house.      The hopeful find nourishment in marvels.  Eventually John Ashley, the condemned man, makes his way to Chile to work in the copper mines.  The root of avarice is the fear of what circumstances might bring.  Ashley had tried to live in a manner opposite that of his father who was a miser.    Thornton Wilder employs many myths drawn from history of the settlement of the west, including the settlement by unusual religious communities.  This work resembles the novels of Willa Cather.  It is excellent.	2003-12-02
882915:US	52300235	R3JN4VMN66Z0II	006052085X	95337721	The Power of Babel: A Natural History of Language	Books	5	4	9	N	N	Language change is the norm	This is a very good natured book.  As a child McWhorter tried to learn Hebrew.  Seeing a chart at the back of a dictionary, he thought it was absolutely necessary to translate &quot;Twinkle Twinkle Little Star&quot; into French, Spanish, Italian, German, Swedish, and Yiddish.  <br />Human language is unique in its ability to communicate, to convey.  Language is eternally and inherently changeable.  The five faces of language change are sound change, extension, rebracketing, expressiveness, and semantic change.  <br />Language change leaves foot prints.  Culture and language are weakly related. Most languages are bundles of variations--dialects.  Linguistically homogenizing tendancies are printing, education, and the communication revolution.  <br />Sometimes for political reasons dialects are considered separate languages.  Some of the so-called languages are mutually intelligible such as Macedonian and Bulgarian, Swedish and Danish and Norwegian, Russian and Ukranian and Belorussian, and Romanian and Moldavan.  <br />The Vikings scattered about a thousand words into English.  After 1066 the Normans introduced seventy five hundred words into English.  When pidgin expands to creole the language is no longer simple.  Creole is not strictly speaking an intertwined language.  The Gullah language is a creole.  <br />All languages are complex to some degree.  Sometimes standardization and literacy congeal freezing a language.  There has been large-scale language death.  Not all European languages are Indo-European.  Finnish, Estonian, Lappish and Hungarian belong to another group, the Uralic.	2003-11-30
883099:US	52300235	R3JEJZEA5YIVYI	1555971911	97199046	Leah, New Hampshire: The Collected Stories of Thomas Williams (A Graywolf Discovery)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Fictional town, real emotions	The book has an introduction by John Irving.  Leah is a fictional town.  Thomas Williams was a longtime resident of New Hampshire.  The author's introduction refers to his childhood practice of reading the Bible.  <br />In &quot;Goose Pond&quot; a new widower visits Leah where he spent his youth and young married life.  He kills a doe with a bow and arrow.  In the next story it is observed that mothers have to be half policemen, half indentured servants.  The ski instructor at the resort the mother and son end up in is past forty and over-weight.  He thinks that he is too jaded to seriously pursue the mother of the story.  When he gains the courage to go after the woman, Margaret, she is visited at the resort by her former husband who is particularly needy.  The ski professional wonders what he has done in this world except have a pretty good time.  <br />A teacher finds that he cannot enter the classroom.  Then he destroys himself with a firearm.  His obituary omits the information that he was a fairly good teacher until he tired of things.  The stories are about people who survive just barely the collapse of snowforts, bad marriages, encounters with the past, disclosures of unease.	2003-11-30
883851:US	52300235	R2A85CX0WQ56YL	0385055013	505631983	Bertolt Brecht's Berlin: A scrapbook of the twenties	Books	5	3	6	N	N	After the wall fell	It is a scrapbook.  Berlin dreams included many things, art, architecture, theater, sport.  In the 1950's the city's  dividedness became an occasion for more riches of artistic expression.  <br />Brecht died in 1956.  His daughter took over his company--the Ensemble-- and the right to produce his plays.  The Berlin of the 1920's became frozen in time.  After reunification the question arose as to whether the Berlin Ensemble should be preserved.  <br />Friedrich Ebert was the first President of the Weimar Republic.  German inflation, 1919-1923, was more demoralizing than the defeat of armies.  Berlin is surrounded by beautiful lakes and woods but most of the inhabitants stayed within the city's confines which produced a multitude of  employment opportunities and leisure pursuits.  There was also the issue of a lack of low cost housing which some of the architects and planners sought to overcome. <br />Berlin night life defied description.  There was political cabaret.  There were night clubs one does not talk about.  Criminal gangs were camouflaged as social clubs.  Franz Werfel, Stefan Zweig, Erich Maria Remarque, and Stefan George were active.  Kathe Kollwitz and Georg Grosz were inevitably involved in showing the ugliness of life in the city.  Other artists included Otto Dix, Ernst Barlach, Paul Klee, Max Beckmann, Otto Muller, Lyonel Feininger, Ernst Ludwig Kirchner.  The Bauhaus group influenced the avant garde.  <br />The first public psychoanalytic institute was established in Berlin in 1921.  The Berlin theater attracted the best talent.  German film makers used Espressionism.  Another genre of film was the mountain film.  The music scene included Wilhelm Furtwangler, Arnold Schonberg, Paul Hindemith, Otto Klemperer, Erich Kleiber, Arthur Schnabel, and Kurt Weill.  The Wandervogel movement was apolitical.  Notes and index are provided.	2003-11-29
884546:US	52300235	RSCFVTFPNU6UB	068814182X	997279820	Everybody Dies (Matthew Scudder Mysteries)	Books	4	1	5	N	N	Listening to stories	Matt Scudder walks and Elaine goes to the gym for exercise.  Mick Ballou is a notorious criminal and Grogans, in Hell's Kitchen, is his bar and headquarters.  Mick is an unlikely friend for a private detective to have.  <br />Matt is faced with the mystery of two deceased persons, formerly of the North of Ireland, and a substantial amount of twice stolen whiskey.  Mick believes he has an enemy.  Matt Scudder still attends AA meetings.  He usually fits in two or three a week.  He enjoys listening to the stories.  <br />On Sunday evenings he eats dinner with his sponsor.  When he and his sponsor go out to dinner, by coincidence, they are dressed in similar garb.  The sponsor becomes another victim while Matt is using the lavatory.  Matt knows his sponsor would destroy his guilty thoughts by pointing out that Matt is just an alcoholic.  Matt finds himself explaining to the investigating officers the role of a sponsor in the AA program.  <br />Matt is saved from danger by Mick.  Gary Alan Dowling is the son of Patrick Farrelly, a man who had operated in opposition to  Mick Ballou.  He may have some involvement in the recent matters of conflict.  This is an exceptionally dark tale in the Matt Scudder series.	2003-11-29
884633:US	52300235	R1NCXS0NKX2THS	0156835207	718295742	Socialism And America	Books	5	10	17	N	N	Marxism in the New World	In the 1912 election socialists received six per cent of the vote.  Socialism was not yet a mass movement.  Before the First World War regional distinctions still existed.  Successes on the Lower East Side were largely a minority affair.  There was a strong populist heritage in the Southwest.  Socialist encampments in Oklahoma were derivations of the religious camp meeting.  <br />The Wobblies failed to see the machine process.  By 1912 at the time of the great textile strikes the IWW was already old-fashioned.  The personality of Eugene Debs exerted a spell.  Socialists did not work out a position to to overcome racism and did not know how to deal with the AFL.  The American labor movement was weak.  In America there was a strong sentiment of evangelicalism.  Socialists received twenty-two per cent of the votes in local elections.  The national government attacked the party for its anti-war stance.  <br />In the 1930's the old guard of socialists was unresponsive to new ideas produced by the militants and the popular front.  The party had its best opportunity to win votes since the era of Eugene Debs in 1932.  It is hard to imagine an historical moment other than one's own.  In Austria socialists resisted facism.  A great rally in support of the Austrian comrades was broken up by Communist actions.  <br />In 1936 there was a public debate between Earl Browder, a Communist party functionary, and Norman Thomas.  There is a measure of truth in the statement that socialism was undone by the New Deal.  Norman Thomas supported sharecroppers who were being harmed by New Deal policies it should be added.  The lasting contribution of the Roosevelt era was the socialization of concern.  The New Deal failed to realize distributive justice and stable properity.<br />Socialists were challenged to produce an effective electoral strategy.  The purity of the party's leadership helped speed its decline.  The absence of a feudal past, material prosperity, upward mobility, an open frontier, a two party system of nonideological parties, and massive waves of immigration are factors impairing the acceptance of socialism in America.  <br />Socialism is not the same as communitarianism.  Marxism offers a theory of social change, but offers little in the drawing of political arrangements.  The socialist aspiration has less to do with modes of property ownership than with qualities of social life.  One might ask does the utopian vision still have value to us.	2003-11-28
885041:US	52300235	R8M60VU8A7VJC	0393322203	20008089	A Relative Stranger: Stories (Norton Paperback)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Alienation in the Upper Midwest	This is a wonderful book of stories.  Fenstad skates on his way home from church because he is happy.  Harry Fenstad writes brochures for a computer company.  He teaches an extension course on composition.  His hopefulness and didacticism has been picked up from his mother.  Fenstad invites his mother to attend the class.  Harry likes skating in the dark with a pharmicist friend, Susan, and he likes having his mother in the back of the writing class.  His mother appears at the skating rink and things change, her frailty is exposed.<br />Detroit has four shopping centers at its cardinal points.  The state of Michigan is like Holland.  In another story a long lost brother finds a man whose monstrous behavior has just driven his wife and baby out of his house.  He hits the brother in a bar following a baseball game.  His hobby is building ships in bottles.  It turns out that the men have nothing in common but they continue to see each other.  <br />One of the characters, Cooper, decides that he must do something for the street people.  Bringing someone home he offends his wife who works as a prosecutor.  When he is hit up for money on the street by an old man his young son is offended.  The little boy starts to hide his money from his father.  A woman of the street misunderstands his interest and believes that he seeks a romantic encounter.  He is told to do sweeping at the shelter to overcome his sense of guilt.  The collection includes the silence of an Ezra Pound-like poet.	2003-11-28
885260:US	52300235	RSC1JWH2I66GX	0393000613	820249368	Wendell and Ann Phillips: The Community Reform, 1840-1880	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Abolitionist and reformer	Wendell Phillips was an abolitionist of note.  His wife Ann was an alert helpmate, notwithstanding physical complaints which kept her housebound during most of her adult years.  A trove of Phillips letters called the Blagdon Papers permit the historical re-examination of Wendell Phillips's career.<br />Wendell Phillips was a Bostonian.  In the mid nineteenth century this meant that he was provincial.  He attended the law school at Harvard and was minimally involved in the practice of law when he ventured into the realm occupied by William Lloyd Garrison.  He undertook to be a leader and to be a speaker in the service of the great cause of abolition and reform.  He traveled extensively and had immense influence.  <br />The cache of letters includes many items of writings addressed to him evidencing his efforts to assist in the betterment of the circumstances of individuals.  His engagement in personal philanthropy involved a number of different kinds of people.  When he died in 1884 he left only a modest estate.  <br />Phillips spent most of his career as a dissenter.  During the 1840's and 50's Garrison and Phillips collaborated powerfully.  During the Civil War Phillips's reputation soared.  At the time of Reconstruction Phillips broke with Garrison.	2003-11-28
885473:US	52300235	R3CY8YV0NRN9KZ	1842324195	493792795	Corridors of Power (A Strangers and Brothers Novel)	Books	5	7	13	N	N	Hey Minister	This book was first published in 1964 as part of the STRANGERS AND BROTHERS series.  Lewis Eliot and his wife Margaret are to dine at Roger Quaife's house.  Quaife is a Conservative politician.  Lewis works in the department of Sir Hector Rose which has someting to do with defense.  <br />Roger Quaife is an effective public speaker.  Roger notes that a politician lives in the present.  One must first get power and then do something with it.  <br />He perceives that it is not realistic for England to possess its own atomic weapons.  He seeks the assistance of Lewis to arrange a meeting with the scientists, Walter Luke and Francis Getliffe.  The game being played by Roger is that he seeks the ministry held by Lord Gilbey.  <br />Lewis and Margaret become the guests of a great hostess, Diana Skidmore, at Basset, Diana's house in Hampshire.  The subject of Roger's wife's brother comes up during the weekend.  Roger claims that in observing etiquette, truth has suffered.  <br />Just following the weekend, Lewis and Margaret are invited to see Douglas and Mary Osbaldiston.  Douglas is a highly placed fellow civil servant.  Lord Gilbey becomes very ill.  Lewis and others visit at the clinic.  It is believed that whatever the physical outcome of Lord Gilbey's circumstances, Roger will get his post, unless he has damaged his chances in defending his wife Caro's brother Sammikins.  <br />While visiting Lord Gilbey Lewis earns that he has received a telegram from a former acquaintance of Lewis, Ronald Porson.  When Lewis travels to see Porson and complain of his act, he is stopped by the obvious drunken state of the man.  Later Lord Gilbey receives the news that he is being removed from office.  Roger Quaife is appointed to take his place.  <br />Francis Getliffe is a radical through conscience.  He does not want to be a member of a scientific advisory committee but yields to the pressure of Lewis and Roger.  A Michael Brodzinski, a person holding diametrical views, is also tobe on the committee.  <br />The book concerns, interestingly, the formation of political opinion.  The story takes place at the time of the Suez crisis and Suez drives the story inasmuch as a certain sort of jingoism arises in reaction to the French and British embarassment over Suez.  Possible defects in Roger's character may have also contributed to the defeat of Roger's policy.  He is made to live with the fact that his unfaithfulness to Caro may be disclosed.  <br />As things develop though the machinations of Brodzinski, whose strong held views verge on madness,  Lewis and Francis Getliffe become subject to enquiries concerning their political stances in the 1930's.  Cold war issues intrude in the alliance with the United States.  Lord Lufkin, an aerospace manufacturer and Lewis's former employer, warns him that he knows secrets dangerous to Roger Quaife's official position.  <br />Caro Quaife's world is not kind.  It is tolerably good-natured.  If you are really in trouble you are on your own.  Roger Quaife is compelled to resign.  Lewis then submits his own resignation to Sir Hector Rose. A novel of politics resembles a novel of manners in Snow's excellent rendering.	2003-11-27
887612:US	52300235	R1VU9Q8VPDT9ZN	B00005VNDM	944601122	Commitment to freedom; the story of the Christian Science Monitor	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Editor's report	The author began work on the MONITOR staff in 1925.  The MONITOR is crusading and reformative.  The newspaper is published as a public service.  The content must measure up to a system of value judgments.  Its chief distinction has been constant interest in world affairs.  <br />The men who founded THE CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR started from scratch.  They had a finished product in one hundred days.  One of the first stories in the new newspaper concerned the Charles River Dam creating the setting for MIT and millionaires row on Beacon Street in the Back Bay.  <br />People have forgotten how bad many of the newspapers were in 1908.  Accuracy is held to be more important than speed.  The MONITOR has always been willing to wait and to qualify.  The MONITOR sometimes erred through its extreme receptivity to new technical ideas.  <br />In the early days of the MONITOR policies had to be worked out.  Working each case on the merits is not easy for operative journalism.  In modern times there have been few MONITOR taboos.  <br />This is the story of a religion and its newspaper for general readers by an insider.  It is also a competent account of the paper's history by an accomplished journalist.  Anecdotes selected are interesting and illustrative.  The book covers the dispute between the church publishing society and the board of directors resolved in 1921 and the resurrection of the newpaper's circulation during the following two years.	2003-11-26
900052:US	52300235	R21W90MRDOLNCN	0679735909	627682796	Possession	Books	5	5	11	N	N	Aspern papers, sort of	Roland Michell is a student of the life and criticism of the poet, Randolph Henry Ash.  He has a girl friend Val who is also a literary scholar but less successful and performs temp work to keep them afloat.  He was a good student but does not feel successful since he is not employed full time and scrapes by on a series of part time postitions.  He commits a theft of a draft of a letter he finds in a volume of Vico owned by Ash.  He reviews Crabb Robinsons's diary to try to determine what happened at a party because the draft of the letter contains a reference to a party.      Blackadder, the dean of Ash studies, is ensconced in the basement of the British Museum.  He had been a student of F.R. Leavis.  In 1959 Blackadder decided to do a complete edition of Ash's poems and plays.  He thought it was a finite task.      The Crabb Robinson diary yields the name of Miss LaMotte.  Roland consults a colleague about Christabel LaMotte and learns that Maud Bailey, head of a women's resource center at Lincoln University, knows all about Christabel LaMotte. It turns out that Roland and Maud are each studying the living parts of what has been left over from their educations.      A.S. Byatt's work is marvellous and funny.  She portrays a Victorian poet and man of letters, a polymath.  Ash, the poet, possessed a deep and fervent interest in natural history and the scientific advances of the times.  Byatt uses the device of parallelism. The Victorian couple of the poets parallels the couple of Maud and Roland, the modern researchers.	2003-11-15
904116:US	52300235	R3D1DU2BKMQI5X	1592244580	55007467	Taras Bulba and Other Tales  by Nikolai V. Gogol, Fiction, Classics	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Marauders	The Bulbas were an old Cossack family.  Ostap and Andrei, sons of Taras Bulba, attended the Kiev Seminary.  Taras leads his sons to the Cossack encampment for them to become warriors.  It is sort of their fate. The headman says he has promised the sultan there would be no war.  Taras arranges for the election of a new headman.  Soon all of southwest Poland is prey to a fear that the Cossacks are coming.  <br />It is wonderful to enter into the minds and intentions of the marauders.  The Cossacks had been inflamed to be warlike under reports of other religious groups failing to respect Eastern Orthodoxy.  <br />Andrei runs into the servant of a woman he saw and fell in love with at the Seminary and becomes concerned that she is starving and that the harsh rations of his group are unsuitable fare for her.  The sight of peopole starving is awful to Andrei.  In the girl's presence, Andrei feels uncouth.  He has spent his life in the Seminary and on the steppes.  <br />The Cossacks are beseiging the city.  Suddenly an army breaks through and Andrei is lost to Taras and the others.  It is reported that Andrei has gone over to the other side under his own free will.  <br />Ostrap Bulba is elected a chief.  Part of the Cossack forces follow the Tartars out of the city to retrieve their prisoners, and the rest remain in the vicinity of the city for the same purpose, to retrieve the Cossack prisoners taken by the Poles.  Ostap and Taras stay to confront the Poles.  They are surprised to encounter Andrei.  Taras kills Andrei.  <br />Ostap is taken prisoner and transported to Warsaw.  Taras seeks out Yankel to hide him and take him to Warsaw.  Through the arrogant will of the Polish aristocracy, the captured Cossacks are tortured, Ostap included.  Taras is a witness to the scene.  <br />A Cossack Army 120,000 strong is massed on the border of the Ukraine.  Among all the regiments, the crack regiment is led by Taras Bulba.  The Russian Orthodox clergy go out to meet the Cossacks.  Taras's exploits go well beyond ordinary raids.<br />The story is colorful and excellent.	2003-11-12
907019:US	52300235	RUXJZGUGAV50K	0262691787	824287579	The Last Puritan: A Memoir in the Form of a Novel	Books	5	14	21	N	N	Idealist	THE LAST PURITAN is a sort of education of Oliver Alden.  The atmosphere of the work is that of a Henry James novel.  Initially the chief subject is Nathaniel Alden.  Unitarianism has replaced prayers at breakfast with wholesome food.  The book is cool and funny.  Nathaniel Alden is an awful snob and is supernaturally quiet and unengaged.  He has vowed to abstain from carriage travel and so must walk.  He lives in Boston in the Back Bay.      His younger brother Peter is being sent to camp in the west prior to beginning preparation for Harvard at Exeter.  The camp life in Wyoming is to Peter a godsend after living under the dictates of Nathaniel.  Genuine cowboys would sometimes ride into the camp.  Peter grows up to attend Harvard and to acquire a medical degree.  He never practices medicine.  His son Oliver is born.  His wife is from Great Falls, Connecticut.  Oliver manages to escape almost all the ills of childhood.  He has a foreign governess, a German woman.    While boating with his father, Oliver is given THE LEAVES OF GRASSS to read.  Oliver and his father visit an old kinsman, Caleb Wetherbee.  During the winter Caleb resides on Mount Vernon Street on Beacon Hill.  He is a cripple and has adopted the Catholic religion and has become highly knowledgeable about European matters.  He invites Oliver to to participate in his Sunday evening parties when Oliver attends Harvard.  Observers find Caleb's deep religious interests to be a clear case of sublimation.    Olivers's mother is apt to take no notice of genius or style, she is concerned with social propriety.  Oliver, invited by his father to spend a year abroad, makes a decision to stay at his day school in Connecticut and live with his mother for the final year before college.  He also decides that Williams College is good enough for him.  He fears that universities are filled with snobs.  Football more than anything else restores Oliver's conventional tone after spending time with his father and his father's companion Jim.      Oliver does spend the summer with his father and learns that his will has been ripped up and that the older man fears he is dying.  Oliver promises Jim he will take care of him notwithstanding the fact that some of Jim's conduct shocks him.  Oliver learns to punt.  He meets his cousin Mario at Eton.  Mario's grandmother is Peter Alden's sister.  Oliver and Peter are detained at Eton when Peter falls ill.  Peter is pleased to see that his son is so wide awake intellectually.  Oliver feels a need to justify his natural sympathies theoretically.  Peter dies.    Two years later Mario and Oliver see each other in Manhattan and in Cambridge.  Both of the cousins are attending Harvard.  Oliver, spending three years at Williams, suffers a football injury and decides to rededicate himself to his studies in the wider academic setting of Harvard.  Oliver never flinches in his determination to pursue higher things.  At Harvard through chance Oliver occupies the room occupied previously by Ralph Waldo Emerson.      Santayana himself is a character in this tale, a member of the philosophy department at Harvard.  Oliver joins in the fighting of World War I.  He is described as an ascetic without faith.  When Oliver dies, Mario is the executor of Oliver's will.  Mario tells the supposed biographer of Oliver in the epilogue that he idealizes Oliver and makes him too complex.    The book is very satisfying.  It raises issues that are still pertinent.  It is scarcely dated at all.	2003-11-10
909882:US	52300235	RHEB8IVCDL66J	1842430777	724165016	In the Clear	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Insomnia	He always loved the jazzed up feeling when he walked into a casino.  This story of the New Jersey seashore is a keeper.  Steve Lopez does a good job catching the way local people speak.  <br />In a sense Albert LaRosa grew up in the display window of his father's hardware store.  Sheriff Albert LaRosa receives an offer to participate in a casino venture.  He tells his long time girl friend who dislikes the proposal. It seems that Sheriff LaRosa sought employment in his old hometown following two years on the Philadelphia police force and a tragic event.  <br />Now the inland island in the vicinity of Atlantic City has three explosions in three nights and the loss of life in one of the incidents constituting murder.  Albert expects to leave office in about two weeks, but first he has to solve the mystery of the explosions and other unexplained occurrences.  Things reach such a sorry pitch that Albert is faced with the prospect of arresting his own father.<br />A house is bulldozed to remove it from the path of a road construction project.  Albert's friend's diner is slated for removal next.  Later he awakes to sounds of gunfire and a fire in his own house.  He and a neighbor extinguish the fire.<br />Albert finds himself engulfed in a crime wave.  He tries to identify the perpetrator.  Even the FBI is involved.  Belatedly he ascertains he needs to protect someone as close to him as a son.	2003-11-07
911794:US	52300235	R3C80CHRWHBKRS	006019443X	496102452	The Sinister Pig	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Triangulation	&quot;Carl Mankin&quot; a sort of nom de guerre is supposed to go to the four corners and find out how the pipeline system is bypassed to avoid paying royalties to the Interior Department for the Indians.  The man has just retired from the CIA.  His employer is named Slate.  The amount not accounted for may be as high as forty billion.  Mankin is afraid he will stand out as he did not stand out in the Mideast when in the petroleum producing areas.  <br />Mankin checks with the Department of Energy. A sort of target has been identified, Rowley Winsor, a sinister pig, who may have political connections.  Winsor's grandfather made his money in liquor during Prohibition.  Winsor's character is illustrated by the fact that he has arranged to have a  Congressional intern killed because her pregnancy is an inconvenience to him.<br />Jim Chee and FBI Agent Osborne learn that a dead man has been identified through the Visa card of Carl Mankin.  The Carl Mankin credit card is in the possession of Delbert Chinosa who received it from Albert Desboti.  Albert Desboti found the card in a billfold while cleaning a park.  A renatal automobile has alson surfaced miles away from the body and the wallet.<br />Joe Leaphorn, retired, is contacted by Chee and others seeking to unravel the identity and the goals of the dead man.  Jim Chee finds a tie-in with information Bernadette Manuelito, a Customs Officer and his former employee, has discovered.  He drives south to see her.  It seems tht the dead man is really Gordon Stein.  Both the FBI and the CIA as his former employer and other forces are withholding pertinent information.  Bernadette Manuelito is in physical danger for having stumbled upon and photographed scenes yielding clues to the solution of the mystery.  <br />Fortunately Leaphorn and Chee come to the realization of the danger on time to be of assistance.  The plotting is adroit. The characters, as always, are well drawn.  The theme of the series may very well be Jim Chee'ssearch for a mate.	2003-11-06
920042:US	52300235	R28OUAPVEKPB4P	0804103771	187717161	Raising Your Child to Be A Mensch	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A decent and caring person	I am sorry to see that this book is out-of-print.  As an advice book for parents and for anyone who has anything to do with children it stands at the head of the pack.  Unfortunately these days no awards are given for just being nice and schools no longer teach values, if they ever did.  Furthermore, in our multicultural competitive environments there seems to be less of a consensus about what constitutes good, acceptable behavior.  In some circumstances well brought up children may be disadvantaged in the schoolyard scene if they don't toughen up, or something of the sort.  The book validates right motives and right values and encourages parents and others to make the case.  The book is written by a rabbi but it isn't religious.    A mensch is a decent and caring person.  There is no pattern or correct formula leading to the desired results.  Only parents care about raising kind and courteous children.  Our obsession with individualism and self-actualization may have detrimental effects on children.  A person is not a mensch in isolation.  Cheating in schools has become widespread because making it has crowded out other values.  We should wonder why we are so obsessed with high achievement.  It is forgotten that child rearing is really child loving.  We should not be giving children the message that love is conditioned on accomplishments.  Children want to be heard and understood.  One cannot be an effective parent if one is frequently gone or uninvolved.	2003-10-30
920601:US	52300235	RS1YBHB17LU4G	0670891932	767275402	Buddha (Penguin Lives)	Books	5	18	21	N	N	Enlightenment	Writing a biography of Buddha is an un-Buddhist thing to do.  Buddha means enlightened or awakened one.  The process of preserving the traditions of Buddha's life began shortly after his death in 483 B.C.E.  About a hundred years after his death the Pali Canon was established.  Other texts exist.  They do contain reliable historical material.  There is no developed chronological account of Siddhatta Gotama's life.  Of emphasis are his birth, his renunciation of normal domestic life, his enlightenment, the start of his teaching career, and his death.  <br />In the accounts the Buddha is presented as a type.  When Gotama was 29 he took to the road.  He had a yearning for existence that was wide open and complete.  Family life was incompatible with higher forms of spirituality.  Attachments to things interfered with spirituality.  He was a near contemporary of Confucius and  Socrates.  He sought Nirvana to overcome the endless cycle of death and decay.  <br />800 to 200 is known as the Axial Age.  Socrates, Confucius, and Buddha have been mentioned, and in addition to them, others who established the ethos under which men still live include LaoTzu, Zoroaster, Plato, and the great Hebrew prophets.  New religions emerged-- montheism in Iran and the Middle East, Taoism and Confucianism, Buddhism, Hinduism, and Greek rationalism in Europe.  Study and debate became important religious activities.  There was a new cult of kingship in Gotama's lifetime.  The image of the Universal Monarch became his alter ego.  <br />Gotama rode out from the family house when the existence of suffering penetrated his world.  He was able to look at Vedic society with the objectivity of an outsider.  Gotama joined some of the wandering monks.  They had become almost like a fifth caste.  Gotama found a teacher who taught that ignorance rather than desire lay at the root of our problems.  He was taught to look for holiness everywhere.  Even suffering had a redemptive role.  An ascetic often findsit is extremely difficult to liberate himself from the material world.  It is not known when the first yogic exercises evolved in India.  The word Yoga comes from a term to yoke or bind together.  <br />The sages and prophets of the Axial Age were coming to realize that egotism was the greatest obstacle to experiencing the absolute.  The abandonment of selfishness and egotism would be the basis of Gotama's own dharma.  Yoga and ethical disciplines were practiced by him.  He practiced withdrawal of the senses and concentration.  Gotama did not think the elevated state of consciousness reached through the use of Yogic methods was Nirvana because afterwards he still had the same desires.  He tried asceticism and that proved as fruitless as Yoga.  <br />In seclusion Gotama found his way to enlightenment.  He fostered wholesome states of mind, disinterested compassion.  He adopted a habit of mindfulness.  The transitory nature of life was one of the chief causes of suffering.  The prosperity of one person usually depends upon the poverty of another.  Gotama developed a new Yogic method.  Scholars traditionally give the enlightenment of Gotama as around the year 528 B.C.E.  What he found was not a new invention.  His plan could not be understood by rational thinking alone.  Nirvana is a still center.  It gives meaning to life.  Buddhism is essentially a psychological religion.  <br />His first attempt at teaching was a failure.  At a later stage the Buddha probably developed one of the most frequent subjects of meditiation, the Chain of Dependent Causation.  The fire sermon was a brilliant critique of the Vedic system.  The three fires of greed, hatred, and ignorance were an ironic counterpart to the three holy fires of the Vedas.  The followers of the Buddha, little Buddhas, are as impersonal as he is in the accounts. Notes and glossary appear at the end of the book.  This biography is correct and succinct, and yes, enlightening.	2003-10-30
921429:US	52300235	R2ZKQ8KDGO4UP	0679760806	778351106	The Master and Margarita	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Mystery at Mount Golgotha	Are the dachas allocated to those with the most talent or those at the top?  Ivan Nikolayich is taken in his underwear to the lunatic asylum.  The poet Ryukhin takes him there.  After sleeping Ivan feels better.  He remembers that Berlioz is dead.  He finds the building he is in to be wonderfully equipped.  It seems that Ivan is in the hospital because he went to a restaurant in his undershorts and because he wanted to tell everyone about Pontius Pilate.  Ivan draws Pontius Pilate and a cat walking on its hind legs.  <br />Rimsky, manager of a Variety Show, is driven nearly mad by the telegrams of a magician supposedly from Yalta.  A mysterious person, Varenkha, disappears and then suddenly reappears in the story.  Nikanor Ivanovich is supposed to turn over his foreign currency.  Until his dream Nikanor Ivanovich knew nothing of the works of Pushkin.  Nikanor Ivanovich claims that he has no foreign currency.  <br />At the Variety Theater there is concern because Rimsky is nowhere to be found.  The aliens bureau has never heard of anyone called Woland, the black magician.  Berlioz's nephew tries to claim his inheritance.  Ivan's beloved mistress is called Margarita.  Margarita flies silently at second story heighth.  <br />Woland, Margarita, and the cat attempt to play chess.  Margarita calls the author of a novel about Pontius Pilate, Master to Woland's surprise.  The cat jumps off of a pile of manuscripts.  No one can say whether the figures are real or imagined.  Woland says the Master's novel is unfinished.  <br />I had trouble following the allegory.  I will take responsibility for being a poor reader in this instance.  The book is splendid.	2003-10-29
923531:US	52300235	R36FGN51LKLU3C	039302623X	468021650	The Watch	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Loneliness	\\"The Watch\\" is a long story placed third in the collection.  It is a tale of loneliness.  A man and an older man, his father, have a store that has almost no customers.  An exception to the general trend is Jesse, a cyclist, who stops for cokes and comes to be an expected presence in the life of the younger man.  Jesse is aware of the fact that he is expected and begins dimly to resent the fact.  The older man runs off to the fever camps and the younger man and Jesse pursue him and finally manage to carry him home.  Jesse feels guilty when the older man ends up being chained to the store to keep him from running off again.    A gallery of characters are featured in the stories.  Along with the diverse characters, out of the way geographical places are described.  Mostly the places are extremely to the south or to the north.  There is the unpublished writer and teacher from Jackson State who feels annoyed with someone who attended Millsaps.  The geometry teacher  who teaches in a sort of frustration in Houston and tells stories of WallaWalla Washington is portrayed.  The teacher drives a Corvette.  When he appears all bruised, he tells the students he fell out of his car and his wife drove away in it.  Kirby, the narrator, and Trish appear in several of the stories.  Kirby and the narrator met in college. The style is laconic, indirect, artful.	2003-10-28
926378:US	52300235	RPVTCILKWCV8K	0449003795	469684331	"P" is for Peril (A Kinsey Millhone Mystery, Book 16)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Art  Deco	Dr. Purcell has been missing for nine weeks.  Kinsey Millhone had followed the disappearance in the newspapers and then his former wife sought her services.  He was the director of a care facility.  The client collects art deco.<br />Sue Grafton's character is an effective protoganist.  She represents good in the war waged in genre fiction of good against evil.  She is refreshing, not rule bound, considerate of others, her elderly neighbors for example,  and seeks to cut through the noisy insincerities of social intercourse to reach the truth.  She is a sort of Western star, a loner, she explains, in female garb.  Her roughness is meant to be endering and one has to admit that Grafton is successful.<br />Kinsey Millhone is looking for a new office.  Kinsey discovers the nursing home was under investigation when Dow Purcell disappeared.  The investigation was being conducted by HCFA on medicare billing.  An associate wondered if the missing man could handle the loss of face in the event of prosecution.  Dow may have been a good practitioner and an incompetent adminstrator.  A former employee certainly held such a view of the situation.<br />In the midst of the investigation into his disappearance, which at least from a reader's perspective finally seems to be going somewhere, Kinsey learns of questionable conduct on the part of  her prospective landlords.  She does not know if she is inclined to use her investigative skills to discover their crimes to help an insurance company, but at a minimum decides to back out of the rental.  She continues to have a contentious relationship with her client and feels that spending time on the case in order to justify the retainer accepted is a form of indentured servitude.<br />Kinsey locates the dead man's car in water.  The most interesting parts of the story are the medicare fraud strand.  The villians portrayed are pretty convincing.  Peril is a good word for the position of the characters in this yarn.  Under the circumstances Kinsey Millhone would be a good person to know.  The book is a nice job of writing.	2003-10-25
926759:US	52300235	R3OQDM1JM9Z7EQ	0684859076	302392775	How to Read and Why	Books	5	3	10	N	N	How to Reread a Book	I love book talk.  This is an interesting title for a book.  We know Bloom has read a lot of books because he has written so many.  Furthermore, we know he is a book fan, sort of like the customer reviewer except that he has more credentials.  The question is would this book make a person excited about reading.  Using the word praxis is off-putting, but then Professor Bloom probably does spend most of his time in an academic environment.  <br />The experience of reading Turgenev and Chekhov, masters of the short story, is considered.  Bloom holds, appropriately, that Chekhov was the main influence on all short story writers coming after him.  Chekhov has the great writer's wisdom.  His &quot;The Lady with the Dog&quot; is worldly laconic in its universalism according to Bloom.  <br />Hemingway's short stories surpass his novels.  I agree with Bloom that Hemingway achieves tragedy in &quot;The Hills of Kilimanjaro.&quot;  Short stories may be divided into fantasy and not fantasy.  Short story writers refrain from moral judgment.  <br />The portion of the book on reading poetry presents ideas on poetry very clearly.  A reader might start with William Savage Landor or A.E. Housman and move through others such as Browning, Tennyson, Wordsworth, (we have all read Wordsworth even if we haven't read him since his influence was so immense), Coleridge, Eliot, Stevens, Lawrence, Hardy.  Emily Dickinson, as Shakespeare, seems to be impossible to categorize.  Comparing Emily Dickinson to Emily Bronte is apt, it is very revealing of the oddness of each writer.  <br />Milton was a sect of one.  He believed that the soul and body died together.  PARADISE LOST identifies energy as equal to  spirit.   Even the presence of others cannot transform reading from a solitary to a social act.  <br />THE MAGIC MOUNTAIN  calls to mind German high culture.  HAMLET is about theatricality, not revenge.  In HEDDA GABLER there is the horror of losing social respectibility.  Bloom notes that in the case of an enlightened and fervent young reader, the first experience of love is toward a literary character.	2003-10-25
928585:US	52300235	R3Q6701AZ591L0	0002628848	875471099	Voice from the Chorus	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Prison Views	This is a collection of one person's prison writings and it is marvelous.  The book is based upon letters to his wife, Maria, fron 1966 to 1971.  Andrey Sinyavesky took the pseudonym Abram Tertz.  He revered Boris Pasternak as a person and then as a writer.  The author had been an idealistic Communist until confronted with the arbitrary nature of Stalin's rule.  Prior to his arrest in 1965 he wrote about Isaac Babel and Anna Akhmatova.  After Stalin's death the figure with genuine authority was Pasternak.  Sinyavsky read DR. ZHIVAGO in manuscript.  There was no prudence in Pasternak.  The pen name Abram Tertz was based upon an underworld ballad.  A VOICE FROM THE CHORUS is not a descriptive narrative.  The chorus serves as a confused demotic counterpoint.  The author was arrested in 1965 and sent to a forced labor camp. (The above is derived from Max Hayward's introduction to the work.)<br />A sampling of Tertz's observations are as follows--<BR>As in a train where passengers do not do useful work, the life of the inmates of a camp is filled with no productive activity.  It is hard to live at the expense of the future.  Art does nothing but convert matter into spirit.  Art is the meeting place of the author with the subject of his love.  What is erotic is exotic.  How good it is that all people sleep.  The text of the gospel explodes with meaning.  Russian misers do not hoard money so much as weave fantasies around the money.  Esenin was the last poet of the century.  Mandelstam was the last poet of the intelligentsia.  The art of telling a story depends upon spinning it out.  A gambling man will have no compunction telling the vilest things about himself.  Typical characters in typical circumstances nearly all appear there by chance.  The vast amount of timber for building in the olden days corresponds to the wooden character of the Russian people.  HAMLET is a variant of OEDIPUS.  Coming out of prison is like making a posthumous appearance.  The author emigrated with his wife and son to Paris in 1973.	2003-10-23
929644:US	52300235	R2BCUGZFL036VI	0449287688	282810939	Dead Cert/Nerve/For Kicks	Books	4	0	0	N	N	NERVE :  A  Fairly Important Person	Dick Francis writes with economy.  NERVE opens with the suicide of a jockey.  The hero, Rob Finn, another jockey, and the others discuss the event.  The suicide victim's wife has a fur coat and is not likely to welcome the commiserations of the other jockeys.  They choose not to present themselves to be snubbed.   The suicide victim had been obsessively tidy.  Finn witnessed the suicide.  The suicide victim and a trainer had been in the habit of exchanging  acrimonious words.    The other offerings in the three novel set are equally fine.  One of the advantages of a Dick Francis book is having a hero one cares about and a plot that develops smoothly from start to finish.	2003-10-23
930498:US	52300235	R2ER9SHHLP2GO3	031298748X	960129161	Inside 9-11: What Really Happened	Books	5	16	21	N	N	Your are there, 9/11/01	Mohamed Atta had a terrorist primer.  He spent the night before 9/11 at the Comfort Inn in Portland, Maine.  The story of the terrorists in flight schools, creating problems in night clubs and elsewhere in the weeks before the incident of the suicide attacks of the four commercial jetliners, and their journeys in America and abroad are outlined in the book.  Calls from passengers and flight personnel on the highjacked airliners are detailed in this account.  <br />Next, the authors, journalists of DER SPIEGAL, describe the attempts of the workers in the World Trade Center towers to save themselves.  It was important for small firms to have the World Trade Center on their letterheads.  Initially it was conceived as a center for overseas trade, not a financial center.  Later the rise in commercial-space rents in New York City caused the kinds of businesses most likely to rent space in the towers to change.  One of the reasons so much is known about situations within the planes and towers is telephone contact.  Wired and wireless, modern communications capabilities are awesome.  <br />Reading the account is an emotional experience.  People waited to be rescued and rescue workers never came.  Others walked down and out of one of the towers from the eighty-ninth floor.  Horribly burned individuals exited safely with others.  <br />Fear is something firefighters train themselves to ignore.  The authors show the messages received at the fire department message center--FDNY Emergency Message Center.  When the tower came down it sounded like a freight train.  The entire South Tower had collapsed.  Nobody in the FDNY expected a collapse of the entire structures of the monumental towers.  <br />The South Tower was hit second but collapsed first.  It was hit lower.  NYC has more tall buildings than any other city.  Still, FDNY is not a suicide organization.  After the collapse of the tower, the plans of evacuating persons on the higher floors of the other tower changed.  A quick thinking fireman shouted, causing most of the fire personnel in the North Tower to leave the building.  <br />The North Tower collapsed in an almost absurdly controlled way.  Eleven people survived the crash of that tower.  Nearly all the men in leading positions of the New York Fire Department were dead.  <br />By mid day the FBI had determined that some of the highjackers had come from Germany.  Mohamed Atta's travel bag was located at Logan Airport.  It contained among the toiletries two written documents.  <br />Part II of the book is call &quot;In the House of Followers&quot;.  In the first day the FBI had Atta's suitcase, as noted, and a white rental car containing flying manuals in Arabic and some papers with the same Arabic names that appeared on the passenger lists.  The Hamburg-Harburg Technical University has an international profile.  Seven of the thirteen names investigators supplied appeared in the student directory.  Two of the suicide pilots had studied there.  <br />Investigators in Germany began to try to unravel the greatest terrorist act of all time.  A treasure trove of papers came to the attention of the authorities.  Perhaps some other secret service was at work.  The terrorist as slum dweller is a familiar concept.  The terrorist as a middle class role model is new. <br />Europe acted as a way station for terrorist groups.  What held the groups together is neither Islam not idealogy, but religious delusion and hatred for the U.S.  The end of the book contains identifying information on the participants of the highjacking, a timeline, and excerpts from the Terrorist's Manual.	2003-10-22
930825:US	52300235	R2WI2Q5J6J0EWS	0403021669	926284857	Iowa: A Guide to the Hawkeye State (American Guide Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Covered Bridge, Madison County	I love this WPA series, and the Iowa one is about the best.  Iowa is the Hawkeye State.  The Iowa Guide is sponsored by The State Historical Society of Iowa.  By 1930 almost one third of the children born in Iowa were living elsewhere.      The real Iowa is the great central region.  Iowa has a larger total acreage of grade one agricultural land than any other state.  With the first settlers, education was a primary interest.  Small colleges were built before the railroads.      The first inhabitants of Iowa were actually the mound builders.  More than ten thousand mounds have been found in Iowa.  When the guide was written in 1938, there were six hundred eighty private and public archeological museums in the state.      Noted men who crossed the Iowa country during the first decades of the nineteenth century included George Catlin, the painter, and John J. Audubon.  Dubuque was founded in 1833, Davenport in 1836.  Dubuque has a more European, a more settled appearance than some of the other Iowan cities.      In 1838 the Territory of Wisconsin was divided to create the Territory of Iowa.  Iowa was admitted to the Union in 1846.  After statehood, Burlington, Davenport, and Muscatine grew rapidly.  Iowa Wesleyan College, Grinnell College, and the State University at Iowa City were founded in the 1840's.  Upper Iowa University began instruction in 1857.  In 1858 Iowa State College was established at Ames.      1850-1870 was the busiest time for the construction of railroads.    Around 1868 the Grange movement began.  The organization existed to counter the influence of the railroads and to, in a sense, regulate them.  In 1938 no geographical location in Iowa was more than twelve miles in distance from a railroad.  The railroad lines existed to serve the interests of the farmers and the manufacturers of the state.  Towns were frequently situated where grain elevators, (part of the farmers' cooperative movement), and railroad depots were built.      In the Civil War thestate furnished forty eight regiments of infantry, nine regiments of cavalry, and four batteries of artillery.  Nearly eighty thousand men were enlisted.  Drake University was founded in Des Moines in 1881.  In 1870 the population exceeded a million and by 1880 it had increased by fifty percent.  In 1884 Iowa became a dry state.      Iowa's population is a blending of many elements.   A German religious communal group, the Amana Society, set up homes along the Iowa River and founded the village of Amana in 1855.  Immigration peaked by 1890.      1907 was the hightide year for newspapers.  There were nine hundred thirty four.  The outstanding artist of the state is Grant Wood.  Anton Dvorak spent a quiet summer in 1893  in the village of Spillville, and perhaps composed some of the New World Symphony there.  The name Des Moines is probably traceable to the mound builders.      There is a photograph of a covered bridge at Madison County.  Winterset is the county seat.  Independence and Summerset were suggested as names for the town.  Bettendorf is an industrial suburb of Davenport.  West Branch is the birth place of Herbert Hoover.  Near Creston is the site of an Icarian Community.  Substantial farming information is contained in the guide.  It is delightful.	2003-10-22
931471:US	52300235	R1OD5FXY4W0TP0	0333295242	391935862	Keynes (Papermacs)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Renaissance man	Keynes was Victorian and Edwardian in his orientation.  He died in 1946.  The government of Great Britain was in the hands of an intelligent elite.  Keynes had a conventional education at Eton and Cambridge.  At Cambridge he became a member of the group known as the Apostles.  There was emphasis on personal standards of morality.  <br />During World War I he was a Treasury Civil Servant.  Although he would have been excused from military service, he did write to the Tribunal pleading conscientious objection.  The Tribunal declined to rule. <br />In 1909 he was elected a Fellow at Kings College, Cambridge.  Keynes drifted into monetary economics.  Keynes seems to have thought of the structure of his argument before he put pencil to paper.  Intuition was present in large works and in his day-to-day tasks.  Keynes believed that intuition could run ahead of analysis.  <br />Keynes was almost continuously absorbed in questions of policy.  It seemed to Keynes that economics was a branch of logic.  Probability is not subjective. Probability was the subject of one of his first major works.  Keynes disliked theorizing for its own sake. Keynes used the Cambridge didactic style in presenting some of his arguments.  As a working economist, Keynes was a rationalist.  <br />The political elite of senior politicians, civil servants, and higher journalists could be influenced by rational persuasion and public opinion.  In a democracy the elite was subject to public opinion, but opinion generated by an inner core could significantly shape general beliefs and currents of thought.  Public opinion was not really firm.  It could be changed by events.<br />Keynes had a conception of desirable society.  He broke new ground in his view of the role of the state.  He borrowed from Bentham in designating an agenda and nonagenda of government.  First it was necessary to distinguish matters technically social or technically individual.  The social ones would not get done at all if not performedby the state.  <br />Keynes made friends with the Americans in the course of working for the treasury department during World War I.  In 1918 he bought four works of art by Delacroix, Ingres, and Cezanne.  In 1919 he resigned the Peace Conference and resumed private life.  Keynes married Lydia Lopokova in 1925.  <br />He spent six years, 1925-1931, on A TREATISE ON MONEY.  In the United State the Federal Reserve System was showing that monetary management could combine price stability with economic expansion.  In the treatise Keynes developed new tools of analysis.  In the treatise Keynes accepted the desirability of an international standard of value.  <br />Keynes advocated public works as a solution to Britain's unemployment.  Britain left the gold standard in September 1931.  1931-1936 were years of preparing THE GENERAL THEORY OF EMPLOYMENT, INTEREST AND MONEY.  The theory of the rate of interest was Keynes's main ground for controversy in 1936 and after.  <br />During World War II Keynes was deeply involved in framing economic issues. After the outbreak of war, Keynes's main concern was the best method of transferring resources from peacetime to wartime uses.  Fiscal measures were at the center of his vision.  <br />Keynes was mindful of the postwar consequences of wartime acts.  The Bretton Woods Conference yielded plans for the creation of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank.  Keynes had passionate concern for the world and its ills.  He emphasized the need for useful operational economic models.	2003-10-21
933112:US	52300235	R2GGNDSCKIX04L	0330345869	101035810	Dick Francis Double: "Reflex", "Comeback"	Books	4	1	1	N	N	I am a camera	In REFLEX the I of the story is a race-fixing jockey.  In order to make things look real on a favorite, he falls.  Another jockey falls in another race and is driven home by the narrator.  In this way the tale begins.  <br />Camera work is involved because the late father of the second jockey was a photographer and because our hero takes pictures too.  Dick Francis, a former steeplechase rider, is concerned with injury.  One of his characters wonders what causes people to persist in the sport in the face of injury and risk and disappointment.  <br />The jockey, Philip Nore, decides he wants to stop throwing the races and he lets the trainer and the owner know this.  He is in danger of being discharged. In a complicated series of steps in the plot Philip manages to remain employed.<br />Dick Francis is a smooth and accomplished writer.  In REFLEX he interweaves the themes of integrity, family relationships, and visiual representation.  The world portrayed, the British steeplechase circuit, is exotic enough to move most of us out of our everyday selves and to constitute desirable recreational reading.  It is no wonder that some years ago Francis's publisher arranged to promote his work in the general literature category, thereby removing him from the genre ghetto.  <br />In this story it seems the jockey club, basically a preserve of the nobility, has been invaded by a parvenu.  In the other plot strands, integrity and visual representation, Philip starts to learn George Milace's, the deceased photographer's, secrets.<br />The disadvantage of Francis's work is the violence.  Nevertheless, I think the violence is used here for some purpose.  The plot of REFLEX is one of the best produced by Dick Francis.	2003-10-20
935365:US	52300235	RH44W99DF8RFF	0933071175	960831857	Prairie Days	Books	5	7	7	N	N	What is failure?	The essays in the book are wonderful.   The photographs are superb.  The author takes note of James Agee and Walker Evans and this seems to be a similar enterprise.  The subject matter here is the author's  home state and region, western Minnesota.  The prairie is endless.  It suffices to spread out the Icelanders and Norwegians and other immigrants in Minnesota.  Holm was born on a farm eight miles north of Minneota, Minnesota.  His Icelandic grandfather homesteaded there in 1880.  Holm left the farm and made his way East to a teaching job next to the Atlantic Ocean.  Minneota was a jumble of accents, Norwegian, Polish, German, Swedish, Flemish.  Holm writes that north Europe's cast-offs moved to Minnesota.  In western Minnesota brick is Catholic and wood is Lutheran.  Minneota was a community born out of failure.  No one arrived there who had been a success elsewhere.  People came to farm.  The language of power and success is false. Although Iceland had a history of losing, it made a great civilization.  Bravo Bill Holm!  Your book of essays, (along with the photographs in it), is magnificent.	2003-10-18
935402:US	52300235	R31ZH3PZVEUD9B	0061092614	974154386	Finding Moon	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Coming of Age Issues Revisited	Moon Mathias's younger brother died in South Vietnam in a helicopter crash.  It seemed that his brother Ricky had a daughter.  Arrangements were made to send the child from Vietnam to the Philippines.  Moon's mother has traveled from Florida to California enroute to the Philippines when she has a heart attack at the airport.  Moon is a journalist, the managing editor of a newspaper in Colorado, and as Ricky's only sibling he is called upon to journey in his mother's stead to the Far East.  <br />Arriving in Manila Moon learns that the child has not arrived and that things are heating up in Vietnam and Cambodia.  In his meeting with the lawyer little is gained.  In Manila a woman with a Dutch name finds him.  She seeks him out under the impression that he plans to take over his brother's business and would be in a position to help her find her brother, a Lutheran missionary.  Eventually Moon, the woman, and a Chinese man seeking the ashes of an ancestor travel to the vicinity of the child's mother's village and amazingly find the child and learn in convincing fashion of the death of the brother.  Moon then decides to travel with the child to the United States and to return to Manila in order to be with the woman and to run his brother's business.  <br />What has been created in this excellent work is a sort of coming of age story of a middle-aged person.  The past has been put to rest and the future beckons.  The adventure aspects of the tale are very exciting.	2003-10-18
937769:US	52300235	R2JNZIJV0RWHKG	0060959622	195484102	You Just Don't Understand: Women and Men in Conversation	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Complementary schismogenesis	This is a book of sociolinguistics and is also suitable for the general reader.  What is more interesting than how men and women talk?  Gender research is controversial.  It is important because when all other cultural disparities are eliminated, issues of gender differences in communication styles remain.  <br />For men home may be a place where they are free to sit in silence because they do not have to compete.  For women home may represent to them a place where they are able to speak freely.  They may pursue intimacy.  They don't necessarily have to play a supporting role, and they don't have to go to the trouble of claiming the stage and appearing self-involved and vain. Some men do not discuss their troubles with anyone. Women bond in pain.  Still, women know that talk is risky.  Among other things, the consequences of malicious gossip may ensue. Attention to details concerning a person is often a sign of romantic interest.  <br />Men and women have different habits for social talk and make different uses of it.  Where women are expert and men are not, they may lose ground in conversations because men, for cultural reasons, may still be seeking dominant roles.  Women lack experience in defending themselves against challenges and they may misinterpret challenges as personal attacks on their credibility.<br />Typically, in writing and speaking men may seek to persuade in order to be respected and women may seek to be inoffensive in order to be liked.  Experimental studies show that men are more comfortable than women giving opinions and speaking in an authoritative way to a group and women are more comfortable supporting others.  Women engage in rapport-talk, emphasizing connection.  Men engage in contests.<br />Men may not want to listen at length because it frames them as subordinate.  Men understand they do have to listen to fathers and superiors, bosses.  Men may invoke the theme of aggression to meet affiliative ends. Different world views shape every aspect of talking.  Women tell stories of community, men tell stories of contest.  Female accomodation for the sake of harmony can take its toll in mounting resentment.  Sometimes the result is divorce. <br />Indirectness in and of itself does not signify powerlessness.  Entire cultures operate on elaborate rules of indirect speech.  The example of Japan comes to mind. There are cultures where the men use indirect speech, more stately, nore elaborate, possibly more formal and archaic, and the women use direct rough speech.  Styles more typical of men are generally evaluated more positively.  Women make more adjustments than men in mixed groups.  Complementary schismogenesis, a mutually aggravating spiral, may set in where men and women have divergent sensitivities.<br />The book is well-done, the case is well-argued, and the results are, in a sense, disheartening since none of us can leave our skins.  Men are urged to acquire female characteristics of communicating, and women male styles, in order to have more skills and sensitivities at their disposal.  I would guess that the disheartening aspect of the experience of reading this quite excellent book is encountering the case studies of misunderstandings which all too well reflect our own experiences in every day domestic and voacational life.	2003-10-16
937892:US	52300235	R2KGBQN3P9DM20	0156539128	673499123	The Lover	Books	5	9	17	N	N	War creates disequilibrium	A teacher of history, a daughter, a garageman for a husband, and a lover serve to inhabit the beginning of the story.  The lover goes to war, it is October 1973, and is missing.  The garageman looks for him, his wife's lover.  The daughter is sleepless at night.  She leaves the house and walks.      The teacher is ferociously efficient.  She cooks batches of food for the family, she corrects papers, writes tests, is enrolled in a doctorate program, attends teachers' meetings, cleans the house aggressively.  As children in school her husband got answers from children who got answers from her.  This Israeli novel is an outstanding work.  Each character tells the story in third or first person narrative and things move along, although there is some time shifting, some use of flashback to bring in the back story and to make things interesting.  The author uses considerable parallelism.  For instance, there are three lovers in the end, not just the one of the title, the trigger of action, Gabriel.    Adam's garage was flourishing.  It had become a rather large business, mostly through the efforts of his business partner.  At one time it had some thirty Arab workmen employed there.  Asya, the teacher, learned to drive a car at her husband's behest.  The couple has a son.  He is healthy, but deaf.  He uses a hearing aid and because he is bothered by noises in his head, his father crafts a switch-off feature.  Unfortunately he has used the feature when he crosses a street to join a friend at play and is hit by a car.  The child, age five, dies.  Later on the couple has a daughter, Dafna.  When Adam sat shiva for his son Yigal he did not shave his beard.  When Dafi is small she is fascinated with his beard.  Notwithstanding her advent, Adam feels immensely sad.  He believes that the couple should have divorced at that point, but they continued together, although estranged.      The novel is rich and colorful.  It is written in a realistic, psychologically astute manner.	2003-10-16
941172:US	52300235	R1YTF7ZT1W0TX8	0026121972	752546385	3: C.P. Snow: Strangers and Brothers : Corridors of Power, the Sleep of Reason, Last Things (Hudson River Editions)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	THE LIGHT AND THE DARK, before lithium	This book, THE LIGHT AND THE DARK, (this series, STRANGERS AND BROTHERS, for that matter), contains absolutely first-rate psychology.  Indeed, one could say that psychological observation is C.P. Snow's forte.  Roy Calvert is about five years younger than Lewis Eliot.  Through chance they have college rooms in the same entry.  <br />Some believed that Roy Calvert would be the Orientalist of his generation.  He had a special melancholy belonging to some chosen natures.  He wanted to be elected a fellow of the college, but things were proceeding slowly.  Arthur Brown was working on the election.  It would be a close thing.  Lewis was too new to the institution to be of much use.  His friend, Francis Getliffe, a scientist, was waiting to be convinced that Roy Calvert was first-rate in his field.  Roy Calvert was experiencing a darkness of mind.  All through the period of melancholy his intelligence was as lucid as ever.  <br />Ultimately Roy Calvert was elected a fellow after a hiatus during the spring and the summer to gather votes.  Since his election brought joy to others, he pretended joy, but the melancholy had taken hold.  Lewis was placed in a precarious position.  What does one do when one senses a friend is wildly out of control.  An older man tells Lewis that young men do silly things.  To be successful a scholar needs obsessive devotion to the subject and a touch of supreme confidence.  It was believed that Calvert had those traits.  <br />Having undergone two bouts of bipolar disorder, Roy told Lewis that Lewis believed in predestination but he did not.  He would still fight his condition.  He would not consider it a given.  It had come to the point where Lewis's presence deprived him of peace of mind.  <br />Roy sought knowledge of God.  He knew that his acts of faith were hollow.  Then he learned a clergyman friend was self-absorbed.  His sadness was returning.  By age twenty eight Roy was spending dark nights.  He spent time in Germany on scholarly tasks.  A report was received that he was in too close contact with some of the Nazi officials.  He did not consider matters of self-preservation as most people do.  <br />Upon his return from Berlin he went through another dark period.  He reacted with bitter anger to criticism of a now deceased collaborator.  In his worst hours he had a sort of desperate charity.  Roy had an elaborate dinner for his friends.  <br />Both Roy and Lewis were distressed over the war.  They held war-related jobs.  Then Roy went into training to be a pilot.  He married.  He participated in bombing raids and went missing.  It is understood he sought danger purposely. <br />The writing is elegant and fine.  One is transported to Oxbridge in the thirties and forties, to stately houses, to government  offices, to foreign cities.  Snow's portrayal of the main characters is done with economy and precision.	2003-10-14
941477:US	52300235	R1OBRZ02P7NTFJ	0743230159	669001158	Duane's Depressed: A Novel (Last Picture Show Trilogy)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Reading Proust through a midlife crisis	Duane has a dog Shorty for company.  He doesn't really want his wife Karla or the townspeople around him.  In the past, instead of rehabilitation he had taken up bass fishing.  His son Dickie has returned to Thalia and Duane is ready to turn the oil business over to him.  Earlier Duane had stopped driving and had moved to a cabin on his property.  He walked everywhere.<BR>  <BR>After seeing a psychiatrist he drank five whiskeys and slept for fifteen hours.  He felt anxious, as he he did once when Karla nearly bled to death.  Staying in Wichita Falls to see the psychiatrist, Duane needed to have someone bring him some clean clothes from Thalia.  It is common for people to feel tired from therapy.  Duane is reading Thoreau.  Larry McMurtry is great, but this really is an absolutely sad book.<br />When he returned to the cabin on a new bike, Karla came over to check on Duane.  It seems that Karla has taken to watching the twenty-three MONTY PYTHON videos the couple possesses.  Duane encounters the going postal fear when he tries to obtain a passport renewal form in Wichita Falls.  I had forgotten that Michael Jordan started the craze for shaved heads.  Duane's younger son, Jack, the wild pig catcher has shaved off the hair on his head much to the distress of his mother.  <br />The therapy is interrupted by the accidental death of Karla.  The psychiatrist recommended that Duane attempt REMEMBRANCE OF THINGS PAST in order to learn about dealing with disappointment.  Duane moves back to his household filled with grandchildren and uses the couch in the den for sleeping.  Proust and a big garden with surplus for poor people occupies him when his family settles down and his children step in to perform as parents to their children.  In the end he does undertake a journey to Egypt.	2003-10-13
941557:US	52300235	R3I30KC1IHEWNY	0140390448	397623101	Walden and Civil Disobedience (Penguin American Library)	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Isolate, Nonconformist	Thoreau lived for two years and two months at Walden Pond.  He said the mass of men live lives of quiet desperation.  Henry Thoreau asked hard questions.  <br />He related that when the Masschusetts Bay Colony was founded, earthen houses were built.  They were convenient and suitable and they had the advantage of putting everyone in a position of equality and not making the poorer inhabitants feel discouraged.  It distressed Thoreau that a good deal of the money spent for shelter and dress was for show, uneconomical.  <br />He farmed organically because he was only a squatter.  He found that by working for about six weeks he could meet all of the annual expenses of living.  He claimed that memorable events transpired in the morning.  <br />Thoreau went to the woods because he wished to live deliberately.  The sounds of the railroad penetrated the woods.  Visitors were frequent during three seasons.  In the wintertime  basically he had only himself for company and some of the animals.  <br />In any season, the woods were surprisingly dark at night.  Because he had no helpers or animals to assist him in cultivating the fields he felt that he ws more intimate with the beans in his beanfield.  Songs have suggested that husbandry is a sacred art.  <br />The scenery of Walden was on a humble scale.  The first ice was especially interesting.  He reported seeing fox, jays, chickadees, and red squirrels in the the winter.  <br />In CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE  he asserts that in a government that imprisons unjustly, the place of a just man is in prison.  Thoreau underwent an overnight jail stay when he failed to pay a poll tax.	2003-10-13
943313:US	52300235	R31ATS3T1K6S6G	034541389X	466482043	Flesh and Blood (Alex Delaware)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Not a bimbo	A former working girl is dead.  She is bright, ambitious, and a student at the time of her death.  She was notable for her detachment.  Nonetheless, her death evidences the fact that somebody else was in control.<br />Another blonde, a college student, a person considerably younger than the other girl, Lauren, is missing.  Next, a person interviewed by the police in the course of the investigation turns up dead. Alex Delaware and Milo, the police officer, feel considerable chagrin.<br />The author uses a ficitious lifestyle magazine and the founder of it as one of the storylines in the book.  Although the subject of psychology arises since Alex Delaware is a psychologist, as subject matter it is peripheral to the main plot.  What is suggested is that persons who pursue dangerous lines of work create chaotic zones around them as more and more people who surrounded Lauren Teague in life die.<br />Mystery lovers will find this a satisfying yarn.  The smooth writing is another reason to enjoy the book.	2003-10-12
943711:US	52300235	R380GMS1UHK2I	0875103456	960491773	Mary Baker Eddy: Her Mission & Triumph	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Second generation	How did a woman run her religion in the nineteenth century?  Whereas current biographers, Peel and Gill, may give a more reliable and fulsome account of Mary Baker Eddy and Christian Science,  certainly an adherent of the cause not too many generations removed from the beginning possesses historical interest.  It is claimed by the author that  Mary Baker Eddy's thoughts were her life.      She was the individual agency of the revelation of Christian Science in 1866 it is held.  The years 1866-1875 were years of immense hardship and fruitful work as Mary Baker Eddy labored to produce her textbook, SCIENCE AND HEALTH WITH KEY TO THE SCRIPTURES.  Following the Civil War, Unitarianism, Universalism, and spiritualism grew.  Mrs. Eddy was supported by the consciousness of divine power and presence.      The writer's mother, Mrs. Annie Rogers Michael, became a pupil of Mrs. Eddy.  She, the mother, saw Mrs. Eddy at intervals for thirty years. At this point in time I think the book under review has been superseded by the Robert Peel and Gilliam Gill biographies.	2003-10-12
946443:US	52300235	RH7T3BX5YH5TT	0385318960	177636003	Hasty Retreat (Mother Lavinia Grey Mysteries)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Mission furniture	What is sacrament?  What is mission furniture?  This is a sprightly funny mystery with ecclesiastical trappings.  Actual mission furniture is functional.  Hospitality is a ministry.  A stay in a monastery guesthouse could be refreshing.  The site is across the Hudson from Hyde Park. A group from a rival church appears at the monastery guesthouse.  <br />Mother Lavinia Grey had been hoping to have a sort of vacation.  The chant of the monks of St. Hugh's is wonderful, she finds.  Lavinia Grey is the pastor of St. Bede's, a declining congregation.  She is afraid that the denominational missionary department may very well close the church, disband it. Brother Basil, eighty-five years old, ends up dead, stabbed by a knitting needle.  He and the novice had moved a box from his room the previous evening.  A Liberian, age 17, the novice, becomes the focus of the murder investigation.<br />The issue of pro bono representation of the Liberian causes problems in the employment sector among some of the guests.  The matter of alibis at the probable time of death, between 11:30 and 1:00, is interesting, since someone believes her husband is involved in a dalliance with another guest. Some of the guests devise a timeline of sightings or probable sightings.  Perhaps the killing is a case of mistaken identity.  How many of the people present have a garment resembling a monk's robe it is wondered.  <br />One of the guests is nearly asphyxiated by a plastic bag.  Lavinia finds that someone has brought a fleshpot mentality to a spiritual retreat and she is annoyed.  A monk maintains a furniture workshop.  It is possible to make reproduction furniture in the mission style. It turns out the murder was committed to obtain a very expensive chair.  The chair was pictured on a campaign poster.  It is an enjoyable story.	2003-10-09
948848:US	52300235	R2WGT2RLJKPLNO	0816199833	587209096	Birds, Beasts and Relatives	Books	4	12	24	N	N	Menagerie	Gerald Durrell is the younger brother of Lawrence Durrell.  The island of Corfu lies off of the Albanian and Greek coastlines.  The family settled there to escape the deary English weather.<BR>  <BR>Gerald's mother fought a losing battle with the Greek language.  The family members became familiar with all of the peasants in the region.  Gerald had a tutor named George who was an adept of fencing and an adult scientist friend named Theodore.  <br />Gerald visited the rock pools while his sister swam.  Margo's sun bathing bothered a church functionary, a monk.  Gerald sought permission to follow a fisherman, to accompany him in his boat when he fished at night.  The fisherman used a trident to catch scorpios.  <br />There was a myrtle forest near the family's house.  Gerald received a rich dark brown donkey for his birthday.  The donkey was used by Gerald to transport things.  Larry brought home friends, artists and writers, and brought home an artist who could play the accordian, Sven.  <br />Theordore had told a countess that Gerald, who was a fairly young boy at the time, was a naturalist and had a number of pets.  The countess offered to give him a white owl who had an injured wing.  Gerald went to fetch it and to meet her on his donkey.  <br />He wanted to add baby hedgehogs to his menagerie.  When he went away for a weekend his sister overfed them and they died.  The book is joyous and colorful.  The snippets above are used to give the reader a sense of what to expect.	2003-10-07
949002:US	52300235	R23286BQBM9QZ7	0345433491	562456905	Hanna's Daughters: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	1	8	N	N	Borderlands	This is an awfully good book from Sweden.  It concerns farming families of the borderlands of Norway and Sweden.  In the present an old woman lies in a nursing home without memory and sense, but with dreams.  She also has history, a daughter, granddaughter, husband, (deceased).  <br />Then there is a flashback to her youth and rape and young motherhood. A widower wanted to marry her.  He wanted the child with him, too.  John Broman was good to Hanna.  He liked children.  His mother was mad.  Broman became a miller.  The couple had three sons.  Johanna, the daughter, was born much later.  <br />The half-brother, Ragnar, was sent to Norway to serve an apprenticeship.  He became fascinated with automobiles.  Ragnar came home and became attached to his little sister.  Ragnar bought an automobile.  <br />John Broman, the miller, died.  Hanna became a bakery worker.  Hanna's grandchild, Anna, found her papers and made a scrap book.  It seems that Johanna was very separate from Hanna.  She spent most of her time in her girlhood with Ragnar and his wife, Lisa.  The book proceeds as far as the death of Johanna.  It is not overly schematic.  Old-fashioned and modern, the story ranges freely.	2003-10-07
949081:US	52300235	R2GREYNL4LV0FX	0374179921	993060618	The John McPhee Reader	Books	5	19	25	N	N	Walking Around	In this collection, a distillation taken from his many books, John McPhee describes a premier basketball player, Bill Bradley.  Also featured is his, McPhee's, headmaster, Frank Boyden, of Deerfield Academy.  Boyden practiced a form of management by walking around.  <br />McPhee tells of the famed oranges of Indian River, Florida.  Florida was the only wilderness in the world that attracted middle-aged pioneers.  After the Civil War more orange growing developed.  Harriet Beecher Stowe bought some land at Mandarin.  The orange fever of the 1880's attracted a high portion of Englshmen.  The land was as fair and as fine as the promoters intimated.  There had been a killer freeze in 1835.  Then there was the Great Freeze of 1895 which happened in two stages, one in December, and the other in February.  The freeze reduced the number of shipped oranges 97%.  <br />In the Pine Barrens of New Jersey, the most populous state geographically, there are only fifteen people per square mile.  The rivers of the Pine Barrens are cedar water.  The people of the pines came to be known as pineys.  There is a stigma to the term that has never been eliminated.  <br />Thomas Hoving moved from Parks Commissioner to Director of the Metropolitan Musem of Art.  Both Hoving and the writer attended Princeton.  James Rorimer invited Hoving to work at the Metropolitan Museum when he was a graduate student in art history at Princeton.  He became a curatorial assistant in the medieval department.  Rorimer had developed The Cloisters.  He was a medievalist.  <br />Hoving traveled with Rorimer through Europe.  He learned to trust his first impression in regard to the authenticity of a work of art.  One has to be saturated with art to know art history.  When Hoving was Parks Commissioner he initiated the Happenings.  He sought to create vest pocket parks.  <br />Having traced a superb cross the museum purchased to Bury St. Edmunds, Hoving was able to date the cross, 1181-1190.  Collecting, of necessity, is done in secrecy so that the prices do not rise.  Following Hoving, there is a piece on Arthur Ashe.  <br />Next the Highlands are treated.  Crofters are protected by the Crofters' Holding Act.  English is spoken at school and Gaelic is spoken at home.  There used to be sheep dog trials.  There is a piper on the island of Colonsay, Andrew Oronsay.  Pipers were important in the era of the clans.  The Highlands sound romantic.  The reality is that pastures provide rough-grazing, for example.  The present laird feels his father was guilty of misplaced benevolence.  <br />Wilderness preservation is a contentious matter.  East of the hundreth meridian there is sufficient rainfall for farming.  West of it there is not.  David Brower is haunted by the lost worlds of Utah overrun by the existence of the dam at Glen Canyon.  He was the first executive director of the Sierra Club.  <br />One of the excerpts was written when Jimmy Carter was Governor of Georgia.  A characteristic of John McPhee's writing is precision.  This is a wonderful sampling of his work.	2003-10-07
950627:US	52300235	R2O2KLPL2XT64Z	0393318222	221743634	Quiet as a Nun: A Jemima Shore Mystery (Jemima Shore Mysteries)	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Labyrinths	What a good and clever job of a book this is.  Antonia Fraser, not surprisingly, writes fluently and well.  A nun dies of anorexia, it would seem.  There is not much support for the convent in the surrounding community.  Convents are too austere, too strange for ordinary people to conceptualize in present day England.  <br />It turns out that an old girl, Jemima Shore, a TV personality, an investigator of causes and outrages, is summoned to look into the matter of the death.  The nun is her former classmate.  Jemima attended school at the convent for two years during the war.  <br />The dead nun was an heiress.  She had ownership of the grounds on which the convent is situated.  Through her untimely death, the convent gained the land.  She had threatened to turn the property over to poor people.  Jemima Shore's television program, unbeknownst to Jemima, had triggered a controversy over the property in the convent community.  <br />Initially Jemima refuses to get involved.  When a contemplated trip abroad falls apart, she reconsiders her decision.  The number of deaths and inexplicable occurrences grow and Jemima Shore is compelled to enter labyrinths-- physical in terms of the convent lay-out, mental in terms of the minds and personalities of the inhabitants.	2003-10-06
951554:US	52300235	R3Q9XDOH1LI6FQ	0060925000	832364601	A Suitable Boy	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Fathers and Sons	It is a few years after independence and partition in India.  Meet the members of the  middle class, you will recognize them, and this book will give you a chance to consider them in a tale of the caliber of BUDDENBROOKS or WAR AND PEACE.  The quality of the book is extraordinarily high, hence the comparisons.  This family saga sprawls and there are a lot of exotic names to identify.  Fortunately there is a chart at the beginning of the book.<br />The story opens with the wedding of Pran and Savita.  Savita is the daughter of Mrs. Rupa Mehra, a widow.  Her sons are Arun and Varun.  There is another daughter, Lata.  The new wife arranges to melt down the ceremonial medals of her father-in-law.  The jeweler and everyone else counsel caution, but she persists in her wish to liquidate the gift of her mother-in-law, the widow.  Arun writes of the catastrophe and the family is duly horrified.  <br />The title, A SUITABLE BOY, derives from an expression for a marriage partner in the context of arranged marriages.  Mrs. Rupa Mehra is seeking a suitable boy for her daughter Lata.  This requires a good deal of investigation on her part, and the consent of Lata who is becoming a modern sort of person-- she attends the university, while remaining a dutiful sort of daughter.  <br />Lata learns a boy she knows at the university is a Muslim.  Her friend tells her to read P.G. Wodehouse by way of solace.  Lata's friend, the boy Kabir, is a distinctly unsuitable boy in her mother's eyes, and so they leave Brahmpur and go to Calcutta.<br />One of the families fell from wealth in Lahore to virtual destitution after 1947 following the partition.  In the nascent democracy there is a struggle of form over substance.  There is a parliamentary debate over the compensation scheme employed for the taking of private lands and residences.  We are reminded  of attributes carried over from colonialism  in education, sport, and the exercise of democratic political values.  Excellent and colorfulspeeches are presented covering the details of land reform.  <br />Mrs. Rupa Mehra now travels from Calcutta to Delhi.  Meanwhile the son of a politician, the Revenue Minister, participates in a wolf hunt while visiting his Urdu teacher  Abdur Rasheed.  The two had traveled from Brahmpur to the house of Rasheed's father near Baitar.  The father is a zamindar, a landlord.  The area of Muslim League activism is filled with landlords resorting to coercion to overcome the effects of land reform.  Maan, the minister's son, acts with such rage that he nearly murders an agent of the Nawab Sahib.  During the visit Maan becomes a sort of universal confidant.<br />The constitutionality of the Zamindari Act, the land reform measure, is litigated.  British, Indian, and American precedents are cited since India, as distinguished from Britain and as is the case in the United States, has a written constitution.  A major issue is the delegation of powers.  A Raja is removed from the courtroom.  The watch and ward staff is called.  The law is upheld as constitutionally valid.<br />Dipankur Chatterji makes a pilgrimage to the Ganges for Pul Mela.  A holy man, Sanaki Baba becomes interested in him and seeks his company.  A tent city is formed on the sands.  Unfortunately at the festival in the crush of people there is a stampede and deaths and injuries result.  A Kapoor grandson, Maan's nephew, is injured.<br />Mrs. Mahesh Kapoor is a prize-winning gardener.  Mr. Mahesh Kapoor resigns from the ministry and from the Congress Party.  At the time it is hoped that Nehru will do the same and form a new party.  This does not happen and later Mr. Mahesh Kapoor rejoins the Congress Party.  Maan returns to Brahmpur, and Pran, Savita's husband, falls ill with asthma and a heart condition.  Both Lata and Kabir are to appear in a Shakespeare play at the university.  <br />In a complication of emotions and familial ties and loves Maan is faced with a serious charge of assault and his Urdu teacherdisintegrates mentally.  Maan's conduct has poltical consequences for his father and his mother dies seemingly from the shock of the events.  The story ends, a Tolstoyan touch, with another marriage.<br />The novel is about four families, Muslim and Hindu, in Calcutta, Brahmpur, and Delhi who plan for the careers, education, and marriages of their sons and daughters.  All of the families are bound by ties of obligation and expectation to their respective communities, and seek to enable and persuade the children to step into their shoes.  This does not always happen for reason the younger people oftentimes seek freedom and adventure and desire to obtain the means of artistic expression.  Both C.P. Snow and Jane Austen have written about the career moves of youth, and this book, in some respects, resembles their work.  It is marvelous and energetic.	2003-10-05
954877:US	52300235	R1FWN394I45DTD	0553801309	768428518	A Place of Hiding	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Sisters and Brothers	Mystery stories derive fuel from resentment and other forms of insecurity.  The setting is Guernsey.   Guy Bouchard chokes to death on the sort of stone islanders use to ward off evil.  A friend of Deborah St. James is charged with the murder.  An assorted group of people is involved evidencing difficult relationships with the deceased.  Still, he was a rich man and played the role of a sort of Santa Claus in Guernsey.  He was not the sort to have enemies.  <br />His sister, who had been something of a lifelong companion, is dying of cancer and has considerable pain.  In fact, the dead man was swimming the morning of his death in order to help alleviate his anxiety over her condition.  It would be hard to find the person who wished him ill.  It would be hard to find a motive.<br />The island had been occupied by the Germans in World War II.  A great deal of Nazi memorabilia has been discovered and there is a plan to create a museum for it.  The decedent, though, made no provision for this in his will.  His will is very surprising to everyone, his sister included.  Something strange had been going on and his sister isn't sure what it is.  She explains the Norman customary law to Simon St. James to explain the Guernsey laws of inheritance.  The deceased had circumvented these.  <br />Things are not what they seem.  A son has to face the fact that his heroic-seeming father was a collaborator.  The supposed plans for a museum are unsigned and are stock plans for a spa.  The estate is missing a lot of the expected funds.<br />It turns out a sibling is untrustworthy and this suffices to set up everything else in this picture of misunderstandings. The plotting is wonderful.  Elizabeth George is the best mystery writer.  It is to be regretted that Inspector Lynley and some of the other regular characters play hardly any role in this adventure.	2003-10-02
955011:US	52300235	R3RWMIGW75EHN3	1590865030	578583138	The Big Dig (Carlotta Carlyle)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Lost Kids	The title is attractive.  Everyone knows about the huge project in Boston.  Carlotta Carlyle, former cop, runs a Detective Agency.  The Dig is the biggest construction project in history.  Carlotta joins up with a former colleague's outfit, Foundation Security, to investigate fraud at the Dig.  <br />She uses the name Carla Evans on the job with Hogan Construction.  The investigation is being pursued through the office of the Inspector General.  Carlotta is given no names, no clues.  Doing office work in the trailer, she concentrates on the computer system.       <br />What a great idea for a book.  Clearly a former Boston police officer would encounter the Dig in the course of her work.  Notwithstanding the fact that she is now working full-time for the time being for another concern, she does entertain a request to track a missing person.  <br />How do cops manage the frustration of dead ends, she asks herself. The answer is a lot of divorces and a lot of drinking.  Carlotta becomes frustrated when both of the investigations run into dead ends.  She cannot see the room of the missing person and she is not supposed to delve too deeply into matter at the Dig.  Leads emerge when someone dies unexpectedly.	2003-10-02
956030:US	52300235	R10IHIIUMWWV2F	0195106504	701840856	The Soul of the American University: From Protestant Establishment to Established Nonbelief	Books	5	15	28	N	N	Creating a platform for secular wisdom	No historical interpretation lacks an agenda.  The author  struggles to determine why American higher education has such strong prejudices against traditional religious viewpoints.  Religion was relegated to the periphery on Enlightenment grounds.  Religious viewpoints were unscientific.      The liberal Protestant establishment endorsed the scientific ideal.  It was believed, inter alia, that positive cultural development advanced the Kingdom of God.  There was a broad idealism, especially in the humanities.  Nonsectarian moral ideals received emphasis.  Campus ministries were added when it was perceived that academic life favored purely naturalistic and materialistic worldviews.  Then academics ceased to believe in purely objective science.      Recently the postmodernist views presuppose naturalistic worldviews exclusively.  The alternative to liberal pragmatism is postmodern relativism.  Procedural rationality is still necessary.  Prejudice against academic expression of religion has flown under the banner of academic freedom.  Academic freedom was limited to the common good as defined by the predominantly male Anglo establishment.  Control of the universities has now diversified.  The book concerns pace-setting American universities with a Protestant heritage.    The American university system was built on a foundation of evangelical Protestant colleges.  By the 1920's evangelical Protestantism had been effectively excluded from classrooms.  Many of the same educational theories were conceived as a means of assimilating other traditions into the American heritage.  The attitudes were imperialistic and exclusive.      The American Protestant leadership wanted a standardized educational system.  Protestant universities, the nonsectarian ideals of the Protestant establishment, dictated that even liberal Protestantism itself should move to the periphery, virtually excluding all religious perspectives to resolve the problem of pluralism.  The book tells a story of disestablishment and secularization.      Higher education was influenced by English, Scottish, and German models.  William Buckley wrote GOD AND MAN AT YALE in 1951.  Buckley conflated economic and religious issues.  Buckley pointed to the gap between Yale's rhetoric and reality.      The Reformation brought changes in the social function of education.  The scholar's gown was the garment of the Protestant clergy.  Oxford and Cambridge colleges had been particularly important to the Puritan movement.  Higher education was a keystone of the edifice of social authority.  The sacred and secular were not sharply differentiated.  It was assumed that pagan learning should be surrounded by biblical and theological subjects.  Protestantism was congenial to the study of the natural order.      The founding of Yale College grew out of a concern for maintaining orthodoxy.  The College of William and Mary was part of the Anglican establishment.  America's primary university models in the eighteenth century were Scottish.  The Scottish universities were dominated by Presbyterian Moderates.      Most American college builders were heirs to the Great Awakening.  Later there was a vision of making America a land of great scholars based upon the idea of the German university.  Germany had symbolic importance.  The rise of the German universities coincided with the rise of German idealism.  By the mid nineteenth century German trends had an impact on American Protestant theology.      At the University of Michigan Henry Tappan sought to fuse Scottish and German influences to create a great university.  He required of the faculty scientific or literary qualifications.  The University of California emerged from the College of California.  Typically the transition from old style colleges to universities was peaceful.  While essentially Protestant, the University of California was committed to a nonsectarian course.  At Johns Hopkins, established in 1876, there was voluntary chapel.  It was America's leading graduate university.  Gilman, president of the university, saw his work as a Christian ministry.      Harvard's transition to liberal Chrisitianity had been going on since the revolutionary era.  Charles Eliot of Harvard mobilized forces of professionalism and modern technique.  He founded the elective system.  He initiated practical reforms to implement religious ideals.  He struck one observer as having Unitarianism to the nth degree.  The moral purpose was to build character.  Philosophers like James and Royce played a mediating role in the era of transition in cultural authority from the minister to the scientist.      At Princeton there was insistence that it be a Christian university in the traditional sense.  When Woodrow Wilson was president of Princeton religious emphasis was toned down.  Wilson unsuccessfully sought to reform the social life at Princeton.  His plans for reform were the outgrowth of his Christian vision.  Wilson was thwarted in his efforts to build a model Christian and nation-serving educational community.  The issues were social as much as they were religious.      Whereas Cornell had stood for democracy and Johns Hopkins research, the University of Chicago stood for pragmatism and innovation.  William Rainey Harper was a quintessential organizer.  Harper's enthusiasm for popular education was fortified through his connection to the Chautauqua movement.  The Chautauqua network was an extension of Methodist technique.  Harper had a tendancy to conflate Christianity and democracy.  The religious stance of Stanford was expressed most vividly in its architecture.     In 1906 Andrew Carnegie set up the Carnegie Foundation.  It provided incentives for colleges and universities to drop their denominational ties in order to participate in a faculty pension program.  An assimilationist vision of universal science and universal morality was promoted by the Religious Education Association.      By the 1920's explicitly Christianrationales for the ideals of the university would seem to be vestigial.  The fatal weakness in Christian terms was the university's commitment to scientific and professional ideals.  Academic expressions of Christianity seemed superfluous.      By the 1950's academic freedom had attained sacred status.  The inspiration for academic freedom comes from Germany.  The peculiarity of the German scene is that academic freedom was guaranteed by an autocratic state.  Freedom for public speech was a guarantee rolled into the American version.  In the 1890's most of the controversies over academic freedom were political.      By 1921 the YMCAs reached their numerical peak.  By the end of that decade the influence of the Y's had declined markedly.   American Protestant higher education  trends militated against keeping theological principles part of the educational enterprise.  Unfortunately, tolerance and diversity do not in and of themselves present a coherent ethical stance.	2003-10-01
956916:US	52300235	R1BO0EDGB0IDJ5	0671552090	297614248	CITIES ON A HILL	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Strange Communities	It is history.  Two of the four communities portrayed have changed.  One has become extinct, and one, San Francisco, has changed radically.  Jerry Falwell's has survived, but it now seems less significant these days.  Age-restricted communities have grown in numbers and scope.  Frances FitzGerald is right to see the development of all four as peculiar. She stresses the role of life-style and religion.  All of the communities are totalizing, meaning all-encompassing, experiences.  All of them represent changes from former lives and so are explicable in terms of liminal states and rites of passage research.  All require extreme commitment on the part of the participants.  All are sheltered from the world in certain respects, or could be said to represent new versions of reality.  Perhaps only the homeschooling movement of today requires similar exertions of will.<br />Reviewing history, it is noted that the Castro in San Francisco in the 1970's became part of a vast redevelopment project.  Harvey Milk, though, and others were powerless to overcome the forces of gentrification.  On November 27, 1978, Harvey Milk and George Moscone were shot and killed.  This was eight days after the mass suicide at Jonestown.  AIDS hit the Castro hard by 1984. <br />The next section bears the title, &quot;Liberty Baptist--1981.&quot;  Television evangelists came at the time of a change in American religious life in the 1970's.  Conservative evangelists were attracted to television as a medium.  The patriotism was no surprise, but the launch into electoral politics was surprising, even to their audiences.  By 1980 Bakker and Robinson retreated.  The risks of political involvement involvement were too great.  Only two superstars, Robison and Falwell, remained.  Robison was a Southern Baptist.  Falwell was a pastor of an independent Baptist church.  Falwell was head of the Moral Majority.  Falwell was most characteristically an organizer and a promoter.  Fundamentalist pastors had been identified as part of a new coalition, the New Right.  Falwell was leading a radical movement.<br />Lynchburg is a small city of sixty-seven thousand.  The city stands between Appalachia and Washington D.C.  In the 1950's it was still a mill town, but it was being transformed into one of the cities of the New South.  Lynchburg is really a collection of suburbs.  Developers are still at work at the edge of town.  It is not a graceful city.  There are over a hundred churches.  Falwell's church on Thomas road is block away from Lynchburg College.  <br />The Thomas Road Church is a vast and mightly institution.  It includes Liberty Baptist College.  It is a church advocating separation from the world.  It tries to be comprehensive.  Success and how to get it are main themes in Thomas Road preaching.  <br />Jerry Falwell was an ambitious school boy.  He attended Lynchburg College for two years and then made a career decision and transferred to Baptist Bible College in Springfield, Missouri.  In 1956 he decided to start his own church in Lynchburg.  He began broadcast activities immediately.  In a year his congregation went from thirty five people to eight hundred sixty-four.  His preaching style and theology are conventional.  He is pithy, old-fashioned.  He has organizational talent and enormous driving energy.  <br />He built up his church's capacity for saturation evangelism.  He has never had the money to complete any projects he has begun.  He is always out ahead of himself.  His church and college have been in financial crises.  The author finds something a bit exotic about Falwell's congregation.  Liberty Baptist College students refer to their school as boot camp.  The Civil rights Movement showed Falwell preachers could be politically effective.  <br />The next section is labelled, &quot;Liberty Baptist--1986.&quot;  In 1985 the college was renamed Liberty University.  There is a plan to develop professional schools and a full range of graduate programs to equip church-influenced students to compete in the secular sphere.  <br />&quot;Sun City--1983&quot; describes retirees.  It is an age-segregated community.  Sun Citians see very little of their Florida neighbors.  Sun City is an island of wealth in the midst of rural poverty.  There is something child-like about it.  Twenty years ago couples settled in Sun City.  At the present juncture there are couples and widows.  The developers who built Sun City made no provision for sickness and incapacity.<br />Finally there is Rajneeshpuram, the attempt to build a Hindu city on an Oregon desert.  The Rajneeshee came to Oregon from Poona, India via Montclair, New Jersey.  The author heard of the Rajneeshee in 1983.  The leader, the guru, was fighting deportation.  The Rajneeshee were a major political issue in the state.  Still, they remained quite mysterious to the Oregonians.  The settlement, given the setting, was outlandish.  Experts could not determine whether the settlers were pursuing good agricultural practices.  The followers had had wordly successes.  They were people of accomplishments.  The ranch was awash in the Human Potential Movement.  One observer thought that a traditional Oriental despotism had been created at the ranch.  Through a series of miscalculations-- political, financial, public relations-- Rajneeshpuram in 1985 was a half ghost town.  <br />There is a last chapter in the book entitled &quot;Starting Over.&quot;   It brings together strands from the previous chapters and opens up new areas of discussion in treating the matter of the Burned-over District.  How such a variety of movements could arise in such a short time and in such a restricted geographical terrain of a few counties in New York State is an historical puzzle.  The author suggests the Swedenborgians and Mormons and Abolitonists and the Fox sisters resemble some of the communities and movements she portrays in her book.	2003-09-30
957676:US	52300235	R1QE3HGL3ACHHD	0807085618	336198914	Onward and Upward in the Garden	Books	5	23	26	N	N	Wildflowers are God's gift	There is a forward by E.B. White describing his editor, wife Katharine White.  Katharine White was traditional by nature.  She liked the flowers of her childhood.  A neighboring estate near her house in Brookline, Massachusetts was owned by a prominent botanist named Sargent who founded the Arboretum in Boston.  The children of the neighborhood were permitted to trespass and she claims that her sense of what was appropriate in terms of landscaping was formed at that time.  <br />Mrs. White refers to herself as a catalogue addict.  She surveys the writing in the garden catalogues.  She finds some catalogues growing more flamboyant.  She does not like it that flowers are being made to imitate other flowers.  Lilies are the most photogenic of all flowers she declares.  In another essay she gives irises the same encomium.  Nasturtium means nose twister in Latin.  <br />Writing about the garden catalogues is almost as wonderful as having a garden.  Words and pictures serve as memory aids.  Newly developed kinds of roses and other flowers create in the reader a sense of expectancy.  Katharine White describes a process akin to marketing and, yes, fashion.  <br />In her essays Mrs. White lists a bewildering array of catalogues in all sizes and shapes.  Many of the nurseries specialize in, say, daffodils.  The golden age of flower painting was 1760-1860.  The writer recalls the lawn of her childhood and the gentle mowing of it by hand.  She finds the current practice of mowing with a gasoline powered mower noisy business.  <br />She is tempted to plant an apricot tree in memory of a Jane Austen squabble in MANSFIELD PARK.  Katharine White points out that the Victorian garden is now despised, the kind that makes a carpet on the lawn, makes patterns.  She writes that wildflowers are important because they are gifts from God or nature.  <br />The Japanese art of Ikebana is the art of flower arranging.  No two people agree on the history and the techniques.  Mrs. White receivedat an early age Lafcadio Hearn's GLIMPSES OF UNFAMILIAR JAPAN.  Hearn was a reporter with an eye for beauty.  <br />Flowers have been a traditional offering to the Gods.  Garden Club judges have a powerful influence on contemporary aesthetics.  Most modern flower shows are built around a theme.  Flower arranging is filled with fads and trends.  Kitchen utensils as containers are much favored in New England country shows.  <br />The gardens at Winterthur have been opened to the public since 1951.  There is a short review of V. Sackville-West's GARDEN BOOK.  It can be read for the sheer pleasure of its prose style.  A list of suppliers and books in print appears at the back of the book.  In addition to reviewing garden catalogues, garden books, nature guides, and flower arranging books are covered.	2003-09-30
958399:US	52300235	R26MATZNVNN7CD	0679447008	440002279	Forgotten Promise: Race and Gender Wars on a Small College Campus	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Historian's take	The author actually did serve as interim president of Olivet College and it is okay to talk about it now since the institution has been reformed.  The story is properly about &quot;Middlesex&quot; College.  There had been a racial incident and the former president had been urged to resign.  Female college presidents were still rare ten years ago. Perhaps someone had thought that a female would be less threatening.  The school had been founded before the the Civil War.  It admitted as students women and African Americans.  It was sponsored by the Congregational Church.<br />Mrs. Kreuter writes that all campuses have too-small parking lots.  She says she is a true believer in small colleges.  An outside consultant, hired the previous year, had noted a concern with the racial climate on campus.<br />She had received her degrees in history at the University of Wisconsin in the 1950's.  Merl Curti was there and he was reputed to take women students seriously.  She went into college administration after she was divorced.<br />She sensed an air of tension on the campus.  The students and their families struggled to pay the college bills.  The college had serious problems in academic and student life areas.  Turnover of the faculty was extraordinarily high.  The former president had been autocratic.  There was no tenure system.  Business administration classes were overflowing.  Unusual on a small campus, the student body was two-thirds male, one-third female.  There was an animal house quality to student life.  Some of the academic programs were subpar.<br />The board, at the urging of Mrs. Kreuter, directed that remedial action be commenced to bring the college closer to its peer colleges.  Thefts rile a community. Thefts occurred.  It is necessary to underline the fact that this is a fictitious memoir of a fictitious place.  Mrs. Kreuter does a good job of showing how misunderstandings escalate into racial incidents.<br />In the spring of her one year term, things heated up.  There was controversy concerning graduation speakers.  More than anything, the book is a study of diplomacy.  It is wonderful how the author characterizes the minuet of commencement exercises and her pivotal role in it as the giver of diplomas.  Among other strengths of the book, it is written by an historian.s heated up.  There was controversy concerning graduation speakers.  More than anything, the book is a study of diplomacy.  It is wonderful how the author characterizes the minuet of commencement exercises and her pivotal role in it as the giver of diplomas.  Among other strengths of the book, it is written by an historian.	2003-09-29
958935:US	52300235	R2UIWSVYWGKXKI	040501483X	940633077	Founding of American Colleges and Universities Before the Civil War	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Religious influence	The American college was a frontier institution.  It was designed to meet the needs of the pioneer community.  Frederick Jackson Turner speaks of the aspect of perennial rebirth on the frontier.  The colleges were just such a manifestation.      American colleges and universities were shaped by forces in American life.  Colleges served as agents of cultural and religious advance.  The unusually large number of small colleges constitute the most distinctive feature.  No other country reveals such a multiciplicity of institutions. It has been held that it is the glory of the colleges that they are not concentrated in one vast university system.  A principle cause of the number of colleges is the diversity of religious institutions.      American colleges bear a resemblance to English colleges.  They differ, though, in that they are people's colleges.  Colleges in the west were dependent on eastern support and in same instances, leadership.  Illinois College relied upon a \\"Yale Band,\\"  Grinnell College an \\"Iowa Band\\" from Andover.  Yale and Princeton stand out as the mother of colleges.  Yale was in the Congregational sphere, Princeton in the Presbyterian sphere.  There were other streams of Methodists and Baptists.      Legal foundations of 182 permanent colleges existed prior to the Civil War.  The peak of the movement was in the 1850's.  The American college was founded to meet the spiritual necessities of a new continent.      Prior to the revolution, there was a standing order in nine of the thirteen colonies and religion and state were treated as one.  With the rise of the separation of church and state the way was opened to the founding of other colleges.  Disestablishment took place in Massachusetts in 1833, in Connecticut in 1818, and in New Hampshire in 1819.      The right of private colleges to be free of legislative interference was developed in the Dartmough College case.  Much of the impetus in founding colleges was the need for an educated ministry.  The University of Virginia was founded in 1819 as a state university of a \\"revolutionary\\" type.  State universities arose in North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, and Maryland.  In Maryland St. John's and Washington College remained as independent church colleges.      In Connecticut a church institution, Yale, served in lieu of a state university as a university of a \\"revolutionary\\" type.  In Massachusetts Harvard was able to maintain its privileged position.  Twenty-one state universities were founded before the Civil War.  Ohio University became the first state university of a \\"revolutionary\\" type in the new states admitted to the union.  One of the most successful state universities in the west before the Civil War was established in Michigan.  The book contains maps, tables, an appendix listing the colleges by state, and a bibliography.	2003-09-29
959257:US	52300235	R130XGAYJO60I3	0002551462	830810382	Sentimental Journeys	Books	4	2	10	N	N	Fragmentary evidence of civilization	Henry Robbins was a New York editor.  He died in 1979.  There was a memorial service for him at the Society of Ethical Culture.  He was hurt when his authors got bad reviews.  The editor gives the writer the idea of himself.  <br />Joan Didion writes of the expectation the Ronald Reagans had that other people would take care of their needs.  A presidential campaign is a set.  It is moved at considerable expense from location to location.  A campaign can be an isolating experience.  Didion is hilarious about ball-playing  on the tarmac.  <br />We learn of the generations of Hearsts preceding Patricia Campbell Hearst.  The original Wyntoon was a creation of the architect Bernard Maybeck.  It burned down.  Patty attended school at the Convent of the Sacred Heart in Menlo Park.  Patricia Hearst wrote of her experience of being kidnapped.  Life with the SLA had the distorted logic of dreams.  <br />Living in Los Angeles requires the driving of great distances.  There is an absence of narrative.  Didion decides that narrative is sentimental anyway.  <br />Joan Didion describes Vietnamese refugee camps in Hong Kong.  The residents of the camps put their lives on hold waiting for the consular interview, hoping to achieve relocation.  <br />In California movies are the industry.  It is believed that writers can always be replaced.<br />Los Angeles was literally invented by the Los Angeles Times and its owners.  To oppose the Chandlers was to oppose the perfection of Los Angeles.	2003-09-29
960707:US	52300235	R2NJXICNO93TPN	0345417623	786105285	Timeline	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Authentic amusement parks	Michael Crichton seems to have a fixation with authentic amusement parks.  That was the theme in JURASSIC PARK and we encounter it again in TIMELINE.  The wrinkle this time is that history is involved.  Through some complicated make-believe theories of physics involving quantum mechanics and black holes, it is possible to return in time to the middle ages.  This happens to some of the historians funded by a corporation, working at an archeological site in France, who know very little about the other enterprises of the corporation. There is a portrait of a genius company founder with zero social skills.  There is a compelling adventure story given with much imagination.  The book contains a bibliography of mostly historical references.	2003-09-27
966088:US	52300235	R2EB11XP8RZCID	0892552034	778149403	Progress of Stories	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Modernist Fables	Laura Riding, 1901-1991, was a force in the world of letters.  I had been looking forward to reading Laura Riding for a long time.  Given her reputation, what I knew, I thought she was difficult.  I was aware of her relationship and influence on Robert Graves.  <br />What I discovered was that her work is not necessarily difficult, at least for us.  Rather, she was a woman ahead of her time.  If she were alive today she would be concerned with semiotics.  <br />She writes in a preface that she does not believe in wasting generosity.  She writes that a storyteller must make discoveries.  Laura Riding believes her function as a writer is not storytelling but truth telling. She seeks to make things plain. <br />She does have a scolding tone.  She also writes stories of ideas, dilutions she calls them.  In her preface it is fair to say that she attacks the conventions of the short story.  (One is starting to see that Robert Graves could not resist her.)  <br />Laura Riding speaks of a quaint cult of story writing.  Truth can be the story the mind tells itself.  Truth lightens the mind.  <br />The first stories in the collection are fairy stories.  On Hans Christian Andersen she says the right way to look is to see and not to see too much.  If one sinks into one's self on is a hater.  A lover sinks into the world.  <br />The stories are strange and  the efforts of Laura Riding are serious.  I do not know whether the lines she followed are fruitful.  I had trouble finishing the works.  <br />The pieces certainly shine with art, somewhat in the manner of Gertrude Stein or Djuna Barnes of NIGHTWOOD.  I would hazard a guess that &quot;Reality as Port Huntlady&quot; is a masterpiece.	2003-09-23
968975:US	52300235	R3TSMVXYC1IAB8	0525137203	643800987	The Life of John O'Hara	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Father of Wylie, husband of Sister and Belle	At his best John O'Hara was amiable, warm, relaxed, and gay.  He never preened.  His friends included J. Robert Oppenheimer, but most of his friends in Princeton were not intellectuals.  <br />The biographer claims that O'Hara's best writing went into his fiction.  He had no Puritan inhibitions to treating himself to what he wanted.  His appetite for things represented his appetite for life.  <br />By his fifties, ten or fifteen short stories put O'Hara in the position of being one of the most memorable and most skillful writers of short stories.  During Princeton winters and Quogue summers he came to live a conventional life.  <br />In 1963 he was featured on the cover of NEWSWEEK.  His work did not evoke enthusiasm in the intellectual community.  Prizes and honors he sought were never granted.  The American Academy of Arts and Letters did give him a prize in 1964, an Award of Merit for the Novel.  <br />O'Hara said he was fascinated by the rich and how they live.  For O'Hara writing was a compulsive occupation.  He died in 1970 at age sixty five.  Psychologically John O'Hara never left the small mining town of Pottsville, Pennsylvania.  <br />O'Hara worked at the NEW YORK HERALD TRIBUNE in 1928.  In the 1920's and 1930's newspaper journalism was an unusually social occupation.  Speakeasies helped lower class barriers and eliminated the professional isolation that is common today.  <br />He was fired from the HERALD TRIBUNE.   He had talent, but he was misplaced on the paper.  Next he worked for TIME.  John departed from TIME.  Journalists were migratory.  His first piece for THE NEW YORKER appeared in May of 1928. <br />O'Hara's first marriage unwound around 1933.  He moved to Pittsburgh, but left four months later to return to New York.  Dorothy Parker was helpful.  She nagged him to work.  <br />He was writing APPOINTMENT IN SAMARRA.  O'Hara's second novel, BUTTERFIELD 8, sold well but its critical reception disappointed him.  In 1936 O'Hara stayed with DorothyParker and her husband in Hollywood.  In California he met the woman who was to become his second wife, Belle Wylie.  They married in 1937 in Elkton, Maryland.  <br />PAL JOEY'S success on Broadway made O'Hara a celebrity.  O'Hara was insecure and self-absorbed.  O'Hara's wife Belle died in 1953 when his daughter Wylie was only eight.  His third wife was Katharine Barnes Bryan, nicknamed Sister.  He married her in 1955.	2003-09-20
971763:US	52300235	R3F8PSOPN0ETVM	0802713661	446043681	Brunelleschi's Dome: How a Renaissance Genius Reinvented Architecture	Books	5	4	11	N	N	The maker of machines	In 1418 Filippo Brunelleschi was 41 years old.  He had an uncanny ability to solve mechanical problems.  He was a goldsmith.  <br />He traveled to Rome and was able to observe the vaulting of the Pantheon.  Filippo returned to Florence.  He was a life-long batchelor.  He took no heed of his dress.  He developed theories about perspective.  <br />He became involved in the construction of Santa Maria del Fiore, Florence's cathedral.  Models for the dome were sought.  People laughed at Filippo's.  He had a revolutionary design.  <br />Filippo was given a role in the construction of the cupola.  Leon Battista Alberti was one of Filippo's ablest disciples.  He wrote a book on architecture.  <br />Filippo worked on a hoist powered by oxen.  By 1421 the hoist was ready.  Filippo's ox hoist was remarkable.  It was both complex and powerful.  Certain perils were inherent in its operation.  The hoist raised on average fifty loads a day.  <br />The hoist only moved things up and down.  A means to move things laterally was required.  The wardens selected Filippo's design for a crane.  Leonardo Da Vinci later saw Filippo's machines and made sketches of them.  <br />As many as four million bricks were used for the dome.  Some were specially made for the project.  Filippo also took a personal interest in the quality of the mortar.  Mortar was always mixed on the site.  <br />A dome is built on the principle of an arch.  Filippo used herringbone bricks.  The herringbone pattern was part of Filippo's technique to do away with the need for elaborate centering.  <br />Buildings of large dimensions have always presented moral problems.  Observers said the dome was built circle by circle.  Domes have always been a conventional symbol of heaven.  Filippo was a scholar of Dante.	2003-09-18
972202:US	52300235	ROBFPOKD2TCU5	1586635581	119875571	Extraordinary Popular Delusions and the Madness of Crowds	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A casebook of human folly	This is a famed work.  The reprint comes with a forward by Bernard Baruch.  <br />John Law was born in 1671.  At the zenith of Law's prosperity the highest and lowest classes of Paris were alike filled with a vision of boundless wealth through the buying and selling of stock.  An unworthy avarice had infected the whole society.  <br />While confidence lasted there was an impetus to trade.  The system flourished until 1720.  The higher the price of Indian and Mississippi stock, the more bank notes were issued. Precious metals were conveyed to Holland and England.  <br />In February 1720 an edict was published which contrary to intent destroyed the credit of paper currency.  The edict sought to forbid the amassing of coin, jewelry, plate, and precious stones.  The value of the shares in the Mississippi and Louisiana stock fell rapidly.  <br />The regent installed an ex-chancellor to aid in the restoration of credit.  On June first the old law was abolished and everyone was permitted to possess as much specie as he or she pleased.  New notes were printed and the old ones withdrawn.  <br />Law was in physical danger and had to take refuge in the apartments of the regent.  In one instance his coachman was attacked by a mob.  The nation awakened to its folly.  <br />The prince granted Law permission to withdraws from Paris and leave the country.  He traveled to Brussels and Venice. He had invested all of his gains in landed property in France.  After his departure his estates and personal property were confiscated.  <br />The regent died in 1723. Law was reduced to his former life of gambling.  He died in 1729 in Venice in embarassed circumstances.  <br />The South Sea Bubble originated in 1711.  There was an idea there were immense riches on the eastern coast of South America.  At the time of the South Sea Bubble the term for any joint stock company came to be known as a bubble.  The author compiled a list of 86 undertakings, bubbles.  <br />During the progress of the famous bubble England presented a singular spectacle.  The hope of boundless wealth made people heedless and extravagant.  In the aftermath public meetings were held to condemn the directors.  No one blamed the credulity and avarice of the people.  <br />Parliament was not more reasonable.  Sir John Blunt was the most active manager of the South Sea Company.  He was questioned by the House of Commons and the House of Lords.  After a session before the latter he expired suddenly.  The fatal result was not anticipated.  <br />After the punishment of the directors, the legislature had to consider how to restore public credit.  In times of great commercial prosperity there is a tendancy toward over-speculation.  Until 1634 the tulip annually increased in reputation. The book gives the amusing story of the tulip craze where special exchanges were created to facititate trade in the bulbs.      <br />Albertus Magnus and his student, Thomas Aquinas, were considered men who could work wonders in alchemy.  Paracelsus was born near Zurich in 1493. John Dee was born in London in 1527.  His assistant was Edward Kelly.  A book about John Dee and the spirits was published by Dr. Meric Casaubon. Robert Fludd was the father of the English Rosicrucians.  He was born in 1574 in Kent.  <br />Cagliostro born in Palermo in 1743 was the archquack of his age.  In Paris he was involved in the affair of the queen's necklace.  The career of Anton Mesmer is recounted.  Each age has its particular folly.  One of the follies was the Crusades.  <br />The belief that disembodied spirits may be permitted to revisit this world gave rise to the witch mania.  The early annals of France abound with instances of supposed sorcery.  Matthew Hopkins was a famous witch finder.  In Scotland and England the delusion was gradually extinguished.  The horse shoe, the grand preservative against witchcraft, was nailed againt the door.  <br />The book comes supplied with an index.  One is left with a very curious view of human nature.	2003-09-17
973067:US	52300235	R1DEHZX4634MX5	0791430006	149454144	Nietzsche: A Novel (S U N Y Series in Contemporary Continental Philosophy)	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Scholar's folly	A professor of Nietzsche studies has done a most elaborate thing, he has written a novel pertaining to the last ten years of Friedrich Nietzsche's life when Nietzsche was mad.  The novel of Nietzsche's breakdown speaks in Fritz's own allegedly lunatic voice and that of his mother and others.  It draws upon the biographical information of the life imagining his circumstances in those last ten years.  Surprisingly, the effect is lively and interesting since the book is the creation of a Nietzsche scholar.	2003-09-17
973208:US	52300235	R34LZ2AB9BYJKF	0452280559	135508178	The Frontiers of Management: Where Tomorrow's Decisions Are Being Shaped Today	Books	4	1	3	N	N	An entrepreneurial teller of tales	An entrepreneur endows something with new wealth-making capacity.  The majority of small businesses are incapable of innovation.  There is entrpreneurial work and there is managerial work.  <br />High tech is living in the nineteenth century.  The great role for high tech is creating a climate for entrepreneurs.  In Japan ther is still a cult of bigness.  Entrepreneurship is not a romantic subject.  It is hard work.  <br />The two great economists of the twentieth century were Joseph A. Schumpeter and John Maynard Keynes.  Both challenged long-standing assumptions.  The two saw different economic realities.  Schumpeter became one of the fathers of the business cycle theory.  <br />Widow-makers, jobs that regularly defeat even good people, appear more often when a company grows or changes fast.  The conventional organization of business was modeled after the military.  That power follows property is one of the laws of politics.  Another is that reponsibility follows power.  <br />The Japanese have been Drucker's most avid readers.  The purpose of business is to create customers and satisfy customers.  Watson of IBM was a computer seer and social innovator.  Watson was an autocrat, of course.  Visionaries usually are.  Intelligent monopolies cut their own prices before competitors do.	2003-09-17
973295:US	52300235	R3GR8CF9Z4GTVT	0393956008	518514629	Cane (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Wind is in the cane	It was a product of the Harlem Renaissance.  It was published in 1923 in a small edition.  Toomer believed that in CANE he was writing of a way of life that was dying.  <br />CANE is a collection of poetry and prose.  It contains portraits and descriptions.  Toomer was something of a detached observer.  He questioned the harmonies and values of his society.  <br />In the Norton Critical Edition the material at the back of the volume includes biographical and critical information.  In an autobiographical section Toomer states that CANE  was a swan song.  He consciously sought to embody in the work the folk spirit.  <br />Before Toomer began to write he thought of becoming a composer.  Critic Gorham Munson writes that CANE is the projection of a vivid personality.	2003-09-16
974087:US	52300235	R19QFOLNMFVOYN	0140187723	762099645	Martin Eden (Penguin American Library)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Social Darwinism	In MARTIN EDEN Jack London used his own life as as plot and cast about for its wider significance.  Jack London died by overdose of morphine in 1916.  He had suicidal impulses.  MARTIN EDEN was Jack London's attempt to deal seriously and vigorously with important ideas.  The forward notes that the novel is realistic but the metaphysics of the book are predominantly naturalistic.  <br />Martin Eden thought of himself as a wild man-- a wild man brought home to dinner.  He had defended Ruth Morse's brother from bullies.  He borrowed Swinburne and Browning from Ruth to read.  Ruth felt that Swinburne was not quite correct.  He lived with his sister and brother-in-law.  He thought the man, Bernard Higginbotham, a brute.  The many books he read served to whet his unrest.  He felt an enormous distance separated him from Ruth Morse. <br />He had always led a secret life in his thoughts.  Martin saw Ruth at the theater.  In his reading he was baffled by a lack of preparation.  He attempted to read books that were beyond him.  When he returned the books, Ruth noticed his pants were pressed and he seemed less rough.  She wondered how to help him.  His speech was uncouth.  <br />In compliance with her desires he studied grammar and etiquette.  His swift development was a source of surprise and interest.  The remodelling of Martin's life became a passion with her.  Then he shipped out and read Shakespeare and did not even contact her right away when he came back into port.  <br />Martin planned to write.  He wrote three thousand words a day and at the end of the week contacted Ruth.  He bought a bicycle to accompany her on excursions.  He heard Herbert Spencer quoted several times by orators and philosophers at City Hall Park and commenced to read his books.  Martin was surprised that Spencer was very little read.  <br />He came to see his rejected manuscripts as pitiable children and hired on to work at a laundry in a resort.  The description of the work in the laundry is admirable.  Martin returned and began work again on his writing.  Ruth's mother considered him an inappropriate beau.  <br />Ruth thought Martin's poverty was Lincolnesque.  His landlady, Maria Silva, poor herself, knew better.  Ruth appeared at the Silva house.  He had been reckless enough to write to her to tell her that he had pawned his suit.  Ruth saw the sordid face of poverty.  <br />Martin began to have some small sucess.  He still suffered and starved and his behavior at a gathering at Ruth's house reflected his state of overwork and under-nourishment.  He lost Ruth.  His family did not support him.  Eventually he had great success and Ruth came back to him, but he said it was too late.  He said he was the same person her family had disliked.  He left for the South Seas.<br />Reading Jack London is akin to reading good science fiction.  He portrays an entire separate parallel universe.	2003-09-16
974688:US	52300235	R1VKHAEBVWDW0M	0140366679	900054889	White Fang (Puffin Classics)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Ishmaelite life	It is a superb adventure story.  Jack London was always concerned about survival even while working himself into a nervous state.  A strange animal had pursued them for days, half-dog, half-wolf.  She had lured the sled dogs away from the fire.  Three had gone missing.  Wolves were responsible for the death of another dog and a man.  The remaining man and two dogs were vigilant and careful.  Finally the man was saved by other men.  <br />The wolf cub learned the law was eat or be eaten.  Man-animals enforced justice through the use of tools.  The cub perceived the men were fire-makers, they were gods.  In White Fang's development, elements of nature and nurture warred.  <br />I know of no author comparable to Jack London in his ability to depict graphically the struggle of Darwinian forces.  The work is as sharp and frank as it was when new.  This is one of Jack London's major efforts.  Revisiting it causes one to realize how merited its fame is.	2003-09-15
975861:US	52300235	R29LHN7EMVIQAD	081296618X	166313123	Islam: A Short History (Modern Library Chronicles)	Books	5	6	15	N	N	The Quran does not sanctify warfare.	In Islam Muslims look for God in history.  This masterful summary of Islamic history begins with a chronological table of significant events.  Islam means surrender.  Social justice was the crucial virtue of Islam.  <br />The Axial Age prophets and reformers all built on the old pagan rights of their region.  Chrisitians and Jews, people of the book, enjoyed full religious liberty in Islamic empires.  The Muslim wars of expansion were not a product of violent militaristic faith.  The wars were not undertaken for a religious purpose.  Initially conversion was not encouraged.  Jihad means struggle.  The first Umayyed caliphs were not absolute monarchs.  <br />There was a potential conflict between the needs of the agrarian state and Islam.  It was difficult to see how the regime of Haroun al-Rashid was in any way Islamic.  The luxury of the caliphate was in marked contrast to the asceticism of the Prophet.  Beliefs and doctrines are not as important in Islam as they are in Christianity.  Like Judaism, Islam is a religion that requires people to live in a certain way.  The five &quot;Pillars&quot; are the essential practices of Islam.  <br />Karen Armstrong writes of the Sunni, the Shia, the esoteric groups including the Sufis, and the groups in revolt such as the assassins, who were said to use hashish to give them courage.  The Crusades were devastating to the Muslims of the Near East.  The Mongol irruption into Muslim life was traumatic.  The Mongol rulers were fascinationg to their Muslim subjects.  Rumi was a &quot;drunken Sufi&quot;.  The order he founded are often called the Whirling Dervishes.  <br />The discovery of gun powder supported imperial Islam, 1500-1700.  Armstrong outlines the empire of the Ottomans and that of the Moghuls in India.  She theorizes that reformers in the Islamic tradition tend to be conservative restorationists of the old true religion variety.  The empires, with an agricultural base, declined.  <br />The new societies in Europe and America were formed on a different economic basis.  Modernization involved social and intellectual change.  Muslim countries were colonized.  Some Muslim leaders urged their countrymen to acquire Western-style educations and to adopt Western ways.  Some leaders undertook their own efforts at modernization.  <br />The conflict was that the Quaran promised that a society which surrendered to God's revealed will could not fail.  The ideal Muslim state is not a given.  Attempts at secularization were made by Attaturk, Nasser, and Reza Shah Pahlavi.  Most Muslim states and organizations do not consider that fidelity to the Quran requires the imposition of pre-modern penal practices.  The fact that Muslims have not found an ideal polity does not mean that Islam is incompatible with modernity.  Fundamentalism is a global fact, not an exclusively Islamic one.	2003-09-15
978681:US	52300235	R3INX2C3ODAY4F	039443532X	27509538	Markings	Books	5	4	8	N	N	It is a rewritten diary	MARKINGS makes no direct reference to Hammarskjold's career.  Dag Hammarskjold had great wordly success.  Hammarskjold said his notes were sign posts.  Auden believes the book has the aspect of a rewritten diary.  <br />Hammarskjold never knew poverty, ill-health.  And yet he had an aggressive super ego.  Auden notes that to be gifted and yet to not know how to use one's gifts and to have low self-esteem is dangerous.  He was preoccupied with sacrifice.  Waking in the middle of the night he wondered whether he had done right.  W.H. Auden assisted in the translation.	2003-09-12
981057:US	52300235	RILDHAZ51LCJP	0465078273	815248522	Simone De Beauvoir And Jean-paul Sartre: The Remaking Of A Twentieth-century Legend	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Parallel lives	The surprise of this book is the extensive myth-making engaged in by Simone de Beauvoir in regard to the founding of French existentialist theory.  It would seem that as school examiners noted, she was the better philosopher of the two, and it was she who devised existentialism in her novel SHE CAME TO STAY.  <br />The cat was out of the bag, so to speak, when the war journals of Sartre were published just after his death.  Simone de Beauvoir did some fast jockeying of dates which was not totally convincing to her biographer, these authors write.  It would seem that she had gotten so used to the falsities presented to the world she could not bear to have the truth revealed, even when the truth was complimentary to her.  <br />It is necessary to understand how revolutionary she was when she began writing in the 1930's and took the position that for the sake of freedom she must refuse the offer of marriage given to her by Sartre.  It turns out that he was a very good at articulating the philosophy the couple devised. False stories did more than cover up de Beauvoir's evident orginality, they also covered up her sexual adventures which could have been misconstrued by the public in general.  <br />The book is a delight.  The writers give full praise to previous biographers.  It is comforting to learn some truths since the myth-making did strike this reader as far-fetched.  Nonetheless, one is left with a nagging sense that surely if philosophers fail to tell the truth, should not this mean that their works  be taken less seriously.	2003-09-10
981301:US	52300235	R3EKBQAA46BQN2	0060390751	186559834	A Few Good Voices in My Head: Occasional Pieces on Writing, Editing, and Reading My Contemporaries	Books	5	0	3	N	N	Post World War II Writer	His idea of being a writer was formed in the years after World War II.  Exemplary modern writers were men of learning.  The criticism of Eliot was articulate and striking.  Values of art persisted and Solotaroff wrote only seven stories in five years, endlessly polishing them.  The literary atmosphere was thick with authority.  <br />The pages of the PARTISAN RIVIEW were particularly seductive to him.  Under the twin sign of alienation and integrity he courted failure.  The group to which he was attracted, the PARTISAN REVIEW group, was now scattered among universities.  <br />Literary careers are difficult to speculate about since they are so individual.  Whether someone lasts has to do with durability.  How does one deal with rejection, uncertainly, and disappointment.  Raymond Carver has written that a good book is an honest one.  Creativity is a mode of play.  It is exploration.	2003-09-10
986099:US	52300235	R2AIYNZPB2QOBY	0399149775	563294014	Back Story (Spenser Mystery)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Mistaken Identity	The cold case is a homicide in a bank robbery dating from 1974.  Spenser gets to see the police file.  He interviews the retired police officer who headed the investigation.  There is a missing FBI report in the file but the officer doesn't know anyting about it it is claimed.  In the course of running down leads, Spenser encounters a situation where a group of men wants to kill him.  Spenser tells Susan who in turn tells Hawk.  Hawk says they have to go to the mattresses.  It isn't clear where the threat is coming from.  Hawk and Spenser wonder how the mob could possibly be connected.  It is strange that anyone would need to cover-up a twenty-eight year old murder.  The two men decide to leave Boston and go to San Diego.  The investigation starts to veer into the daughter of a mobster who was a class mate of the murdered woman.  Interestingly, and this is the the 1960's, the daughter of the mobster was into causes of every kind.  Eventually the client does not want to know anything additional about the case after things have taken a rather sordid turn.  Nevertheless, Spenser and Hawk do manage to sift down and shoot down the truth.  The books is of interest mainly as a demonstration of how an investigation might proceed with so few leads.  When the two men travel to the West Coast they are, in a manner of speaking, on a fishing expedition.	2003-09-06
989563:US	52300235	R2VGQ62JDXKUD6	0684828103	276048681	DIVIDED THEY FELL: The Demise of the Democratic Party, 1964-1996	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Prediction or Democratic Party Heal Thyself	It is 1996.  Will Bill Clinton be re-elected.  We know the answer now and we know that Democratic Party gains arguably were forfeited by personal misconduct on the part of the President.  What we don't know is why the party was so weak between 1964 and 1996, a thirty-two year span.  This book purports to tell us what happened.  Ronald Radosh identifies himself as a registered member of the party who is right to center.  <br />Mississippi had led the nation in beatings, lynching, and mysterious disappearances.  African Americans were registered to vote there at the lowest rate in the United States.  The Mississippi Free Democratic Party was prepared to take over the state's delegation to the 1964 national convention.  The Freedom Democrats were pledged to support the convention's expected choice, Lyndon Johnson.  <br />The arguments favoring seating of the Freedom Democrats gave rise to the New Left.  The fight between the two Mississippi delegations and Bayard Rustin, Martin Luther King, Joseph Rauh, and Walter Reuther foreshadowed splits within the Democratic Party over Vietnam and the break-up of the old liberal-labor coalition.  The Voting Rights Act passed in 1965.  The danger to the Democratic Party was that demands of the most radical adherents would come to dominate its ranks.  <br />At a Conference on the New Politics held at the Palmer House in Chicago, Martin Luther King called for a new coalition of conscience.  One observer said that the convention was transformed to a morality play on race relations.  Allard Lowenstein, for one, is profiled.  The reform of the Democratic Party in 1972 was undertaken by New Politics types.  The author takes us through problems created by the Vietnam War, the candidacies of McGovern, McCarthy, Mondale, and Dukakis, and the presidencies of Clinton and Carter.  The Democratic Party is apt to read the public mood inaccurately.  <br />The book is both dated and biased on one hand and packed with good and useful analysis on the other hand.  Some of the issues are still pertinent.  It is hoped the Democratic Party will experience revival.	2003-09-03
989647:US	52300235	R2HR8MEITP11AS	1559706643	918070082	Black Dahlia Avenger	Books	5	4	9	N	N	Hollywood Elite	The book is sad, compelling, and well-written.  Steve Hodel, formerly of the LAPD, dedicates his book to the victims, living and dead.  Los Angeles's most notorious unsolved murder occurred in January 1947.  It was known as the Black Dahlia.  A reporter, Will Fowler, son of Gene Fowler, saw the dead body cut in half.  Harry Hansen and Finis Brown, two [top notch] homicide detectives, were assigned to the case.  The victim was identified as Elizabeth Short.  <br />The author's father, George Hill Hodel, MD, died in 1999.  He had been a crime reporter, bohemian artist, radio announcer, surgeon, psychiatrist, and entrepreneurial marketer.  The author had lived with his father in the 1940's in the historic Lloyd Wright Sowden House on Franklin Street in the heart of Hollywood.  <br />Following his father's death he saw a photograph of Elizabeth Short at the Franklin house in his father's photo album.  The author was able to do some research through Black Dahlia web sites.  The case had only remained active because of its legendary status.  <br />The author's father was a musical prodigy.  He had extraordinary self-esteem.  With a juvenile IQ of 186 he was placed in the highest category of giftedness by Lewis Terman and participated in the studies of highly intelligent individuals.  The author's mother was a screen writer.  She had been married to John Huston.  <br />George Hodel's exceptional eye-hand coordination made him a natural as a surgeon.  After 1949 the father moved to Hawaii.  The children were sent to military school.  The house on Franklin Street was sold.  The author and his brothers and their mother then moved to Rancho Mirage.  Life for nearly a decade consisted of a series of moves because the mother drank to excess.  <br />The author joined the Navy in 1959.  When the author was a young man and spent time with his father, his father, although a psychiatrist, struck him as a fortified castle.  The process of murder destroys innocence.  <br />Hodel's father was a serial killer and was the Black Dahlia Avenger.  The author uncovers, too, [crime] in the LAPD circa 1949-1950 impeding the investigation.	2003-09-03
990426:US	52300235	RHV2M80E96AGJ	0684842386	594831758	A Shilling for Candles	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Testamentary Bequest	There is a dead body.  Where is her car?  Why is she swimming alone?  It seems her body is expensively cared for.  A young man appears on the scene, weeping.  It seems that he had taken her car.      The name of the drowned woman is Christine Clay.  Inspector Alan Grant of Scotland Yard is called to the scene by a worried constabulary.  The young man, Robin Stannaway or Robert Tisdall, the name had been changed to Tisdall to please a relative, stayed with Chris.  She had picked him up when hitchhiking, saying that she was alone.  The boy clearly has charm.  Grant and others determine that it is probable murder.      The book suffers from having the most likeable characters mainly off-stage or dead.  In other respects, of course, it is wonderful, given that Josephine Tey was one of the best people writing in the genre.	2003-09-02
991150:US	52300235	R1FBK3LXFD9VLE	087510374X	667984045	Mary Baker Eddy - Christian Healer	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Not a mesmeric exercise	This well-written book describes the life and healings of the founder of Christian Science, Mary Baker Eddy.  Mary Baker Eddy believed that without a spiritual aspect, healing would turn into a mesmeric exercise.  One must prove through living, as well as by healing and teaching.  <br />Mary Baker Eddy never stopped healing.  She was striving to teach others to heal quickly and completely. Her discovery of Chrisitian healing dated from 1866.  <br />In 1872 she suspended her teaching for three years in order to work on her book, SCIENCE AND HEALTH.  To be an author was a longstanding desire of Mrs. Eddy.  At age seven she is reported to have said that she would grow up and write a book.  Whether teaching or lecturing, healing was at the center of all of her efforts.  <br />At one point Mary Baker Eddy told her students that the grand secret to their success was Christianity.  The authors distinguish Chrisitian Science from the mind cure movement prevalent in the mid 1880's.  Sometimes healing resulted from Mrs. Eddy's public speaking.  <br />The use of sources gives the book the feel of discovery.  It may serve as a good introduction to the reader of the Chrisitian Science movement and the life of Mary Baker Eddy. The chief purpose of the book is to recount the numerous healings achieved by Mary Baker Eddy from childhood to old age.  The evidence presented is substantial.  <br />The biographical glossary at the end is extremely useful in identifying persons of importance to the history of Christian Science.	2003-09-02
992036:US	52300235	R18NSPPAGPEMWV	0452278376	366152357	Managing in a Time of Great Change	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Team leader	Outsourcing has less to do with economizing than with quality.  Information is replacing authority.  Most people still have the big company mentality buried in their assumptions.  <br />A knowledge economy's greatest pitfall is becoming a mandarin meritocracy.  The key to the productivity of knowledge workers is to make them concentrate on real assignments.  One should be intolerant of intellectual arrogance.  A balance needs to be worked out between specialization and exposure.  <br />Every organization has a theory of business.  Sometimes reality changes but the theory of business does not change with it.  The assumption that the computer industry is hardware driven paralyzed IBM.  <br />Assumptions about environment, mission, and core competencies must fit reality.  Rapid growth is a sure sign there is a crisis in the business theory.  Unexpected success and unexpected failure equally show an inadequate theory of business. <br />Mass retailers had based their strategy on market homogeneity.  Whosoever exploits structural trends is almost certain to succeed.  The worship of premium pricing always creates a market for the competition.  <br />There is a trend toward alliances as a vehicle of business growth.  The modern organization has social responsibility.  An organization is effective only if it concentrates on one task.  Knowledge workers cannot be supervised effectively.  <br />In team building there are three kinds of teams.  The first is the baseball team with fixed positions.  The second is the football team where players play as a team at the behest of a coach.  The third is the tennis doubles team where players have  primary rather than fixed positions.  <br />History books record the squalor of early industry.  Nevertheless, the workers were better off working in the factories than they were on the farm or in domestic service.  Blue collar workers were manual laborers.  <br />The emerging society is one based on knowledge.  The central workforce will consist of highly specialized people.  The knowledge society is an employee society.  The Japanese term for continuous improvement is kaizen.  An old Bell Telephone invention is benchmarking.  For the most part downsizing has not resulted in the hoped for improvements.  <br />The book is a collection of essays and interviews.  The middle sags but the material near the beginning and the end of the volume is first rate.	2003-09-01
992415:US	52300235	R1V8LCTT0985TC	0345343050	899585954	Dark Streaks and Empty Places	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Tall tale	Macomber Beechum is a Texas millionaire.  Dan Roman has bills to pay.  Beechum's ranch house is not opulent.  Roman is a private detective, former police officer.  <br />The problem presented is a missing granddaughter.  Her husband contends she went to East Texas with an old boyfriend to visit.  She runs the family business.  Her father, a twin, committed suicide under mysterious circumstances.  <br />Sandra Conrad is subsequently a suspect in the death of her husband Peter when his body is found stuffed down an old well.  At this point her sisters, Mercy and Hope Beechum, hire Roman to continue the search for her.  Roman has shadowed her travels and believes that she is alive.  The dispute the Beechums are having concerns timber rights.  <br />Perhaps the Beechums are poor in spirit.  Roman runs into some quick draw artists, perfecting their gun drawing skills for years in a haze of nostalgia for the days of the Texas Rangers.  The story is more complex than the boredom of small town life and is reasonably satisfying.	2003-09-01
992894:US	52300235	R2L7KDQ8A49ZNA	1400031362	405618230	Morality for Beautiful Girls (No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Feral child	Mma Ramotswe moves her detective agency to Mr. Matekoni's garage and arranges for her secretary and asistant to do office work for Mr. Matekoni.  These steps together with the rental on the building used initially for the agency should serve to result in sufficient savings to insure the financial viability of the detective agency.  Mma Ramotswe learns from his apprentices that Mr. Matekoni has lost interest in the garage.  <br />Mma Makitsi, the assistant, decides to buy a doughnut to celebrate her new duties and promotion. The house of Mr. Matekoni is unkempt.  Mma Ramotswe goes to consult Dr. Moffat.  She is advised by him that Mr. J.L.B. Matekoni might be depressed.  Mma Makutsi is to function as the acting manager of the garage.  <br />A detective helps people in need to resolve the unresolved questions in their lives.  It is important to remember that every story has two sides.  A good mechanic understands cars.  The apprentices were a charity of Mr. Matekoni.  He thought trained mechanics were needed to replace his generation.  Mma Makutsi coordinates the work of the apprentices.  <br />Mma Ramotswe believes that the ordinary people of Africa  do not have room in their hearts for hatred.  Moral codes aree not designed to be selective.  Mostly it is about doing the right thing.  <br />Mma Ramotswe is distantly related to the woman who runs the orphanage.  She goes out to investigate the case of a seemingly feral child.  The boy cannot speak and smelled like a lion when picked up by the authorities.  <br />Then Mma Ramotswe is called upon to invesigate the motives of the sister-in-law of a government man.  In the meantime her assistant is to investigate the background of the contestants in a beauty and integrity event and to help run the garage while Mr. Matekoni recovers from his illness.  As usual, the writing is superb and the events described are of great interest.	2003-08-31
992964:US	52300235	R3962R2OZ68F68	1557783519	503985172	Love and the Caribbean: Tales, Characters and Scenes of the West Indies (The Armchair traveller series)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Exotica--Beyond First Impressions	Alec Waugh, 1898-1981, wrote both fiction and nonfiction.  This travel writing dates from 1947 and earlier.  This is a very nice offering in the armchair traveler series.  One expects a good deal from a brother of Evelyn Waugh. <br />In 1926 the author traveled around the world.  The tourist season of the Caribbean ends in April.  Martinique was under French rule and is a far north of the line, equator, as Tahiti is south of it.  The island's prosperity depends on rum and sugar.  Martinique is a busness center.  When Waugh wrote of it in 1928 there were a few influential Creole families.  Society was formal.  The tourist has to rely on first impressions, as does the book reviewer.  The small fish of the tropics are deceptive.  The countryside of Martinique is varied.  <br />The population of every tropical town is either commercial or administrative. Dominica is the loveliest of the islands of the Antilles and the most difficult to manage.  It is very mountainous and very green.  At least in 1938 it had no smart hotels.  Jean Rhys had been born in Dominica.    <br />If you want to see the street carnival go to Port of Spain, Trinidad.  St. Pierre had been the loveliest city in the West Indies.  It was destroyed by the volcano at Pele.  Jamaica was a vast playground.  In the old days of sugar plantations it was adorned with windmills. Montserrat was discovered by Columbus in 1493.  <br />Barbados has none of the high mountained splendor of Trinidad.  At least in 1947 it struck Waugh as the most English of the islands.  Barbados had an integrated family atmosphere in his estimation.  Barbados and Antigua had superb beaches.  <br />Angostura is produced in Trinidad.  In the West Indies there is no such thing as a leisure class.  There is a lack of privacy.  <br />Waugh feels that because Toussaint l'Ouverture was self-educated he was called a genius.  He drove the English out of Haiti and was called a patriot.  He was the descendant of an African prince.  <br />In 1947Waugh writes that due to the generosity of the Carnegie Trust most of the islands are supplied with excellent reference libraries.  The Treaty of Utrecht in 1713 marked the elimination of Spain as a monopolist on the Caribbean scene.  There was general prosperity in the sugar islands.  During the Napoleonic Wars more British soldiers lost their lives in the West Indies than in Europe.  <br />The liberation of the slaves ended the prosperity of the West Indies.  Waugh compares the Amerindians Columbus found to the Polynesians.  They welcomed the proud Spaniards.  The Spaniards, however, were obtuse.  They sought treasure, gold, and to spread the gospel.  Within twenty years the entire Indian population of Hispaniola had been wiped out.  Orginally there had been two million.  The extermination may be understood in that it all happened at the time of Inquisition.  <br />In St. Vincent, Windward Islands,  the Caribs were unsubdued at the time of French Revolution. The book is billed as a selection of Alec Waugh's best island histories.  It is very fine.	2003-08-31
994583:US	52300235	RUCVAPR8L0TH4	1566890500	823464928	Paul Metcalf: Collected Works, Volume I: 1956-1976	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Americana or How to Catch a Condor	Paul Metcalf has been published by small presses.  His work is now collected in three volumes in the Coffee House Press.  This is volume one.  The works are arranged in chronological order.  The book is Whitmanesque in the sense that it is so American, so filled with American people and American geography.  <br />The first part is WILL WEST about a Cherokee ball player.  Will West goes to his mother to tell her he has quit the ball team and that he has killed a woman.  She gives him the money he has sent to her to escape punishment.  This work and the others in the volume consists of both poetry and prose.  The story moves from Will and his traveling with a truck driver named Ferd to the Civil War and De Soto the Spanish explorer.  <br />The work GENOA follows.  We are in the city of Indianapolis, Crawford County.  In the past Indiana was probably a rank lush swamp.  Metcalf cites and quotes the works and biography of his ancestor, Herman Melville.  <br />The narrator's brother Carl died in the electric chair.  Michael Mills is a nonpracticing physician, a house husband.  This work, as is the case with the previous one and others in this volume, has a mixed media feel to it, something virtually homespun.  The work of Metcalf, as Melville's, is filled with medical lore, sea lore, scientific lore, and explorers' tales.  <br />Carl Mills went to Alaska, to Spain to fight with the Loyalists, to China to participate in World War II in the RAF where he was put into a Japanese POW camp and tortured. The history of Christopher Columbus is used in GENOA.  Columbus and Melville were both men of vision.  <br />Carl ended up in St. Louis at the center of things.  The narrator visited him and found him reading THE CONFIDENCE MAN.  Carl said later in a mental hospital quoting that work that a sick philosopher is incurable.  <br />A portion on Theodore Dreiser reminds me of USA, John Dos Passos.  The crime resulting in the execution is a combination of fiction and history.  GENOAand the latter sections in the volume have bibliographies.  GENOA, in the collage-like use of materials, resembles EXECUTIONER'S SONG and leaves the reader with the same sadness.<br />PATAGONI is the third work of the collection.  As indicated by the title it is a derivation of the place name Patagonia.  We visit the world presented to explorers of the Amazon and the Andes.  Henry Ford is a character in PATAGONI.  The work owes a nod to William Carlos Williams, mentioned, and his poem PATERSON.  Sialia is Indian for bluebird, the name of Ford's yacht.  <br />The next section is the MIDDLE PASSAGE, and the final one is called APALACHE.  They concern for the most part and in great detail North America.  An exception is a wonderful treatment of the Luddite Riots.  In terms of time one moves from geological pre-human history through Eric the Red and Roger Williams and Blackstone, dissenters from the Massachusetts Bay Colony, to the Civil Rights Movement.  <br />Paul Metcalf is a master of his craft.  Where have I been, I ask myself, to have not encountered his work earlier.	2003-08-29
994943:US	52300235	R2FZF4HQ77ANUB	0399146016	793160232	Playing Botticelli	Books	3	0	3	N	N	Single motherhood	The main character, Godiva Blue, is an artist, a janitor, and a single mother.  She is a woman with mechanical skills.  Her daughter's name is Dylan.  We are in the Reagan years.  It is possible to speak of terrorism in a bright disconnected manner.  Godiva says that coping is an acceptance of less than you want.      The heroine sees her daughter's father on a wanted poster in the post office.  It seems he is wanted in connection with a bombing.  Botticelli is game, a variation of twenty questions.  Details of the game are explained at the end of the book.	2003-08-29
997611:US	52300235	R27YHGVNP4NAWZ	0838320937	305974972	Portrait of T. E. Lawrence	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The report of a contemporary	T.E. Lawrence refused to acquiesce to school games.  He resisted convention.  He could read at four.  His knowledge of archaeology drew the attention of the staff of the Ashmolean Museum.  He had a love of adventure.  The deepest of his interests may have been military strategy.  He had a strong power of mind and an irresistible personality.  He traveled in Syria on foot from castle to castle.  He returned to England and wrote his university thesis and received First Class honors.  <br />He was austere and romantic as was his hero, William Morris.  His account of the Crusader castles was not published until his death.  He received a four year scholarship from Magdalen College.  He was to be a part of a group excavating a Hittite city on the Euphrates, the Carcemish &quot;dig&quot;.  Leonard Woolley has described the life on the dig.  Both Woolley and Lawrence tried to enlist when Great Britain entered the war in August 1914. Woolley joined up but Lawrence was not eligible because he failed to meet minimum height requirements.  He did not give up and was placed in the War Office mapping department.  <br />In 1915 he was transferred to Cairo and his work extended to the gathering of information.  In 1916 he left his office in Egypt.  His superiors found him intolerable.  He knew of the passionate desire of the Arabs for freedom.  The two year campaign of the Arab revolt included the taking of Mecca, Aqaba, Azrag, Jerusalem, and Damascus from the Turks.  Lawrence eagerly accepted service under Allenby. He had to harden himself to desert conditions.<br />Lawrence followed the second son ofKing Hussein, the Arab leader Feisal.  From Feisal he learned subtle indirection.  The Turkish forces were broken as the Arabs advanced toward Damascus.  Lawrence went to Egypt to deal with the problem of supplies.  He was promoted to Major.  Allenby took Jerusalem in 1917.  <br />After the war Lawrence fought hard to reward the Arabs.  He did secure for Feisal the new kingdom of Iraqin 1922.  There was duplicity involved in the English dealings with the Arabs.  Lawrence's inner sense of unease was not unfounded.  Rolls Royces and airplanes played a role in the campaign in the desert.  <br />The shambles of actual fighting was harrowing to Lawrence.  He was tortured when he fell into the hands of a Turkish force which wanted to make him a recruit by force.  He had been mistaken for a Circassian because of the manner of his dress. The wound of his broken will lasted the whole of his life.  He was taken to Gaza and there he learned of the capture of Jersalem.  Lawrence was received cooly by the French in 1918.  At Paris he was Feisal's mouthpiece.<br />THE SEVEN PILLARS OF WISDOM was another product, an addition to Irag and so on, of Lawrence's involvement with the Arab struggle during World War I.  Lawrence was a giant defeated in part by his own powers.  He entered the Air Force.  When stationed in India he wrote THE MINT.  He was charming.  He enterd the R.A.F. in 1922 under the assumed name of Ross.  Then he went into the Tank Corps as T.E. Shaw.  He was transferred to India in 1926.  Lawrence was thrown from his mototcycle avoiding two boys.  He died a week later from the accident  May 20, 1935. <br />This is an excellent view of a great man prepared for a British biography series for the publisher Duckworth in 1939.  The writing is good.  The book seeks to rebut some criticisms then current about Lawrence--was he hysterical, did he have bad relations with women, and so forth.  The author does an effective job supporting Lawrence's good reputation.	2003-08-27
997659:US	52300235	RC7XHW50Y3HZF	0801826896	713548921	Mammals of the National Parks	Books	5	0	1	N	N	We are animals too	The mammals are a small group and are relative newcomers.  Mammals arose from reptiles.  Mammals are hairy, milk-producing, warm-blooded animals.  Most mammals give birth to living young.  <br />Many mammals have a home range and a defended area, evidence of territoriality.  Plants are consumed by the majority of mammals.  Types of feeders are herbivores and carnivores.  <br />No animal is safe from aggression.  Flight is a commonly employed defense mechanism.  Some animals may remain motionless to escape detection by a predator.  Thick skin may be defensive in nature.  Additional defense means are coloration and quills.  Specialized defenses include noxious odors, noise, teeth, hoofs and claws, horns and antlers, poison, and warning display.  <br />There are various levels of dormancy.  In deep hibernators metabolism may sink to 1/75 of its active rate.  The amount of weight loss varies with the species.  <br />In order to have social structure among animals there must be communication.  Sight communication may be of great importance in addition to or in place of sound. Sound mechanisms may be used for both communication and orientation.  <br />Social behavior may help an animal to survive and reproduce.  A population grows in the same fashion as the animal.  Influences favoring population growth may be genetic or ecological.  As a population increases its predators increase.  Social structure helps to alleviate stress.  <br />From the standpoint of evolutionary biology, the animal's function is to reproduce.  In mating behavior animals vary from promiscuity to monogamy.  Gestation in mammals ranges from eight to twelve weeks to two years.  The number of young is lower in animals with a better survival potential.	2003-08-27
999705:US	52300235	R3UMK3BYYO5JBH	1892514168	807780882	Eudora Welty: Writers' Reflections upon First Reading Welty	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Appreciations	I thought about giving this four stars because as an offering it is slim, but then, Eudora Welty is a five star writer and these testimonies from others are first rate.  There is a redemptive quality to Welty's writing.  She is living disproof of the neurotic artist.  Fred Chappell refers to her present dreadnought fame and adds that she was always admired by other writers.  <br />In reading &quot;Why I live at the P.O.&quot; Tony Earley realized that people in literature spoke as he did.  He believes the story has never lost its miraculous sheen.  Welty was a teacher of Ellen Gilchrist.  <br />Eudora Welty is a dominant figure in American literature as she has pursued her examinations of illusions and delusions, prejudice and violence.  Reynolds Price notes that he and Welty share a joy in having such unbounded worlds to watch.  One writer remarks that there is mystery in her prose.	2003-08-25
1000418:US	52300235	R1JAO5A9PTY0NN	0553560859	149762365	A Festival of Deaths (Gregor Demarkian)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Talk Show Pizzazz	Based on copyright information Jane Haddam is a pseudonym it is believed.  DeAnna Kroll is six feet tall.  THE LOTTE GOLDMAN SHOW was her idea.  When the Siamese twins fail to materialize at the airport on time because of delays at Gatwick and Heathrow, the show is thrown into turmoil and a replacement subject has to be found.  DeAnna Kroll is the closest thing to a friend that Lotte Goldman has encountered in a long and action-packed lifetime. <br />The show is outrageous, a kind of Dr. Ruth extension.  The characters manifest all of the exotic diversity of New York City.  The people are just plain vivid.  For example, there is Itzaak Blechmann late of the Soviet Union and Israel whose experiences have put his body into a crisis mode permanently.  \\"His fright-or-flight response never came down out of high gear.\\"  Most workers on the show are immigrants.  Lotte Goldman likes to give people chances.  She is an immigrant.  <br />A worker on the show turns up dead in the storeroom.  Her apartment has been ransacked.  There is a jealous co-worker on the scene who strikes the reader as suspicious.  Gregor Demarkian, a former FBI agent resides in Philadelphia.  The show is to go on the road and travel to Philadelphia first.  Demarkian is famous in Philadelphia for solving some high profile crimes.  <br />So--the set up is preposterous but the writing is good and the scene has been set for Demarkian to work his detective magic on the situation.  To be sure, of course, he enjoys no official title, and he is not really authorized to solve any mysteries whatsoever.   (His favorite fictional detective is Nero Wolfe and there is a certain resemblance.)  <br />One of the stranger aspects of the show is the early hours in the morning it is taped.  Demarkian is picked up at five A.M. to go into the studio.  He is to appear on a program concerning serial killers.  Another worker on the show turns up as a dead body.  I do not think the plotting here is very adroit but the characterportrayals and dialogue are wonderful.  Even though this is a genre work it is fairly serious in the sense that it shows the consequences of violence in straightforward fashion.  <br />A third person turns up, but this person is only almost dead.  The Bureau dealt with paper crime or the employees of the Bureau were called in after the fact.  Demarkian had been astounded at all the blood, confusion, and mess of a real crime scene the first time he had been called into one.  <br />The mystery takes place during the season of Christmas and Hanukkah.  There is liveliness with the existence of Armenian and Jewish clerics among the cast of characters.  Demarkian is determined to remain a resident in his ethnic neighborhood because had had been so immersed in the lives of serial killers when he was in the Bureau.  Gregor Kemarkian is also helping to investigate a hate crime.  <br />Well, the mystery is really like a closed room puzzle, sort of like, you know, did the bultler do it.  It is quite an accomplished piece of work.	2003-08-25
1002815:US	52300235	RTZ11RTFUJAM1	0811206807	425260969	In Dreams Begin Responsibilities and Other Stories	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Schwartz's Gift	This collection of stories is graced by two introductions and lives up to every superlative.  Irving Howe and biographer James Atlas note for the reader Delmore Schwartz's unfailing ear for the idiom of his parents' generation.   Each of the stories is a masterpiece and competes, in terms of quality, with the Schwartz poetry.  Having read James Atlas's biography of Delmore Schwartz this reader thinks of tragic waste and pain when thinking of Schwartz.  And yet, and yet, when one considers the brilliance of these stories, the fact that his mere existence inspired the wonderful novel HUMBOLDT'S GIFT by Saul Bellow, and that he evoked intense loyality from his students the picture shifts to a life of immense achievement not disproportionate to his evident gift.  This New Directions Paperback has a compelling photograph on the cover.	2003-08-22
1002872:US	52300235	R29C6LHSPCG2OF	0691018790	596371178	Monsieur Teste	Books	5	27	30	N	N	High modernism and source of theater of the absurd	According to the introduction of Jackson Mathews, translator, Valery saw everything from the point of view of intellect.  He was preoccupied with the pursuit of consciousness.  The conscious mind was his obsessive center.  Valery reports he had a reckless desire to understand.  He says that writing requires a sacrifice of the intellect.<br /><br />In the novel MONSIEUR TESTE it is stated that a superior man is a man who has deceived himself. The character tries to seek out inner masterpieces amid the brilliance of published discoveries.<br /><br />My introduction to this work occurred years ago when I was a college student.  I half understood the French in which the class was conducted.  I struggled.  I surmised the work was brilliant through the lecturer's description.  I now ratify that judgment.<br /><br />The work MONSIEUR TESTE is filled with arresting ideas.  The narrator in the story seeks to know Monsieur Teste, to copy him.  He is careful not to classify him among the mad.<br /><br />Monsieur Teste says that he is at home in himself.  In his room there is not a book in sight.  There is a strong impression of the ordinary. Valery portrays a great refusal similar to my mind of that undertaken by Marcel Duchamp who in the latter years of his life refused to practice his art and only played chess. In fact there is a reference to chess in this work.  Valery's work dates from 1896, predating, of course, the shape of the artistic career pursued by Marcel Duchamp.<br /><br />Madame Teste describes her husband's moods as uncertain.  She reports that their priest has compassion for Monsieur Teste, for a man so isolated.  He says the Monsieur Teste's faces are innumerable.  He believes that Monsieur Teste is cut off from both good and evil.<br /><br />In his log book Monsieur Teste notes that he is not made for novels or plays.  His goal seems to be an individual regulated by his own powers of thought.  It is observed that in Paris the French have stored all of their ideas in one enclosure.  In Paris there is a great concentration of literature, the sciences, the arts and politics.  The chaos of a multitude of minds is tiring.  \\"[S]uperiority is merely a solitude situated at the present limit of a species.\\"  Monsieur Teste is the man who thinks continually.<br /><br />Up until a rather mature age Monsieur Teste is not aware of the singularity of his mind.  He states he is not turned toward the world.  His face is to the wall.  An intellectual's end is a funeral march of thought.  A snap shot from the notebooks yields the notion that admiration for genius is due to attributing to it the power of working miracles without fatigue.  Another thought set out is that of trying to describe a man camped in his life.  It is asserted that there is no perfect correspondence between feelings and the verbal-conceptual system.<br /><br />Monsieur Teste thinks his mind is partly instinctive, partly scientific.  His quickness of thought is in accord with absention from action he observes.  Intelligence is the power of substitution.  The mind moves by images.  Images and change are inseparable.  Education leads to including ones self with others. The most agonizing punishment to be imposed on anyone is to treat him with rigorous objectivity.  The brain, too much occupied internally, deals brutally with external things.  Monsieur Teste is a mystic and a physicist of self-awareness.  The statement that the isolated eye amuses itself gives a flavor of the book.  Notes are found at the back of the book.is a great concentration of literature, the sciences, the arts and politics.  The chaos of a multitude of minds is tiring.  \\"[S]uperiority is merely a solitude situated at the present limit of a species.\\"  Monsieur Teste is the man who thinks continually.     Up until a rather mature age Monsieur Teste is not aware of the singularity of his mind.  He states he is not turned toward the world.  His face is to the wall.  An intellectual's end is a funeral march of thought.  A snap shot from the notebooks yields the notion that admiration for genius is due to attributing to it the power of working miracles without fatigue.  Another thought set out is that of trying to describe a man camped in his life.  It is asserted that there is no perfect correspondence between feelings and the verbal-conceptual system.      Monsieur Teste thinks his mind is partly instinctive, partly scientific.  His quickness of thought is in accord with absention from action he observes.  Intelligence is the power of substitution.  The mind moves by images.  Images and change are inseparable.  Education leads to including ones self with others. The most agonizing punishment to be imposed on anyone is to treat him with rigorous objectivity.  The brain, too much occupied internally, deals brutally with external things.  Monsieur Teste is a mystic and a physicist of self-awareness.  The statement that the isolated eye amuses itself gives a flavor of the book.  Notes are found at the back of the book.	2003-08-22
1004361:US	52300235	R16561QR72EGK7	1404382496	434102241	The Greek View of Life	Books	5	5	10	N	N	Harmony	The quarrel of the philosophers with the myths is not that they are not true, but that they are not edifying.  The opposition between science and religion was developed early in ancient Greece.  Plato, the deepest thinker, was also the farthest from popular faith.  The Greek religion involved a belief in a number of deities who were personifications of the powers of nature and were founders and sustainers of civil society.  The harmony which was the essence of Greek civilization was a temporary compromise.  <br />In the Greek conception the citizen was an aristocrat.  In the majority of the Greek states slaves were a greater part of the population.  The states Crete and Sparta were practically military garrisons.  The majority of the Greek states were in a constant state of flux.  The Peloponnesian War represented a contest between democratic and oligarchic states.  Plato based his REPUBLIC chiefly on Sparta.  The constitution of Athens was political equality imposed on social inequality.  The Greek states were not well-organized.  <br />The fusian of the idea of the beautiful and the good is the control point in the Greek theory of art.  Primarily, Greek sculpture was an expression of the national religion.  Music was the center of Greek education.  Music is a union of melody and rhythm and poetry.  Poetry was viewed as a storehouse of practical wisdom.  To represent suffering as the punishment of sin is the constant bent of Aeschylus.  To justify the law of God against the presumption of man is the central idea of Sophocles.  In Greek tragedy the general point of view predominates.  The Greeks sought to create and maintain essential harmony.	2003-08-21
1004778:US	52300235	R3AWR8DAN191FN	0874778549	202644475	Creators on Creating: Awakening and Cultivating the Imaginative Mind (New Consciousness Reader)	Books	5	20	24	N	N	Serendipity	I picked up this book idly and became interested in it.  The selections are good.  The creative mind is both full and empty.  Serendipity means coming on an unexpected treasure.  Cathy Johnson explains that her father had an unshakable need to wander.  <br />Richard Feynman reports that teaching is an interruption, but that the questions of the students are often a source of new research.  When Feynman felt burnt out at Cornell someone threw a plate in the cafeteria.  He saw it wobble so he started to figure out the motion of a rotating plate.  It was effortless.  It was easy.  It was like uncorking a bottle.  His mind started to flow. <br />Kary Mullis, molecular biologist, notes that important inventions almost always cross disciplines.  Mullis discovered the PCR, Polymerase chain reaction.  It is widely used by molecular biologists.  What is necessary for creative activity may be quite destructive of other kinds of activity.  Yeats thought that rhythm prolongs contemplation.  Annie Dillard sees herself as an explorer and also a stalker.  <br />Italo Calvino relates that in devising a story the first thing that comes to mind is an image.  In the acutal writing of the story,  the words, the verbal aspect start to become more important.  Imagination is a repertory of what is potential.  The imagination is a kind of electronic machine.  Michel Foucault suggests that utopias afford consolation although they have no real locality.  Those who have creative power find the strength of mind to reject what is not true.  <br />Mabel Dodge Luhan describes an experience with peyote where she had a momentary glimpse of life given by an expansion of consciousness.  Creativity lives and dies within an ecology.  Maya Angelou believes that black American art is rooted in music.  N. Scott Momaday feels that southwestern landscape, turning up frequently in his writing, is more spiritual.  He does not see any validity in separating man from the landscape.  The oral tradition of the American Indian is intrinsically poetic.  The Indian has the advantage of a very rich spiritual experience.  <br />The creative process involves a tension between opposites.  All the factors of creativity can be increased through training.  The discipline and routine of creativity do not have to be boring.  Stravinsky writes that all creation presupposes a sort of appetite.  He believed that we have a duty towards music, namely to invent it.  The faculty of creating is never given to us by itself.	2003-08-20
1005808:US	52300235	R1IRJXURICS3Y	0268003033	711637466	Wittgenstein: Philosophical Investigations	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Where setting is everything	Wittgenstein maintains that philosophy is not a theory but an activity.  The system of Philosophical Investigations has three main parts.  First there is the theory of meaning.  Next there is the theory about the nature of philosophy.  Finally there is a theory of mind.<br /><br />Wittgenstein insisted on the multiplicity of different uses of words.  The most suggestive concept he investigates is understanding.  An image or formula does not dictate its own application.  Intentions are not private states.<br /><br />Strawson notes that Wittgenstein did not gloss his thoughts but arranged them.  We are to look at language as instruments and study their use.  Wittgenstein is content to leave the notion of use vague.  If a man satisfies the criteria for having meaning in his words he satisfies the criteria for having thought something.<br /><br />Wittgenstein has hostility to the doctrine of immediacy.  He stresses setting.  He also has hostility to the doctrine of privacy.  Norman Malcolm contends that Wittgenstein compressed his thoughts to the point that further compression is impossible.  Wittgenstein assaults the idea of private language.  The idea of private language is not eccentric.  It is contained in the philosophy of Descartes and in the theory of British empiricism. Wittgenstein says that learning the words for sensations is learning new pain behavior.<br /><br />Criterion is a most difficult region in Wittgenstein's philosophy.  He contrasts criterion with symptom.  The expressions of pain are a criterion of pain in certain surroundings.  Wittgenstein's theory emphasizes the instrumental aspect of language and points to use in a language game as the essential thing according to Paul Feyerbend.  We do not command a clear view of the use of our words.<br /><br />Cavell says that Wittgenstein's main ideas are essentially simple.  For Wittgenstein philosophy comes to grief by trying to escape human forms of life.  Bambrough claims that Wittgenstein solves the problem of universals.  In the BLUE BOOK he speaks of our craving for generality.  Wittgenstein speaks of family resemblances.  Bambrough claims his remarks can be paraphrased and set forth in general terms.<br /><br />Wittgenstein is neither a nominalist nor a realist.  The criterion of a thing is its defining criterion.  Private language is addressed in essays by A.J. Ayer and R. Rhees.  Ayer is in disagreement with Wittgenstein.  Wittgenstein says that if something has a sign it can be used wrongly.<br /><br />It has been argued, Cook says, that Wittgenstein did not make sufficiently clear what a private language is.  Russell says we cannot enter into the minds of others.  Dummett thinks there is no ground for segregating philosophy and mathematics.  Wittgenstein adopts an extreme verson of constuctivism.  He contends that the  mathematician creates rather than discovers.BLUE BOOK he speaks of our craving for generality.  Wittgenstein speaks of family resemblances.  Bambrough claims his remarks can be paraphrased and set forth in general terms.      Wittgenstein is neither a nominalist nor a realist.  The criterion of a thing is its defining criterion.  Private language is addressed in essays by A.J. Ayer and R. Rhees.  Ayer is in disagreement with Wittgenstein.  Wittgenstein says that if something has a sign it can be used wrongly.      It has been argued, Cook says, that Wittgenstein did not make sufficiently clear what a private language is.  Russell says we cannot enter into the minds of others.  Dummett thinks there is no ground for segregating philosophy and mathematics.  Wittgenstein adopts an extreme verson of constuctivism.  He contends that the  mathematician creates rather than discovers.	2003-08-20
1006317:US	52300235	R18EFUF6CWRAIY	0435905481	168281734	The River Between (African Writers Series)	Books	5	7	13	N	N	Not a convert to the white man	The author is from Kenya.  It is an insult to call someone's father a convert to the white man.  The boys in the story, the characters, were cattle herders.  Waiyaki went to Siriana to the mission.  He was joined by Kamu and Kinuthia, fellow herdboys.  They were destined to learn under the Reverend Livingstone.  Nairobi was far.  Siriana was the nearest missionary center.      Livingstone's main work was carried on by Joshua, Nyambura's father.  He had been one of the first converted to the new faith.  He feared the anger of his people.  He became a preacher.  He condemned the drinking and female circumcision.  The conflict was that his daughter, Muthoni, wanted to undergo the traditional rite of passage ceremony.      Nyambura knew that her sister was missing and was waiting for her father to realize this state of affairs.  She suggested timidly that Muthoni may have gone to their aunt.  Nyambura told and then was beside herself in terror over Joshua's reaction.  Nuambura went to the aunt and had to return with the news that Muthoni refused to return home.      Chege, Waiyake's father, did not like the new cult.  He thought it divided people.  His son was doing well at Siriana.  He was now in the senior class of Siriana Secondary School and was able to meet boys from all over Kenya.      Waiyaki was surprised that Muthoni, Joshua's daughter, was present at the initiation ceremony also.  The idea that she had actually run away shocked him.  Waiyaki joined in and felt the mad intoxicating ecstasy and pleasure.      Muthoni told him she was a Christian but wanted to be initiated into the ways of the tribe.  Waiyuki welcomed the opportunity to show courage.  The pain was intense.  It was held that Waiyaki and the other boys had been a credit to the hills.      Muthoni suffered.  After a week she was still under care.  Waiyaki told Nyambura about her condition.  Muthoni died.  She died just after Waiyaki and some of the other boys carried her to the mission hospital.Livingstone knew of the mistakes of earlier missionaries.  He did not want to cause tribal warfare.  He had been in Siriana for 25 years.  He reflected that he had not been very successful.  Within a few weeks the name of Muthoni was a legend. Waiyaki did not go back to Siriana.  His father was ill.      It was decided that children who maintained pagan customs could not remain in Siriana.  Waiyaki wanted to concentrate on education.  His school was called Marioshoni.  He had been shocked by his father's death. He was the headmaster.      There was the Christian group led by Joshua and a breakaway group led by Kabonyi.  Waiyake felt isolated.  He ran into Nyambura.  He attended a service led by Joshua.  This was to cause him great difficulty.  The jealousy of others caused him to be charged with violating the oath he took at the time of his initiation into the tribe.  His love for Nyamburo was misunderstood.      The story is fierce and strong.  The events recounted are believable and the lead characters are multi-dimensional.	2003-08-19
1006335:US	52300235	R3UNRVS5ALKIWP	0943728800	746314087	Writing Short Films: Structure and Content for Screenwriters	Books	5	20	25	N	N	A  How -To Book with Pizzazz	A short film runs less than 45 minutes.  Short films may be transformed into Hollywood success.  This book tells how to have a completed script to initiate the venture into short film.  The reader is given an idea of the labor involved to produce this art form.  The book uses \\"Life Lessons\\" written by Richard Price and directed by Martin Scorsese, part of THE NEW YORK TRILOGY, to illustrate points she wants to make about writing a script.  She also makes reference to other short films readily available to a reader.   <br /> <br />The steps involved are that a hero, with desires, acts, encounters conflicts, and moves to the climax and resolution in the course of the film. Film is visual.  Film has fluidity of movement. Show don't tell is a maxim of film-making.  Significant films have universality.  Most short films are character pieces.  The audience must willingly suspend disbelief.  It may be necessary to do research.   <br /> <br />Basically there are five types of genre, comedy, farce, drama, tragedy, and melodrama.  In the best films plot is character.  A character biography is a description. This includes physical appearance, sociology, and psychology. The backstory is not the same thing.  A story tells a sequential action.  Plot emphasizes causal relationships. Story and plot usually comprise part of a total narrative. Drama is structured action.  A good plot evolves naturally.  The writer should not be afraid to change the plan as he moves ahead with the project.  It is useful to think of the film's story in broad blocks.   <br /> <br />The opening should be visual, convey important information, and be interesting.  Voice over narration is more common in short film than in features.  It is a means of exposition.  Other means are dialogue and written presentation through signs or cards.  The main expostion has a direct relationship to the climax and an indirect relationship to the theme.  Screen stories open near a point of decision or crisis.  Many films introduce the protagonist immediately.   <br /> <br />The problem with the middle is to keep the story alive.  The worst enemy of suspense is predictability.  One of the strongest surprises occurring in film is the reversal.  Reversals work best when there is a connection to emotion.  In film, fiction, and theater story revelation is most often character revelation.  The point of greatest intensity is called the climax.   <br /> <br />Writing a scene is the fun part of screen writing.  Writing a great scene takes a lot of practice.  Scenes have to perform functions of advancing the flow of events, advancing the audience's understanding of the main characters, and providing expository information of the overall story.  Film characters move through space and time.  Every good scene has one main point.  Where a scene takes place affects the mood.  Before writing clarify who, where, what characters want, need, and what are their attitudes in the scenes.   <br /> <br />What characters need is relevant to the subtext.  Physical action is considered the best revelation of character in film, but sometimes only dialogue can expose real motivation.  Effective dialogue has simplicity and economy.  Dialogue too clear and direct may ring false.  Always read dialogue aloud.  The screenwriter walks a fine line between telling too much and telling too little.	2003-08-19
1007390:US	52300235	R3FJNBIKKTE6DW	0345370325	128408441	Now, Where Were We?	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A favorite of Garrison Keillor	In Georgia Blount grew up dreaming of being a four sport immortal.  He thought that MY BEAUTIFUL LAUNDRETTE  was art.  His was a teetotaling Southern Methodist household.  Blount would not buy anything called L.A. Gear for New York walking.  When he went to a health spa he thought he was going crazy listening to people talking about their bodies as if they were endlessly fascinating motorcycles.  A cat will mouse for you, but maybe a mouse-free house is no better than a house without kitty litter.  He wonders what if the reading faculty atrophies in our culture.  In summer people sit a lot and read a lot.  Winning is the ethic of football he claims Don Shula once said.  It is no wonder that Garrison Keillor likes this book.  Unfortunately it is topical and so has gotten sort of old.  We have new crazes now.	2003-08-18
1008326:US	52300235	R20MH7SIN87Y0V	0449223612	595466515	N Is for Noose (Kinsey Millhone Mysteries)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Cold Case file	A woman wanted to know why her recently dead husband was under stress.  She was willing to hire Kinsey Milhone to find the reason.  Her husband Tom Newquist had not been sleeping well. The job was in the vicinity of Carson City.  It was the sort of place where people might wear a combination of snow and western clothing.  The widow of the dead man, Selma, was very helpful.  Tom Newquist did not smile.  In his picture he had the look of a police officer.  Before his death by heart attack he was not necessrily a healthy man.  He drank, he smoked, he was overweight, and he was strait-laced.  He saw the world in rigid terms.  He was a good investigator by all reports.  His sister believed he tried too hard to please his wife who was a snob.  Kinsey was assaulted and felt herself going into shock.  She received help getting to the hospital. I did not realize that investigators liked to dig into old unsolved cases, but apparently they do.  Tom Newquist was probably involved in such a venture when he died.  Uncharacteristically he ate away from home just prior to his death.  An unidentified woman was seen within a quarter mile of his pick up truck parked by the side of the road.  The break in the case came from someone in Nota Lake who believed the dead man had an interest in a female investigator from another sheriff's department.	2003-08-18
1009663:US	52300235	R3KYEUMXY0CSST	0394743172	353554211	The Doctor and the Soul: From Psychotherapy to Logotherapy, Revised and Expanded	Books	5	24	40	N	N	Existential concerns	Existential frustration results in neurotic symptoms.  Logotherapy is a specific therapy.  Life is a task.  Logotherapy is education toward responsibility.  Psychoanalysis regards neurosis as limitation.  <br />Individual psychology fits only a particular kind of human being.  We postulate a psychotherapy to include the spiritual element.  Logotherapy is intended to supplement psychotherapy.  Responsibility implies a sense of obligation.  An affirmative attitude toward life is crucial.  <br />The pleasure principle is an artificual creation of psychology.  Human volition has any of a number of human ends.  Value is transcendent to the act that intends it.  Existential analysis and logotherapy aim at bringing the patient to the highest point of concentration and dedication.  <br />No man is justified in insisting on his own inadequacies.  The meaning of individuality comes to fulfillment in the community.  Man's reality is a potentiality.  Freedom of the will is opposed to destiny.  <br />Human existence underwent deformation in the concentration camps.  First there is regression to primitiveness.  Most people were tormented by a sense of inferiority.  It was a provisional existence.  Life was futureless and monotonous.  Psychic degeneration might lead to total apathy.  During the week between Christmas and New Year 1944 there was unprecedented mass mortality.  The liberated prisoner was still in need of care.  <br />Human life can be fulfilled in suffering.  The patient as sufferer may be superior to the doctor.  The chief symptom of unemployment neurosis is apathy.  Where love is lacking, work becomes a substitute.  Love is not only grace, it is enchantment. Human existence is fundamentally grounded in responsibility.  <br />Logotherapy sets out to transform the neurotic's view of his neurosis.  The obsessional neurotic has excessive consciousness and conscientiousness.  The striving for security in anxiety neurosis and obsessional neurosis is deflected.  The melancholic devalues himself and the whole world.  The application of paradoxical intention has been useful in many cases of phobic neurosis.	2003-08-16
1009976:US	52300235	R3A5WGBN69GYU1	0930330234	330034966	An Air That Kills	Books	3	1	5	N	N	Careful plotting	Esther Galloway had been going for scenes lately.  Ron Galloway hoped such behavior did not continue.  Galloway did not arrive at the lodge for fishing to meet his friends as planned.  Another of the wives, Thelma, had begged Ron not to go.  She claimed that she had intuitions that it would not be a good idea to go to the lodge.  <br />Thelma said she was pregnant and was going to call the child Ron.  Esther said that Ron may have been a good friend but he ws a lousy husband.  Two police officers showed up at the lodge.  Harry Bream, Ralph Turee, Bill Winslow, and Joe Hepburn had been up most of the night trying to track down Ron Galloway.  Thelma received a call.  Ron had tried to call his first wife.  He was rambling.  <br />Ron Galloway's wallet was found.  Harry reported to Esther that Thelma had left him.  A plaid cap was found on the beach.  A car was located in twenty feet deep water.  Ron was buckled into the driver's seat and dead.  <br />Harry ran his car into a street car.  It was believed that Harry had gone to Bolivia.  I will not ruin things and disclose the ending.  The book is fairly well done.  One of the characters, not discussed in this precis, Ralph Turee is very well drawn.	2003-08-16
1010262:US	52300235	R1LVVLEVPH80OB	0435900129	143221977	African (African Writers Series)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Colonialism explained	the author hails from Sierra Leone.  There was incessant toil in the narrator's village in Songhai, (fictitious?), in West Africa.  The village consisted of twenty mud houses.  Kisimi Kamara was chosen to be the servant of the school teacher Mrs. Scwartz, an American.  <br />Kisimi was sent to a mission in the capital to study for his secondary school entrance exams.  He spoke English and Hausa but heard other languages spoken in the city.  During his final year in secondary school he developed an interest in politics.  He was sent to England for university training.  He and fellow students thought they were being discriminated against on the ocean voyage.  Also, they disliked the food.  It was neither substantial nor spicy.  The students lost the illusion the white man was a demi god. <br />Kisimi attended the University of Durham at Newcastle.  He was impressed by the sight of Durham Cathedral.  In the Lake District he met a girl from Pretoria.  She brought him to meet her fiance who used the N word and things got hot.  Kisimi stood his ground and on the following day it ws settled that he would meet with some of the South African students for a meal.  <br />He strolled with Greta through the Lake District.  She had broken off her engagement.  Her brother Jan disapproved of their spending time together.  They did not think of the danger to which they were exposing themselves.  A car crashed into the couple.  Greta died, Kisimi was injured.  <br />His scholarship was used up and he had to find work.  Finally he secured a job as a night watchman at a warehouse.  Afterwards he sought some sort of manual labor.  He was grateful that working for the missionaries had taught him the ethical value of any labor.  He felt educated West Africans were trapped in a caste system as rigid as that experienced by Hindus.  He met a young married couple in Liverpool who offered to give him a ticket to a musical performance.  They helped him to sell his father's uncut diamond to payhis school expenses.  <br />His last three years of Kings College passed quickly.  He found on his return home that life in Africa had become more ruthlessly competitive.  The hero acquired a sense of vocation, of educating Africans after reading about apartheid actions in South Africa.  He exchanged the license of Christianity for the discipline of Islam.  He sought marriage in the traditional way, surprising for someone who had been educated abroad.  <br />He endeavored to form a political party.  Members sought to master the Songhai languages.  They wanted to create a Pan African federation.  He resigned his teaching appointment as party duties grew.  The party stood for unity and liberation.<br />The first brush with the powers concerned the possession of uncut diamonds.  His wife Fatmata and his friend Samuel were involved.  His wife saw the political gain from her position of arrest and incarceration.  There was extensive publicity.  The party prepared a draft constitution.  <br />Kamara was elected the head.  He took a second wife Kyinde in order to have a male heir, a matter of importance in traditional African society.    He traveled to an undisclosed destination to think.  He visited his parents.  He saw the British Colonial Service representative, Anderson, who said that Kamara was raising false hopes.  He learned the UK was expanding a port and so that autonomy would not be granted.  He was tricked on a bases for aid scheme.  <br />Six months later he was prime minister.  He found it was more difficult to work miracles in office.  He was asked to make a commitment in South Africa.  He schemed and plotted to make a secret journey south.  In South Africa he looked for Greta's fiance.  Kamara found him.  He was drunk.  He helped to go home safely, renouncing violence..	2003-08-15
1011573:US	52300235	R1NDPJNNTGBJ66	0374522758	248737748	Collected Poems	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Audenesque and more	Philip Larkin, 1922-1985, worked as a librarian.  He was the best loved poet of his generation.  The earliest poems to strike his characteristic note were written in 1946.  Larkin's reputation as a poet began late in 1955 with the publication of THE LESS DECEIVED.  <br />Larkin said he was a meagre poet.  He had responsibility for a university library after 1955.  Perhaps this task drained away his energy.  His fame frightened him.<br />Larkin's poetry was strongly Audenesque for about three years.  Following Larkin's period at Oxford, influence modulated to Yeats and Vernon Watkins according to Anthony Thwaite.  The editor sought to show the growth of a major poet in the collection.  <br />The arrangement of the poems is chronological.  There is a special section for the early poems, 1938-1945. The early work is very accomplished, particularly that from 1940 and throughout the decade.  One shining line, just to give an example, is &quot;A prayer killed into stone.&quot;  <br />Some of the poems have not been published previously.  Some are unfinished.  All are mature products of the poet.  Larkin worked over his drafts.  The selection of the poems is careful and sure.  The poem &quot;The Dance&quot; is similar to a short story.<br />The poet is funny, ironic, and sad.  His reportedly obnoxious qualities show through in the work, in the sense that his curiousity shows, his mindfulness.  The poet is self-aware. <br />Larkin presents to us his good ear, he presents to us his philosophy.  He says, for instance, that to be ambitious is to fall in love with a particular life you haven't got.  &quot;High above the gutter a silver knife sinks into golden butter.&quot;  He fears that England will be bricked over, that it will not last.  <br />He is a master of rhyme, half rhyme, interior rhyme, and most importantly of selecting the appropriate word.  Larkin's poetry deserves the permanent place on the poetry shelf it has attained.  <br />The introduction by the editor and the publishing information in the back of the book is useful to the reader.  The care taken in compiling the collection is admirable. The American reader will enjoy sinking into the post-World War II English world portrayed so colorfully by Philip Larkin.	2003-08-14
1012619:US	52300235	RKK6QSX5GE54B	0385013590	738027280	Africa and the Victorians: The Official Mind of Imperialism	Books	5	4	6	N	N	When expansion was positive	The Victorians had an expansive spirit.  Most people believed in restricted government and free trade.  Expansion seemed inevitable.  The main engine of expansion was enterprise.  Their trade associations were mostly with Europeans transplanted abroad.  <br />The idea of Africa moved British statesmen to act.  The continuity of Victorian leadership ws remarkable.  The ends of Livingston and Gordon haunted the imagination as examples of embattled humanitarians.  A policy of supporting trade was embraced in the middle of the nineteenth century under the belief that private enterprise could promote the interests of both commerce and philanthropy.  On the continent, though, time-honored practices were upset by the presence of Europeans.  There was a gulf between intention and effect.  <br />Up until the 1880's the British sought influence but no commitment on both coasts of Africa.  In the west there were local chiefs and Liverpool traders in palm oil.  In the east the British worked through the Sultan of Zanzibar.  In the east the Arabs were useful allies.  There was a conflict of interest since the British sought to extinguish all external and internal slave trading.  The search for pliant native powers had resulted in one failure after another in promoting civilized activity and suppressing the slave trade in the interior.  <br />The British sought to devolve authority to make imperialism cheaper.  The problem was that receptive African rulers were not strong and strong African rulers were not receptive to British influence.  The Khedive of Egypt was broken by the expansion of the European economy.  The Sultanate in Zanzibar was weakened by being made to enforce an alien athic. <br />South African politics changed with the discovery of diamonds.  The continuity between mid and late Victorian policy is impressive.  A forward policy raised strong criticism of Britain.  In 1881 the Transvaal crisis was patched up.  Next came the Suez crisis.  Twenty years after Egypt was opened to free trade, the Khedive, living from loan to loan, was replaced by another and placed under strict controls by Britain and by France.  The foreign controllers were practically dictators in finance.  <br />Occupation of Egypt was undertaken by Britain between 1882 and 1914.  The British sought to leave Egypt, but the need for administration continued.  The Egyptian affair had started the Scramble and ended the stand still arrangement.  The Egyptian occupation destroyed the old informal systems on the coasts of Aftica and unsettled the politics of south Africa.  <br />There was a pattern of colonial demands for imperial extension and British resistance to it.  The British wished to avoid arousing Afrikaner opinion.  Britain became powerless to shut Germany out of south and east Africa because it relied on Germany in its stand-off with France over Egypt.  It was determined to occupy Bechuanaland to dissipate the fear of German encroachment.  <br />After 1887 an inrush of mining and railway enterprise changed the shape of politics in south Africa.  By 1894 the gold of Johannesburg was believed to be inexhaustable.  There were humanitarian advocates of the colonial office set against the need to placate Boer interests.  The new wealth and traffic of the Rand made it inevitable that Kruger would seek a railroad link through Portuguese territory for shipment of Transvaal gold.  <br />Cecil Rhodes sought imperial protection for his mining speculations.  The company would plant a colony to occupy the country.  Throughout 1889 humanitarian societies agitated against giving administrative authority to a commercial company.  The government granted the charter fearing nationalism and republicanism in south Africa.  The terms of the charter left little room for effective imperial control.  Salisbury negotiated with German and Portuguese interests to obtain for Rhodes areas north of Zambesi.  Economic imperialism is too simple a term to cover the mixed intentions of the British government.  The company was chartered above all as a political instrument.  <br />From 1885 to 1900 British foreign policy was built on the designs of Lord Salisbury.  It acquired a brilliance of formulation.  He suffered from a fundamental defeatism.  He had a static view of politics.  <br />Africa remained for him an intellectual problem.  Baring, the British agent in Egypt, felt there could be no stability without the supervision of British officals and the presence of troops.  He felt Egypt did not have suitable political cadres.  The safety of the Nile became a supreme consideration.  In 1889 when it was suggested to the Germans that the matter of Zanzibar be submitted to arbitration, the stage was set for the 1890's agreements.  The Anglo-German agreement was badly received by France  <br />Prolonged negotiations about west Africa with France created difficulties.  England focused on the Niger River.  England eventually invaded Sudan when conditions were suitable for victory there and ultimately fought the Boers to consolidate the holdings and colonies in the south of Africa and to bring everything under imperial control.  In the end there was Joseph Chamberlain in the foreign office who wanted to undertake scientific administration of the imperial entities.  At that point Salisbury was old and failing.  <br />Victorians were confronted with nationalist upsurges.  During the first three quarters of the nineteenth century Britain enjoyed effortless supremacy.  The book is of immense interest.  Tables are included quantifying the scope of trade, geographical issues and the shifts in European control.	2003-08-13
1012757:US	52300235	R21CJQ6MWDN692	0312982895	337199984	Red Beans and Vice (Heaven Lee Culinary Mysteries)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	When friends are not really friends	Mondays were open mike nights at Cafe Heaven.  The writing is good and the recipes are too.  Heaven Lee is a former lawyer.  She runs a cafe in Kansas City.  Heaven visits New Orleans for the purpose of planning a benefit banquet in honor of the oldest convent in America.  She learns that someone has sent anonymous notes that the waiters in her cafe are diseased.  She collects the notes from the Kansas City Star and city hall on the advice of a hate crimes expert.  Later Heaven feels better when she learns all of the chefs involved in the banquet received such notes.  A friend's husband, Truely, is found stabbed at the benefit event with a stolen cross placed on his body.  Heaven assigns herself the task of sorting it all out to find Truely's murderer.  The scenes are lively and the plotting is clever.	2003-08-13
1013833:US	52300235	R10084N671GOBD	0701120924	50926868	A Word Child	Books	4	5	36	N	N	Iris Murdoch wrote about goodness	Hilary Burde is the word child.  He is not a writer, but just likes words.  We accompany a very low level civil servant, Hilary, for a number of weeks prior to Christmas Day.  The book is funny in parts.  How little the bottomless misery of children is understood.  Our hero is an orphan. He was saved for civil society by a teacher, Mr. Osmand, who taught him Latin and to value learning.  Hilary Burde describes himself as a brilliant plodder, with an aptitude for grammar and an adoration for words.  <br />Hilary went to Oxford.  He found that it was very hard to change.  Hilary worked in an office with two people, Edith Witcher and Reginald Fairbottom.  He rode the entire circle of the underground on Fridays trying to decide which bar to frequent.  His mistress Tommy had long perfect legs.  Friends he visited Thursday evenings were snobs.  Wittgenstein would have loved dinner at Arthur's.  Arthur was the friend of Hilary's sister, Crystal.  Dinner at Arthur's was always the same.<br />Hilary knew Gunnar Jopling at Oxford.  Hilary had been elected to a fellowship at Gunnar's college after he had gotten his first.  Hilary fell madly in love with Gunnar's wife Anne. Anne's face changed.  It lost its joy.  Gunnar found out and Anne was pregnant with Gunnar's child.  Then Hilary and Anne were in a car accident and Anne died.     <br />Both Hilary and Gunnar resigned their fellowships.  Hilary had lost his moral self-respect.  Hilary became engaged to be married and Gunnar's second wife sent him a letter.  He was asked to take the initiative and speak to Gunnar after all the years that had gone by.  Hilary resigned his job so that Gunnar would not have to see him. He was prepared to teach grammar to little children.	2003-08-12
1014047:US	52300235	R3F3I0RFU7XHIN	0452279690	114681625	Cavedweller: A Novel	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Everyone thinks he knows zucchini	The cavedweller of the story is the youngest daughter of Delia Byrd, Cissy.  It comes to pass that Cissy sleeps bettter in caves than above ground.  Having suffered an injury to one of her eyes as a child she is bothered by light anyhow, and does not fear the darkness.  She feels safer below ground than in other circumstances.      In the small town in Georgia to which her mother flees, after stopping drinking and the career as a singer she attained on the west coast, there are many people available to make Cissy feel uncomfortable.  There is her mother's husband who is dying a difficult death.  Actually she comes to feel something like a sort of love for Clint, something no one else feels at the time of his dying.  There are her two sisters, Amanda and Dede, reunited with their mother, trying to get through their teen years and challenging the younger girl, and there are the people in the school and the town who ask Cissy about the lives of rock and roll stars.  It takes over four hundred pages for Cissy to learn to understand and to love her mother again.  It takes that length for her to accept the death of her own father, Randall.	2003-08-12
1017846:US	52300235	RC4ST13R6R7DP	0786109874	332471766	A Short History of Africa	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Comprehensive and well-organized	The first domestication of animals and cultivation of cereals occurred in south-west Africa.  The oldest cereal crops of sub-Saharan Africa were the millets and west of the great bend of the Niger there was also rice.  Maize and cassava were introduced from South and Central America in the 16th and 17th centuries.  The ancient languages were Hamito-Semitic languages of the north and north-east, click languages of the Bush and Hottentot peoples, and the Eastern Sudanic languages and Western Sudanic languages.  The Bantu languages spoken today are closely related to each other.  The introduction into Aftica of South-East-Asian food plants, for example the banana and the yam, made possible the growth of dense populations.  There was a great expansion and dispersal of Bantu farmers.    The idea of kingship probably originated in Egypt.  The organizational efficiency caused the politco-religious ideas to be widely distributed.  Trading expeditions had an effect on the material culture of a wide region.  Then Egypt declined.  It had neither iron or ore.  Northern Kush had ore but no fuel.  The southern region had both commodities.  Meroe could provide for its own subsistence and trade and conquer in the Sudanic belt of Africa.  As to the Sudanic civilization, the typical state was not feudal, it was bureaucratic.  Around the royal person there formed a galaxy.    The book goes on to detail Africa's encounter with the Mediterranean world and then with Islam.  Trading in East Africa and West Africa is delineated carefully.  Ihe slave trade did not create disequilibrium until late.  European colonization was not substantial until the the last quarter of the nineteenth century when matters became frenzied as each country sought to assure itself of a piece of the action.  Prior to that, European missionary efforts had been fairly widespread.  Following World War I the German territories were governed under mandate through the auspices of the League of Nations evidencing a principled undertaking on the part of the colonial powers.  Decolonization took place rapidly following the establishment of Ghana in 1957.    The book is chock full of information and descriptions of the African peoples and kingdoms and modes of government and influences and the movements of various groups over time. The maps are useful.	2003-08-09
1018919:US	52300235	R1AQF8BITE4LU5	0374104441	513130379	The Founding Fish	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Schooling fish	American shad are schooling ocean fish.  When the water warms past 40 degrees F. the migration begins.  Like salmon shad return to the natal waters.  The author says he has been a shad fisherman for seven years.  Evidently he is quite taken with the hobby.  More than once he notes that shad fishermen are the polite fishermen on the rivers and streams. He is headquartered in an appropriate area to pursue his interest, in the vicinty of Lambertville. <br />The record catch for the Delaware River is eleven pounds one ounce and for the Connecticut River eleven pounds four ounces.  The range of the American shad is Northern Florida to Labrador.  You cannot muscle the fish into submission.  The Connecticut River is rich in shad but lacking places for casting.  Shad are fish with emotional problems.  The Delaware River is the only river not blocked by a dam.  <br />Shad are main stem spawners.  There are nine shad hatcheries in the United States.  Dams destroy rivers.  Conservation groups are bothered at the thought of dams.  Historically the Kennebec was rich in shad, sturgeon, salmon, and ship-building--Bath Iron Works.  When the Edwards dam near Augusta was removed, an ecosystem sixteen decades old was destroyed.  Dams are said to last on the average fifty years.	2003-08-08
1019511:US	52300235	R3TO8Q3LHOE9L	0811200701	809318885	The Berlin Stories: The Last of Mr. Norris and  Goodbye to Berlin (New Directions Books)	Books	5	3	6	N	N	For a foreigner German politics are very complicated	The black and white design of the New Directions Book is very fine.  When Isherwood returned to Berlin in the fifties, it came to him that he had been heartless and youthful when the stories were written.  THE LAST OF MR. NORRIS is dedicated to W.H. Auden.  Berlin is mysterious, vibrant, and dangerous.  The writing is first rate.  The narrator, a stand-in for the author, is youthful and untried.  It is noticed that Mr Norris has a wig.  There is a story going around that Norris is some kind of a cheap crook.  He did spend eighteen months at Wormwood Scrubbs.  Arthur Norris is a communist.  He receives a notice from the political police.  He is questioned about his business activities in Berlin.  The narrator, William Bradshaw, gives English lessons.  Other characters are Otto, Anni, Bayer, and Helen Pratt who seems to be a forthright sort.  Arthur Norris's roommate is Schmidt, and then there is William's landlady, Frl. Schroeder.  Norris turns up missing and William receives a letter from him from Prague and another from Paris.  Berlin is in a state of unrest and William returns to England.  When he returns Norris is staying at Frl. Schroeder's and several adventures ensue involving travel and deception on Norris's part.  When last heard of, Norris is in Brazil.<br />GOODBYE TO BERLIN  starts with I am a camera, passive observation.  The narrator here has the author's name, Herr Issyvoo.  As everyone knows, this work portrays Berlin nightlife and the inimitable Isherwood creation, Sally Bowles.  Sally sings badly.  She seems to know everyone in the place, the place being the Lady Windermere, a bar.  Sally moves to Frl. Schroeder's.  She has an abortion and Christopher leaves town for a bit, realizing that he has not managed to get any writing done.  Returning several month later he finds that Sally no longer lives at Frl. Schroeder's establishment.  The narrator spends time with Otto and Peter.  Peter is a student of psychology.  Christopher moves in with the Nowakfamily, the family of Otto.  When Frau Nowak is to go to a sanitorium, he moves out.  Later he visits the sanitorium with Otto.  Finally he becomes acquainted with Natalia Landauer and her family and her cousin Bernhard.  In May Isherwood leaves Berlin for the last time.  The book retains its interest and its freshness.  It is our good fortune, and possibly was Isherwood's tragedy, that he attained such mastery so early in his career as a novelist.	2003-08-07
1019545:US	52300235	R2CFNMU8WMPO0W	0802130607	705586380	Mexico City Blues: 242 Choruses	Books	4	6	10	N	N	Dropping names in rhythm	Good men who live have karma of a dove.  It is 242 choruses, 242 poems.  As is everything written by Kerouac, it is autobiographical.  How can Mexico have a positive association in Beat history when William Burroughs killed his wife there in a William Tell experiment?  Anything by Kerouac was edited and promoted by Allen Ginsberg and for that reason alone a book of poems with Mexico in the title is of interest.  <br />Thinking of comfortable thoughts is what modern society has branded loafing is a line in one of the poems.  Zen provides much of the impetus for the collection of poems.  Kerouac's work manages to create an atmosphere of tropical vegetation and light.  The work is free-form and jazz-like.   <br />Automatic writing?  Well, maybe not automatic writing precisely.  Certainly the word-play and the fluidity remind the reader of Gertrude Stein.  (Mention Gertrude Stein and here we are at chorus 31.)  <br />I like the prose better, but I like the idea of the book and the arrangement.  The Beats stood for blessedness and freedom.  MEXICO CITY BLUES is an appropriate manifestation of Beat ideology.  Fifty first Chorus says America is a permisible dream, a Whitmanesque expression.<br />This is a celebration of other people.  I count Gregory Corso, William Carlos Williams, Oscar Wilde, Alexander Pope, Benjamin Franklin, William Shakespeare, Dostoevsky, the aforesaid Gertrude Stein, Charley Parker, Nin and Ma, Pa or Leo Alcide Kerouac, brother Gerard, Thurber, Baudelaire, Jolson, Miles, Sarah Vaughn, Chagall, Whitman, Melville, Mark Twain, Einstein, Plato, Moses, Aristotle, Joe Louis, Spinoza, James Huneker, Alfred Knopf, H.L. Mencken, David, Picasso, Jesus, Proust, Freud, Glenn Miller, Allen Ginsberg, St. Francis, Siddhartha, Virgin Mary.	2003-08-07
1021538:US	52300235	R2EV6VKVWTCAZ4	0156421178	802050474	Homage to Catalonia	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Lionel Trilling's homage to George Orwell	There is Lionel Trilling's introduction written in 1952.  Standing alone the introduction is historic and of consequence.  It appears in the Beacon Press edition of the work.  At any rate, Trilling finds that the moral tone of Orwell's book is uniquely simple and true.  Orwell was a virtuous man.  He had an old fashioned temperament.  Orwell's experience of being declasse , of being down and out after service in Burma, had significant implications for his writing.  Orwell thought the intelligentsia refused to consider the conditional nature of life.  Orwell could never believe that intellectual life would be a political idyll.<br />When Orwell went to Spain he went to write newspaper articles but joined a militia almost immediately.  In Barcelona revolutionary posters were everywhere.  In the P.O.U.M. militia the shortage of rifles was desperate.  Therefore, there was no weapon training, just marching, drills.  Orwell described the smells of war.  Rifles were finally received three miles from the front line. Orwell noted that in trench warfare five things were important, firewood, food, tobacco, candles, and the enemy.  Orwell said he actually saw very little fighting.  He was in hand to hand combat once, and he reported once was too much.  <br />There was equality in the militias.  Military failure could not be attributed to the system of equality.  Failure resulted from the newness, the lack of material, the lack of training, and the age of the recruits.  He found that revolutionary discipline depended on political consciousness, an understanding of why orders must be obeyed.  (What Orwell described is termed the learning curve in other kinds of discourse.) The militias held the line and there were few desertions.  There was a lack of firewood.  Warfare had made the bare mountainous region even more bare of vegetation.  The English and Spanish always got on well together.  When more Englishmen arrived, Orwell was shifted over to that group.  They were now somewhatcloser to the enemy.  Aragon peasants treated their mules well but their donkeys abominably. In late February 1937 they left Monte Oscuro and were sent with all of the P.O.U.M. troops in the sector to make  a part of the army besieging Huesca.  Until late March nothing happened.    <br />Initially Orwell ignored the political side of the war.  Spain seemed to be suffering from a plague of initials and the matter was confusing.  Orwell thought all of the government forces were Socialists, anti-fascists.  In the beginning Franco's real opponent was not so much the government as the trade unions.  A revolution had started in Spain but its progress and significance varied by region.  By October-November 1936 there was a swing to the Right. Power passed from the Anarchists to the Communists.  The Communist leadership sought to suppress the revolution because it was believed to be premature.  Only Mexico and Russia came to the assistance of the government and only Russia was big enough to dictate terms.<br />The Communist Party moved first against the P.O.U.M. and then against the Anarchists.  The war was essentially a triangular struggle.  The P.O.U.M. was a dissident Communist party.  The unions were not necessarily Anarchists in the pure sense and yet they were tinged with the philosophy and made up a huge portion of the forces opposing Franco.  They aimed at worker control and not parliamentary democracy.  They had uncompromising hostility to the bourgeoisie and the Church.  <br />At the time Orwell preferred the Communists because they had a definite policy.  Press censorship was mainly under Communist control.  One of the worst aspects of war is war propaganda.  The Communists and the P.O.U.M. came to write more bitterly against each other than against the fascists.  Orwell was isolated among the most revolutionary section of the working class.  On paper the Communist case was a good one.  Orwell drew back at their actual behavior.  Communists seemed to be not working to postpone the revolution but to make sure it never happened at all.     <br />In spring the peasants plowed the fields.  The landowners had left.  Orwell never did learn if the land had been collectivized or if the arrangements were informal.  The farming implements were antiquated.  Orwell was surprised that no one crossed himself, even as a gesture.  To the people of Catalonia and Aragon the Church was evidently a racket.  When he went on leave, he had been on the line for one hundred fifteen days and felt that it was the most useless period of his life. The time did form a kind of interregnum. The prevailing mental atmosphere was that of Socialism.  The Spanish militias, while they lasted, were sort of a microcosm of a classless society. <br />Barcelona had changed in the three months and there was general indifference to war.  It was no longer fashionable to be in the militia.  Enlistments had sunk.  The Popular Army was replacing the militias in theory, but in fact it was still training in the rear.  Now there was open contrast of wealth and poverty.  Middle class people no longer wore worker clothing.<br />A civil disturbance broke out in Barcelona as the government and Communist forces sought to defeat the Anarchists and the P.O.U.M.  It was all very confusing to Orwell.  There developed a food shortage.  The Popular Army as a body stayed away from the fray.  The Barcelona fighting had given the Valencia government the excuse to assume fuller control of Catalonia.  <br />Three days after the fighting in Barcelona ended Orwell's group returned to the front.  On routine duty he felt himself being the center of an explosion.  He was taken to Barbastro and then to Lerida.  Eight or nine days after being wounded his wound was finally examined at Tarragona.  Sinister rumors of all kinds flew around Barcelona.  It was hard to convey the atmosphere he claimed because in England political intolerance was not taken for granted.<br />At this point Orwell hoped tojust get out of Spain and return to England.  He had been certified medically unfit, but he needed to obtain a discharge.  He had to repeat the circuit of field hospitals and intermediate stations in order to have his papers signed.  Returning to the hotel in Barcelona he discovered the P.O.U.M. had been declared an illegal organization and that he might be subject to arrest.  Andres Nin was taken and killed.  The manner of leaving the country makes exciting reading.  The experience in Spain clearly foreshadowed ANIMAL FARM and 1984.	2003-08-06
1022057:US	52300235	R3CDD09HRKQIQ5	037542217X	405618230	The Kalahari Typing School for Men: More from the No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A new business is a hedge in a downturn	Mma Ramotswe was in her late thirties and blessed.  She had two orphan children, a wonderful fiance, and a house on Zebra Drive.  Mr. Matekoni, the fiance, said that cars speak of people.  Mma Ramotswe was concerned that her assistant Mma Makutsi who had run Mr. Matekoni's car repair business when he was ill would not have enough work to keep busy now that Mr. Matekoni was restored to good health.  Mma Ramotswe asked her assistant if she would like to have a husband.  Mma Ramotswe was an optimist.  She did not like to see her assistant go through life thinking she was just a local girl from the bush.  After all, she was a crack typist.<br />Mr. Maketoni found that the work of his two apprentices was less  greasy than it had been before his illness.  Mma Makutsi advised there was another detective agency in town.  She learned about the principle of competition at secretarial college.  It was located in the original premises of the No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency.  The competition was Ex-CID.  Also, New York was mentioned, but Mr. Buthelezi would not say how long he had been in New York.  While typing up the bills for the garage Mma Makutsi thought up the idea of a typing school for men and found a source of old typewriters from her secretarial college.<br />Mma Ramotswe was given a case to find people so that an engineer could make amends.  She traveled to a government office to find out about a pension for the widow of a prison official.  She knew that dull people could not distinguish between meritorious and unmeritorious requests.  The motto of the secretarial college is be accurate. The apprentices restored the old typewriters to serviceability.  Mma Makutsi received a declaration of love from one of the typing students.<br />The head of the rival detective agency claimed to be the first professional detective.  He claimed that the women were just dabbling.  I will not disclose the ending to any of the various strands of the plot.  These books just keep getting better and better.  Bravo Alexander McCall Smith for your wonderful series.better and better.  Bravo Alexander McCall Smith for your wonderful series.	2003-08-05
1022268:US	52300235	R2OPUR2GJHUU38	0773502378	43759437	Boris Pil'niak: A Soviet Writer in Conflict with the State	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Kremlin mysteries	Boris Pil'niak was arrested in 1937.  He died in 1941 during mass shootings of prisoners in camps pursuant to Stalin's orders as the front during World War II moved.  He was rehabilitated in 1956.  There is also a belief that he died in 1937, shot not long after his arrest.  He was born in 1894.  He was arrested in Peredelkino.  For months before his arrest had lived in a constant state of being taken.  His children were outcasts in the eyes of the state, children of an Enemy of the People.  <br />He was of Volga-German ancestry.  He loved to travel and of course his contacts abroad were suspect.  He had Trotskyite friends, Victor Serge, for example, and he knew Trotsky.  He had given aid and comfort to the family of Karl Radek.  \\"The Tale of the Undistinguished Moon\\" by Pil'niak referred to the death of M. V. Frunze, the first medical death.  Frunze was a rival of Stalin.  Pil'niak's Commander Gavrilor is Frunze's double.  Frunze had undergone an operation and died forty one hours later.  The circumstances were suspicious.  <br />Pil'niak recognized Stalin's cold and ruthless self in the twenties.  In a short preface Pil'niak denied that the story was based on the death of Commisar Frunze.  Pil'niak may have been parading his audacity.  In 1937 it was alleged that Karl Radek and Veronsky gave Pil'niak the story.  The Stalin figure was the Unbending Man.  The story appeared in NOVY MIR in 1926 and within a month the issues were recalled and became very expensive on the black market.  When the issue was released again the Pil'niak story was absent.   <br />In the June issue A. K. Voronsky to whom the story was dedicated rejected the dedication with indignation.  In a letter to Gorky one of the observers of the scene said the editors had probably not read the story but published it because it was from Pil'niak.  Gorky characterized the story as scandalous in a letter to a friend.  In 1927, after a trip abroad, Pil'niak was made to recant.  The story became a crime through force of political circumstances.  The issue of the tale arose again in 1929 at the time when Pil'niak's MAHOGANY, a novelette, was published abroad.  The tale was never to be forgotten.  Pil'niak suffered from boldness and naivete.<br />Religion agitated Soviet society in 1928 and 1929.  It was demanded that church bells be removed and used for industrial purposes.  Pil'niak's discourse on the peasant was contrary to state policies.  In 1927 collectivization began.  In 1929 Stalin launched a propaganda campaign against the Kulaks.  And in addition to questioning the state's position on religion, he, Pil'niak, also attacked the bureaucracy.  The outcasts in MAHOGANY are Leninists and Trotskyites.<br />Pil'niak wrote in a story that it was his glory and his bitter duty to be a Russian writer.  By birth and education he was a member of the intelligensia but he ws not an intellectual.  After his ouster in 1929 as Writers' Union head he worked diligently to reform his reputation as a writer.  In the final chapter the author shows how Pil'niak was reduced to self-censorship in the early thirties when he revised a book he had written about a trip to Japan.  In the early thirties the dictatorship was in a consolidation phase.	2003-08-05
1023801:US	52300235	R7GGFO59WQ4FO	0553562525	944958852	Wake the Dead	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Tribulations of a Member of Parliament	Inspector Luke Thanet and his wife Joan attend a fete at the estate of a Member of Parliament when the MP's mother turns up murdered.  The woman had been in very bad health.  The fete was good for Fairleigh's public image.  Sergeant Lineham was Thanet's extra ears and eyes and he felt thwarted when Lineham was not present.  Eventually, of course, he is brought into the picture.  Thanet's wife Joan was a probation officer.  She usually did not bring her work home, but at this stage she was concerned about Michele, someone who was a battered girl friend.  Through the investigation, contacts made in the course of it, Thanet is able to suggest a job for her.  <br />The victim had a sister who lived with the Fairleighs.  The victim's sister had hidden depths.  She was a secret gambler.  The victim was apt to be manipulative in order to get her way according to some of the persons interviewed by the police.  Along the way Sergeant Lineham learns that his son is dyslexic.  I do not want to disclose the ending, particularly because I liked some of the characters and did not like seeing them pained.  The writing is elegant and good.  Undoubtedly the series is well worth following.	2003-08-04
1023809:US	52300235	RF0JJRRYIG137	0140440046	295639784	Candide: Or Optimism (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Leibniz not distilled	CANDIDE is Voltaire's wittiest novel.  Voltaire knew suffering.  He had been imprisoned in the Bastille.  He meditated on calamities, earthquakes in Lisbon and in Lima.  CANDIDE was publshed in 1759.  Voltaire emphasizes the resilience of human nature.  Finally, there is characterized the uselessness of metaphysical speculation and the value of work.  <br />Candid was granted a pardon from the King of the Bulgars because he was a philosopher.  He encountered a charitable Anabaptist in Holland.  In South America the lovely Cunegonde's, the woman of Candide's dream, brother  appeared as a Jesuit.  Candide had learned from their tutor Pangloss that he was deceased.  The Jesuit Baron became angry with Candide because he wanted to marry his sister and then Candide had to kill him in self-defense.  Subsequently Candide's life was spared because he was not a Jesuit.  Candide and his servant, Cacambo, traveled to El Dorado. They left to find Cunegonde and ran into a sugar plantation.  <br />Candide embarked with an old man, the scholar Martin, for Bordeaux.  Candide had the hope of seeing Cunegonde again.  Candide went to Paris.  He spent an evening gambling, and did not mind his losses, and so was taken as one of the English milords.  Candide and Martin, through a series of events, were taken to lower Normandy to save their lives.  Their ship went to Portsmouth, England.  At length they reached Venice.  Candide was reunited with his servant.  <br />The party went to Constantinople.  First Candide bought Cacambo his freedom.  Pangloss and Cunegonde's brother, the Baron, were found alive as galley slaves and their freedom was purchased.  Cunegonde was found working in the kitchen of the Price of Transylvania.  The Baron still objected to the marriage of Candide to his sister, but he was ignored.  The group endeavored to work on their small estate.	2003-08-04
1024099:US	52300235	R26M56RGS1UIYB	0060934417	546555129	Bel Canto	Books	5	2	14	N	N	opera bouffe	This is a masterpiece,  but I do not want to scare prospective readers because it is a light-hearted one.  Roxanne Coss is an opera star.  She is loved.  People have all of her recordings.  Katsumi Hosokawa had eighteen performances featuring Roxanne Coss.  A birthday celebration is arranged in another country and Roxanne Coss is to perform.  Mr. Hosokawa has his employee and translator, Gen Watanabe, attending his party too, along with Ruben Iglesias, the vice president of the country.  President Masuda fails to attend at the last minute.  <br />The party is overrun by terrorists.  Mr. Hosokawa bears a terrible burden of responsibility.  All of the people came for his birthday.  The hostage that pained him the most was Roxanne Coss.  She had been brought to this dismal jungle to sing for him.  Roxanne Coss is sure she will escape.  Simon and Edith Thibault have been sent to the host country, the country they referred to as a God forsaken country, to assume a diplomatic post.   Edith sees that the terrorists do not seem to be in a hurry to kill the guests.  <br />A representative of the International Red Cross  shows up.  Two priests are among the guests.  One is a very young priest who was put on the guest list for the party through the machinations of a favorite cousin of the wife of the vice president.  He is an opera lover, but knows it only through vinyl.  <br />The hostage-takers seek to release the women, the workers, and the priests, (the young priest refusesd to leave), to the Red Cross representative.  The name of the group is Familia de Martin Suarez.  Mr. Hosokawa had never even considered bringing his wife to the country.  As the women file out, Roxanne Coss is told to wait.  <br />The accompanist is dying.  The young priest gives him last rites.  The accompanist dies from diabetic coma--he had needed insulin.  The hostage-takers develop a fondness for the Red Cross representative.  The hostages are given food and begin to move around more easily. <br />Some of the men are slated to leave to reduce the number of people remaining.  Mr. Hosokawa is grateful for all the Spanish he is learning.  Previously he had failed  dismally with tapes.  The house yields lots of interesting things to the hostage-taker teenage soldiers.  The guests, hostages, of many nationalities talk about overpowering the soldiers.  Two of the soldiers are girls.  Roxanne Coss remains in captivity since she is considered a big fish.  <br />Gen finally finds a man who can play the piano.  All of the hostages use Gen for translating and the generals, leaders of the hostage-takers, use Gen as a secretary.  They like waking him up in the middle of the night to take down dictation of their demands in the negotiations.  When Messner, the Red Cross representative, leaves there is a lingering sadness in the house.  One of the generals feels the hostages are like terrible children, always wanting more for themselves.<br />A box of music is delivered.  Negotiations are stalemated.  Adequate food is being sent in.  The French ambassador oversees the cooking of the meals for fifty eight people.  Some of the soldiers assist in the slicing and dicing since they are in possession of the cutlery.  The sticking point in the whole thing is the growing reknown of Roxanne Coss. There is a fear that any action jeopardizing her safety will bring down the government. Messner tells her she is making Callas look like a spear carrier.  <br />The hostages are being held in the official residence of the vice president, and he busies himself cleaning and tending the guests  in the manner of a competent concierge.  The Frenchman reads ONE HUNDRED YEARS IN SOLITUDE in Spanish.  He says it will take him forever, but he has the time.  Gen says that being kidnapped is like attending a university.	2003-08-04
1026266:US	52300235	R302147U0AQ8G4	0449908070	225315262	Jesus: A Life	Books	5	6	16	N	N	Historical Jesus	The Jesus of history and the Christ of faith are different.  A.N. Wilson writes about the Jesus of history.  A likely date for Jesus's birth is 4 BCE.  Wilson believes he was born in Galilee.  He died about 30 CE.  Wilson identifies Jesus as a cult figure of three distinct traditions, that of the Jewish congregation of Jerusalem, that of Paul's teachings, and that of the Fourth Gospel.  When Jerusalem was sacked in 70 CE the first tradition died.  Paul won the argument.  <br />The Old Testament is the record of an evolving religious consciousness.  The Book of Job is the most Homeric of the Biblical books.  Christ is Greek for Messiah.  The Thessalonians were warned to keep a look out.  The urgent but essentially false warning came from Paul.  Paul uses the phrase so often the Gospel of Christ meaning the Gospel of Good News about the Messiah.  Christ or Messiah means the annointed one.  A key text for the Jews waiting for the Messiah was the Book of Daniel.  In the Greek world it was not surprising that a Jewish Messiah could be perceived as divine.<br />In First Corinthians Paul refers to the historical Jesus.  Paul may be said to be the inventor of the Christian religion.  The eucharist is more like the mystery cults than orthodox Jewish practice.  To Paul the significant fact was Jesus was risen.<br />A.N. Wilson provides a naturalistic explanation to the historical Jesus.  He provides fascinating analysis in his book.	2003-08-02
1026775:US	52300235	R186L7EQSULISQ	0738504173	167382452	Guarding New Jersey's Shore: Lighthouses and Life-Saving Stations (NJ) (Images of America)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The era of iron men and wooden ships	It is a forgotten Federal Agency.  Its peak years were from 1878 to 1915.  It was the United State Life Saving Service.  Lifesavers were popular folk heroes, storm warriors.  It was started in New Jersey in 1848.  The New Jersey shore had more wrecks than the Outer Banks, Cape Hatteras.  New Jersey is the graveyard of the Atlantic, not the Outer Banks.  The book details the life saving service, light houses, light ships.  There was a Light House Board in the United States Treasury Department until it merged with the Coast Guard.  In 1889 the Life Saving Service became uniformed because of complaints.  Lifesavers were generally recruited from local fishermen who knew surf and sea conditions.  Numerous life saving stations are shown.  The book exists for its pictures, which are plentiful. Basically it is a picture book. Detailed explanations are given.  The plan of the book is simple and forthright.  We had occasion to use the book just this morning to plan an outing to see a restored stucture.  Indeed, there it was, pictured, in this highly useful book.	2003-08-01
1026861:US	52300235	R35WJSI7VIJXR	0553580256	601975576	Pawing Through the Past: A Mrs. Murphy Mystery	Books	4	4	4	N	N	When animals are people	We are in Crozet, Virginia and the clerk at the post office is nicknamed Harry.  A twentieth year reunion is being planned.  There is a conceited classmate named Boom Boom who is helping to run the show.  Harry, Mary Minor Haristeen, is irritated.  Next a particularly obnoxious member of the class, Charlie Ashcraft, turns up dead.  <br />Harry's ex-husband Fair helps her to make a downpayment on a new truck.  This is a book where two cats and a dog talk to the reader and to each other.  We read their contributions in italics.  This should not work, but it does.  The story improves as one reads on.  Initially one fears the whole thing will expire of cuteness.<br />Parallel reunions are going on, and so the author has given herself a vehicle to write of different generations--neat.  The dead man had been an egotist.  Tracy Raz, newly arrived for one of the reunions, arranges to rent some rooms from Harry at her farm.  Tracy is going to be attending the fifty year reunion.  Tracy is an old friend of Harry's employer at the post office.<br />A body of another classmate is found in the dumpster of the grocery store next to the post office.  The two men were killed in the same manner.  The second victim is Leo Burkey.  The next death is a suicide.  <br />Harry dreads the question at her high school reunion of her failure to achieve greatness.  She is going to have to say that she has made a conscious choice to put her inner life ahead of her outer life.  Someone is killed at the reunion of twenty years.  One of the people present says they could market the idea of murder at the reunion.  <br />Oh my, another body is discovered at the school, site of the reunion.  At this stage I really do not want to give away more of the plot.  Read how the cats end up saving the day.  I am impressed.<br />The author has written a good book.  She uses the animals well and creatively.  Her plotting skills are of the highest order.  I would welcome the opportunity to read another title inthis series.	2003-08-01
1027938:US	52300235	R12P5NZQYCGP8H	0374525269	787578311	The Designated Mourner: A Play	Books	5	2	4	N	N	I'm fine, really	What is highbrow, what is lowbrow?  How much life can be squeezed out of one body?  Some ideas are like formalized greetings.  Wallace Shawn's work is witty and loving.  It has been suggested that the play is an allegory of his father's role as editor of THE NEW YORKER.  True or not, everyone needs stories and this play is a gem.  <br />The characters are Howard, Jack, and Judy.  Judy and Jack are married to each other.  Jack says he met his wife Judy when he was trying to buy a pair of pajamas.  Howard is Judy's father and of course he is remarkable but that does not mean that Jack wants to be a disciple.  He does envy Howard and the whole gang of them, the unbearables.  The couple moves to their own apartment but Howard is sick and can not be expected to live by himself.  Jack describes the places Judy loves as tropical nightmare zones.  <br />Jack wonders why he walks around in a stooped posture and why there is an intolerable noise in his head.  Jack reports that Howard is a rat himself but that others begg him to be their leader in their war against rats.  At a point when Jack is misbehaving mildly it comes to him that he can not stand Howard.  Jack leaves.  He has an affair with Peg.<br />Jack says, &quot;Maybe my problem was just having been very unhappy--you know, unhappiness being a cold sort of marshland in which other emotions refuse to grow.&quot;  He says that everyone wonders if magnificent success will be achieved and if there will be marvelous self-expression.  Jack calls his diary Experiments in Privacy.  When everyone from a tribe dies out, there has to be a designated mourner to mourn the last survivor.  Jack feels he is the designated mourner.<br />The writing is bright and new.  I would like to see this acted.	2003-07-31
1028694:US	52300235	RBDP0IXZTDGFI	0520226879	739318877	Walt Whitman: The Song of Himself	Books	5	8	22	N	N	The good gray poet of Camden	The poet died in 1892.  In life he became notorious and a positive influence on the reformers of the day.  The author states he supplied the model for the count in Bram Stoker's DRACULA.  The first edition of LEAVES OF GRASS was 1855, the last 1881.  Whitman was not as solitary as previously assumed.  For the poet the Civil War  became a marriage ceremony of sorts.  At forty three Whitman was too old for the rigors of combat.  In 1862 Whitman went to the front in search of his brother George.  Subsequently traveling to Washington D.C. he began his career as a wound dresser.  Whitman immersed himself in the pathos of the terrible struggle.  <br />Whitman's capacity to love was the dynamo of LEAVES OF GRASS.  He was a former printer, second son in the family.  Whitman's ancestry was essentially Dutch and English.  He concluded his formal schooling at age eleven.  Between 1836 and 1841 Whitman taught at eight district schools on Long Island.  By 1855 Whitman had read Emerson.  In 1840 he made the prophetic announcement that he was thinking of writing a book.  The tone of Whitman's early writings is moralistic.  Whitman wrote a temperance novel entitled FRANKLIN EVANS.  <br />Whitman was a privte poet who made public his boundless affection for the one in the many.  Whitman was no New England reformer.  His utopia was not an agrarian retreat.  In the 1840's Whitman dressed in a conventional way.  Whitman loved Indian names and thought the nation was losing something through its policy of Indian removal.  At the same time he had Darwainian confidence that the Indians faced extinction.  Whitman was appalled by capital punishment.  He saw the matter within the context of the haves and the nave-nots.  <br />The Bible was an influence later on his poetry.  Whitman was editor of the BROOKLYN EAGLE 1846-1848.  Whitman saw slavery as a social evil.  He never became an abolitionist in a political or formal sense.  Whitman lost his job and traveled south to New Orleans.  He worked at the CRESCENT but later separated from that publication possibly by mutual agreement.  His favorite poet was William Cullen Bryant.  It may have occurred to him at this time that he was wearing out his opportunities in journalism.  Travel beyond Long Island and New York City had fed his imagination at least. <br />Whitmam, a product of &quot;charity schooling&quot;, was socially and economically different from Emerson and others.  Whitman was involved in Free-Soil politics.  He became the editor of the FREEMAN.  As the paper adopted a softer tone, Whitman was pushed out of the editorial office.  LEAVES OF GRASS began to take shape in his mind in the 1850's.  Parallels abound between Emerson's first two collections of essays and Whitman's first three editions of LEAVES OF GRASS.  Whitman was interested in problems of democracy and the development of genius.  He probably heard or knew of Emerson's address &quot;Natural Aristocracy.&quot;  Whitman was awash in romantic ideas about art and the artist.<br />Whitman's favorite composers of opera were Rossini, Donizetti, Bellini, and Verdi.  Italian opera emphasized the human voice over the orchestration.  It is because of Italian opera that LEAVES OF GRASS may be read aloud.  BEL CANTO sent Whitman into moments of rapture.  LEAVES OF GRASS is a solitary act.  The terms leaves and grass are printer's lingo.  The use of leaves in a book title was common.  Whitman felt that the genius in the United States was always in the common people.  Emerson wrote that famous letter on July 21, 1855 greeting Whitman &quot;at the beginning of a great career.&quot;  <br />Whitman blurred the difference between poetry and prose. Whitman took the single line as the rhythmical unit.  James Russell Lowell supported Whitman's poetry with reservations.  Richard Moncton Milnes was a notable English supporter.  Alcott left a full account of a visit with Whitman in 1856.  Emerson thought the poet should use self-censorship on his Children of Adam poems for the 1860 edition.  The only contemporary response to homosexuality and the Calamus poems was a letter of the English critic John Aldington Symonds in 1890.  William Dean Howells and Henry James did not like the poetry in DRUM TAPS or any of the other offerings of Whitman.  William Rossetti arranged for an English edition of LEAVES OF GRASS.  <br />Whitman was a commencement speaker at Dartmouth in 1872.  In the 1870's he moved to Camden and suffered the first stroke.  Ill health did not prevent him from being productive in later life.  His last essay treated Elias Hicks, a Quaker artist, who had been an influence on his work.  This critical biography is excellent.	2003-07-31
1029524:US	52300235	R2JJRQLLD9UH6O	0375701818	27564281	Bone by Bone: Shadow Country Trilogy (3)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Nature writing transmuted to fiction	Reading this book is an ambitious undertaking.  Matthiessen's books appeal to the serious reader.  His father, Elijah Watson, challenged a hero, General Butler, to a duel.  Edgar Watson left Elijah Watson's household for two years.  He stayed at the old Tilghman place.  Returning he found out that his father had led others to believe that he had shot a man.  <br />Edgar and the women moved south.  In March 1871 they crossed into Florida.  They had traveled from North Carolina to Georgia and into Florida.  They went to the Myers plantation which Aunt Tabitha inherited.  His mother's plea for refuge had been granted.  <br />Edgar was disliked by the overseer, Woodson Tolen.  He was from the Flint River country in Georgia. Edgar went to work on another plantation because he made Woodson Tolen angry.  Then Old Man Woodson Tolen went back to Georgia and tensions eased.  <br />Edgar married Miss Charlie Collins when she turned fifteen.  Ten months later she died.  Their child's name was not registered in Lake City.  He was referred to as Son Born.  Charlie's parents took him to raise.  Eight years later Edgar went to fetch him.  Mr. and Mrs. Curry Collins called him Elton, but now Edgar called him Robert or Rob for short.  <br />Edgar, accused of killings he did not commit, went with Rob and his second wife, Mandy, to the Oklahoma territory.  In the territory Edgar ran into the Younger clan and Belle Starr.  Belle Starr's son claimed he tried to bribe his way out of a scrape.  Watson was put on trial for Starr's murder.  He was released.  The charge was not proved.  The federal court held there was insufficient evidence to indict him.<br />Next Edgar leased a farm in Crawford County, Arkansas.  By that time Rob was eleven and the other children, Carrie and Edward, toddlers.  Also there was a new baby and the family was in debt.  In jail for a month, Edgar had to plant later.  They did not celebrate Christmas.  They were in hibernation trying to ride out the famine.  <br />Watson was arrested for horse theft and Mandy and the children moved with kind people to the Choctaw Nation.  When he went out on the chain gang he managed to escape, but could not get word  to Mandy and his family.  He went off with Frank Reese and they parted near Memphis.  Now he was known as Jack Watson.  He rode over the Smokies into the Carolinas.  <br />He sought his father Elijah Watson near Edgefield Court House.  In 1878 Elijah Watson and William Coulter were indicted for murder.  In October 1879 there was a finding of not guilty.  Then he had a work gang job, prison guard.  Next he, Elijah,  became a grave digger.  <br />Edgar realized he no longer cared whether he lived or died. He went to Florida and changed his name to E. Jack Watson.  He visited his sister Minny and her husband Billy Collins.  He learned that he was wanted in Arkansas.  Watson traveled west and hired out as a gunslinger.  He killed a man and almost fell into the hands of lynch mob.  <br />From Arcadia, Florida he went south to Ten Thousand Islands. He started farming at Chatham Bend.  His family joined him.  They led a rough mosquito-ridden life.  The Watson Place was famous because it was the only place between Fort Myers and Key West that was painted.  <br />In 1898, a dry year, a huge alligator made its home in the Chatham River.  Everyone but Rob moved to Fort Myers when Mandy was sick.  The story continues in this fashion.  Les Cox was one of the last varmints, bully boys, encountered by Edgar Watson.  Finally Watson meets his merited end.<br />I honor the author's accomplishment.  The book is strong and fine, although I preferred KILLING MR. WATSON.	2003-07-30
1029783:US	52300235	R23AY4B80UQKRA	0060925752	281488388	Soul Mates: Honoring the Mystery of Love and Relationship	Books	4	16	21	N	N	Issues of the heart	The heart has its reasons.  We try to explain emotions inadequately.  The heart is a mystery.  Relationship, emotion, passion can be grasped by the tools of poetry and religion.  Soul does not make love a project.  In general our thinking has become too mechanized.  <br />The ways of soul are filled with paradox.  Jung said the soul is the archetype of life.  Emerson said the soul does not advance in a straight line.  The soul appears regressive.  Soul is attachment, spirit is detachment.  Rilke thought each person should protect the solitude of the other.  The soul is always complicated.  We all have skeletons in out closets and monsters in out hearts.  None of us may want to know who we really are.  Reading psychology books may be a distraction of attending to the soul!  <br />Every marriage has exterior and interior dimensions.  Marriage is a profound stirring of souls.  When we idealize the family, we also demonize it.  Our secular ideal of family may become excessively personal.  A family is a form of community.  Families complcate life.  <br />It may be wise to cultivate friendship in an indirect manner.  We could deal with our paranoia by placing more value on intuition.  True conversation is an interpenetration of worlds.  A conversation grows at its own tempo.  Some people do not have the patience to get to know each other over time.  The soul of relationships is not goal-minded.  <br />The book is pleasant and useful.  Discussions of symbolism and mythology run through the chapters.	2003-07-30
1031243:US	52300235	R27TCBGUFT0WPM	0156997010	363108113	The Years	Books	5	3	9	N	N	Anticipation	Eleanor felt that the poor enjoyed themselves more than they did.  They were stuck at home too much.  In 1891 Eleanor Pargiter was a social worker.  It is now 1907 and Edward Pargiter, brother of Eleanor, has produced an English translation of Sophocles's Antigone.  <br />Moving forward, it is 1908 and Martin Pargiter has visited  his father and his sister, Eleanor.  1911 produces a scene of Rose with her cousins Sarah and Maggie, daughters of Sir Digby.  Maggie has married a Frenchman later on.  <br />There is a meeting of Kitty, Lady Lasswade, and Eleanor.  Following the meeting Kitty was going to the opera and so she was dressed in formal clothes.  Eleanor thought that Kitty had the great lady's manner.  Eleanor felt dowdy compared with Kitty.  Edward Pargiter was present at the opera.  Lucy Craddock had been Kitty's tutor at Oxford.  <br />Eleanor is found at the country place of her brother Morris's mother in law.  Her father died. She had no attachments at the moment.  Her sister in law Celia told her there was to be a village fete.  Eleanor met Sir William Whatney there.  She had not seen him since he had been to India.  Peggy and North, her niece and nephew, came in.  She thought her growing interest in birds was a sign of old age.   <br />Eleanor sold the family house and made arrangements for Crosby, the servant, to depart.  She left with the family dog who soon had to be put down because it was aged, disabled, and suffering.  Martin, called Captain Pargiter,  did not marry.  He encountered Kitty who introduced him to Ann Hillier.  Martin said to Kitty that Eleanor was a queer old bird.<br />During the war Eleanor at one point dined with Maggie and her husband.  Maggie felt that Eleanor looked like an abbess.  The story shifts to the present day and Eleanor is shown having returned from India.  It is noted by one of the characters that Edward and Kitty had been very much in love but that Kitty had married another man. Pleasure is increased by sharing it.<br />This book is a pleasure to have and to read.  Is there a pattern, a theme?  Virginia Woolf was a pattern maker.  This work anticipates THREE GUINEAS and BETWEEN THE ACTS.  It is in a new manner for Virginia Woolf.  Leonard Woolf wrote that he did not care for it but stifled his displeasure to spare his wife agony.	2003-07-29
1032262:US	52300235	RHR14UDRG3KYW	0837194342	791861553	The Maestro: The Life of Arturo Toscanini	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Admired perfectionist	Arturo Toscanini was born in Parma in 1867.  His father had served with Garibaldi in his youth.  Arturo began at age nine his studies at the Parma Conservatory.  The school was French in its orientation.      What was required of a conductor was to lead, to fire up an orchestra.  Toscanini wept when he heard LOHENGRIN.  He left the conservatory with highest honors in piano, composition, and cello.  At school he stood out for zeal, intensity, and knowledge.      A professional engagement at age nineteen involved playing the cello in an opera company touring Brazil.  The audience drove two conductors from the podium because a popular Brazilian had received bad reviews.  At the request of the musicians Toscanini stepped into the breach to perform AIDA.  It was a triumph.  He was installed as conductor of the Rossi troupe and conducted eighteen more operas.    Alfredo Catalani, composer of LA WALLY, arranged for Toscanini's employment as a conductor in Italy.  In gratitude Toscanini named his children Walter and Wally for the opera.  In the early years Toscanini went from house to house and from cello player to conductor all over the country.  In LA GIOCONDA the audience clamored for a repeat.  Toscanini refused.      He conducted the world premiere of PAGLIACCI.  In 1893 he withdrew from conducting for a year.  He feared he was being used as a ploy against another conductor.  In 1894 he accepted an engagement in Pisa and plunged back into the activity.  In the afternoons he played the late Beethoven quartets with friends.  The big Wagner works were particularly exacting.  The first production of DIE GOTTERDAMMERUNG in Italy was an event.  In 1896 at Turin Toscanini conducted the premiere of LA BOHEME.      In 1897 Toscanini married.  His son was born nine months later.  He said to someone that he was always on the beat.  I should have mentioned earlier that Toscanini was noted for his strict fidelity to the printed score.  He went over the scores with unrelenting thoroughness.       He arrived at La Scala in 1898.  This theater was closest to his heart.  People in Milan said that Toscanini would stir things up.  Toscanini wanted to create a unified artistic point of view.  After the production of FALSTAFF Verdi sent Toscanini a telegram saying thanks, thanks, thanks.  Toscanini thought that the voice of Enrico Caruso was at its purest and most electrifying when he appeared at La Scala in 1901.      Toscanini went to the Metropolitan Opera in 1908.  He spent seven seasons there.  In 1920 he conducted at Padua and Rome.  He sought to rebuild the orchestra at La Scala.  The orchestra toured America and the theater reopened in 1921. For three years he worked with consuming intensity.  Then the matter of Mussolini intruded.  From 1926 to 1929 Toscanini took on a dual role.  He conducted the New York Philharmonic each season and retained control of La Scala.        Toscanini was coming to occupy a niche all his own.  It was consistent with the age--the virtuoso conductor.  There was no lack of public fascination with his life, his person.  He was invited to conduct at Bayreuth.  Fascists bothered Toscanini and his family at Bolgna.  From 1933 Toscanini decided to avoid Germany.  He took an engagement with the Vienna Philharmonic.  He left the New York Philharmonic in 1936.  In 1938 he abandoned plans to return to Salzburg for political reasons.      The N.B.C. Symphony was organized for Toscanini.  In 1950 at age eighty three he set out for a tour with the N.B.C. Symphony from coast to coast.  The drive for perfection was  relentless.   He dealt with tempo first and insisted that it must be sustained. He sought the proper balance of instruments.  The author used both a chronological plan and a thematic plan to illuminate the Toscanini genius.	2003-07-28
1033130:US	52300235	R1BF86JKFPEZDR	0061043508	494276546	Strong Poison	Books	5	4	4	N	N	You cannot make an omelette without breaking eggs	This is still a masterpiece of the genre. Doroty Sayers was very aware of the issue of the writer as outsider.  Her writing is sprightly.  We begin promisingly, right in the midst of a trial. Nothing could be more action oriented.  There is a wonderful jury instruction given on the burden of proof.  Harriet Vane is charged with murder by arsenic and she is writing a mystery story about murder by arsenic.  It is so very curious to write books about crime and to be accused of crime.  There is a hung jury.  <br />With a month to erect a new defense if available, Lord Peter Wimsey undertakes to visit the father of the victim.  Since both Harriet Vane , the alleged perpetrator, and the victim are writers, their books are selling enormously well.  Wimsey seeks to insert his man, Bunter, into the household of the cousin with whom the victim resided and a lady confidential clerk into the cousin's law chambers.  <br />Lord Peter notes he collects books.  Crime is not very decorative.  Lord Peter's interference in bringing about his sister Mary's marriage is just dear.  The plotting is excellent.  The book does not age, although some of the renderings of the accents of the servants and the various classes of British society are heavy going.	2003-07-27
1034237:US	52300235	R2O6SZB6ABKUGN	0451409361	202394023	The Lamorna Wink	Books	4	1	4	N	N	The Uninvited	A Martha Grimes mystery is a pleasure to read for reason of her character Richard Jury.  One casts one's mind over other instances in which a female author identifies with a male figure such as Lord Peter Wimsey and Adam Dalgliesh, but then of course writing is a rather masculine pursuit, particularly for those older than the much talked about baby boomers.  I think the men may represent freedom and logical thinking, necessary qualities to detect the circumstances and the perpetrators of crime.      Consider some more the selection of hero.  In most cases cited above he is well-born, accomplished, even, possibly, a writer.  And so the hero is a sort of dream figure, impossibly better situated and more accomplished than the rest of us.      Also think of this peculiarity--that Martha Grimes, as is the case of Elizabeth George, is an American who habitually situates her mysteries in England complete with English characters.  Well, this turn of events is all in all quite interesting, perhaps a means for the writer to hide sufficiently and to get the job done.  At any rate, the result in both instances is good.  In truth, Richard Jury has a reduced presence in this adventure.    Here we open in the Woodbine Tearoom with Melrose Plant and Marshall Trueblood in discussion about Richard Jury.  A feature of the stories is to write about pubs.  In the work we have the Drowned Man, wonderful name. It seems the other pub at Bletchley is called the Die is Cast.      Johnny Wells, waiter at the Drowned Man and taxi cab driver, discovers his Aunt Chris is missing.  Johnny had lived with his Aunt Chris for most of his life.  Richard Jury is in North Ireland but Scotland Yard has never put Melrose Plant on a need to know basis.      The descriptions of architecture in the vicinity of Cornwall, Devon, and Penzance are pretty glorious.  Esme and Noah Bleckley died in the sea by the house Melrose decides to rent for a quarter.  There is an unanswerable question remaining about the situation of the children.  Why did they walk down the stairs in their night clothes.    One of the characters is a chicken king, a wildly successful enterpreneur.  He has vacated his own house to live in a nursing home he has financed.  Richard Jury shows up.  Since the investigators are now looking at six deaths, old and new, and one disappearance, help is needed.  The story is convoluted, clever, masterful.	2003-07-26
1034780:US	52300235	R30U9YCPW7YIWB	0521398304	407364698	The Decipherment of Linear B (Canto)	Books	5	10	14	N	N	A  Eureka  moment	Michael Ventris was an architect whose knack for languages, both oral training and excellent visual memory, provided the foundation for his avocation, decoding the Cretan script.  Archaeology of the pre-hellinic age supplied the material.  Among many scholars in Athens in the 1890's to see the Schliemann treasures was Arthur Evans.  Based on evidence of the wealth of the civilization, Evans was led to search for prehistoric writing.  In excavation at Knossos, Crete he found that the civilization was in his estimation incomparably older than that of Greece.    Early Greek was composed of Greek dialects.  Evans found Minoan writing.  It is now possible to see that Linear B resulted from adapting the Minoan script to Greek writing.  Classical Cypriot writing was seemingly related to Linear B; but the signs can stand for different things and it was too readily assumed that Linear B followed the spelling conventions of Cypriot.  Evans concluded that the Minoan language was totally different from that of Mycenaen Greek.  The influence of Evans was immense.    Ventris's proof that the people of Knossos spoke Greek was electrifying.  Decipherment requires adequate material. From 1950-1952 Ventris was fixated by the idea of Etruscan as the language of Linear B.  The code is designed to fool the investigator in cryptography.  The script derived from ancient material is only baffling by accident.  The Minoan script was a case of an unknown script in an unknown language.  In theory any code can be broken.  The idea is to grasp the underlying pattern.  Classical Greek in general is the dialect of Attica.  Ventris pursued the matter by comparing similar signs and coming to the realization variances represented word endings of an inflected language.  He saw some Greek solutions for names and eventually came to see a Greek solution was inevitable.  Initially he did not understand how archaic the language was that he was dealing with in Linear B.      Cryptography is a science of deduction and controlled experiment.  After Ventris did a radio broadcast and mentioned his supposition that the language of Linear B was Greek, the author arranged to be put into touch with Ventris.  He, a specialist in Greek dialects, became convinced after a few days that the identifictions were sound.  Ventris indicated he did need the assistance of a philologist.  Chadwick and Ventris formed a partnership that lasted for four years.  The first paper was a joint work, Ventris felt it would have more chance of being published that way, and was termed \\"Evidence for Greek Dialect in the Mycenaen Archive.\\"  In other words, claims of decoding the text were avoided purposely.  Linear B is no Domesday Book.  It does not yield riches of detail of Mycenaen life.	2003-07-26
1036204:US	52300235	R2IQ1BOWVZ57RM	1860660789	183201983	Henrik Ibsen: A new biography	Books	5	14	20	N	N	How does a shy person fulfill artistic destiny?	Ferguson relates in his preface that he is an Englishman with a Norwegian wife.  In the 1980's he lived in Norway and he speaks the language.  He was asked by the BBC to translate and adapt some of the plays. I have read Michael Meyer's biography of Ibsen more than once, and I deem this to be a worthy enhancement of our understanding of Ibsen.<br />Ibsen chose voluntary exile for most of his writing life.  In 1336 Norway became part of Denmark.  In 1814 Sweden took over as a colonial power.  When Ibsen was growing up there was a desire to establish a homegrown theater.  The nationalist urge culminated in King Hakon VII ascending to the throne in 1905.  Popular perceptions of Norway as gloomy are based upon the art of Henrik Ibsen and Edvard Munch.  The Norwegian langauge was in a constant state of flux during Ibsens's life as a consequence of nationalism.<br />Henrik was born in 1828.  His father was amusing but unsuccessful in his enterprises and his mother was self-sacrificing.  Henrik was the oldest.  He was shy, gloomy, solitary, and bright.  He liked to play with a little play theater and as a boy of about twelve put on puppet shows.  When his schooling ended he went to work in Grimstad as the apprentice of an apothecary.  His solitary ways made him an object of suspicion.  He had an illegitimate son, a matter of guilt and shame.<br />After five years he moved to employment at a different dispensary which became a meeting place for intellectually involved youth.  He wrote a verse drama in 1849.  For the next decade or more he was involved in theater management and direction in Bergen and in Kristiania, (Oslo).  He was married in 1858 and a son was born in 1859.<br />Ibsen spent many years away from Norway living in Italy and in Germany.  After 1876 Ibsen wrote modern works for a cast of chamber players.  HEDDA GABLER is one of the plays that easily retains its modernity. His final play, WHEN WE DEAD AWAKEN, can be taken as an allegory of the lives of Ibsen andhis wife, Suzannah.  Henrik Ibsen died in 1906.  Ferguson's discussions of the plays in the context of the life of Ibsen is very fine.	2003-07-25
1037149:US	52300235	R76RYBXHSZ2JA	0140435824	95940145	Flaubert in Egypt: A Sensibility on Tour (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Orientalism	In 1849 Gustave Flaubert was twenty eight.  He had an air of athletic vigor.  He was the son of a doctor.  He had always written.  At this point he had finished THE TEMPTATION OF SAINT ANTHONY.  Friends suggested he use a story known to him, perhaps through his father, that became the basis for MADAME BOUVARY.  <br />Maxime Du Camp accompanied Gustave to Egypt.  France had maintained a controlling political interest in Egypt.  Flaubert wrote that in Egypt everyone with clean clothes beats everyone with dirty clothes.  Europeans were called Franks.  <br />He wrote that the desert began at the gates of Alexandria.  It is suggested that the very act of keeping a travel diary moved Flaubert from being a Romantic to becoming a Realist.  There was a sunrise.  They saw from the top of pyramids the valley of the Nile being bathed in mist.  <br />The young men stared at the Sphinx.  They visited the Coptic Church in Old Cairo.  There were jugglers and acrobats and those very feared persons, snake charmers.  Maxime Du Camp busied himself with photography throughout the trip.  They saw dervishes.  Flaubert described the water of the Nile.  It was yellow and carried soil.  <br />They took a trip down the Nile.  They passed Luxor.  The mountains were dark indigo.  They arrived at Thebes.  They saw towns whose buildings were made of dried mud.  They saw and described dancing in their writings.  They traveled to Assuan.  Du Camp's photographic record of temples became famous.  Flaubert reported to his mother that there always seemed to be a temple buried up to its shoulders in sand.  <br />From Luxor to Karnak the great plain looked like an ocean.  One's first impression of Karnak was that it was a place of giants.  They went to the Red Sea at Koseir.  Flaubert found the boats terrifying and was pleased that he did not have to use one.  He thought that they carried the plague.<br />Flaubert's impressions of Egypt returned to him when he wrote SALAMMBO according to Du Camp.  It seemed to Du Camp that Flaubert disdained the journey and looked at nothing.  On the contrary, Egypt gave Flaubert his first comprehensive view of colors.  <br />This is an elegant account of a writer's response to an alien culture.  The book consists of journal entries and letters of Flaubert, writings of Du Camp, notes of the editor, and pictures.  All in all it is a most interesting compilation.	2003-07-24
1037858:US	52300235	R2QQK2MV84ULB3	0684842564	93185568	The Franchise Affair	Books	5	2	8	N	N	Opaque dark blue eyes	Josephine Tey is remarkable for the broad subject range of her books and for fine writing.  A similarity in her books is that she writes about people with insecure identities.  It begins as a story of kidnapping and assault and is improbable given the characteristics of the two women who live at The Franchise.  Robert Blair, solicitor for Mrs. and Miss Sharpe, sees a look of triumph on the alleged victim's face when she manages to describe some luggage accurately.  Robert's aunt feels that odd people live at The Franchise.  The maid in the aunt's house is having a round of excessive religious enthusiasm Robert finds.  Robert wonders whether his life is so placid that a stranger's jeopardy stirs him.  The girl is a prosecuting counsel's dream of a victim.  A tabloid then blows the matter wide open.  An observer feels the Sharpes are incapable of insane conduct.	2003-07-23
1038341:US	52300235	R2WJKRA1NVI9CL	1400031354	405618230	Tears of the Giraffe (No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency, Book 2)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	When women make untrue statements	Mr. Matekoni once had a snake killing dog.  Now he has the promise of Mma Ramotswe to marry him.  He deems himself fortunate.  Men are like cattle.  If they are well looked after they become fatter.  Mma Ramotswe has a problem with the services of her fiance's maid and she makes an enemy, alas.  It is decided that the couple will move to the house on Zebra Drive.  A tenant for Mr. Matekoni's house is to be be found.  Mma Ramotswe knows one has to be careful not to alarm men about diamond rings.  After the diamond ring is purchased she starts to cry because her first husband did not buy anything for her.  <br />The secretary of the No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency understands confidentiality.  A Mrs. Curtin arrives to try to find out what happened to her son ten years ago.    Mma Ramotswe knows that the search for Mrs. Curtin's son is to be a stale enquiry.  It may be unrewarding for all concerned.  A woman in the village where the detective investigates the disappearance believes that the boy was sucked up by a whirl wind.  <br />Things are changing in Botswana and now there are orphanages.  Mr. Matekoni visits one run by a friend of his mother. He works on engines there for no pay. The matron at the orphanage suggests that Mr. Matekoni consider adoption.  He wonders if he has the energy to embark upon such a venture.  He acquires two children, a brother and a sister, to present to Mma Ramotswe.  Mr. Matekoni realizes that he has done something momentous by bringing the children to his house.  He indicates to his maid that they will be remaining for a long time.  Mr. Matekoni and the children go to town in an old truck.  He wants to buy them some clothes.  While in town they encounter Mma Ramotswe.<br />Mma Ramotswe travels to the site of the former collective enterprise.  The scheme had not worked out.  One cannot grow vegetables on the Kalahari.  The Americans have sent rockets to outer space but they still do not understand other people.  The boy died but is somehow present Mma Ramotswe intuits. <br />A new client arrives.  He distrusts his wife.  One must have a working supposition to prove or disprove.  It is the suggestion of Mma Ramotswe that her newly appointed asistant detective, promoted from the secretarial position, talk to the maids.  It is discovered that there is another man in the picture who is, in fact, the father of the client's son.<br />The plot twists and turns, becoming more interesting on each page.  If anything, this is even better than the first book in the series.	2003-07-23
1038439:US	52300235	RVW5JRFPJTG8T	1582430756	678216110	Dylan Thomas: The Biography (New Edition)	Books	5	15	22	N	N	Preoccupied with littleness	Having read John Malcolm Brinnin's account of Dylan Thomas in America and Caitlin Thomas's autobiographical work LEFTOVER LIFE TO KILL I find this biography fair and comprehensive.  It contains appropriate scholarly apparatus.  Both Dylan and his sister Nancy had great imaginations.  Dylan's father came from a rural family.  He became a schoolmaster.  He grew to be an unhappy man.  Thomas poems are songs about mysteries without solution.  They are melancholy, Celtic, non-English.  Thomas denied the influence of Gerard Manley Hopkins.  He liked technical virtuousity.  In school he was protected by being his father's son.<br /><br />In 1935 he met Vernon Watkins and came to respect him as a poet and as a critic.  Thomas also came to know Geoffrey Grigson, Norman Cameron, and A.J.P. Taylor.  The idea developed that Thomas needed to be protected from women and drink and that he had difficulty with his lungs, bronchitis.  Pamela Hansford Johnson was a girlfriend in the early years.  In 1936 Edith Sitwell became Thomas's chief advocate.<br /><br />In 1936 he met Caitlin.  They married in 1937.  As he grew older he wrote less quickly.  By age twenty one he had written half of the poems in his COLLECTED POEMS.  He wrote surrealist stories and reviews for which he was paid poorly.  Caitlin was buxom and he was thin.  In 1938 they went to Laugharne.  For Thomas Wales was a place and a frame of mind.  The reader is struck by how early in Dylan Thomas's career themes menacing survival surfaced.  There are issues of poverty, drink, work for the BBC, revision of work to evade censors, and merry times in London versus periods of restraint and work in Wales.  Stories for PORTRAIT OF THE ARTIST AS A YOUNG DOG and ADVENTURES IN THE SKIN TRADE were set out and virtually completed when Thomas was in his early twenties.<br /><br />Thomas managed to avoid service during World War II.  The war interferred with the sale of his writings.  He wrote film scripts.  The work was facile.  John Davenport felt that he had lost his lyrical gift and was left with nothing but a public personality.<br /><br />Poetry returned at the end of the war.  \\"Fern Hill\\" dates from 1945.  UNDER MILK WOOD and \\"A Child's Christmas in Wales\\" were started.  After the war he ws able to work for the Third Programme for the BBC.  Roy Campbell found him to be the best reader.  He was in demand as an actor and speaker. Edith Sitwell was aghast that he wanted to go to America.  For the time being the family went to Italy.<br /><br />In 1949 the Boat House at Laugharne came on the market.  Dylan often spoke of dying young.  Caitlin felt that he was never too keen on life.  The family moved to the Boat House in 1949.  \\"Over Sir John's hill\\" was produced.  It was related to \\"Fern Hill\\" and \\"Poem in October.\\"<br /><br />Dylan received the long awaited invitation to America.  UNDER MILK WOOD was still largely unwritten.  He lived an eccentric life there without paying much attention to the country.  His guide and advisor was John Malcom Brinnin.  His reading while on the tour at Mount Hoyoke was described as a miracle.  Once reading he took hold of himself.  In 1950 Dylan Thomas's writing was more highly regarded than it was later.<br /><br />Little of the money earned in America in 1950 found its way to Wales.  In 1951 \\"Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night\\" was addressed to his father who was ill. Dylan and Caitlin arrived in America in January 1952.  The visit was part farce, part tragedy.  Social occasions were difficult.  Dylan's favorite bar in New York City was the White Horse Tavern.  Dylan and Caitlin stayed in the Chelsea Hotel.<br /><br />Thomas entered into an agreement with Caedmon, a company started by two alert young women, and recorded \\"A Child's Christmas in Wales.\\"  COLLECTED POEMS  1934-1952 was published in November.  The review that most pleased Dylan was by Stephen Spender.  For understanding the magic of the poet's function Dylan was indebted to his father who wasnow dying.<br /><br />In 1953, contrary to legend, Dylan was not really a penniless poet.  He was, however, always uncertain of his powers, always consumed with his littleness.  He returned to America in April 1953.  He was still working on UNDER MILK WOOD.  He returned to England in June.  Milk Wood revisions dragged on through the summer.<br /><br />In October 1953 Dylan returned to New York.  His troubles had begun long before.  His father and his sister died that year.  He, too, was to die.  Morphine, insult to the brain, something triggered the coma from which he did not emerge.	2003-07-23
1038965:US	52300235	R1KV82I0XHJ26J	0452282098	322992187	City of God	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Writing about the holocaust and other things	E.L. Doctorow does a clever thing.  He has a character who is the author writing this book.  One organizing idea of the book is New York City.  Another is ecumenical interest in God.  The author uses time shifting and place shifting.  This is an example of the use of the new historicism.  Doctorow always has written with a sense of history.  <br />The city's grid was laid out in the 1840's. Ben and Ruth had two sons, Ronald and Everett.  Ben was a naval officer, a naval communications observer in World War I.  Ronald served in World War II.  He had to parachute from his plane and was discovered by a French peasant.  Ruth lived to age ninety five, exceeding the lifetime of her husband by some thirty seven years.  She always said she would not give her opinion unless asked to do so.  <br />Sarah Blumenthal and Joshua Gruen are rabbis at the Synagogue of Evolutionary Judaism.  The synagogue is the site of the placement of a cross stolen from Saint Timothy's, an Anglican Church in the East Village. Thomas Pemberton, or Pem, meets Sarah and Josh when the locus of the cross is determined.  Pem, in the course of the book, undergoes the closing of Saint Timothy's and his own self-designated reassignment to a hospice, the finding of a holocaust archive from Vilnius pertaining to the experience of Sarah's father following the death of Josh from a beating in Lithuania, the start of his studies to convert to Judaism, and his marriage to Sarah.  <br />The author has occasion to interact with his own characters Pem and Sarah at the synagogue.  Prior to Pem's beginning the conversion studies and prior to his marriage to Sarah, the author had commenced to study Pem in order to write an account of his experiences in his search for God. The book is multi-layered, intelligent, delightful.	2003-07-22
1040848:US	52300235	R2T7P5J3ICHGW7	0385495404	556829614	The First American: The Life and Times of Benjamin Franklin	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Scientist, politician extraordinaire	James Logan of Philadelphia knew Franklin as a neighbor and as a political ally.  In 1748 Franklin retired from the printing business.  He became a silent partner with David Hall in a very profitable enterprise.  The science of electricity was in its infancy.  Franklin's efforts to educate himself made him an enthusiast of formal education.  His triumphs in electricity were another milestone in his career of self-education.  In 1749 he wrote a pamphlet proposing an academy to educate youth.  Gradually Franklin came to see himself as the most capable man he knew. His interests included optical science, ballooning, weather forecasting, establishing daylight savings time. He could look around Philadelphia and see his efforts in the Library Company, the fire companies, the Philosophical Society, and the academy.  Getting into politics was a logical step.<br />Franklin sought to dilute the influence of the Germans in the colony.  He feared that operation of the poor laws induced dependency.  He pondered the question of nurture versus nature in the context of education for Native Americans.  In 1754 Franklin argued that the American colonists should be considered full members of the English nation.  In the 1750's Franklin's view on slavery was changing.  He said that slaves could diminish a nation.  Franklin has a sense of being virtue's agent, particularly in 1756 when he was elected colonel, head of the Pennsylvania militia.  He never lost the conviction that virtue conferred right.<br />On 1757 the Pennsylvania Assembly appointed Franklin their representative to the government in England.  He moved to London.  He lived most of the rest of his life abroad.  This move was as significant as his move from Boston to Philadelphia.  Ultimately he helped to write the Articles of Confederation, he signed the Declaration of Independence, he played a large role at the Constitutional Convention, and he represented American interests in seeking assistance from France to wage war against Britain and in negotiating the terms of the peace.  In the life and times format there is adequate emphasis on the life, and more emphasis on the times.  Placing Franklin in context is useful.	2003-07-21
1041511:US	52300235	R4EFNJTOC68JG	0684868857	366534072	Roads : Driving America's Great Highways	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Traveler and antiquarian bookseller	Northern Michigan is the Maine of the midwest.  Larry McMurtry prefers broad well-traveled roads to the blue lines favored by Annie Proulx and William Least Heat-Moon.  McMurtry likes to cite earlier travel writers.  <br />The Pacific Northwest is determinedly downscale.  Going to L.A. is enjoyable because of the confusion.  Between Ontario and Barstow is Victorville, famous as the Home of the Western, site of the Roy Rogers and Dale Evans Museum.  Route 40 is now essentially a truck road.  <br />A favorite place of the author's is Key Largo.  He find Miami heavy work.  He takes us to Hemingway's house in Key West.  He does not like the furniture, it has a night club feel, and the library is improbable.  Maybe the nondescript books were bought to fill out the shelves.  <br />The author had heart surgery in December, 1991, and it was a sort of death.  Places for him now have a before and after feel to them by association to the chronological events of his life.  In Washington McMurtry had been shocked by the desperate ambition of the social, the journalistic, elite.  McMurtry is funny.  The research triangle is home to the yuppie redneck.  He calls the government workers inching their way home to Fairfax, Vienna, and Falls Church the ant people.  <br />For a brief time in his childhood the author experienced travel as a slow activity.  He does not really care about the make or the model of the car, but he does love driving.  McMurtry has looked at many places quickly, his father looked at one place deeply.  <br />Tour the USA with a Chevrolet is an advertising slogan from the past and a kind of unconscious command to consider a tour of the USA in the company of Larry McMurtry.  In the course of such a tour  you will learn or relearn points about geography and roads and, more importantly, points about book writers and booksellers of particular interest to anyone who reads deeply and widely.  For example, Seattle is the reason to celebrate Raymond Carver and Theodore Roethke.  Like the author's description of Clancy Sigal's GOING AWAY  he gets the right amount of history and feeling on a single page.	2003-07-21
1043145:US	52300235	R37M82YAVQRZZF	0374517940	877558672	In Suspect Terrain	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Terrain or terrane	This book is filled with scientific terms straining the general reader's capacity to follow the narrative.  Wonderful, clear-speaking John McPhee's lurching off into geology is analogous to Doris Lessing losing her readers in science fiction yarns.  Fortunately most of us have been to New York City or have spent time traveling Route 80.  Changes do not come in a slow steady march in geology.  Geologic time is punctuated by catastrophes.  Geology repeats itself.  Geology is named for Gaea, daughter of Chaos says McPhee's informant, Anita Harris.  The right bedrock, the right angle of deep caused the pond of boulders in Hickory State Park, Pennsylvania to be formed.  Geologists are detectives.  Road cuts are incredibly useful to them.  Without them they are reduced to drilling holes straight down and studying streams.  Streams and rivers form later than rock.  The limit of glaciation in New York City is reflected in the subway system.  The book is rich and informative.  It is organized around the career of and the author's travels with Anita Harris, a wholly reasonable focus for the study.	2003-07-19
1043393:US	52300235	R1O659WSG7PCG	0399134344	57308616	Crown Oklahoma	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Inadequately sourced	Crown Oklahoma is shorthand for putting a dome on the capitol.  The narrator is the one-eyed lieutenant governor of the Sooner State.  The lieutenant governor is also referred to a the second man.  His son Tommy Walt plays semi-professional baseball.  He is a pitcher.  His wife is the founder and the owner of a chain of drive-through markets.  Tommy Walt seems to collapse at his job handling baggage for the bus company.  He does a riff on lost and mislaid luggage when his father locates him.  There is a concern, raised by a national television news story, that a Mafia-type organization exists in Oklahoma.  The narrator runs down one suspect, Boomer Sooner, who is in the transportation business as the driver and owner of a single bus.  This is not a good prospect for the role of master criminal.  Then a bomb blows the guy to bits.  Investigators surmise that since the news reports indicated Boomer was part of a new group impinging on mob activity, the mob had him killed.  The fallout from climbing the golden ladder to anchordom is described and elaborated in the book.  The tales get taller as things proceed.  Son Tommy Walt continues to experience difficulty and the excuse given is that he is a pitcher.  The crown Oklahoma project is laughable, particularly when planners wonder if it could be made to pay for itself.  Oklahoma Indian Territoy was opened up on first-come basis for land claims.  Sooners were cheaters, they snuck in ahead of time.	2003-07-19
1043921:US	52300235	R36TK304TVQ21J	0452269652	522305574	Jazz	Books	5	1	1	N	N	When prose is poetry	The book is a kind of poetry.  Every word of it is right.  You have to figure out how to be welcoming and defensive at the same time in the city according to one of the characters.  Violet and Joe Trace live on Lenox Ave. in Harlem.  Violet went to Dorcas Manfred's funeral with a knife.  This occurred in 1926.  Later she acquired a picture of the girl so that she and Joe could look at it in their living room.  Violet is an unlicensed beautician who works in the apartment or in the apartments of her customers.  After the funeral Violet usually worked in other places where people took pity on her and permitted her to do their hair.  Violet had listened to her grandmother, True Belle, tell Baltimore stories.  After the funeral Violet threw out her birds.  This left her without her routines, rituals.  <br />Joe and Violet met in Vesper County, Virginia in 1906.  Dorcas moved to the city from East St. Louis where her parents had been killed in the riots.  She lived with her Aunt Alice who disliked the music and felt it was responsible for most social ills.  By the time she was eleven her whole life was unbearable.  Alice Manfred worked hard to make her niece private, but she was no match for a city seeping music.  Joe met Dorcas at Alice Manfred's place.  Alice tells Violet sometime after Dorcas's death that she does not understand women with knives.  Violet's father and mother had been dispossessed, in a sense driven off of the land.  Her mother committed suicide just before one of the four or so times when her father returned to the family with funds.  The important thing learned by Violet was never to have children.  She had met Joe when she was doing a bad job of picking cotton.  Joe did not want children either.  Later on, though, Violet longed for a child.  <br />Dorcas was young but wise.  She was Joe's personal sweet.  People might say he treated Violet like a piece of furniture.  He was born and raised  in Vesper County in 1873.  He was called Trace because hisown parents had disappeared without a trace.  When he went to school he told the teacher his name was Joseph Trace.  His foster brother, Victory Williams, turned around in surprise and said the Williams parents would be mad.  He told Victory that when his parents came back he would need a different name so they could pick him out among the seven or so children; but they never came for him.  Dorcas had long hair and bad skin.  When Joe was a teenager he encountered the person he believed was his mother, a wild woman, someone who was almost feral.  This scared him.  It made him work hard.  Dorcas said that Joe made her sick.  She had a new friend, Acton.  Acton felt that Dorcas liked to deceive Mrs. Manfred, her Aunt Alice.  Dorcas ws buried with a stolen opal ring on her finger.	2003-07-18
1044512:US	52300235	R27S57UC6EKJ44	0679776354	278963436	We All Got History: The Memory Books of Amos Webber	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The significance of fraternal organizations	Amos Webber maintained a chronicle, a history.  He belonged to the Grand United Order of Odd Fellows.  Membership in this organization provided historian Mick Salvatore with a clue to assess the &quot;Thermometer Book&quot; of Amos Webber, a detailed impersonal chronicle, and to find the history of the man, Amos Webber, a light-skinned African American, a soldier in the 5th Cavalry.  Webber was born in 1826 in a small town in Bucks County Pennsylvania.  He moved to Philadelphia when a young man and attended the Presbyterian Church.  Webber's political activism was nurtured by the organizations to which he belonged.  One black Presbyterian minister declared that he would preach the Declaration of Independence until it began to be put into practice.  Salvatore writes of abolitionist activities in Philadelphia and festivals, such as the one held to celebrate the abolition of slavery in the West Indies in 1838.  Webber underscored the significance of John Brown's activities.  Webber enjoyed a niche in society akin to that occupied by the white  middle class. <br />There was a popular interest in meteorology.  By the 1830's there were a series of civilian observers organized by leading scientific investigators.  Amos Webber had little formal education.  His weather book served multiple purposes of weather journal, commentary on natural patterns, and a way to record his observations of the world around him.  His weather books included press clippings.  Webber's employer went bankrupt and the business closed in 1860.  The Webber family moved to Worcester, Massachusetts.  The first volume of his chronicle concluded in October 1860.  The start of the second volume is a decade later.  Webber was employed in a wire mill.  Black collective life appeared thin in comparison to Philadelphia.  In Worcester the fall of Sumter caused general excitement.  In January 1864 Amos Webber reported to Camp Meigs at Readville, Massachusetts for service in Company D, Fifth Massachusetts Cavalry.  Webber was rapidly elevated from private to sergeant.  In the 1870's Masonic and Odd Fellow Lodges for African Americans were established in Worcester.  Webber participated in these in leadership positions.  After the Hayes compromise in 1876 Webber never mentioned reconstruction or its demise in his chronicles.  Amos Webber died in 1904.  His death was reported to the weekly meeting of Post 10 Grand Army of the Republic.  Black fraternal organizations sent wreaths.  Webber had intense political and moral views.  He had been married for fifty two years.  His chronicle was largely silent about women.  He had inhabited a male world.  He understood racism.  His beliefs and actions included a persistent demonstration of equality.	2003-07-18
1045777:US	52300235	R17OZOK7EORVXJ	0394578198	641383212	Polar Star	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Fish stories	Arkady Renko, late of the office of the Moscow Prosecutor, is called upon by the captain of the Polar Star, a factory ship, to investigate the death of one of the galley workers.  It seems that the girl, a Georgian, Zina had fallen from the ship and her body had been recovered in one of the nets.  Renko was employed in the factory operation, or the slime line as was popularly said.  In Sakhalin Zina had paraded on the decks in her bathing suit.  The Polar Star was like a Soviet Village on American waters. <br />The first mate on a Soviet ship was the political officer.  The first mate told Arkady Renko that a finding of suicide would be the best thing.  Renko attended the autopsy of the deceased.  The ship went out for six months at a time.  It is Soviet territory on a Soviet ship notwithstanding American waters.  Everyone on the ship should be nervous.  Zina was very democratic.  It would seem that there was no special man.  Zina Patiashvili was last seen at a dance in the cafeteria.  There was a contention it was a freak accident.  She may have fallen on the stairs and rolled into the sea.  It was the genius of Soviet democracy that all meetings should meet comradely unanimity.  Renko violated this state of affairs. Renko contended she was killed on the ship and stored there.  She was stabbed to prevent her from going to the surface.  <br />Renko had been dismissed from the Moscow prosecutor's office.  Arkady is deemed to have had a shady past, but someone puts in a good word for him.  He may be politically reckless but there is no question of his professional abilities.  The back story is he was held and questioned and abused in a psychiatric hospital.  He was released clandestinely.  He was told that he needed to go somewhere where no one would follow him.  He was employed above the Arctic Circle as a watchman in Norilsk.  On his second month on the job he saw two security men and moved east in Siberia.  Fortunately there was a labor shortage.  At the end of thesecond year he arrived at Vladivostok.  He signed onto the Polar Star.  Arkady was told there were Americans on the boat.  It was a joint venture. Arkady had a second class visa.  He could not leave the ship at foreign ports.  <br />Zina had tapes and a microphone in her tape player.  After seventy years of socialism thieves' songs had become the counter-anthem of the Soviet Union.  Zina dwelt in the world of hidden photographs and secret tapes.  In the hold Renko looked for the lair of a lieutenant of naval intelligence he had heard on a tape.  He was hit and thrown into a cold storage unit by three people.  Arkady was saved by a roommate of Zina's he had enlisted to assist him in the investigation.  Arkady had an important father and went to special schools.  <br />After four months of fishing Arkady's fellow workers were now lined up for port call.  He notes that in irony the Soviet Union leads the world.  Arkady left the ship via an officer bearing a German name, Hess, on a sort of special pass.  Without money Arkady felt like a voyeur.  None had been issued to him for his impromptu excursion.  Maybe Arkady had been seduced by Dostoevsky's intelligent interrogator in CRIME AND PUNISHMENT to become an interrogator himself.  Susan, the American, saw him ashore.  Then he saw Marchuk, the captain, Hess, and George Morgan, another one of the Americans.  Morgan stopped her from talking to Arkady.  <br />Circumstances in this book in keeping with circumstances in general in the Soviet Union are always mysterious.  One awaits with interest the unraveling of the politics  through information gleaned from the now opened archives.  Americans get drunk and get loud, Russians get serious.  Happiness is the maximum agreement of reality and desire.  Susan and Zina were friends.  According to Susan Zina was a Russian Norma Jean.  Arkady followed Mikhail, an Aleut, to a bunker.  The trawlmaster and the first mate followed him. Mikhail was dead.  Karp, the trawlmaster, was a criminal Arkady knew.  Karp killed the first mate and saved Arkady.  I will not detail the further adventures of Arkady as he soulght to evade the murderous wrath of Karp.  Suffice to say that he escaped danger.  <br />There was a sheet of ice.  Americans were getting rich and the Soviets were doubling their daily plan.  Slava Bukovsky had been nominated to take the place of the deceased political officer.  An interested detail provided by the author is that a Soviet ship is oveheated.  With two people in body bags the captain worried that his next assignment would be a garbage scow.  Arkady discovered the Naval intelligence connection to the girl Zina, someone named Nikolai.  He finally stumbled across a deep issue, a reason for his employment as an The plot continues--eventful, exciting, tangled.  This is in the style of John Le Carre.  It is excellent.	2003-07-17
1046150:US	52300235	R1FYQA2K4S2X55	0312202059	495641987	Requiem for Harlem: Mercy of a Rude Stream Volume IV, A Novel	Books	5	1	6	N	N	Scruffy and slummy	Ira Stigman thought he was a glutton.  Ira went through a crisis when he thought he had made his cousin Stella pregnant.  He enjoyed the company of his friends, Edith and Larry.  He told Edith secrets he thought would discredit him in her eyes.  It is May, 1987, the author recalls that his (fictitious) father, born in 1878, was singled out for an interview in 1966 when he was eightly three years old.  He described his job as a Roll Call waiter. His father was honored because in the previous year the author had a best seller.  The author notes that the interview was typically a matrix of confusions, confabulations, inventions, contradictions.  He said most of this was for reason of his father's incurable tendancy to evasions. The author ponders the question, what made the inhabitants of East Harlem scruffy and slummy.  He had been raised with superstitions.  He was to leave home and live with Edith.  Mrs. Shapiro, one of the neighbors, had once saved Ira from a terrible thrashing. He sees her when he comes to move his things and tell his mother and his father good by. The volume contains an editor's afterward by Robert Weil.  It is the last book of a quartet, MERCY OF A RUDE STREAM, completed by a very old man who died October 13, 1995.	2003-07-17
1048113:US	52300235	RGBJY3T4KPKW5	0142000221	256403279	Cause Celeb	Books	4	0	12	N	N	Television tribes	We are in Africa, obviously, if we are talking about huts.  In Africa decent rains might produce conditions for locusts.  In Africa the group from the compound encounters hunger and refugee settlements.  Rosie Richardson had a relationship with Oliver Marchant.  Unfortunately Oliver was not very nice.  At the start of the affair his assistant called her to set up a date.  She was fed up with her job and had no bargaining power with Oliver.  She went to a party with Oliver and threw up because the drinks were so strong.  Perhaps Oliver Marchand and Africa were both versions of Rosie's masochism.  Rosie became haunted by images of Africa.  She sold all of her clothes to a place called Second Thoughts.  She would give the proceeds to Oxfam.  Rosie said they did not have to live in luxury and make token gestures.  Rosie decided she wanted to go work in Africa.  Oscar asked to marry her but no, she was off to Nambula, a fictitious place created by the author.    The camp was different at night, foreign and inaccessible.  They had 110 arrivals and 5 deaths in one day.  People were coming because of the locusts.  Next there were 440 arrivals and 19 deaths.  The aid workers traveled from Nambula to Kefti to meet the stream of people.  They saw locusts decimate fields of crops, meaning--nothing would be available for at least six months.  The workers showed photographs of the situation in Kefti to UN officials.  Rosie determined to return to London to get the story into the press and to get some celebrities to support the cause.  She finds it hard going since for the last four years she had been working in Africa in a refugee camp.  Now there was the crisis of the famine but her contacts through Oliver had withered.  She runs into Oliver and feels humiliated.  He chides her that she is going about things the wrong way.  With a great deal of to-ing and fro-ing a television spot is arranged.  When Rosie returns to Africa with Oliver and some of the other celebrities she learnsthat the compound had received help in her absence.  The team goes out to seek the people fleeing the locusts.  They did find some starving masses.  They surmount the problem of positioning to make a television feed.  Oliver falls in the rough terrain and one of the African men substitutes for him.  He says that year after year the grain mountains and the colossal budgets in the developed countries fail to reach the starving people on time.  A friend of the announcer is shown dying.  After the broadcast the population at the refugee camp doubles and a lot of journalists visit.  Food is received from the celebrity goup, Charitable Acts.	2003-07-15
1049002:US	52300235	R1HM193CRVZ78L	0060924985	357255450	The Infinite Plan: Novel, A	Books	5	3	7	N	N	Gringo manchild	The infinite plan which Charles Reeves administered left no room for doubts.  Life stories repeat themselves over and over with few variations Olga, the midwife, healer, and fortune teller, learned.  The family consisted of Charles, husband and father, and doctor in divine sciences, his wife Nora, and the children, Gregory and Judy Reeves, and friend and courtesy aunt Olga.  Charles Reeves was a man ahead of his time.  About a year after Hiroshima--Hiroshima caused Nora to lose faith in humanity--Charles was hospitalized for stomach cancer and the family camped in Los Angeles with the hospitable Morales family, Mexicans.  Judy and Gregory were taught Spanish by the Morales children, and for the first time attended school.  When Charles was released from the hospital, the Reeves family bought a small shack at the edge of the barrio.  The priest taught Gregory to box and in turn he had to serve as an altar boy.  Olga moved to a place of her own.<br />Charles's death disrupted the family and since Nora's habit of dependence was deeply rooted she began to live in a daze.  Both children thought of her indolence as a sickness of the spirit.  The Morales house became Gregory's true home.  When Gregory left the city thirteen years later, he was homesick for the Morales family.  He was a shoeshine boy and a rabid movie watcher.  Gregory started to steal and his mother unsuccessfully tried to place him in an orphanage and in an adoptive home to save him from a life of crime.  Then she said to him to just grow up.<br />He was raped by a gang leader.  He and Carmen Morales developed an act of juggling, playing the harmonica, and tricks by his pet dog.  The more posh the setting, the greater the rewards for the troupe.  Gregory had been encouraged by his father to pursue education.  He did well in high school.  He developed a friendship with an employee at the public library who could direct his reading.  The gang leader died in a contest with him called race the train.  This defeat of Martinez traveled around the school and bolstered Gregory's reputation.  Following high school, Gregory held a number of menial and factory jobs.  On one he injured his leg.  The man from the library died and gave him eight hundred dollars to go to college.  <br />He went to Berkeley.  As a result of his upbringing he had a chicano accent.  He went to law school in San Francisco.  Before completing his legal studies he married and the couple had a daughter.  They separated, however, and just after he took his bar exams he left for service in the army.  Reeves saved the lives of eleven men.  In the middle of a combat zone he taught villagers English.  He was sick and was sent to Hawaii for tests.  Gregory returned home from the war around the same time his childhood friend Carmen Morales moved to Berkeley.  Carmen worked for two of Gregory's friends at a restaurant.  Gregory was intimicated by the idea of seeing Carmen again.  He confessed to her his desire to become a wealthy and successful lawyer.<br />Carmen Morales adopted her dead brother's half Vietnamese son.  Gregory remarried.  His sister found happiness with her third husband and her children.  Gregory separated from his wife and attained custody by default of his difficult four year old son David.  After substantial turmoil a housekeeper settles the son.  Gregory is nearly upturned by a malpractice claim, but his friend Carmen Morales who has become a successful business person rescues him<br />This is a superb book.  A South American writer writes about a North American and can stake her claim as a world writer.	2003-07-15
1049914:US	52300235	R1L8GSFWBYJVY7	0582437644	450959391	A Preface to Milton, Revised Edition	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Satan's biographer	This is a neat handbook for the beginning student of Milton's writings.  Potter explains how after 1660 Milton was forced out of political life and rendered free to write for himself alone.  Eventually he was given a full pardon.  PARADISE LOST  appeared in 1667.  By 1674, the year of his death, Milton was able to find publishers for nearly everything he had written.  John Dryden and Andrew Marvell were acquaintainces.  Milton had been something of a child prodigy.  Following chapters on biography, scientific background, political and religious background, the author deals with literary background, in particular the epic.  In the epic, to give up the quest is to be spiritually dead.  (What a lesson that is to us.)  Analysis then proceeds of specific parts of L'ALLEGRO, COMUS, SAMSON AGONISTES, PARADISE LOST, and PARADISE REGAINED.  Formal oration was the basis of a gentleman's education.  In PARADISE LOST since Milton was blind, visual characterizations are absent, but the sounds of the poetry are marvellous.  Artfully Satan is in motion, going from subject to object.  Also, Milton uses digressions to speak in his own person.  The book contains illustrations, timelines, short biographies, and other aids.	2003-07-14
1050187:US	52300235	R2EA1OW361B6CJ	0312282990	383312801	The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Golden Age--cultural studies	The writing is sharp and exciting.  Things have changed.  People conduct research now in order to write novels.  With results such as these, the venture is worthwhile.      It is Brooklyn and the main character is named Sammy.  He works for Sheldon Anapol at Empire Novelties.  A cousin, Josef Kavalier, arrives.  A fortune had been spent to enable Josef to leave Prague.  When he runs into a snag he seeks the assistance of an old magician, Bernard Kornblum.  He arranges a route through Lithuania in the coffin of a golem.     Through a miracle of birth in the Ukraine, Josef is able to emigrate.  Josef had wanted to emulate Houdini.  At the age of fourteen he started to study under Bernard Kornblum to become an escape artist.  Josef reaches the house of Kornblum's brother in law in Vilna.  Dutch and Japanese officials are in league.  He enters the United States through Kobe.      Josef Kavalier and Sam (Klayman) Clay form a team when Sam sees that Joe draws well, having studied at a school of fine arts in Prague.  They have a plan for comic books.  In 1938 superman appeared.  The pair tries to develop a superhero.  They establish that the superhero is driven mad by evil.  He exists to fight injustice.  They envision tights, masks, big muscles.  Every golem has been summoned into existence through language.  Sammy and Joe complete five pages of the Legend of the Golden Key.  The comic book is to be called The Masked Man.  The make him the Escapist.  He is to be Houdini mixed with Robin Hood mixed with Albert Schweitzer.  Anapol wants to buy the Escapist.      Receiving word of his father's death, Joe has an impulse to join the RAF.  He changes his mind and finds himself going to Yorkville and getting into fights.  Then he is able to arrange his brother Thomas's passage to America.  Joe's girlfriend is Rosa Saks.  He becomes noted on the West Side Bar Mitzvah circuit appearing as a magician, the Amazing Cavalieri.  Joe thinks the movie CITIZEN KANE represents to the nth degree a blending of images and narration.      Sam fears he is on his way to becoming a professional sidekick.  Joe's thirteen year old brother has traveled from Moldau to Lisbon.  The boat with Thomas in it is torpedoed near the Azores.  A sudden storm causes the loss of life.  Joe goes off to join the Navy and Rosa goes to Sammy for help to obtain an abortion.  Joe listens to the radio.  He cannot find out about the fate of the Jews in Czechoslovakia.  Joe manages the radio on isolated duty in Antarctica.  Rosa marries Sammy.  Joe realizes that the son of Sammy and Rosa is acually his son.  Joe returns to try to reconnect.  He keeps his existence secret until 1953.  He conceives of a stunt to fall from the Empire State building. He lands on a ledge on the eighty fourth floor.      Befitting cultural studies, Antonio Gaudi and Douglas Sirk and of course many more people are mentioned.  In 1954, burdened by a law suit and declining readership, Anapol extinguishes the Escapist.      This is an accomplished work.  In some respects it is comparable to John Dos Passos's USA.  The ending of the book I leave to the reader to discover.	2003-07-14
1054239:US	52300235	R2JT6Y86MQFP0U	0786860863	676336560	The Gettin' Place	Books	5	5	5	N	N	It is all about survival	The book is magnificent.  The plot weaves in and out highlighting issues of supreme importance.  Hosea and Oscar Thompson are shadow men. Maybe they killed in the past, Hosea a guard, Oscar a man who bothered his wife.  Hosea has an auto yard and towing service and Oscar a barbecue joint in Treetown on the edge of Rio Seco, a seemingly fictitious city east of Los Angeles.  The novel includes a sort of coming of age tale of Hosea's youngest son, Marcus, even though Marcus is thirty already.  Marcus teaches history at the local high school.  Unlike his brothers who work in the car yard and attended the neighborhood school before it was closed when district lines were abolished to achieve integration, he attended college, at least in spurts.  Hosea's wife cares for three grandchildren.  There is a fire in the yard and two dead white women are discovered in an immovable car on the premises, notwithstanding the fact that the gate was locked.  Hosea is shot because he fails to drop his own rifle quickly enough to suit the police, and he is held in the hospital in the jail ward.  As the strands of the story develop it becomes apparent that the family is the focus of actions to remove them from their land in the name  of progress and aesthetics, aesthetics that is from a white perspective.  The circumstances are particularly poignant since Hosea and Oscar moved from Greenwood driven out by the riot and fire in Tulsa, Oklahoma in 1921.  Thank you Susan Straight.  What a joy it is to read your book.	2003-07-10
1054302:US	52300235	R2FVWPI6UQC7UG	0151551383	944071368	Maigret and the Madwoman	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Ideal summer vacation reading	Imagine drinking a glass of Calvados.  The title is ambiguous.  She was a tiny woman insisting upon seeing Chief Inspector Maigret personally.  Madame Antoine, aged, having lived in her apartment for a long time, reported that her things had been moved.  There is only the key she keeps in her bag.  A niece and her son are her only relatives.  She is pefectly aware that a young person might consider her mad.  The concierge says she is very much like any other old person living by herself.  Her clear gray eyes make an impression on Maigret. Then she is murdered, suffocated, and an investigation ensues.  The police search and question, after all this is a police procedural.  Maigret discovers that the victim had practiced twenty five years of thrift.  A character named Le Grand Marcel is brought into the picture.<br />The fineness of the writing (translated?) transcends the genre.  Picking up a Maigret novel is a matter of dealing in a brand name consumer good.  One is never disappointed.  The storytelling is simple, classical, felicitous.  Simenon used masterful economy in his art.  The short bursts of information create an almost Raymond Carverish style. One is transported to Paris in the Spring.  Time spent in the company of Maigret and his gifted inspectors Lapointe, Lucas, and Janvier is a pleasure.	2003-07-10
1054306:US	52300235	R1R23PDDKGDU7B	0312263996	164241000	Timbuktu: A Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Word salad	Paul Auster writes from the inside, in this instance from the inside of the head of a dog.  The dog has three names because he has three masters in the course of the book.  His first master is schizophrenic and homeless.  He talks endlessly to the dog and the dog talks to us.  Unfortunately he dies in Baltimore where the pair traveled to see a teacher.  Symbolically he collapses on the steps of a house formerly associated with Edgar Allan Poe before being taken to the charity ward of a hospital.  The dog runs off and finds himself in the company of a boy whose family runs an Asian restaurant.  In the fall when the boy returns to school, the dog runs again to become part of an upscale suburban family in northern Virginia.  He finally dies, a victim of death by auto.  The book amply and creatively explores loneliness in all of its guises.  It is a step beyond TRAVELS WITH LIZBETH by Lars Eigner because fiction allows a broadening of the range of the writer.	2003-07-10
1054690:US	52300235	R32JQAFZYXG7TW	0425154572	298445775	Big Babies	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Identity confusion--family man	Sherwood Kiraly has a dynamite book.  This is a coming of age story.  AJ Fleger is adopted and has always known this.  He writes to his birth mother for the same reason we read about in the press--medical information.  He allows that possibly a reunion is a bad idea.  AJ has an adopted brother Sterling.  It was always clear they were not related by blood.  They were persons in an ordinary family.  Sadly by the time AJ, Adlai, was a teenager it was dysfunctional.  There was an angry father who drank too much.  Eventually AJ himself becomes a member of AA.  For twelve years he was a sentimental drunk.  He scraped paint and sold encyclopedias.  The father died in 1983 after a third heart attack.  He had mellowed by then.  At his funeral AJ found out that Sterling was a job coach.  Sobering up was the first accomplishment of AJ's life.  His brother Sterling failed in his television debut in the 1970's.  In 1990 AJ urged him to join a support group for people who had had public setbacks.  AJ accompanies Sterling to a meeting and becomes interested in a singer.  She will not commit to a date but tells him she is appearing in a lounge at a ski resort.  He ends up falling down the intermediate slope at the resort and his failure to injure himself causes the singer to laugh.  He decideds to stay in California to cement the relationship.  In subsequent months he meets Abby's family and they marry.  Not to soon afterwards there is a daughter, Maggie.  Sterling goes back into acting, but mainly as a stunt man.  Then Sterling has the misfortune to meet his real family, so-called, (I will not disclose the details of the plot here), and finally seeks to redeem his career and self-esteem by embarking upon a super stunt in Las Vegas on New Year's Eve.  The author writes effectively in a plain and funny style.	2003-07-10
1056264:US	52300235	R1VPGV5L2ETIRN	0688115489	756206777	Operation Wandering Soul: A Novel	Books	5	0	3	N	N	Child-friendly policies	The wandering soul is a floater resident in pediatric surgery, but in a book by Richard Powers he is so much more.  He is metaphysician, but sleepless, overworked, seemingly burdened with hopeless tasks.  In only a month Richard Kraft has acquired a persona.  A persona can vary greatly from service to service.  He does not tell the head of surgery that this career is merely a career holding pattern for him.      In pediatric surgery themes of child rescue predominate.  The author veers off to recount sending young London children off to Canterbury at the time of the blitz.  The story then returns to the charity hospital in the City of Angels where a therapist called Linda is encountered by Kraft and a [...]Asian girl requiring foot surgery. Every child who shuffles up the ramp to the therapist is, it would seem, a shattered hierarchy.      Kraft knows how he will end up, the misanthrope volunteer.  He played the horn and was studying music in college until one day he withdrew to return later to study science in preparation for medical school.  A prematurely aged child, Nico, manages to organize the children to the extent that everyone goes out to a ball game, and everyone goes out to go dancing.     Interspersed with current affairs are other stories from the past such as the children's crusade and the piper of Hamelin.  Children's books such as PETER PAN and THE SECRET GARDEN are scissored into the plot.  The childhood of Kraft himself, called Ricky in the tale, finds a place in this work.  Ricky was the child of presumably someone who worked in intelligence.  Intelligence work, those off the wall assignments, would probably account for the fact that Ricky and his father and his mother moved frequently throughout his childhood.  One scene is set in an American school in Vietnam.      Five stars to Richard Powers for this strange work.  It bears rereading.	2003-07-09
1057505:US	52300235	RWPBIEKV6S7T9	0140286012	277712962	Wanderlust: A History of Walking	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Pilgrimage is a liminal state	The history of walking is unwritten.  Walking allows us to be in our bodies in the world.  The motions of the mind cannot be traced, but the feet can.  The author walks us through an old Nike missile range.  She protests with others at a Nevada test site.  With Thoreau, Rebecca Solnit is both a poet of nature and a critic of society.  Walking as a conscious cultural act begins with Rousseau.  Nietzsche turned to solitary walks for recreation.  In Rousseau's ideology walking is the emblem of the simple man.  Rousseau portrays walking as both an exercise of simplicity and an opportunity for contemplation.  Walking encourages a kind of unstructured associative thinking.  A lone walker is both present and detached.  Kierkegaard found himself in such a state.  He proposed that the mind works best when surrounded by distraction.  Husserl claimed that by walking we understand our bodies in relationship to the world.  Walking upright preceded the development of the large brain in man.  The pilgrimage is one of the basic modes of walking.  There is a symbiosis between journey and arrival in pilgrimage.  The Civil Rights Movement was tempered with the imagery of pilgrimage more than most struggles.  The first fund-raising walk, a walkathon for the March of Dimes, began in 1970.  On a religious pilgrimage in New Mexico the author encountered  a Cadillac with the stations of the cross painted on it.  The promenade is a subset of walking.  Then there is the customized car and the cruise--low riders.      William and Dorothy Wordsworth were vigorous walkers.  Wordsworth and his peers seem to be the founders of a tradition.  The English landscape garden asked to be explored.  The emphasis on the pictorial and the existence of scenic tourism were invented in the eighteenth century.  Walks are everywhere in PRIDE AND PREJUDICE.  The garden walk provided relief form the group.  Wordsworth tried to understand the French Revolution by walking the streets of Paris.  Walking was Wordsworth's means of composition.  Hazlitt's essay on walking became the foundation of a genre.  Bruce Chatwin did not distinguish nomadism from walking.  John Muir went from Indianapolis to the Florida Keys in 1867.  Since English mountaineers found the Alpine Club in 1857, outdoor organizations have been proliferating.  The first High Trip under the auspices of the Sierra Club took place in 1901.  A taste for the wilderness is culturally determined.  Everywhere but in Britain, walking became hiking.  In England and elsewhere there was a problem of access to the land.  The Highland Clearances,1780-1855, for one example, displaced quantities of people.  In 1824 the Association for the Protection of Ancient Footpaths was founded near York.  Walking focuses not on the boundary lines of land ownership but on paths, a sort of circulatory system of the whole.  The YMCA was an early sponsor of walking clubs.  The history of both urban and rural walking is a history of freedom.  Dickens indicated the other things urban walking can be--police, detectives, criminals.  Virginia Woolf, daughter of a great walker, wrote an essay on urban walking.  Walter Benjamin described the Paris street, now a landscape, now a room.  Hannah Arendt wrote in the 1960's one could feel at home In Paris.    The book is crammed full of literary and cultural studies.  The few autobiographical sections and sentences are the most moving.  The reader is physically transported to mountain tops, labyrinths, and to that in-between state, the liminal state, achieved through the rhythm of walking, being situated between one's past and future identities.  Citizens in the street support democracies from the time of the French Revolution to 1989 when history was made in the streets of Hungary, Czechoslovakia, and East Germany.  Walking has been an established aspect of courtship.  There is a dark side.  Merely walking in the wrong place or at the wrong time could place a woman under suspicion of wrongdoing.  SylviaPlath wrote that being born a woman was her awful tragedy.  Women are the primary targets of sexualized violence.      Freedom to walk is useless without some place to go.  Work and home were never separate until the factory system came of age.  People cannot walk easily through suburban sprawl.  Walking can become a sign of powerlessness.  In the nineteenth century train travel changed perceptions of time and place.  Suburbs make walking ineffective as transportation.  Factories isolate, suburbs isolate:  the body has ceased to be utilitarian to the upscale consumer of outdoor gear and exercise equipment, but is recreational.  England remains pedestrian in scale.  The contemporary artist most dedicted to exploring walking in his art is English, Richard Long.  In some respects his work resembles travel writing. The book ends in Las Vegas.  The city is unfriendly to pedestrians.  The development of the super casinos and the automobile-free strip support the interests and the curiosity of walkers and traveliers.  Bravo to Rebecca Solnit for her engaging work.	2003-07-08
1058584:US	52300235	RH93GDXQC1DYV	0415901804	822751364	A German Identity, 1770-1990	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Identity politics	The scope is immense and the subject matter interesting.  The concept of nationalism intersects with German history in all kinds of ways.  At the end of the 1980's it was concluded that German peoples had less national pride than other Europeans.  The book seeks to find out what are the dangers of an excessive focus on economics in national life and the effects on German development of her place in the economic system.  As early as 1917 the national obsession with economics was noted.  In a sense, perhaps, the Germans were ahead of the other Europeans and the Americans in this respect. <br />Germany's political influence includes Greece, Russia, France, England, the U.S., Switzerland, Poland, Italy and Austria.  Gottfried Herder's \\"Essay on the Origins of Language,\\" (1772), was an important contribution to German self-consciousness.  He held that cultural transmission meant learning from other people.  Herder was inspired by ancient folk tales.  Goethe wrote a pamphlet on Gothic architecture.  Fichte continued the logic of Herder's argument.  Through everything he remained obsessed by education.  Wilhelm von Humboldt's vision for Prussian educational policy shaped German schools and universities for the rest of the nineteenth century.  Classicism in education inspired classicism in architecture.  This became known as the Berlin style.  German schools were more accessible to a wider social range than other schools in Europe.  Education became a vehicle of social mobility.  In the 1840's nationalism started.  For Fichte and Hegel Germans were a universal people.  For Paul Pfizer, CORRESPONDENCE OF TWO GERMANS (1831) the Germans were a \\"cosmopolitan nation.\\"  In 1848 the claim to be nationally superior rested mainly on assertion.  The first promoter of German economic nationalism was Friedrich List.  The railway was an instrument of national integration.  Cologne's railway station was built next to the cathedral.  In the mythology of German unification, a tariff union,Zollverein, was a critical factor.  Realpolitik caught on as a slogan for midcentury Germany.  <br />Economics had become a central part of the vision of political liberalism.  Economics could be used to stabilize a politically volatile state.  Relative freedom and independence in academic activity produced German scientific supremacy long before it had supremacy in economics.  The German Empire began in 1871 at Versailles.  Constitutionally it was a federation.  The permanence of Prussian dominance was guaranteed.  The Germanness of schools, citizenship, and nationality was highly aggressive.  Until the 1920's Wagner's circle had little political impact.  According to Nietzsche the modern German bourgeoisie had no capacity for an independent culture.  Nietzsche felt that the Germans should be less self-conscious and look back to the Greeks.  Nietzsche received little attention during his mentally-active lifetime.  Walter Rathenau contended that German materialism was exemplified by the beer hall and the garden gnome.<br />Unfortunately the illusions and hopes of 1914 shaped German history after 1918.  Nationalists and supporters of the Republic clashed.  The military defeat came suddenly and it was necessary to become democratic quickly to sue for peace.  The stab in the back theory was developed to explain Germany's failures.  The economic realities of the postwar years frustrated optimistic aspirations.  Weimar rejected the old, but found it difficult to create a new political style.  By the time of economic collapse the government could not rule through parliament but had to use special decrees.  Reparations ended in July 1932 and Weimar ceased six months later.  There was a shifting character to Nazi support based on Hitler's chameleon strategy.  Nazi nationalism had a manipulative function.  Hitler's foreign policy rested on pre-war theories of Mitteleuropa.  The Nazi view of culture contained traditional elements.  Nazism offered a concrete realization of dreams.  The killing actions did not form part of a publicly proclaimed doctrine of nationality.  The leadership shrouded the holocaust in circumlocution.  The identification of conspiracy and crime with the nation produced a legacy that has outlasted 1945.  After May 1945 Germany no longer existed as a political entity.  After 1949 two states called themselves Germany and the Cold War was played out there.  In the early fifties in the Federal Republic there were economic and foreign policy successes.  Poltical stability was achieved by, among other things, having virtually a two-party system.  The re-union of Germany in 1989 and 1990 took place in several stages and constitutes an achievement of some magnitude. Economics continues to dominate the political scene.  Germany's federal tradition is venerable and antique.	2003-07-07
1058799:US	52300235	R2K66EMCDKAYAD	0345235576	547360632	Dr Sax	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Lowell superheroes	These are stories from Kerouac's childhood.  The writing resembles that of the later Henry Roth.  Among other things, each man wrote of boys swimming in the river and the magic highlighted style gives the reader the sense of swimming, too, a not alltogether positive experience in the built-up industrial areas described.  Kerouac's writing is vigorous and interesting.  Dr. Sax is a mythic, half real, half unreal character, something, someone, looming up, derelict.  Dicky Hampshire wrote on a fence that Jack is a big punk, and so on and so forth.  The community described is comprised of many French-Canadians and French terms and phrases are used.  As to the swimming in the Merrimac River, it was polluted in those days prior to World War II in the area near Lowell.  Kerouac writes of a silent Boott Mills, horse racing, marble playing, and ghosts.  There is bowling at the social club.  Movies and funnies get the attention of the children, boys, friends of Ti-Jean.  Family names mentioned include Duluoz.  Dr. Sax in a shroud stands on the shore.  The castle is a heap of stones.  The Shadow Magazine is of significance in the book.  Flooding in the area sometime in the thirties is described.  The boys go to Paul's porch in a rowboat.	2003-07-07
1060822:US	52300235	R3PNTC8ZB7YM38	0435900668	47372678	Season of Migration to the North	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Longing to return, or who are you, Mrs. Robinson?	He had spent seven years studying in Europe.  He returned to Sudan, his small village at the bend on the Nile.  His grandfather was knowledgeable about the geneology of everyone in the village.  A new man was present in the village, Mustafa, who had been there for about five years.  He came from the outskirts of Khartoum.      Mustafa was a posthumous child.  He and his mother were each other's only relatives.  From childhood Mustafa felt that he was different from others.  Mustafa agreed to go to school just when they were first being started by the colonizers for village youth.  He had a wonderful ability to memorize his lessons.  His teachers admired him as a prodigy, but he paid them no mind.  After three years he had exhausted the country's academic resources.  He was advised to study abroad.  It was arranged that he depart for Cairo to attend secondary school.  In Cairo he stayed with Mr. and Mrs. Robinson.  He paid no attention to the love they showered on him.  He learned music and literature in Cairo, but enjoyed nothing.    Later he went to England where he killed Jean Morris.  Possibly he was the cause of Ann Hammond's suicide and the deaths of others.  He was appointed a lecturer in economics at London University at age twenty four.  Mustafa died, the but narrator, in his work at the minstry of education, keeps running into him since he had been a most brilliant and notorious student.  The narrator, Effendi, is guardian of Mustafa Sa-eed's wife and children.  Mustafa was the first student from Sudan to study in Cairo and England. (He dies from drowning at some point between the narrator's visits to the village and to his grandfather.)  Unfortunately his wife kills a geriatric suitor and then kills herself.  She had threatened violence if forced into a situation against her will.  She had wanted to marry the narrator, the guardian of her sons, but he had been disinclined to take her as a second wife.    In Mustafa Sa-eed's house the narrator comes upon many books of zoology, mathematics, astronomy, geology, economics, history, fiction poetry, sociology, anthropology, psychology, philosophy, and political science--all seemingly products of a superior English education.  There are no books in Arabic.  Why did his women companions commit suicide?  The women projected on him dark and strange emotions.  Mrs. Robinson wrote to the narrator that he was a tortured child and was the dearest thing that happened to her husband and to herself.  Drawings by Mustafa Sa-eed revealed real talent.  The narrator had the sense that Mustafa Sa-eed wanted to be discovered, that he wanted the narrator to sort through his things and begin to understand him. Jean Morris was being unfaithful to him.  He felt that the tragedy had to play itself out.  She kissed the dagger he held, fervently, urging him on.  Tragedy ensued.    The novel is expressive.  It recounts the sort of trials an extraordinary person might encounter who embarks upon life hobbled by emotional fragility and compelled to thread his way between two cultures.	2003-07-05
1062722:US	52300235	R1LD9SWU4HH01H	0452255872	932536365	The Family of Max Desir	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Who is Max Desir?	Max is a son and brother.  His uncle was badly injured in a car accident and his mother had a stroke and then a tumor necessitated a wig--this was the beginning of a progression. Marie was Sicilian.  She and her mother Angela and her father, Danilo, had come to America when she was a small girl.  Marie Defilippo met John Desiderio at a party.  After marriage they lived in an apartment in Englewood.  John's employer suggested that the name be shortened to Desir.  Massimo Desir, Max, was born in 1941.  He was the third of four children.  The family moved to Indian River where they lived for 25 years.  Later Marie and John moved to Hillcrest.  There was also a summer house.  After college Max traveled in Europe and settled for a while in Rome where he started writing.  That was in the past.  <br />In the present Marie is undergoing radiation treatment.  She sees the sun rise. She makes her family to buy a red boat, a catamaran, for the grandchildren to use.  Max becomes the exotic Uncle Max.  He hears a voice.  He is aware in the morning of having had violent informative dreams.  A trapunto tapestry is presented to Marie and John Desir by a grandchild.  It is a family tree.<br />Marie is dying.  She is subject to inertia.  She has to be called out of a daydream when addressed.  Family members care for her and Marie remains at home until her heaviness and lack of response require skilled nursing.  The third person the agency sends Brings her baby Aisha who proves to be a delight to Marie and the family.  Then Marie cannot distinguish people and barely eats.  John cannot admit to himself that Marie is going to die.  The family hovers, and then death.  The doctor is called, the men from the funeral home arrive.<br />The author shows Max and his sister Robin at the funeral home changing the make-up to achieve a more familiar appearance and correcting the mistake of putting on the wig upside down.  It is determined there will be a closed casket for the wake, but that John will have his own private viewing before each session.  After her death, Max realizes that his relationship to his mother has not changed.<br />The portrait of the father in the book is priceless.  The novel is well-written, compelling.	2003-07-03
1063064:US	52300235	R3MWX8PMX6DYUP	0449147606	315585927	Mrs. Pollifax and the Whirling Dervish	Books	4	5	6	N	N	The holy man	Dorothy Gilman writes smoothly and plots excellently.  I am certain that others have compared her to Agatha Christie.  This story begins as Carstairs determines that a situation requires the presence of Mrs. Pollifax.  He thinks that Emily Pollifax would be able to correct whatever lack of tact the CIA man, Max Janko, possessed.  He feels that it would be dangerous for Mrs. Pollifax to know too much.  The destination is Morocco.  Some years ago Mrs. Pollifax volunteered to be spy.  Before being called this time she ws beginning to fear that Carstairs felt she was too old to be of any further use.  She agreed to go to Morocco the following day.  She is successful in her mission to foil the attempts of someone making impersonations of persons promoting the interest of the Polisarios.  In the course of her adventures she encounters a small boy, a holy man, the sufi or whirling dervish of the title, and a former superior of Carstairs.  The holy man she encounters is someone who saved Carstairs from certain death when he was serving in the OSS during World War II.	2003-07-03
1064634:US	52300235	RB6ZW39CA9G8Y	0449006700	951839291	Mrs. Pollifax Unveiled	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Patty Hearst syndrome	There is a question whether an American woman is alive or dead in Syria.  The CIA summons Emily Pollifax and another free-lance hand, John Sebastian Farrell. They travel to Syria.  It seems that rumors in the bazaar indicate that Amanda Pym, the person concerned, is still alive after having been kidnapped six weeks earlier.  She had foiled some hijackers and entered a wrong car directly after the event when being interviewed by news organizations.<br />When Mrs. Pollifax and Farrell arrives in Damascus and checks into the hotel, Mrs. Pollifax finds a note. She had been advised by her superior, Carstairs, that help could be expected.  The note directs themn to go to the Citadel.  Things really heat up as Farrell gets taken into police custory and Mrs. Pollifax, having been struck in the head with something, makes her way to an archaeological dig, a caravansary, to find the next clue.  Traveling the following day in a borrowed land rover in search of the shepherd who may have seen Amanda Pym, Mrs. Pollifax and her guide, Joe Fleming, enter an area of the desert where snipers are boing trained.  They find a burned American passport that may have belonged to Amada Pym.  <br />Farrell arrives at the camp reporting that he had been held by a nefarious group, not the police at all, who seemed to know everything about Amanda Pym.  Determining to view the encampment at night, to try to see what the shepherd saw, they look through the binoculars and see Amanda Pym among the people in camouflage garb who were supposed to be snipers in training.  Farrell comes to know more about Amanda Pym by piecing together pieces of her journal found in the vicinity of the burned passport.  The means Mrs. Pollifax, Farrell, and Joe Fleming employ to separate Amanda Pym from the others I care not to disclose.  I will say that the solution involves the aid of sheep and golden hamsters.  The working out of the details both in Syria and elsewhere proves to be extremely exciting and delightful from the point of view of the reader.	2003-07-02
1069652:US	52300235	R3SQ68A5T5WIBL	0679781587	823326041	Memoirs of a Geisha: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Floating world	We have all seen prints of the floating world.  We know about Noh and Kabuki actors, traditional theater, and the white paint used on their faces.  This reader has also been beguiled by stories of the aesthetes of Boston and Paris who were transfixed by Japanese art and culture.  Naturally the world of the geisha is a good deal messier.  This novel is a recreation of that world in the 1930's and 1940's by a scholar of Japanese art and history.  The novel may have become as popular as it has basically for two reasons.  The first is that Arthur Golden does a masterful job.  The second is that the themes of the novel resonate in our culture.  We have become intensely interested in the violation of innocence-- shades of Samuel Richardson's PAMELA.  There is a third reason, too, and that is that in our classless and relatively fluid society we are enamoured of tales set in more traditional societies where considerations of caste are paramount.<br />Her geisha name is Sayori, her birth name Chiyo.  She is one of two daughters of a fisherman. Her mother is dying.  Her family cannot afford to buy the mother a beautiful robe for dying.  A Mr. Tanaka, the head of the Japan Coastal Seafood Company, has already arranged a physical examination of Chiyo and her sister. Chiyo believes that Mr. Tanaka wants to adopt them.  Chiyo and Mr. Tanaka's daughter sneak out at night to follow Mr. Tanaka to a tea house where he sits with the geisha.<br />Surprisingly, Mr. Tanaka transports the girls out of town in a direction away from his house, to be turned over to a Mr. Bekku.  The sisters are separated in the city, Kyoto.  Chiyo is taken to an okiyo in Gion, a geisha district.  Eventually managing to contact her sister, she endeavors to escape with her the following week, but is thwarted by the increased vigilance of the okiyo workers.  She does come up with a plan, but in jumping off of the roof of the building in which she is being held, she breaks her arm and is discovered.  Followingthis escapade she spends two years being a maid and comes to realize that being a geisha is a means to other things.  Through a series of complications her geisha apprenticeship resumes.  The reader is led through the competitive world of geisha.  Golden shows the claustrophobia inevitable in an environment relatively cushioned from the stresses of world affairs during the worldwide depression and World War II.  Finally the district is closed down during the latter years of the war and its inhabitants left to find work in the factories.  Sayuri sews parachutes in the shop of a kimono maker.  She returns to the district several years after the end of the war and subsequently settles in New York City for reasons I cannot say without giving away the plot.	2003-06-28
1069666:US	52300235	R14WPPYYHXIWP1	0435900137	432358119	Mission to Kala (African Writers Series)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Second generation	Failing his exams, the hero of this tale, embarassed and forlorn, returning in shame to his village in the Southern Cameroons, dreading an encounter with his ambitious and domineering father, has the good fortune of being sent to the upcountry, Kala, to effect the return of a fellow-villager's wife.  Negotiations with the man's father-in-law had not been successful, and Niam needed his wife to return to farm his crops.  In the upcountry, Jean-Marie Medza's relatives honor him because he is a city man and he is educated.  In the course of talking about geography and other matters learned in college, he becomes all too aware of the gaps in his knowledge.  He thinks, why should boys be tortured learning things only half-known by their teachers, things such as the conditions in Russia.<br />Medza stays with his cousin Zambo and Zambo's parents.  Zambo's father, the uncle, is a furniture-maker and farms along with everyone else.  Cocoa is near the settlement and the other crops of ground nuts, yams, bananas, manioc are planted as far away as possible to leave room for the cocoa-plantations to be extended.  Over time the uncle takes charge of the social calendar of Medza, a popular guest.  After the visits presents arrive.  The older people send sheep, the younger ones chickens.  Medza divides the livestock with his uncle pursuant to their blood-kinship.  The description of how the village lays seige to him in a social sense is comical.  Young boys wanted to be taught, girls entertained, people his own age cavorted with him afternoons, and the elderly surrounded him in the evenings.  The older people had more resources in this traditional society and so were able to claim the greater share of Medza's attention.  Kala was a large village, and so Medza could have spent the greater part of a year dining from hut to hut. <br />In the fourth week of the visit things come to a head. Niam's wife shows up in the company of a man with whom she had been living. (She knew that Jean-Marie had been looking for her.)  Brought before the chief, the fine for adultery is imposed, two thousand francs or four healthy rams or two ewes.  Jean-Marie is instructed to take Niam's wife home with him, but before that there is to be a party at the chief's residence.  During the party Jean-Marie marries the chief's daughter, Edima.  Afterwards he fears the reaction of his father to his new state of matrimony.<br />He returns home. His uncle is to follow with his flock, Naim's wife, and his own wife.  Jean-Marie describes his father as a case of western hypocrisy and commercial materialism grafted onto an African intelligence.  After his wife arrives along with the others from Kala, Jean-Marie and his father have a terrible fight. He and his cousin Zambo depart, and although the following October Jean-Marie passes his exams and gets a job, he never returns for his wife. The book is very strong, very interesting.  The story is told simply and effectively.	2003-06-28
1069678:US	52300235	R21FW2IRZ5U4A8	B00005X3A4	375738157	Victorian England; portrait of an age	Books	5	2	7	N	N	Bric-a-brac	Evangelicalism had rigorous logic and in early Victorian times produced a sort of mind-set for leaders. Ameliorating the circumstances of workers in manufactures and other kinds of employment was an outgrowth of evangelical faith, particularly in the sense that its attributes, duty and renunciation, comprised a woman's ethic. Also, evangelicalism secularized was a strong binding force. The French wars made England insular. England was spared the revolutionary tumult and civil and foreign wars undermining the economic circumstances of the continental countries and of the United States. <br />Patriotism in early Victorain times was a pride in human capacity.  The utilitarians were influential. No one could escape them.  The early Victorians had exuberance and facility.  Mr. Gladstone formed his style by reading sermons aloud.  The sermon was the standard vehicle of serious truth.  There was paradox.  Practical ideals were at odds with religion.  Religious belief might find itself in opposition to intelligence.  <br />Evangelicalism was met by Tractarianism, the Oxford Movement, and the teachings of Arnold, the school master.  People responded to the currents of the age and the result was good government and the improved lives of the masses by the 1850's.  There were rising wages, more food, and more cleanliness.  The basis of mid-Victorian prosperity was a balance of land and industry.  Representative institutions and the family dominated Victorian England.<br />The books presents a marvelous mixture of ideas and politics.  Representative personalities are woven into the narrative by the author in this brisk and spritely rendering of the Victorian Age.	2003-06-27
1070127:US	52300235	R2CQW7DOORXDNZ	0226475743	806526936	Darwin and the Novelists: Patterns of Science in Victorian Fiction	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Even unread theories permeate fiction.	The book functions as both a wonderful review of Victorian period novels and a review of Darwinism for the general reader.  Science is part of cultural formation. Even unread theories permeate fiction because others in the milieu talk about the theories and talk about issues forming the foundation for scientific theories.  This is a collection of essays extending the reach of the new historicism critical school.  It is necessary in using critical method to resist using a kind of metaphorical reductionsim.  Jane Austen, Walter Scott, Dickens, Trollope, Conrad, and Hardy are covered.  <br />The scientific view Darwin displaced may be called \\"natural theology.\\" Darwin learned the language and many of the adaptations from natural theology.  The idea of adaptation also implies the idea of interdependence.  Darwin may well be taken as the father of ecology.  Jane Austen's works reflect the world of pre-Darwinian science.  MANSFIELD PARK is a world of disciplined control.  It is essentially a closed system.  Jane Austen is dedicated to calling things by their right names.  By way of contrast, Darwin needed to break the traditional hold of classification.  He denies Aristotelian essentialism.  Chance and the random become the great creative forces in Darwin's theory.  Natural selection is a metaphor for mindless temporal processes.<br />Dickens had a preoccupation with irrepressible multiplicity.  The difference between Darwin and Dickens is that Darwin's laws have no moral significance.  In LITTLE DORRIT Dickens's images are of a world irredeemably secular in which both Darwinian theory and thermodynamics would find a place.  Darwin and Trollope were alike in taking self-deprecating stances in their autobiographies and being keen observers.  Thomas Hardy was preoccupied with close observation and his works encompass the character of the observer and the consequences of the act of observation which may constitute a sort of invasion of privacy.  Conrad emphasized the disruptiveness of Darwin's vision.  Through his characters Conrad moves from Darwinian distancing  and dehumanization to the edge of self-annihilation.	2003-06-27
1071326:US	52300235	RSADEVTETVM94	0808566245	895324472	Winesburg, Ohio (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Ohio verities	Malcolm Cowley suggests in the introduction that Winesburg, a unified story collection, is comparable to the SPOON RIVER ANTHOLOGY and THREE LIVES by Gertrude Stein.  \\"Godliness\\" is superbly and significantly at the center of the collection.  It has four sections encompassing three generations of a prominent family.  George Willard is a presence in many of the stories and his consciousness serves as a kind of organizing principle.  The book is grittier than the SPOON RIVER ANTHOLOGY, more organic, less contrived.  In this production Sherwood Anderson's artlessness works.  George Willard, reporter for the WINESBURG EAGLE suffers the death of his mother.  He is eighteen.  At the time of the county fair he decides to leave Winesburg.  The young man is going out of town to meet the adventure of life.	2003-06-26
1071499:US	52300235	R2N0QRQ7P9B92H	0435905325	440854689	Houseboy (African Writers)	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Perspective	The setting is the Cameroons.  Toundi Ondoua is to be whipped by his father and so he runs off to become Father Gilbert's servant.  After Father Gilbert's death, he becomes the houseboy of the Commandant.  From the Europeans he has acquired the name of Joseph.  The Commandant's wife, Madame, arrives at the Residence.  All of the white people desert the European Club for the reception at the Residence.  Father Gilbert is referred to as a martyr because he died on African soil is the kind of talk overheard by the houseboy in his work at the Residence. He accompanies Madame to the Dangan market.  She tells him his work is highly acceptable but then she accuses him of showing a lack of the joy ordinarily found in African workers.  In Dangan the European quarter and the African quarter are quite separate.  The houseboy knows Madame is having an affair with M. Moreau, the most distinguished European in the enclave, a prison director.  The Commandant tells his wife all the houseboys in Dangan now know she sleeps with M. Moreau.  The houseboy is falsely accused of a crime and is whipped.  The false accusation emerges from the hysteria at the Commandant's house.  The houseboy is taken to a hospital for his wounds, but he resolves to escape to the Spanish territory to save his life since M. Moreau is hungrily waiting for his release from the hospital to punish him in his own way.  The novelist is an artist.  The scenes presented are horrible, doom-ridden.	2003-06-26
1072612:US	52300235	RBDU50QLMOI75	0140242147	745986978	Painted Desert	Books	5	0	3	N	N	Sensation junkies	This book concerns media and traveling and cyber-culture.  It is about connections where there seems to be a lack of connection because people commit outrageous acts.  The main character's friend seeks to right the wrong, but in the midst of the road trip from Mississippi to Arizona, discovers that looking at the scenery and marriage may be more certain avenues of growth.	2003-06-25
1076549:US	52300235	R28MDL9VHVMGDW	0435900994	24726201	Bound to Violence (African Writers Series)	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Legends of the saifs and the Nakem empire	At the start of Bound to Violence it is the 1400's.  As time progresses slave-taking and cannibalism are described. The advent of Chrisitian missionaries and the French at the beginning of the twentieth century give rise to other stresses and strains.  There is religion in the region already in black Jewish figures and in Muslims.  It is an uneasy brew.  Violence and eroticism are intertwined.  Next to arrive in this French colonial territory are German anthropologists and art dealers.  As the twentieth century takes hold, this novel comes to focus more intently on individual characters enabling the reader to follow the story more easily.  The four years of World War I bring some of the fighting into the area.  Under the Treaty of Paris of 1919 eastern Nakem is ceded to England.<br />In 1924 a boy from the village, Raymond, received permission to study in France.  He was supposed to be part of the first generation of native administrators.  France fascinated Raymond Kassoumi.  He lost his appetite for study for a time when he learned that in his absence family members had become dead or enslved.  He led an obscure and unglamorous life while pursuing his gradute studies.  He 1933 he married a French woman.  Kassoumi from Nakem-Ziuko fought in World War II.  He fought on the Rhine, at Cassino, and then in Provence.  In October 1945 he made his way to Paris where his wife found him.  In 1947 there is a return to Nakem and the prospect of involvement in the leadership of a free country.  This is a strange and interesting work.  This reader was confused in trying to follow it, but was moved by the intense and artful recounting of different sorts of experiences.	2003-06-23
1077580:US	52300235	RWAPOF67N98EZ	0312113315	565590284	The Sensational Music Club Mystery	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Venerable ninety year old solves crime	A venerable old woman was not prevented by the sleazy actions of some of the characters in this mystery tale of a small town club and family disharmony from successfully finding an explanation for the death of a second wife.  Harriet Bushrow and company manage to uncover the exaggerations and other discrepancies of the victim's past to uncover the crime or lack of crime in this amusing work set in a small town in Tennessee.	2003-06-23
1078317:US	52300235	R280N0LJX7LSLS	0375724370	924994086	Anil's Ghost: A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Not bowling for Colombo	Anil's Ghost is set in Sri Lanka.  From the mid 1980's to the early 1990's government and anti-government insurgents were fighting in the south of the country and separatist guerillas were fighting in the north.  Anil Tissera returns to Sri Lanka after fifteen years' absence.  She is a forensic anthropologist working for a Geneva-based human rights organization. She was a champion swimmer in her youth, but wants that fact forgotten.  She is paired with an archaeologist, Sarantha Diyasena.<br />In training at Guys Hospital in London she read in a textbook that the bone of choice is the femur.  She finds it rather remarkable that everything starts with the thigh bone!  When she worked in sparse high-tech desert towns in the U.S. the workers in the lab listened to rock and roll music by day and spent evenings going to bowling alleys where drinks were served.  They  bowled robustly and drunkenly to overcome the stench and emotions associated with death.<br />The story is set amid immensely tragic events.  Anil comes to the scene from overseas and she is warned that she is in considerable danger.  She is also warned that in the three sides of the dispute, everything is murky and painful.  In order to do her work, suitable tools are not available.  It is said that only weapons are high-tech.<br />A recently disposed of skeleton is found in an area of archaeological significance protected by the government, it is an old mass tomb or burial area in a cave. It is determined the body has been buried twice.  Through soil analysis and entomological analysis the geographical area of the first burial site is gauged. An artist is hired to reconstruct the head.  The artist tries to kill himself subsequently and is saved by Anil.  The artist had become an alcoholic and mine worker after his wife disappeared in the troubles three years earlier.<br />Recreation of the head permits identification of the skeleton.  He was one of many persons killed by the government, but the governmentwill not consider this and the government representatives are inclined to dispute Anil's findings. A further frustration is that the skeleton has been stolen.  I leave the story here for the reader to wrap up on his own.  The book is splendid. Retelling a few of the points of the plot barely scratches the surface.	2003-06-22
1079224:US	52300235	R2045ILU0P6OP1	0345338391	635900674	New Hope for the Dead	Books	3	1	6	N	N	He cuts corners.	Hoke Moseley lives in a residential hotel in Miami Beach.  He turns over half of his pay to his ex-wife.  He is a sergeant in the Miami police force and needs to move into Miami.  Suddenly he has his two teenage daughters staying with him and his partner is pregnant.  He cannot afford decent housing and has been tasked, along with two others, to solve ten out of fifty cold cases in two months' times.  In the meantime he wonders if his last homicide case was accidental death or, well, homicide.  The book is excellent--a thoroughly professional job.	2003-06-21
1079839:US	52300235	R1IZLODI37QZPE	0435906690	722817260	Burning Grass (African Writers Series)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A story of northern Nigeria	This is a story of the Fulani herdsmen of northern Nigeria.  Mai Sansaye runs into a beautiful slave, Fatimeh, whom he buys for six or so cattle from a rival leader. He guesses that he has a year's grace before his rival commits acts of aggression toward him, but in the meantime he must contend with his sons, Jalla, Hodio, and Rikku, his daughter Leibe, and his wife Shaita and the vicissitudes of life that do not differ that much from our own.  Rikku is the favored son, and when Hodio steals away with Fatimeh and the boy Rikku sickens because he has a crush on her, the father vows to run down his second son and Fatimeh to heal the boy.  Notwithstanding his best efforts, he is struck down by the wandering sickness and family members commence to have a number of adventures concerning sorcery, arranged marriages, manufacturing and mining concerns, cattle treks,  and encounters with officials, particularly tax officials.  The story begins and ends with grass burning, a seasonal endeavor.  All in all, the book is bright and brisk and quite exotic.	2003-06-21
1080424:US	52300235	R3VBR0KLSJLEDH	1400034779	405618230	The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency (Book 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Charm	The lady detective of Botswana is utterly charming. She pursues her cases with logic and diligence. The local color in the story is delightful. It even seems that the political scene is correctly drawn when allusions are made to the rather step-child relationship Botswana has with South Africa. The cases for which clients seek solutions include an incident of witch craft, a matter of insurance fraud for an amputated finger, an instance of blurred identity in the medical profession where twins function as one physician, and a tale of a straying husband.	2003-06-20
1080760:US	52300235	R1KHUGI5TCKLX	039592569X	945815947	PrairyErth: A Deep Map	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Chase County Saga	Open the book. Chase County, Kansas has U.S. Route 50 and the Kansas Turnpike running through it. The Flint Hills are the last remaining grand expanse of tall grass in America. The population of Chase County is 3,013. This is clearly William Least Heat-Moon's masterpiece. The closest reading experience I can summon is that of Barry Lopez's ARCTIC DREAMS.     Chase County, Kansas is an empty area in relative terms. The arrangement of the book is to follow a sort of geographical grid. The author introduces new concerns with a series of paragraphs and quotations from other works. Individual stories are inserted for interest and historical verisimilitude. For example, Gabriel Jacobs was a Dunkard preacher from Indiana. He and his wife arrived in Chase County in 1856.     The book is filled with maps. Cottonwood Falls, State Lake, Spring Creek, Den Creek, Rock Creek, Cottonwood River, Sharp Creek, Roniger Hill, Landon Rocks and Bazaar are shown on the map of the Bazaar Quadrangle. Chase County is tall grass country and beef is the major pursuit. It absolutely depends upon grass. The work of Chase is to turn soil and cellulose into humaly digestible carbohydrates and protein. Tribal people took their health from prairie plants. Antelope are returning to the Flint Hills through a restocking program. The author observes that the land in Chase County is like a good library, it lets a fellow extend himself. Common Chase properties of the land are the vales and uplands through which the author enjoyed traveling.    A review by me cannot do justice to this book. The work is as multi-dimensional as EXECUTIONER'S SONG by Norman Mailer. Vachel Lindsay traveled down the Cottonwood Valley. A student going to high school in Chase County thinks there is no privacy, no opportunity to be one's self. A grade school teacher told the author she hoped that pople in Chase County could learn to love themselves less and the children more. The largest cottonwood in Kansas has a trunk 27 feet around. The Timber Culture Act of 1873 gave 160 acres of land to the settler who would plant ten of these acreas in trees. In 1931 a Fokker plane carrying the famous football coach Knute Rockne crashed in Chase County near Bazaar. People ariving in Chase County after 1862, the Homestead Act, were limited to taking a quarter section, 160 acres. Most county bottom land had been claimed by 1870. Absentee land ownership has been a fact of life in Chase County since the 19th century when the English aristocracy and the railroads owned large tracts.    The author says that for him writing is not a search for explanations, but a ramble. He believes that Chase County is the ideal place to develop a prototype of a new agricultural community. The book began when the author arrived at Roniger Hill with an image of a topographical grid in his head. Of the dozen settlements in Chase County, three or four can still be called villages and two are towns. The significance of praryerth is that Chase County lies among it. \\"The Praryerths and Blackerths are deep soils, lightly granular, relatively nonacid, unleached, with full stores of humus and minerals.\\"	2003-06-20
1082573:US	52300235	R24O2TH9X8Q317	9997501470	142244623	So Little Time	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Resemblance	The chief characters in this sixty year old novel, Madge and Jeffrey Wilson, resemble the couple of John P. Marquand and his wife at the time of his second marriage.  Reading the biography of Marquand by Millicent Bell, one learns that Marquand's wife was also managerial and given to interior decorating on a rather lavish scale.  Jeffrey Wilson, hailing from Bragg, Massachusetts, a fictitious place, is a play doctor.  That is to say, he works on other people's scripts to make them suitable vehicles for Broadway.<br /><br />Jeff has a remote relationship with his son Jim, although things are easier from his perspective when interacting with daughter Gwen and younger son Charlie.  Jeff feels that had he not married Madge, he might have written plays of his own.  Jeff is concerned that Jim may be called to go into the service.  It seems that in the beginning of the story Jim is enrolled in a course of military science at Harvard.  The novel commences prior to the time of America's involvement in World War II.<br /><br />The talk at all of the cocktail parties centers on war prospects. Persons such as Walter Newcombe, a former classmate and now a foreign correspondent, are prized as guests.  They are thought to be in the know. Jeffrey's wife Madge is not only an arranger of furniture, she is an arranger of social obligations.  Jeffrey feels that he knows too many people and is obliged to shift his view too often.  Jeffrey's sister, four years older, is someone he thinks could be put into a Grant Wood painting.<br /><br />Jeff's play-doctoring carries him to Hollywood.  He cannot afford to deal with other than pot boilers he tells his friend Minot Roberts.  Madge does not join Jeffrey for the trip west since his script-writing stints keep him too busy at ridiculous hours to permit any of the kind of socializing she enjoys.<br /><br />The book is something of a roman a clef.  Unfortunately I did not have the Bell biography at my elbow as I read SO LITTLE TIME.  Marquand writes archly, ironically in a realistic style of the social and political matters of his day.  He creates lively scenes.  I was interested in undertaking this reading by an essay of Jonathan Yardley's I read on the internet.  I believe that the essay appeared in THE WASHINGTO9N POST.  At any rate, I agree with Yardley that Marquand writes lovingly and mockingly of the white Anglo-Saxon Protestant establishment.  This particular volume is a very strong piece of the Marquand oeuvre.realistic style of the social and political matters of his day.  He creates lively scenes.  I was interested in undertaking this reading by an essay of Jonathan Yardley's I read on the internet.  I believe that the essay appeared in THE WASHINGTO9N POST.  At any rate, I agree with Yardley that Marquand writes lovingly and mockingly of the white Anglo-Saxon Protestant establishment.  This particular volume is a very strong piece of the Marquand oeuvre.	2003-06-19
1083161:US	52300235	R1ZMADF2UHZCC6	0060931809	112419171	The Map That Changed the World	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Father of English geography	William Smith was the father of English geography.  He was the first recipient of the Wollaston Medal.  This medal has the significance of a Nobel Prize.    Smith was untutored, unlettered, and a genius.  The map in question is a map of the substrata of England and Wales devised by one person in his walks, hikes, theorizing, and geological investigations, published circa 1815.      The occasion of Smith's discoveries was coal mining and the consequent canal building undertaken to transport the coal to markets.  Smith, surveyor and drainer of flood lands, had the opportunity to see below the earth in the various mines created for coal extraction.  He ascertained that stratification was orderly in accordance with fossil finds.      Although much-honored at the end of his life, Smith underwent many hardships in the course of his career including imprisonment for debt. Winchester does a wonderful job of making the subject matter exciting and the science understandable.    He creates atmosphere in his book reminding one of Thomas Hardy and Jane Austen for reason of his description of places, buildings, building materials, and rocks.	2003-06-18
1084140:US	52300235	R2TSJWSR94G80N	1573227218	290811427	Amazing Grace: A Vocabulary of Faith	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A poet uses religious words	Kathleen Norris uses religious terms in this autobiographical work detailing a spiritual journey.  Through use of the terms, the author is able to spiral through issues of societal and personal importance in a deceptively easy-going manner.  The author's way of letting the reader enter into the work is masterly.<br />She became a lay preacher of necessity when a small congregation of which she is a member sought to keep the church open for services as a new pastor was sought.  She was told that as a poet she could function in the post.  She felt that as a relatively new adherent to the religious way she was not a good choice, but she could hardly refuse in the sense that the community had to be maintained. She came to feel that poems were finished pieces of work, but sermons were ongoing, more of a matter of process and implicitly, in her case, growth.<br />Use of humor prevents the work from becoming maudlin.  Hard and careful explication creates a realistic and intelligent result.  There is much in the book concerning monasticism which has bearing on the religious practice of an individual believer.	2003-06-18
1085677:US	52300235	R35RAEWC0YZEND	0618127240	350597649	Dakota: A Spiritual Geography	Books	5	10	15	N	N	Wide open spaces	We have read of the emptying out of the population in selected areas of the prairie states.  We have also read of the demise of the family farm because of competition from industrial-style farming operations and consequent over production.  We have also read of the destruction of the habitat and other kinds of environmental abuses resulting in the near disappearance of the actual prairie eco-system.  Some or all of the factors noted above have resulted in the creation of a new frontier.  Kathleen Norris provides a subjective account of the same phenomena in her book, Dakota.<br />In immediate and human terms she identifies the economic causes and cultural consequences of a broad regional trend.  In places her commentary is caustic as she quotes someone who opines that now the farmers are becoming Indians, too, that is to say that everyone in the western areas of North Dakota and South Dakota is becoming marginalized.  She describes well the defensiveness of the remaining people who question the motives of professionals who seek to settle in their midst, deeming that such individuals must be second rate or failures of some sort. <br />Another related characteristic is the inwardness and the creeping parochialism of the community subject to population loss.  It would seem that there is a loss of connection to the values of the greater society.  She finds that in the course of her observations she has seen instances where families overvalue the children who manage to leave the region and undervalue those who remain to care for family members and to farm.  It seems as if the children who stay in the region are seen as losers, diminished beings, who did not cope well in the competition of life. <br />In addition to the bitterness imposed by psychology and economic circumstances, Norris leads the reader to a position of hope and opportunity in the creation of new American deserts suitable for personal artistic and spiritual growth.  For example, deserts make people slow down and take stock of one's surroundings.  They may heighten awareness as limitation of sensory input opens out to attention to detail and wonder.	2003-06-17
