104818:US	52447634	R363F80IDNV7QK	076318991X	288285790	Chocolate Labs 2006 Calendar	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Lovely Stocking Stuffer To Consider Now......	Before long the chill of Autumn will be in the air, and the women folk hereabouts will start their yearly ritual of looking high and low for stocking stuffers. If there is a single inexpensive gift that is always appropriate, it is an article like this lovely boxed dog calendar for 2006 featuring Chocolate Labrador Retrievers. So, while it may seem more than a bit early to start thinking about Christmas gifts just yet, it is also a wonderful gift for students going off to college, who may have a bad case of homesickness, and a charming set of smiling Chocolate Labradors gracing their dorm space may do a lot to add warmth and hominess to what can otherwise be a somewhat strange and dreary institutional environment. The photographs are all taken by professional, and there is such a variety of shots that one marvels at just how beautiful and magnificent Chocolate Labradors are. I am sure this is a gift that will always please, and one bound to bring a smile to your loved one's face many times over the year to come. Enjoy!	2005-08-18
106259:US	52447634	R2ENYUU1S58WGQ	023103816X	135961311	Scott Nearing: Apostle of American Radicalism	Books	4	13	13	N	Y	Interesting Interpretation Of An American Original!	What does one say about a book that describes the politics, philosophy, and thoughts of a man who was one of the last of a breed of literary and intellectual lions? That this is a wonderful interpretation, full of fresh snippets of information and illuminating quotes and nuggets regarding a fiery and powerfully opinionated man who typified what the word \\"character\\" once meant. These days we have plenty of celebrities who are characters, but Scott Nearing had character. Scott Nearing was that rare and precious kind of man who actually stood by what he believed in, making his actions consistent with his beliefs, and doing so paid a terrible price for shouting against the insanity of the 20th century. Were we ever to look for good models to socialize our young with, Scott Nearing would be at the head of the line, standing shoulder to shoulder with other better known men like Gandhi, as wonderful models of what meaningful adulthood can look like.<br /><br />I first learned about Scott and Helen Nearing in the late 1960s from a friend who was interested in learning more about the back-to-the-land movement of subsistence farming. Like many of the other baby boomers infatuated with anything different and unusual, I quickly steeped myself in the lore of the Nearings. What I found has long since fascinated and amazed me. Scott Nearing was an idealistic socialist, an outspoken reformer teaching at the University of Pennsylvania before the First World War who was suddenly removed from his position because of his strong and public opposition to the shames of child labor. His long and tortured personal odyssey from the moment of that removal seemed destined to cast him further and further from the center of the political firestorm raging in this country and closer and closer to nature and an alternative lifestyle. Finally by the early 1930s, in the midst of the Depression, he and his young wife Helen arrived in rural Vermont to buy a ramshackle old farm and attempt to live a more deliberative, purposeful, and balanced lifestyle that was consistent with their philosophy and social politics.<br /><br />This is a well-written, accessible and eminently readable book by an academic who has done all of his homework. From  extensive interviews not only with Nearing but also with an impressive gallary of 20th century intellectual notables, including a staggering list of luminaries who knew Nearing and his work, Mr. Whitfield weaves a substantial and complex intelectuall and politically sensitive portrait of a man whose social and philosophical appraoch was based on Marxian realpolitik; a man who lived a life of principle with integrity, good humor, and compassion. Scott Nearing stands as a modern American icon from whom we can all learn a better and more satisfying way to approach our own lives and our won personal responsibilities to the wider community surrounding us. This is an absorbing and worthwhile boo, and one many of your friends would come to treasure after being introduced to this Spencer Tracy look-alike who so influenced a whole generation of younger Americans now living the 'good life'. Enjoy.erative, purposeful, and balanced lifestyle that was consistent with their philosophy and social politics.     This is a well-written, accessible and eminently readable book by an academic who has done all of his homework. From  extensive interviews not only with Nearing but also with an impressive gallary of 20th century intellectual notables, including a staggering list of luminaries who knew Nearing and his work, Mr. Whitfield weaves a substantial and complex intelectuall and politically sensitive portrait of a man whose social and philosophical appraoch was based on Marxian realpolitik; a man who lived a life of principle with integrity, good humor, and compassion. Scott Nearing stands as a modern American icon from whom we can all learn a better and more satisfying way to approach our own lives and our won personal responsibilities to the wider community surrounding us. This is an absorbing and worthwhile boo, and one many of your friends would come to treasure after being introduced to this Spencer Tracy look-alike who so influenced a whole generation of younger Americans now living the 'good life'. Enjoy.	2005-08-17
107066:US	52447634	R3MYBHQBZH4T2	0763189820	347584930	365 Days of Black Labrador Retrievers 2006 Calendar	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Great Sixteen Month Calender For Students At College!	I know it may seem a bit early in the calendar year to be talking about buying a 2006 calendar, but all too soon your son or daughter will be on his or her way to college, and a calendar that serves for the whole academic year serves them well in planning for the whole year. Besides, the photos in this one are so awesome that I wanted to mention it, for you can literally cut the photos out after using the calendar and frame them. There are a variety of shots, all taken by professionals, and they all add together to contribute to the overall charm and attractiveness of the calendar. I have one in the kitchen, so as I am feeding my hoarde of five dogs I can glance up to see even more Labs staring back at me from the wall. At any rate, this is a wonderful calender, and it is certainly one I can heartily recommend for your matriculating student. If you have a Lab at home, this calendar will provide a comforting presence in that otherwise drab dormitory room for the homesick kid. Enjoy!	2005-08-17
107364:US	52447634	R3ECQ16LA01GFB	0884970485	450507956	Beyond The Universe: The Bill Pearl Story	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Great Autobiographical Look At Bill Pearl's Amazing Life!	Although his name has never become a household word recognized by the average Joe, former Mr. Universe Bill Pearl is easily one of the greatest competitive bodybuilders of all time, having won the Mr. America title as well as both the Amateur and Professional NABBA Mr. Universe titles, the latter several times.  Back in the days before muscle-magazine magnate Joe Weider created the Mr. Olympia title as a venue for former Mr. Universe winners to continue to compete in the world of professional bodybuilding, the NABBA Professional Mr. Universe title was the place where they strove against each other in a battle of egos and physiques. In this arena Pearl was never defeated, and there is considerable speculation as to whether he or Arnold Schwarzenegger would have emerged victorious had they competed as planned in the fall of 1970. Arnold was game, but passed by the contest on instructions from Weider, who wanted to avoid the possibility that Schwarzenegger might lose and thus the Weider-sponsored IFBB version of the Mr. Universe contest would have been discredited.<br /><br />So the fabled match-up never occurred, and there are various schools of thought regarding whose physique was superior. Regardless, there is no question that Pearl, who was always a consummate gentleman and great competitor, was fully up to the task. Pearl's life, as told here in terms of anecdotes, streams of photographs, and a number of diverting narratives by Pearl himself, is as congenial and multifaceted as Pearl himself. From the very beginning, Bill Pearl was a man with many talents and a great number of interests, and when not building his incredible arms and shoulders he was just as likely to be found in other amiable pursuits ranging from playing musical instruments to building a series of successful business ventures. He was the first bodybuilder who saw his career as a business enterprise, and like Reg Park of Britain (and later South Africa), took his show on the road to glean the profits from posing exhibitions, seminars, and the first really comprehensive bodybuilding training manual, \\"Bill Pearl's Keys To The Inner Universe\\".<br /><br />Pearl was always on the cutting edge of American physical culture, from the early heady days around the environs of the original Muscle Beach and the greater Los Angeles area, where he had his first commercial gym, to his later ventures as a serial winner of the Professional Universe, where he and Reg Park seemed to alternate their periodic wins to propel their gym businesses. In his last run at the Pro Mr. Universe in 1970, Pearl was 40 years old and was in absolutely astounding condition, and those present say that no one could have beaten him on that particular day. Indeed, at 5' 10 \\"and 240 pounds, he was denser, bulkier, and thicker than Arnold in his prime. For those of us that watched the sport of bodybuilding progress from its early days in the 1950s through its glory days of the 1960s and 1970s, Pearl stands out along with a few others like Schwarzenegger, John C. Grimek, Reg Park, Larry Scott, and Dave Draper as one of the titans of the physical culture scene. For anyone who missed his presence on the stage, this sentimental journey with Bill in a recollection and reflection of those times will serve as a rewarding substitute. Enjoy!m posing exhibitions, seminars, and the first really comprehensive bodybuilding training manual, \\"Bill Pearl's Keys To The Inner Universe\\".     Pearl was always on the cutting edge of American physical culture, from the early heady days around the environs of the original Muscle Beach and the greater Los Angeles area, where he had his first commercial gym, to his later ventures as a serial winner of the Professional Universe, where he and Reg Park seemed to alternate their periodic wins to propel their gym businesses. In his last run at the Pro Mr. Universe in 1970, Pearl was 40 years old and was in absolutely astounding condition, and those present say that no one could have beaten him on that particular day. Indeed, at 5' 10 \\"and 240 pounds, he was denser, bulkier, and thicker than Arnold in his prime. For those of us that watched the sport of bodybuilding progress from its early days in the 1950s through its glory days of the 1960s and 1970s, Pearl stands out along with a few others like Schwarzenegger, John C. Grimek, Reg Park, Larry Scott, and Dave Draper as one of the titans of the physical culture scene. For anyone who missed his presence on the stage, this sentimental journey with Bill in a recollection and reflection of those times will serve as a rewarding substitute. Enjoy!	2005-08-17
108188:US	52447634	R38IUM4MWMTO0N	0375726403	340719393	Empire Falls	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Russo's Finely Woven Tale Of A Community In Turmoil!	There are a handful of fiction writers that I consider to be old friends in the sense that I know that in picking up one of their works I can feel comfortable putting myself into their very capable hands, trusting full well that I am off on a comfortable and illuminating ride through the world as they most artfully view it. Thus do I willingly surrender to the words of authors like John Irving, Kurt Vonnegut, Joseph Heller, John LeCarre and Richard Russo without a passing thought, and rarely am I disappointed.  My latest such enchantment was with Richard Russo's Pulitzer Prize-winning novel, \\"Empire Falls\\". Here, as with his previous novels like \\"Nobody's Fool\\" and \\"Straight Man', Russo demonstrates his unique ability to conjure an utterly believable and yet enchanting microcosm of the world of ordinary people, struggling through what Henry David Thoreau would describe as the \\"quiet desperation\\" of trying to live meaningfully and purposefully in a world not congenial to such strivings.<br /><br />Russo's main coda here regards the futility of our efforts to overcome our own frailties and limitations, as well as our own self-limiting strategies that so often result in attaching us ever more firmly within the mucky mire of flawed and dysfunctional interpersonal relationships. No one can more memorably convey the mixed blessing represented by friends and family than Richard Russo, and the memorable series of heartaches and disappointments that seem to necessarily trail in the wake of such meaningful emotional entanglements. Herein lies the rub for the protagonist of \\"Empire Falls\\", one Miles Roby, ex-husband, son, father, brother and proprietor of the Empire Grill, the local hash and coffee joint.  Miles wakes up one morning to find himself stuck indeed. Through what Russo might term the usual catastrophe of working class life, he has been compromised, seduced, and led into a dead end job, managing the local restaurant and longing to reclaim his lost life as a would-be scholar far from the confines and constraints of being a native of Empire Falls.<br /><br />Russo's stories tend to be sagacious sagas that describe and detail the particulars of working class people, people caught up by both their own frailties and the local social circumstances into a web of forces that they can seemingly neither control nor countenance. Yet they struggle mightily to do just that, and this tale of one man becoming unstuck is at once a history of the effects it has on the town, a detailed look at the associated personalities who both propel and are in turn propelled by these events, and finally is a study in the ways in which their various natures, misadventures, and meaningful orientation toward each other alter the course of the events of their contemporary lives in ways that are both unpredictable, unintended and yet quite fateful. This is a wonderful book, one that will survive over the long term, and one that deserves your reading time and some loving attention. Enjoy!r far from the confines and constraints of being a native of Empire Falls.    Russo's stories tend to be sagacious sagas that describe and detail the particulars of working class people, people caught up by both their own frailties and the local social circumstances into a web of forces that they can seemingly neither control nor countenance. Yet they struggle mightily to do just that, and this tale of one man becoming unstuck is at once a history of the effects it has on the town, a detailed look at the associated personalities who both propel and are in turn propelled by these events, and finally is a study in the ways in which their various natures, misadventures, and meaningful orientation toward each other alter the course of the events of their contemporary lives in ways that are both unpredictable, unintended and yet quite fateful. This is a wonderful book, one that will survive over the long term, and one that deserves your reading time and some loving attention. Enjoy!	2005-08-16
233904:US	52447634	R3F8QBH2ONS3PL	0374292884	377846531	The World Is Flat: A Brief History of the Twenty-first Century	Books	4	11	16	N	N	Terrific Albeit Limited Look At Our Brave New World!	Mr. Freidman is a fascinating intellectual, as this latest entry in his \\"compile your cumulative columns on a topical subject into a saleable monograph\\" series of works has proven over the last few years. What is more, he has an unusual acumen for focusing on salient aspects of the environment which seem to be propelling social, political, and economic change. Unfortunately, he is also an unalloyed cheerleader for global capitalism, and as such tends to concentrate more on how individual characteristics of our work force or traits within our national cultural orbit have contributed to the current perilous state of affairs for American workers rather than recognize how profoundly the stage is set for disaster by the growth of corporate capitalism.<br /><br />Thus, the options for American workers is severely limited and constrained by the broad strokes of American economic policy, international trade agreements, and the economic activities of outsourcing corporate concerns who are trading jobs for profits at an alarming rate; therefore, the shocking indifference of so-called American companies  and the national government should also be suitable grist for Mr. Friedman's discussion. However, short shrift is given to such seemingly \\"myopic\\" and sectarian concerns. The author ignores them or shrugs them off as if they were either tangential to the matter or unimportant side issues, when exactly the opposite seems to be the case.<br /><br />Instead, Mr. Friedman prefers to wax wonderfully about the nuances of the flattened world, and in this regard his prose truly soars, highlighting his uncanny ability to discern meaningful  patterns among the detritus that surrounds us, as well as his seeming courage in pointing out some quizzical shortcomings on our part, all of which are well taken. One finds himself wondering aloud as to why he seems to be both deaf and dumb regarding the egregious indifference of American capital to address itself to the long-term socioeconomic damage being wreaked upon the country by their wanton pursuit of short-term gain.<br /><br />Long ago Henry Ford revolutionized the American economy by simply recognizing that if he paid his assembly workers more than the livable wage that most of his contemporary competitors did, he would thereby also create a class of enabled consumers ready, willing, and able to buy his product.  The fact that American corporations now either disregard such notions or believe that the true market opportunities lie with other enabled consumers in other countries, makes one believe that they are either unaware or indifferent as to the catastrophic effects their economic tradeoffs portends for American society.<br /><br />All that said, I still would contend that, in fact, I would recommend this book.  This is a very good book, and it is also one that could have been a great book, were it more comprehensive, had Mr. Friedman turned his laser-like intellectual abilities toward covering all of the salient factors flattening the world. Having failed to have done so makes it a damnable shame. Enjoyked upon the country by their wanton pursuit of short-term gain.     Long ago Henry Ford revolutionized the American economy by simply recognizing that if he paid his assembly workers more than the livable wage that most of his contemporary competitors did, he would thereby also create a class of enabled consumers ready, willing, and able to buy his product.  The fact that American corporations now either disregard such notions or believe that the true market opportunities lie with other enabled consumers in other countries, makes one believe that they are either unaware or indifferent as to the catastrophic effects their economic tradeoffs portends for American society.      All that said, I still would contend that, in fact, I would recommend this book.  This is a very good book, and it is also one that could have been a great book, were it more comprehensive, had Mr. Friedman turned his laser-like intellectual abilities toward covering all of the salient factors flattening the world. Having failed to have done so makes it a damnable shame. Enjoy	2005-05-20
233997:US	52447634	R1QJBV9H0XYC6B	0691122946	25166027	On Bullshit	Books	5	18	22	N	N	A Thoughtful Look At Contemporary Affairs!	The first book that sprang to mind as I read through this sometime hilarious, yet often perceptive short tome was Talcott Parson's ponderous, turgid, and nearly unreadable two-volume sociological treatise on the \\"Structure of Social Action\\", a book that became legend to the counteless undergraduate students majoring in sociology who found themselves obligated to struggle through it in order to fulfill the requirement for a Social Theory course. Academic C. Wright Mills later rendered a scathing albeit comical critique of the Parsonian style in a clever and insightful book, \\"The Sociological Imagination\\" in which he warned, as does the present author, of the dangers implicit in high-sounding language not clearly grounded in solid and observable reality.<br /><br />Thus inoculated at a relative early stage of my academic experience about the tendency to use language to persuade and propagandize rather than to illuminate and accurately portray the state of the solid bloody landscape of modern society, I enjoyed the author's observations of how everything from the purchase of automobiles to voting for the president is corrupted by the ever-present scourge of bullshit in our culture. What Mr. Frankfurt succeeds so marvelously in depicting is the way in which almost every salient aspect of contemporary society has been dominated and trivialized by this use of language to alter our perceptions in ways that have nothing to do with the observable truth.<br /><br />Thus, an anti-environmental clear-cutting lumber program devastating to the National Forests is offered by the Bush Administration as a \\"Healthy Forests\\" initiative, or an invasion of a sovereign nation such as Afghanistan is depicted as an exercise in \\"Democracy-building\\". Never mind the fact that the new President of Afghanistan is a former executive officer of the international oil cartel now attempting to control the land within Afghanistan to facilitate the construction of a cross-country pipeline; he is described as an Afghan patriot. Of course, the examples one can employ are not merely political or social or economic; they are endemic to our devolving society and to our so-called contemporary culture.<br /><br />Frankfurt's book offers a theory as to what this \\"scourge of bullshit\\" represents, how it operates, and why it has flourished in the last several decades. And since all of us had so much personal experience dealing with aspects of the phenomenon, it is difficult to either deny or sidestep the points he makes so well. The most frightening aspect seems to be that in spite of our recognition of the problem, there seems to be little appetite for dealing directly with it, or for any meaningful attempt to eradicate it, or any energy organized toward movement beyond its effects, most likely because it is by now so deeply embedded in the cultural style of our society that it is impossible to separate from the fabric of our culture. Anyone who can consider Michael Jackson an artist has to have a hard time figuring out where the so-called truth ends and the bullshit begins. Alas, this is an entertaining, edifying, and immeasurably valuable book, and one that deserves your attention. Enjoy!han patriot. Of course, the examples one can employ are not merely political or social or economic; they are endemic to our devolving society and to our so-called contemporary culture.    Frankfurt's book offers a theory as to what this \\"scourge of bullshit\\" represents, how it operates, and why it has flourished in the last several decades. And since all of us had so much personal experience dealing with aspects of the phenomenon, it is difficult to either deny or sidestep the points he makes so well. The most frightening aspect seems to be that in spite of our recognition of the problem, there seems to be little appetite for dealing directly with it, or for any meaningful attempt to eradicate it, or any energy organized toward movement beyond its effects, most likely because it is by now so deeply embedded in the cultural style of our society that it is impossible to separate from the fabric of our culture. Anyone who can consider Michael Jackson an artist has to have a hard time figuring out where the so-called truth ends and the bullshit begins. Alas, this is an entertaining, edifying, and immeasurably valuable book, and one that deserves your attention. Enjoy!	2005-05-20
345213:US	52447634	R3QATC4KJYO07G	0375760520	649819248	Paris 1919: Six Months That Changed the World	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Superb Intricate Tome On Peace Deliberations of  1919!	One of the almost indescribable pleasures of great history is the fashion in which such authors successfully locates the people, places, and events under description in a meaningful social, cultural, and political context such that his or her very act of exposition becomes an enjoyable and even illuminating event, one that can literally transport the reader back to another time and to better appreciate the welter of such factors in assessing the historical milieu in which those events transpired. Many such creative acts of intellectual transport back in time are palpable in \\"Paris 1919\\", by historian Margaret Macmillan. Indeed, she has a personal stake in the events, as her great grandfather (David Lloyd George) was one of the principal actors in the events described in such breath-taking detail.<br /><br />Indeed, it is in such loving details that the difference between this volume about the turmoil, intrigue, and pathos surrounding the generation of the Treaty of Versailles on the one hand, and the plethora of other such tomes, on the other, can be most usefully drawn. Little of import in the way of startling new information is actually offered here, which is not to say that this is not an incredibly bold and different interpretation of those events. Rather, it is in the mass of relevant details gathered together that this becomes such a convincing tour de force describing the folly of both individual men and specific nations to deliberate, discover, and design a just and lasting framework for peace.<br /><br />What we are privileged to witness is just how fatefully the interaction of individually flawed egos from men such as Woodrow Wilson, David Lloyd George, and Georges Clemenceau recreated the world in a more congenial form  for their personal and national interests and prejudices, although Professor Macmillan heartily disagrees with the notion that their actions, however ill-conceived, necessarily set the groundwork for such bitterness and rancor that the signing of the accord therefore created the circumstances literally guaranteeing another, even more terrible world war would follow. Instead, she argues, such an effort to scapegoat the participants is clearly not consistent with a careful consideration of the facts.<br /><br />Thus, as the six months of effort in Paris transpired, the so-called peacemakers proceeded to maximize their personal and national interests by carving up old empires, creating new ones in the process and shoving Russia to one side, alienating them as well as China, and of course, the biggest loser of all, Germany.  But while their corrupt decisions did often either magnify existing national animosities or even create new ones, they also made a serious effort to deal with such problems as the ethnic problem in Kosovo, the Arab question (Lawrence of Arabia was a keynote participant in the deliberations), and even attempted to deal with the question of a homeland for the Jews. This is a wonderful book, one that will help to reacquaint lovers of good history with a master of the craft. Enjoy!he signing of the accord therefore created the circumstances literally guaranteeing another, even more terrible world war would follow. Instead, she argues, such an effort to scapegoat the participants is clearly not consistent with a careful consideration of the facts.  <br />  <br />Thus, as the six months of effort in Paris transpired, the so-called peacemakers proceeded to maximize their personal and national interests by carving up old empires, creating new ones in the process and shoving Russia to one side, alienating them as well as China, and of course, the biggest loser of all, Germany.  But while their corrupt decisions did often either magnify existing national animosities or even create new ones, they also made a serious effort to deal with such problems as the ethnic problem in Kosovo, the Arab question (Lawrence of Arabia was a keynote participant in the deliberations), and even attempted to deal with the question of a homeland for the Jews. This is a wonderful book, one that will help to reacquaint lovers of good history with a master of the craft. Enjoy!         <br />	2005-02-18
378917:US	52447634	R1ETD9PZ912JXI	0793836522	10747028	How to Train Your Labrador Retriever (Tr-103)	Books	4	13	20	N	N	Yet Another Useful Guide To Raising Labrador Retrievers!	Here is an attractive entry by author Liz Palika, a book that takes a loving look at America's singular and by far most popular wonder dog, the Labrador Retriever. As she points out so well, there are few other animals who draw such love from humans as a dog, and surely the Lab is the most loveable of the breeds. Here she presents the Labrador Retriever in all its wonder and does a yeoman service to the rest of us by enumerating all of the superb qualities the dog has to offer potential human enthusiasts. They are by reputation excellent working dogs, both as field dogs and as guide dogs for the disabled. They are also incredibly loyal, and the news services are often filled with wonderful and heartwarming stories of Labs crawling out on the ice to save their masters, often at considerable danger to themselves. Nonetheless, they stand by our sides.<br /><br />Therefore, this book, \\"How To Train Your L:abrador Retriever\\"  is a great tribute to the breed, and is chock-full with stories and photos that actively serve to substantiate what might otherwise seem as idle boasts and overethusiastic praise. In fact, for anyone who spends any time around Labs, like me, it is hard not to use superlatives when describing them. More than one of the stories herein will bring a smile to your face, a tear to your eye, and the idea in your noggin perhaps it is time to consider getting one of these incredible creatures into you rlife, and that of your extended family. they boost the energy level in any room they enter, are incredible chick-magnets, and have been shown to reduce high blood pressure and dissipate depression through their mere presence. This is a wond<br /><br />ful book, and one I am sure you will enjoy!	2005-01-21
379314:US	52447634	R21W7KJ18SE4B3	0764115308	259474948	Labrador Retriever Handbook, The (Barron's Pet Handbooks)	Books	4	18	20	N	N	Nice Book On Labrador Retreivers!	This is an inexpensive but quite accessible book about training Labs, a no nonsense nuts and bolts primer for the new caretaker of a the best dog breed yet devised by the Heavens; the Labrador Retriever. As someone who shares his house and life with four of God's single most nearly perfect craeature, I can testify as to the accuracy and relevance of all the information in this wonderful compendium. It is a literal treasure trive of data about how to raise and care for your new best friend, and it covers everything from potty training to kennel care.<br /><br />As a personal note, it is improtant to remember how sensitive Labs are, that one never ever strikes one, and that gently scolding them will get you the reaction you want much more efficiently than would any unjustified corporal punishment. Just remember, friends, there are really no bad dogs; only ignorant and incompetent people trying in vain to train the dogs. What you need to avoid such pitfalls is all here! Enjoy!	2005-01-21
379966:US	52447634	R3M2YU5XU29LD0	1572238151	674495877	Just Yellow Labs	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Great "Just Labs" Yellow labrador Retriver Calendar!	What better way to celebrate your love and appreciation for that four-legged wonder in your life than to have one of these calendars propped up on your desk in your office, so you can casually gaze at one of his or her cousins as you slog along your busy way each day? I know having such a calendar in my office often breaks the ice with students who otherwise might feel intimidated. My only problem is that with both yellow and black Labradors myself, I have to either alternate the calendars year by year or buy one of the versions that has all three varieties (black, yellow, and chocolate. This version nicely serves my love for Yellow Labs by having a variety of , Yellow prominently featured, and the shots are so striking and so memorable you may want to frame a few after the year is done. At any rate, this is a great ornament to have decorating your desk, or to give to someone who loves them as a gift. Enjoy	2005-01-20
379969:US	52447634	R302M3VR0CZJNY	1572238100	581082063	Just Labs	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Great Labrador Retriever Calendar	What better gift for your college student or friend than the gift of Labrador Retrievers Hanging on the dorm wall waiting for him or her after a long hard day in the study hall! Sure, it may already be January as I am writing this, but in a wink and a nod your son or daughter will be going back for the second semester, and you can give a plethora of winsome moments every time this calendar is seen, through sleepy eyes first thing in the morning, or at the end of a hard night studying in the library stacks. Get them this calendar and do both them and yourself a favor; them for having this great gift to enjoy all year long, and you for finding something both inexpensive and eminently approprate for all dog lovers. It is no secret that Labrador Retrievers are the favorite breed in America, and a casual look through this calendar will tell you why so many people love Black Labs in particular. Hope you catch the hint, and the dog lovers in your family will remember you every month of next year when they turn the page and find a new icon to stare at in wonder for the new month! Enjoy!	2005-01-20
380468:US	52447634	R3U15T9JOTMK5N	0764109928	317705982	Training Your Labrador Retriever (Training Your Dog Series)	Books	4	42	46	N	N	Good Book On Training Man's Best Buddy!	I really liked this book, which is no mean feat, given the fact that I am a person who's had the distinct pleasure of sharing his house and his life with as many as six Labrador retrievers at a time over the last 20 years (I now have four), I am acutely aware of the wonder and awe associated with getting such a wonderful companion can be. Yet, sadly, I am also aware of the profound ignorance many would-be labrador-people are regarding how to select, introduce, and socialize this new member of the family.<br /><br />In that sense, this book , along with a number of others (e.g. Richard Wolper's \\"Family Dog\\") can provide the wary would-be initate with all of the essentials on how to successfully transform that cute little puppy into a happy, obdeient, and well-integrated member of the household. This book does offer one the expert advice one needs regarding the care and nurture of what has now become the single most popular breed in the United States, with information ranging from an impromptu history of Labrador Retrievers to such topics such as adoption options.<br /><br />The book also delivers to the prospective owner a wealth of facts and details regarding Labrador Retrievers. The book provides essential and vital information regarding nutrition, socialization, and exercise, and offers some sage advice about how to find and select a reputable breeder. In addition, it also touches on aspects of ownerships such as common illnesses and chronic problems associated with the breed. This is a book I can heartily recommend! Enjoy!	2005-01-20
380690:US	52447634	R3DU2MIHMS79F9	0060530340	630472186	The Twentieth Century: A People's History	Books	5	27	34	N	Y	The REAL History Of The American People!	When it comes to smashing social shibboleths into smithereens, no one is more expert than noted historian Howard Zinn, who has made a career of retelling the story of American history in ways that debunk the comfortable old saws that focus almost exclusively on leaders and large organizations, leaving the central story of the actual history of the American people largely misrepresented, unfocused and untold. Here he remedies the overall treatment of more populist aspects of the American experience for ordinary people in the twentieth century, correcting the oversight by more conventional historians that exclude any serious discussion of organized labor or groups seeking rights and extensions of social privileges to the common working man.<br /><br />The book is written (as are all Zinn's efforts to date) in a wonderfully approachable prose that is both easy to read and yet eminently entertaining. One walks away from the reading experience with a profound new respect for the consistent efforts of the common American man and woman to secure a better, brighter, and more abundant future for themselves and their children against what often seems to be the insuperable odds represented in entrenched resistance of organized business and government forces. One element that is obvious in all of Zinn's representations is that, as H. L Mencken once put it, America may have the best government that money can buy, but unfortunately, the people do not own it; the corporations do.<br /><br />I would consider this book as an essential ingredient in any history student's broad education in the sense that it helps one to gain some critical perspective of just how often and how consistently most of the active forces within our social orbit serve to intentionally deceive the common man by accentuating certain aspects of phenomena and excluding or misrepresenting certain other information in order to better manipulate and control public opinion. Whether, for example, it be the federal government forwarding the public argument that the reasons we attacked Iraq was to secure freedom for Iraqis rather than admitting it was due to interests of global corporate forces to control the indigenous Iraqi oil production and distribution, or misrepresenting the corporate or governmental reasons for wanting to change the way in which shortfalls in social security funding will be addressed, Zinn returns the reader to a more critical view of the subject matter in view; thus one begins to see more systematically how the entrenched interests of the power elite continually are engaged in an unfair and unprincipled and ruthlessly relentless one-way class warfare, that it purposefully manipulates and propagandizes the general public through manipulation of the content and context of information via its ownership of the several avenues of the mass media in order, thereby serving its own social, economic, and political interests while deliberately keeping the common man unwittingly compliant in maintaining his own servitude. Enjoy!rding the public argument that the reasons we attacked Iraq was to secure freedom for Iraqis rather than admitting it was due to interests of global corporate forces to control the indigenous Iraqi oil production and distribution, or misrepresenting the corporate or governmental reasons for wanting to change the way in which shortfalls in social security funding will be addressed, Zinn returns the reader to a more critical view of the subject matter in view; thus one begins to see more systematically how the entrenched interests of the power elite continually are engaged in an unfair and unprincipled and ruthlessly relentless one-way class warfare, that it purposefully manipulates and propagandizes the general public through manipulation of the content and context of information via its ownership of the several avenues of the mass media in order, thereby serving its own social, economic, and political interests while deliberately keeping the common man unwittingly compliant in maintaining his own servitude. Enjoy!	2005-01-20
380833:US	52447634	R3BYD77PZ5B3JI	0375414339	490892129	Armageddon: The Battle for Germany, 1944-1945	Books	5	20	25	N	Y	Superb Recounting Of The Final Battle For Germany in 1945!	In all of modern history, there is surely no single spectacle more worth recounting in terms of its magnitude, level of mayhem, and sheer impact on the world that followed in its wake than that of the final drive into Germany simultaneously from both the west, by the Allies, on the one hand, and from the east, by the Soviet juggernaut, surging toward their final revenge for the atrocities visited on them by the Wehrmacht during Operation Barbarossa beginning in the summer of 1941, on the other. Accordingly, then , this exciting new tome written so well by British historian Max Hastings uses a treasure trove of newly discovered materials from both the Allies and The Soviet archives to detail just how bloodthirsty and painful this process was, how, in the author's terms,  the Germans are painstakingly described as being the essential meat being devoured and ground into foodstuff, sandwiched between the two invading armies.<br /><br />Of course, each of these formidable forces was exacting its measure of what was left of the pride of the German armed forces, which was left to stumble back into the Fatherland bloodied and bludgeoned by the blunt force of the advancing armor of Patton to the west and south, and the new Russian T-38s to the east. Those facing Patton were likely the luckier in this regard, for although the US Army was violent and cruel, it most often was far kinder to surrendering German prisoners than were their Soviet counterparts, in whose care few prisoners actually survived the experience.  This was no accident, for the force propelling the Soviet surge toward Berlin in late 1944 and early 1945 were bloodlust, a thirst for revenge for the unspeakable atrocities the Wehrmacht has exacted not only from the Russian armies, but from the general population at large, as well.<br /><br />Those with a background in the materials being broached here will understand that since the major purpose for Hitler's strike into the Soviet Union was to secure \\"living room\\" for expansion of the agrarian German population into the what they viewed as the Ukrainian `breadbasket' of Europe, the Wehrmacht (along with all sorts of specially-trained squads of killer troops who specialized in mass-murder) was ordered to annihilate the population through whatever practical means as might present themselves, whether though the specific devices of mass execution, or starvation, enforced slave labor, drafting them into becoming soldiers along other fronts, etc. Thus, as the Soviet forces slowly overcame the feverish, faltering and then failing defense of the conquered territories and finally begain to push the Wehrmacht back, first into Poland and finally onto native German soil, the moment of reckoning for all the blood and slaughter was finally coming due.<br /><br />Of course, the sheer scale of the slaughter is almost unimaginable today, with the losses on both sides tallying in the multi-millions.  Yet the author does yeoman's duty in carefully and painstakingly describing the scale of the `sturm und drang',  and Hastings faithfully details the intricate details with all of the assorted personalities involved, from the vainglorious General Montgomery to the seemingly unstoppable Zhukov, from the ego-driven exploits of George Patton to the self-effacing efforts by Ike to get this incredible array of forces to work together toward the common goal of crushing Hitler and the Third Reich itself. Finally, then, we are left with an European continent which has been laid to waste, as the single largest military adventure of modern times draws to its fateful conclusion amidst the plotting and conniving of the so-called cooperating allied forces. Indeed, by book's close we begin to see how the emerging sociopolitical and military situation is leading itself into the armed bifurcation of Europe into two constituent parts, one western, democratic, and free, the other dominated by the interests of Soviet style-totalitarian regimes. This is a wonderfulbook, and one that deserves the serious attention of any history buff interested in how the final fateful battle of the European aspect of World War Two unfolded. Enjoy!book, and one that deserves the serious attention of any history buff interested in how the final fateful battle of the European aspect of World War Two unfolded. Enjoy!	2005-01-20
408189:US	52447634	R22OXC3IG8O5DT	0877228442	988393651	Scott Nearing: An Intellectual Biography	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Wonderful Biographical Treatment Of An American Titan!	What does one say about a book that details the life and thoughts of a man who was one of the last of a breed of lions? That this is a wonderful biography, full of fresh impressions of a man who typified what the word \\"character\\" means. These days we have plenty of celebrities who are characters, but Scott Nearing had character. Scott Nearing was that rare and precious kind of man who actually stood by what he believed in, making his actions consistent with his beliefs, and doing so paid a terrible price for shouting against the insanity of the 20th century. Were we ever to look for good models to socialize our young with, Scott Nearing would be at the head of the line, standing shoulder to shoulder with other better known men like Gandhi, as wonderful models of what meaningful adulthood can look like.<br /><br />I first learned about Scott and Helen Nearing in the late 1960s from a friend who was interested in learning more about the back-to-the-land movement of subsistence farming. Like many of the other baby boomers infatuated with anything different and unusual, I quickly steeped myself in the lore of the Nearings. What I found has long since fascinated and amazed me. Scott Nearing was an idealistic and outspoken reformer teaching at the University of Pennsylvania before the First World War who was suddenly removed from his position because of his strong and public opposition to the shames of child labor.<br /><br />His long and tortured personal odyssey from the moment of that removal seemed destined to cast him further and further from the center of the political firestorm raging in this country and closer and closer to nature and an alternative lifestyle. Finally by the early 1930s, in the midst of the Depression, he and his young wife Helen arrived in rural Vermont to buy a ramshackle old farm and attempt to live a more deliberative, purposeful, and balanced lifestyle that was consistent with their philosophy and social politics.<br /><br />This is a well-written, accessible and eminently readable book by an academic who has done all of his homework. From interviews not only with Nearing late in his life, but also with many other contacts with everyone from his wife Helen to his sons from his first marriage to a staggering list of luminaries who knew Nearing and his work, Mr. Saltmarsh weaves a substantial and comforting country quilt of a portrait of a man who lived a life of principle with integrity, good humor, and compassion. Scott Nearing stands as a modern American icon from whom we can all learn a better and more satisfying way to approach our own lives and our won personal responsibilities to the wider community surrounding us. This is an absorbing and worthwhile boo, and one many of your friends would come to treasure after being introduced to this Spencer Tracy look-alike who so influenced a whole generation of younger Americans now living the 'good life'. Enjoy.This is a well-written, accessible and eminently readable book by an academic who has done all of his homework. From interviews not only with Nearing late in his life, but also with many other contacts with everyone from his wife Helen to his sons from his first marriage to a staggering list of luminaries who knew Nearing and his work, Mr. Saltmarsh weaves a substantial and comforting country quilt of a portrait of a man who lived a life of principle with integrity, good humor, and compassion. Scott Nearing stands as a modern American icon from whom we can all learn a better and more satisfying way to approach our own lives and our won personal responsibilities to the wider community surrounding us. This is an absorbing and worthwhile boo, and one many of your friends would come to treasure after being introduced to this Spencer Tracy look-alike who so influenced a whole generation of younger Americans now living the 'good life'. Enjoy. <br />	2004-12-30
466367:US	52447634	R3F706SE6C492G	0393058808	49128040	Perilous Times: Free Speech In Wartime : From The Sedition Act Of 1798 To The War On Terrorism	Books	5	44	53	N	N	Great Tome On Intrinsic Tensions of 1st  Amendment Rights!	In this marvelously readable new work by celebrated academic Geoffrey R. Stone, the author offers up for our reading pleasure a wonderfully pensive, comprehensive and timely contextual look at one of the key elements in the ongoing calculus of a free society; the right to free speech as embodied in the First Amendment. Opening by collaring Oliver Wendell Holmes' famous dictum regarding the social, economic and political wisdom in allowing all sorts and manners of thoughts and premises to freely compete in the marketplace of ideas, Professor Stone delivers a wonderful and sometimes whimsical history of just how critical such allowances of civil liberties are in guaranteeing the continuance of the republic. In so doing, he allows us a more meaningful window through which we can view the current battle-lines organized around civil rights issues emanating from concern over the Patriot Act and other infringements on personal liberties.<br /><br />His anecdotes are telling, and often surprising, as when one learns that Abraham Lincoln suspended the right of the writ of habeas corpus several times during his embattled administration, or how the government tried groups of dissidents in the aftermath of World War One (including famous intellectuals such as Eugene Debs and the later sixties countercultural \\"back-to-the land\\" icon Scott Nearing) for treason for their free speech critical of the war effort. In sum, this book provides the reader with a marvelous compendium tracing the history of the continuing struggle and tension between the need for public order, on the one hand, and the right of individuals and groups to speak their minds without fear of official or unofficial consequences from the government at large.  Surely, events such as the involuntary segregation and detainment of Japanese Americans during the course of WWII is among the most grievous of the episodes related herein, yet other, later efforts such as the actions of the Congressional House Un-American Activities Committee (or HUAC) originally established by Harry Truman to invoke official investigation of the civil activities of ordinary Americans as a kind of litmus loyalty test are even more egregious transgressions of the ways in which government can trample over the rights and prerogatives of its citizenry.<br /><br />He takes great pains to help the reader to understand that most usually such blatant transgressions on individual rights to free speech and public assembly take place during times of great national danger, such as a state of warfare. In this sense, the invocation of such a state of war itself may signal the likelihood of such efforts by the state to limit or muzzle efforts by people to speak their mind and criticize the actions of the government. Thus, we are reminded that one most often describes the period of the late 1940s until the late 1980s as the time of the so-called `Cold War\\". Then too, in more contemporary terms, the presumptuous attachment and use of the term \\"War On Terror\\" and President Bush's strident use of that term to justify a whole range of governmental restrictions and proscriptions ranging from no-notice `sneak & peek' searches of individual homes or arrest and detainment without preference of charges (as was done for more than two years to at least two Americans) may not be entirely coincidental.<br /><br />Yet it would both a misrepresentation of the book and its arguments as well as a disservice to readers to not mention that Professor Stone believes that many of the historical cases of abuse of the First Amendment that he cites are much less likely today, for a variety of reasons. First, as he takes pain to point out, the kinds of \\"major restrictions of civil liberties of the past would be less thinkable today\\", and he adds that both in terms of the evolution of the way the Constitution itself has been interpreted, especially by the U. S Supreme Court, and in the way our very culture views such basic civil liberties, we have indeed made remarkable progress. Professor Stones cites the ways in which the decisions regarding the disposition of infamous Pentagon Papers that disallowed the government's argument for restraint on the `Fourth Estate\\" (the press) since the Solicitor General had not proven such denial of access was warranted. Indeed, during the sixties era a number of such decisions clarifying the enormous latitudes and allowances that must be made by the government to avoid such transgressions on the civil liberties of its citizens.<br /><br />If  I were to offer any complaint or constructive criticism of the book, it is that it does not offer as much satisfaction regarding the author focusing his considerable intellectual prowess in considering more contemporary issues relating to the efforts by the current administration to stifle dissent and to drop a veil of secrecy over the machinations of the Federal Government in postures such as that taken by Vice-President Cheney in blocking public access to the list of attendees or the minutes of his meeting to determine national energy policy in early 2001. Yet one cannot not deny that despite its avoidance of such critically important contemporaneous events as are occurring even as we write, that this new book by Professor Stone is a truly valuable, worthwhile, and extremely readable book that will both entertain and edify anyone fortunate enough to open its pages. It is sure to be a great gift for Christmas, and one I can highly recommend. Enjoy!markable progress. Professor Stones cites the ways in which the decisions regarding the disposition of infamous Pentagon Papers that disallowed the government's argument for restraint on the `Fourth Estate\\" (the press) since the Solicitor General had not proven such denial of access was warranted. Indeed, during the sixties era a number of such decisions clarifying the enormous latitudes and allowances that must be made by the government to avoid such transgressions on the civil liberties of its citizens.     If  I were to offer any complaint or constructive criticism of the book, it is that it does not offer as much satisfaction regarding the author focusing his considerable intellectual prowess in considering more contemporary issues relating to the efforts by the current administration to stifle dissent and to drop a veil of secrecy over the machinations of the Federal Government in postures such as that taken by Vice-President Cheney in blocking public access to the list of attendees or the minutes of his meeting to determine national energy policy in early 2001. Yet one cannot not deny that despite its avoidance of such critically important contemporaneous events as are occurring even as we write, that this new book by Professor Stone is a truly valuable, worthwhile, and extremely readable book that will both entertain and edify anyone fortunate enough to open its pages. It is sure to be a great gift for Christmas, and one I can highly recommend. Enjoy!	2004-11-05
468426:US	52447634	R1WS5TVKW6VDMF	1594200335	844238166	The United States of Europe: The New Superpower and the End of American Supremacy	Books	5	127	148	N	N	Superb, Provocative, & Informative Book On Rise Of The EU!	Now that George W. Bush has convincingly demonstrated his national mandate through his re-election, it might give many Americans significant pause were they to recognize the force with which the United European state is beginning to effectively countermand the current administration's strain toward military unilateralism as the seemingly singular exercisable method for extending American power and influence throughout the world. As scholar Paul Kennedy has argued forcefully elsewhere, the mighty military power we project as the primary steam-rolling vehicle of our foreign policy has both great costs and great limitations, neither of which we seem to pay much heed to, but which both have fateful consequences for the future of the republic.<br /><br />Therefore, it is instructive indeed to find this thoughtful, well researched, and extremely cogently-written offering in which Mr. Reid, a former London Bureau chief for the Washington Post, argues that our chance at international hegemony may, in fact, be drawing to a premature close based on our peculiar penchant for unilateralism in foreign affairs and our confusion regarding what can be settled militarily, on the one hand, for what can be settled in political terms on the other. Our current imbroglio in Iraq, of course, comes immediately to mind, yet there are countless other egregious examples of the ways in which our social, cultural and political mindset seems to predispose us to what our European counterparts often view as counterproductive and even solipsistic efforts that often cost us far more than we gain.<br /><br />As a result, contends the always provocative and entertaining Mr. Reid, the emerging economic and political force of the European Union may soon eclipse that of the United States and in the process make our overwhelming military prowess all but irrelevant. Yet, while we may see the European alliance more in terms of its potential as a market for our products and services, in reality the European Union is much more likely to be increasingly the more senior and more powerful of the elements in the ongoing business calculus that continues to transpire between the two super-states. In particular, we need to pay attention to the ways in which pan-international agreements like the General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs (GATT) significantly impinge upon and often constrain the legal and economic rights and prerogatives of individual signatory nations to successfully employ their own national laws and regulations to determine economic and business destinies.<br /><br />An excellent example given in the book is that experienced by General Electric CEO Jack Welch, who discovered to his dismay that the supposedly definitively greased and authorized merger acquisition of Honeywell by GE was effectively blocked by the governing antitrust policies of the European Union, since in order to trade with the EU, one must, by virtue of the provisions of GATT, conform to the international trade laws within that realm. If GE wanted to sell its products within the huge European market, it had to conform, and the merger activities ceased and desisted.  In fact, Reid indicates, the European Union has a much larger market for American good than any other single market, including our own domestic economy. It also has more capital to use to enforce its dictates on trading partners operating within its orbit.<br /><br />Another consideration is its quite different social and cultural environment, one in which the idea of a \\"welfare state' is not only not the anathema it is here, but is also something the Europeans view as a superior moral and cultural tradition, one far superior to what they see as the naked and indifferent capitalism they see practiced in the United States. What is truly ironic in this regard is that while we act as the virtual arsenal of liberty, spending hundreds of billions of dollars annually to outfit, support, and man our armed forces, the Europeans tend to neglect to share what we might see as their fair share of  such a burden by characteristically under-contributing to the defense of NATO in particular, and by spending relatively little of their national treasure on defense in general. This allows them to support the forms of general welfare we tend to eschew as too costly and too unmanageable. One muses about how their quality of life compares to ours, and the answers one may finally arrive at regarding this comparison may depend on the all too selective criteria one may use to measure this aspect of 21st century life.<br /><br />While we Americans naturally imagine the quality of life in the United States to be superior to all others, one examining the issue becomes less sure that this is an established fact as opposed to being an un-researched supposition based on a profound cultural ignorance and lack of social experience living in other countries. And it is in this respect that the author serves the yeoman's service of better acquainting the reader with the realities of the rising cultural and economic influence of the European Union as well as their perceptions and dispositions toward us. For example, it is in our best interests to better understand the growing anti-American sentiment of individual Europeans based both on our unilateral foreign policies and what they see as a kind of cultural arrogance in which American values are assumed to be the values that we Americans are attempting to plant far and wide in service to the growth of freedom and liberty. To many Europeans it seems more an argument for economic imperialism  than for the spread of freedom. This is an excellent book, and one I can heartily recommend. Enjoy!tend to neglect to share what we might see as their fair share of  such a burden by characteristically under-contributing to the defense of NATO in particular, and by spending relatively little of their national treasure on defense in general. This allows them to support the forms of general welfare we tend to eschew as too costly and too unmanageable. One muses about how their quality of life compares to ours, and the answers one may finally arrive at regarding this comparison may depend on the all too selective criteria one may use to measure this aspect of 21st century life.  <br /> <br />While we Americans naturally imagine the quality of life in the United States to be superior to all others, one examining the issue becomes less sure that this is an established fact as opposed to being an un-researched supposition based on a profound cultural ignorance and lack of social experience living in other countries. And it is in this respect that the author serves the yeoman's service of better acquainting the reader with the realities of the rising cultural and economic influence of the European Union as well as their perceptions and dispositions toward us. For example, it is in our best interests to better understand the growing anti-American sentiment of individual Europeans based both on our unilateral foreign policies and what they see as a kind of cultural arrogance in which American values are assumed to be the values that we Americans are attempting to plant far and wide in service to the growth of freedom and liberty. To many Europeans it seems more an argument for economic imperialism   than for the spread of freedom. This is an excellent book, and one I can heartily recommend. Enjoy! <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-11-03
512108:US	52447634	R36T69JWCPWNSY	1594200343	798292008	The Fall of Baghdad	Books	4	31	34	N	N	Interesting, Illuminating Account Of War In Iraq!	Of the many accounts finding their way into print regarding the journalist's eyewitness view of the onset of war in Iraq, few are as singularly exciting or as authentically spontaneous as this rendering from veteran news correspondent Jon Lee Andersen, whose account of the approach and early progress of the war on the ground in Baghdad is quite unnerving. Like a descent into Dante's Inferno, the reader is swept into the swirl of explosions, confusion and depravity that the war drags in its fateful wake. Unlike most foreign correspondents, Andersen was already positioned in the city before the onset of hostilities, and was not embedded with American soldiers as were most of his counterparts. For that reason, he can deliver a quite diverting and totally uncharacteristic view of the pedestrian's view of the war up close and personal, without either the protection or the potential interference of the military in determining what he sees or how he interprets it. And what he sees is harrowing, indeed.<br /><br />Andersen witnesses the unraveling of the social fabric as the daily tension and anxiety regarding the forthcoming blitzkrieg mounts into a crescendo of emotions and activity. The average man on the street understands all too well that they live within the very bulls eye targeted by the stealth bombers and the cruise missiles; yet they prepare for the coming hostilities with what the author views as an astonishing degree of resignation and a simple acceptance of the overwhelming fact that the Americans are coming, and that there is little or nothing they can do about it. And in the mix of the fear and loathing was an exigent fear of the current regime, with its endless capacity to punish anyone they might construe as unruly, discontented, or disloyal. So they gin up as much gallows humor as possible, and whistle on their way through their daily chores, determined to survive both Saddam and the Americans, as well.<br /><br />The author also does a good job in depicting how daily incidents force the journalists to choose between their professional ambitions on the one hand, and their desire to stay alive long enough to have the story published. He weaves telling anecdotes into the narrative in such a way as to breathe more realism and a greater appreciation for the cultural, social, and political conflicts individual Iraqis had to overcome to assist him with the story, and in many instances we come to admire the passion, courage and tenacity of such people in pursuing a better life under the most harrowing of circumstances. This is a great book, one that is both a great read and very illuminating as well. I can highly recommend it for anyone interested in better understanding what life on the ground was like during those fateful weeks and months that the war in Iraq was being decided. Enjoy!y incidents force the journalists to choose between their professional ambitions on the one hand, and their desire to stay alive long enough to have the story published. He weaves telling anecdotes into the narrative in such a way as to breathe more realism and a greater appreciation for the cultural, social, and political conflicts individual Iraqis had to overcome to assist him with the story, and in many instances we come to admire the passion, courage and tenacity of such people in pursuing a better life under the most harrowing of circumstances. This is a great book, one that is both a great read and very illuminating as well. I can highly recommend it for anyone interested in better understanding what life on the ground was like during those fateful weeks and months that the war in Iraq was being decided. Enjoy!	2004-09-23
529277:US	52447634	RTDLZA3KD05RT	0312121598	467320271	A Terrible Revenge: The Ethnic Cleansing of the East European Germans, 1944 - 1950	Books	4	65	72	N	N	Absorbing Tome On Ethnic Cleansing Of Post WWII Germans!	Among the most horrific of acts following the carnage of World War Two in Europe was the so-called revenge events against civilian Germans in the eastern-most provinces of what had been Germany until the end of the war and retracing of national boundaries pursuit with treaty agreements that had been reached. Much of the indigenous German population within what is now western Poland was subjected to unspeakable acts of violence, retribution, and forced resettlement, much as the German and Polish Jews had been under the repressive hands of the Third Reich during the war. This well-researched and superbly written book focuses on the ways in which this set of events triggered a genocidal wave of reaction against ethnic Germans unfortunate enough to be living in the areas suddenly no longer part of Germany proper.<br /><br />This is not to either suggest any legal rationale for the genocide which ensued, but to admit the pent-up grievances and immense frustration of other ethnic groups toward Germany in particular, and to any ethnic Germans in general, such that they became the victims of an incredible amount of focused antipathy and homicidal rage after the war. One of the most fascinating aspects of this book is the way in which the author animates the events with first-person anecdotes, which serve to graphically demonstrate what the edicts and events meant in human terms to those individuals caught in the cross hairs of place and circumstance, victims ineluctably on the wrong side of history.<br /><br />For anyone well-read in the events of the times, the incidents of brutality in the immediate period following cessation of hostilities are legend, and Jews and other forced \\"evacuees\\" returning to liberated Germany, Austria, and Eastern Europe most often found all their legal property - farms, houses, apartments, and businesses, - still occupied by people who had summarily usurped them during the war and were now singularly disinterested in giving them back. The lack of simple humanity shown by so many individuals under the duress of war is testimony to the continuing enmity the ethnic Germans soon felt the rage of. Thus this book adds the curious and yet fascinating dimension of those civilian Germans, just as much victimized in their own way by the German Third Reich's geo-political activities as anyone, suddenly victimized for the mere reason of ethnicity and the endless enmity of other groups within the country itself. This is a fascinating book, and one I can highly recommend. Enjoy!anity shown by so many individuals under the duress of war is testimony to the continuing enmity the ethnic Germans soon felt the rage of. Thus this book adds the curious and yet fascinating dimension of those civilian Germans, just as much victimized in their own way by the German Third Reich's geo-political activities as anyone, suddenly victimized for the mere reason of ethnicity and the endless enmity of other groups within the country itself. This is a fascinating book, and one I can highly recommend. Enjoy!	2004-09-07
533320:US	52447634	R1I5V31GFIWZ6J	0763182338	26980422	Black Labrador Retrievers 2005 Slimline Wall Calendar	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Neat Slimline Calendar For Your Convenience!	If you want a terrific slimline calendar to fit into that special space at home or at work, or a perfect gift for someone away at school, in a retirement home, or perhaps even in the service, where they have not a lot of personal space, but want to make their surroundings more friendly and familiar, then thius calendar may just be the perfect early Christmas gift on your list. I know it is a bit early in the year to be buying a 2005 calendar, but the photos in this one are so awesome that I wanted to mention it, for you can literally cut the photos out after using the calendar and frame them.<br /><br />There are a variety of shots, all taken by professionals, and they all add together to contribute to the overall charm and attractiveness of the calendar. I have one in the kitchen, so as I am feeding my hoarde of five dogs I can glance up to see even more Labs staring back at me from the wall. At any rate, this is a wonderful calender, and it is certainly something anyone who loves Labrador Retrievers would love to have looking back at him or her from the wall or space of choice. Enjoy!	2004-09-03
533692:US	52447634	RLW7FB5A2UIFY	1843025272	707019934	Labrador Retriever (Yellow) 2005 Petprints Calendar	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Truly Lovely Calendar For Your Enjoyment!	Even if I did have an endless need for Labrador calendars, I still would not be able to exhaust the supply of great Labrador Retriever calendars available for purchase. This is once such calendar. If there is a single inexpensive gift that is always appropriate, it is a stocking stuffer article like this lovely dog calendar for 2005 featuring Yellow Labrador Retrievers. So, while it may seem more than a bit early to start thinking about Christmas gifts just yet, it is also a wonderful gift for students going off to college, who may have a bad case of homesickness, and a charming set of smiling Yellow Labradors gracing their dorm space may do a lot to add warmth and hominess to what can otherwise be a somewhat strange and dreary institutional environment. The photographs are all taken by professional, and there is such a variety of shots that one marvels at just how beautiful and magnificent Yellow Labradors are. I am sure this is a gift that will always please, and one bound to bring a smile to your loved one's face many times over the year to come. Enjoy!	2004-09-03
533785:US	52447634	R200QKAPHUMPD7	0763182664	107332998	365 Days of Black Labrador Retrievers 2005 Wall Calendar	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Possibly The Neatest Labrador Calendar Of All!	In the spirit of saving the best for last, let me hasten to mention this 365 day calendar featuring Black Labrador Retrievers! If there is a single inexpensive gift that is always appropriate, it is a stocking stuffer article like this lovely 365 day dog calendar for 2005, this one featuring Black Labrador Retrievers. Ahahah, I know what you'thinking; it is far too early to start thinking about Christmas gifts just yet, it is also a wonderful gift for students going off to college, who may have a bad case of homesickness.<br /><br />So it does make for a charming collection of daily shots of smiling, swimming and sleeping Yellow Labradors (do they do anything else?)gracing their dorm space may do a lot to add warmth and hominess to what can otherwise be a somewhat strange and dreary institutional environment. The photographs are all taken by professionals, and there is such a variety of shots that one marvels at just how beautiful and magnificent Labradors are. I am sure this is a gift that will always please, and one bound to bring a smile to your loved one's face many times over the year to come. Enjoy!	2004-09-03
534071:US	52447634	R36CB3IJ2CKBYB	1843025280	342365868	Labrador Retriever (Mixed) 2005 Petprints Calendar	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Lovely Production Value With This Pawprints Labrador Item!	If you love all three varieties of Labrador Retrievers; yellow, black, and chocolate, then you will surely appreciate this wonderfully produced and quite colorful wall calendar produced by the famed \\"Pawprints\\" outfit. This year seem to have a seemingly limitless supply of alternative dog calendars for the Lab-loving browsing public, and the decision on which ones to actually purchase will be largely based, no doubt, not only on one's needs for type and size of calendar, but also on the quality of the photography included in each. In this sense this is a terrific alternative, as it features a number of action shots as well as those of puppies and labs just hanging out as only they seem inclined to do. It is a scientifically documented fact that just hanging out with a Labrador retriever can lower your blood pressure., No worries about hypertension, mate, just grab this Labrador Retriever calendar and let the good times roll. Enjoy!	2004-09-03
534187:US	52447634	R3MGMG6EB3WHPH	0763176192	527123545	Yellow Labrador Retrievers 2005 Boxed Calendar	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Superbly Shot Boxed Yellow Labrador Calendar!	What a great and well photographed calendar featuring yellow Labrador Retrievers this is! What better way to celebrate your love and appreciation for that four-legged wonder in your life than to have one of these calendars propped up on your desk in your office, so you can casually gaze at one of his or her cousins as you slog along your busy way each day? I know having such a calendar in my office often breaks the ice with students who otherwise might feel intimidated. My only problem is that with both yellow and black Labradors myself, I have to either alternate the calendars year by year or buy one of the versions that has all three varieties (black, yellow, and chocolate. This version nicely serves my love for Yellow Labs by having a variety of Yellow Labs prominently featured, and the shots are so striking and so memorable you may want to frame a few after the year is done. At any rate, this is a great ornament to have decorating your desk, or to give to someone who loves them as a gift. Enjoy!	2004-09-03
534225:US	52447634	R1ZDF972VP8REW	0763176141	881786126	Chocolate Labrador Retrievers 2005 Weekly Engagement Calendar	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Neat Scheduling Calendar Featuring Chocolate Labs!	What could do more to personalize and indivualize your otherwise drab and lifeless cubicle space than this terrifically photographed weekly scheduling calendar featuring a bevy of professionally taken photographs of Chocolate Labrador Retrievers? Quicker than you can say Biff or Muffy everyone around the water-cooler will know your pedigree by the calendar you keep, and what more earthy and tail-wagging way to show who is the alpha male or female around the division than to bark it out with this lovely and quite functional weekly engagement and appointment calendar? It is one of the many options Amazon offers by way of labrador gear, and as you surf the site, be sure to check out this particular calendar. It is guaranteed to win a knowing smile from your boss, if not the overdue promotion and hefty pay raise you are so deserving of. Enjoy!	2004-09-03
534839:US	52447634	R1MI00KDLYX49W	0195004620	790255815	From Max Weber: Essays in Sociology	Books	5	56	60	N	N	Seminal Work By Classic Social Theorist Max Weber	What is most curious about the home page for this classic academic work is that Amazon does not explain that this text is the fruit of one the most singularly important academic translations in the 20th century, accomplished by the team of sociologists Hans Gerth and C. Wright Mills (who later became an immensely influential classic sociologist himself). First published after the Second World War, the text provided access at long last to a treasure trove of previously untranslated works by Weber for the American academic community, and thus transformed the nature of the way American social scientists understood modern social theory.<br /><br />It is no exaggeration to say that Weber's genius was his ability to successfully integrate the critical essence of the Marxian analysis of capitalist society with more functionally-oriented works such that even as stodgy and conservative a theorist as Talcott Parson soon found common analytical purpose with Weber's theoretical views! before long all the academic community was enthralled by the scope and verve of Weber's complex vision of a social theory informed with a comprehensive view of social action, such that all social actions can be meaningfully located within the welter of the purposes, motives, and values of the interacting individuals themselves. This was indeed an intelelctual revolution within social theory, and we can still find bibliophiles and academic devotees still poring over the nuances and variations in themes in Weber's considerable body of works.<br /><br />After the publication of these essays, much more of his corpus of works was successfully translated and used in American university settings. Yet Weber's prose was never an \\"easy read\\", nor was his message about the evolving nature of contemporary bureaucratic society necessarily a heartening one; he was convinced we were turning toward a dark and mechanistic age, what he himself frequently characterized as being the \\"iron cage\\" of rationalization. His was the dark vision later shared by intellectuals like Aldous Huxley of a brave new world of petty diversions and a systematic but innocuous autocratic manipulation of everyman. Still, Weber's works stand as a testament to the power of an individual intellect. I recommend this book for anyone interested in better understanding him and his theoretical views. Enjoy!on. His was the dark vision later shared by intellectuals like Aldous Huxley of a brave new world of petty diversions and a systematic but innocuous autocratic manipulation of everyman. Still, Weber's works stand as a testament to the power of an individual intellect. I recommend this book for anyone interested in better understanding him and his theoretical views. Enjoy!  <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-09-02
535267:US	52447634	R3E96E17AVQ8N3	0876053428	153247221	The Essential Labrador Retriever (The Essential Guides)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	A Terrific Compendium On Labrador Retrievers!	One of the several intriguing and quite useful aspects of this book that drew me in was its premise that the Labrador Retriever is perhaps the single most agreeable and people-oriented of all the domesticated breeds, which also creates the situation in which the dogs are also quite trainable and thrive on interpersonal interaction with humans. The author shows the reader how and why to care for what some of us consider the single greatest act of creation, the Labrador Retriever! Thus, by showing us the degree to which the breed represents a witch's brew of intelligence, honesty and loyalty to its human companions, the author illustrates why the Labrador has become the single most popular breed of dog in the world today. Labradors are sturdy creatures indeed, bred for sporting use along the quicksilver shores of Newfoundland, where the water temperatures and sea conditions require a healthy dollop of strength and endurance, and those are qualities these dogs have in spades.<br /><br />For those of us who have witnessed them at work and at play in the fields and in the water, the Labrador's singular combination of physical attributes and obvious intelligence makes them the ideal human companion. I should know; I live with four of them! The proof of their adaptability to almost any condition and their loyalty, intelligence, and unparalleled work ethic is demonstrated by the wide use of them as guide dogs and as adjunct partners for the physically handicapped. Stories of Labradors crawling out onto the ice to save their masters are legendary, as are the tales of them rescuing children from fires or from underneath rubble. Never has there been a dog superior to them.<br /><br />The author has recruited a wide variety of experts to testify as to the qualities and abilities of the dog, and one walks away from a reading of the book much better informed as to the all of the many qualities and capabilities of the breed, which seems to represent an astonishing list of useful and worthwhile attributes. We also get quite critical information as to what to look for when choosing a lab, and how to analyze the quality of the puppy you see before you. The author offers a compendium of information regarding genetics, feeding, health care, and inherited dispositions, as well as some sage advice as to how to ensure your puppy becomes the grown up Labrador companion you will come to view as another family member. This is a great book, and one I heartily recommend! Enjoyeful and worthwhile attributes. We also get quite critical information as to what to look for when choosing a lab, and how to analyze the quality of the puppy you see before you. The author offers a compendium of information regarding genetics, feeding, health care, and inherited dispositions, as well as some sage advice as to how to ensure your puppy becomes the grown up Labrador companion you will come to view as another family member. This is a great book, and one I heartily recommend! Enjoy	2004-09-02
551191:US	52447634	R2IIXRN2VWJJCC	0803213271	306997290	The Origins of the Final Solution: The Evolution of Nazi Jewish Policy, September 1939-March 1942 (Comprehensive History of the Holocaust)	Books	5	70	80	N	Y	Superb Investigation Of Holocaust Circumstances!	While no serious Holocaust scholar would argue against the idea that the Third Reich meant in some fashion to dispose of its so-called \\"Jewish Problem\\" through some dispicable action or another, whether it by via forced emigration, deportation, resettlement in either Madagascar or the western reaches of the Ukraine, or through other means, there has been a long-ranging debate within the academic community regarding the intent of the Nazis from the beginning regarding the actual attempted extermination of the Jewish people as it later occurred, primarily in Poland and the occupied territories, during the later course of World War Two. One school of thought argues that from the very beginning Hitler intended to rid himself and Europe of the Jews through such nefarious means as starvation, forced labor, and later, in the death camps. Others, such as Professor Christopher Browning, posit that the policy of extermination evolved as a result of existential factors such as food and shelter as the Wehrmacht marched east into Poland and beyond to the Soviet escarpment.<br /><br />Thus, this brilliant work by Browning intends to offer proof of the more circumstantial theory, one in which various attempts were made to offer some relief to over-extended troops and resources to deal with the indigenous Jewish population within Poland and the other territories as they were conquered based both on logistics and the state of chaos that ensued in the war zone. This is not to suggest that the Nazis intended to spare the Jews; on the contrary, the issue was how to dispose of them, whether it be through forced emigration, slave labor, simple starvation, or finally, through implementation of an intentional murder machine by way of the death camps. From the beginning Hitler intended to use them to best advantage.<br /><br />As Browning argues, however, the course of events must be taken into consideration when viewing the evidence, for while Hitler's main aim in warring first with Poland and later with Russia was for what he referred to as \\"Liebenstraum\\", or living room, it was also his intent to brutally subjugate the native populations within the conquered areas and literally work them to death, so their labors could profit the Third Reich and prepare the areas for German immigrants. But given the chaotic and undisciplined nature of the Nazi hierarchy and its bureaucracy, several overlapping policies worked against each other and created a wilderland of competing efforts, many of which left the local authorities puzzled as to what policy to follow and how to reach the unrealistic goals given to it by higher headquarters. In the midst of the chaos, according to Browning, evil machinations gradually emerged and as they succeeded in reaching goals, became the modus operandi.<br /><br />Browning brilliantly focuses on the specific time frame in which the policies of the Third Reich solidified into what became the Final Solution. This is easily the best and most completely documented work on the subject I have yet read, and while I find it an impressive work of historical research (Browning's use of new archives and secondary materials is particularly impressive in this regard), I remain unconvinced that Professor Browning has successfully ended the debate (not that he claims to have done so), nor do I think he has explained some very deliberate and troubling evidentiary materials that seem to provide grist for the other camp regarding the instructions given to both the Wehrmacht and to special troops under the command of the Gestapo regarding the conduct of troops in the eastern zone.<br /><br />In this regard, German troops were encouraged from the very beginning of the so-called eastern campaigns against both the Poles and the Russians to consider all indigenous Jews as communists, and thus subject to summary execution whenever and wherever they might be discovered, whether in urban areas working as academics or as rural farmers tending to their humble fields,  and to support and aid the special troop formations trained and organized to systematically round up and murder indigenous Jewish populations from village to village, from the very outset of military operations in September 1939. So, while I personally subscribe to Browning's interpretation of the gradual move toward more and more intentionally systematic and increasingly more murderous assaults against the Jewish population, I do not believe he has proven once and for all that it was not part of the original plan from the time the Nazis took power in 1933. Nonetheless, this is indeed a superb book, and one I can heartily recommend. Enjoy!and aid the special troop formations trained and organized to systematically round up and murder indigenous Jewish populations from village to village, from the very outset of military operations in September 1939. So, while I personally subscribe to Browning's interpretation of the gradual move toward more and more intentionally systematic and increasingly more murderous assaults against the Jewish population, I do not believe he has proven once and for all that it was not part of the original plan from the time the Nazis took power in 1933. Nonetheless, this is indeed a superb book, and one I can heartily recommend. Enjoy!	2004-08-19
551330:US	52447634	RU8EY3SWER13Y	0060746874	829392802	Crimes Against Nature: How George W. Bush and His Corporate Pals Are Plundering the Country and Hijacking Our Democracy	Books	5	143	167	N	N	RFK Jr's Articulate Attack On Bush's Environmental Policies	When friends and acquaintances ask me why I am so adamantly opposed to the current administration, I seldom mention either the flagrant harm or the danger The Bush White House has visited on both us and the general international scene, nor do I reference the horrifying effects of the ill-conceived and poorly executed \\"war on terror\\" so often cited as their worst policy blunder. Instead, I routinely cite the extreme anti-democratic moves that Bush and company have made domestically, most specifically against the environment and in squandering our national heritage by way of natural resources and wildlife in the national forests and heretofore carefully managed and protected wilderness areas. In this regard, this well-written and skillfully argued new book by Robert Kennedy carefully articulates the many ways in which the crony capitalism practiced by the current administration is endangering our environment by entrusting its precious resources and fragile ecosystems to the crony capitalists who support him.<br /><br />Indeed, Mr. Bush appointed several lawyers representing prominent oil and timber lobbying firms as the top echelon at the Bureau of the Interior, which has the crucial responsibility of overseeing the well-being of our vast federal land holdings domestically. Thus we have wolves in the sheep-house, and they are being encouraged by their former employers to assist in a wholesale ravaging of the national park landscape in the pursuit of profit, so much so that even traditionally conservative groups have turned against this Republican administration in sheer disbelieving horror of what is being done to the nation's wilderness areas in the name of conservation.<br /><br />In pursuing this course, the Bush administration uses Orwellian doublespeak, referring to clear-cutting of old forest as a necessary safety measure to prevent wild fires, or as if doing so will engender long-term gain by encouraging more healthy  tree growth. Through his cynical actions he effectively stiff-arms the environmental groups, regularly characterizing them as being mere radical tree-huggers, even though a growing chorus within the scientific community warn of the potentially catastrophic consequences posed by such radical environmental gdegradations being allowed and even encouraged on federal land. Moreoever, by neutering the bulwark of the carefully constructed environmental protection laws through federal regulation, the Bush administration has stripped away the laws that bar such unbridled commercialism, and now acts as the de-facto house ally of big timber,oil, gas and coal firms in stripping the precious non-renewable resources in formerly prohibited areas without either meaningful restraints or any effective federal oversight being placed on their activities. Instead, crude crony capitalism seems to rule the roost.<br /><br />Of course, this is part of the much wider course of deliberate crony capitalism the administration has systematically instituted since taking office nearly four years ago, and the author carefully maps out the many ways in which this myriad of craven commercial activities act against the interests of the many for the benefit of the few. The book centers on the negative impact that such special interest-oriented federal government means for us as a nation, both in terms of who benefits and who pays, as well as in terms of what our core national values as well as our way of life will come to be in the coming decades. This is an important book, and one I encourage anyone interested in current events to read. Robert F. Kennedy Jr. makes a powerful argument against the excesses of the current administration, and issues a clarion call to arms for all concerned citizens to help stop it. Enjoy!tiff-arms the environmental groups, regularly characterizing them as being mere radical tree-huggers, even though a growing chorus within the scientific community warn of the potentially catastrophic consequences posed by such radical environmental gdegradations being allowed and even encouraged on federal land. Moreoever, by neutering the bulwark of the carefully constructed environmental protection laws through federal regulation, the Bush administration has stripped away the laws that bar such unbridled commercialism, and now acts as the de-facto house ally of big timber,oil, gas and coal firms in stripping the precious non-renewable resources in formerly prohibited areas without either meaningful restraints or any effective federal oversight being placed on their activities. Instead, crude crony capitalism seems to rule the roost.      Of course, this is part of the much wider course of deliberate crony capitalism the administration has systematically instituted since taking office nearly four years ago, and the author carefully maps out the many ways in which this myriad of craven commercial activities act against the interests of the many for the benefit of the few. The book centers on the negative impact that such special interest-oriented federal government means for us as a nation, both in terms of who benefits and who pays, as well as in terms of what our core national values as well as our way of life will come to be in the coming decades. This is an important book, and one I encourage anyone interested in current events to read. Robert F. Kennedy Jr. makes a powerful argument against the excesses of the current administration, and issues a clarion call to arms for all concerned citizens to help stop it. Enjoy!	2004-08-19
560726:US	52447634	R23GMQVU8GJHFL	0763182680	524941780	365 Days of Yellow Labrador Retrievers 2005 Wall Calendar	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Superb Photography For 365 Days Of Yellow Labs!	If there is a single inexpensive gift that is always appropriate, it is a stocking stuffer article like this lovely 365 day dog calendar for 2005 featuring Yellow Labrador Retrievers. So, while it may seem more than a bit early to start thinking about Christmas gifts just yet, it is also a wonderful gift for students going off to college, who may have a bad case of homesickness, and a charming set of smiling, swimming and sleeping Yellow Labradors (do they do anything else?)gracing their dorm space may do a lot to add warmth and hominess to what can otherwise be a somewhat strange and dreary institutional environment. The photographs are all taken by professionals, and there is such a variety of shots that one marvels at just how beautiful and magnificent Labradors are. I am sure this is a gift that will always please, and one bound to bring a smile to your loved one's face many times over the year to come. Enjoy!	2004-08-09
560749:US	52447634	R2A91WWJX5V8B2	1843024942	269383499	Chocolate Labrador Retriever 2005 Petprints Calendar	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Pawprints Special Chocolate Labrador Retriever Calendar!	Okay, I have to admit right here that I do not personally have a Chocolate Labrador Retriever padding around my ten acres of sylvan splendor YET. But, on the other hand, I do hope to somehow garner one for the pack sometime soon. Meanwhile, I can plan ahead and grab myself a great 2005 calendar that is devoted exclusively to Chocolate Labs! It is a nice change of pace, and for people like me who love Labradors, you can never have too many of a good thing, although when I had six dogs late in the 1990s I was perhaps approaching the borderline of the limits to the tolerable. At least my lady friend at the time thought so; hehehehe.. At any rate, it is indeed a lovely calendar, one filled with great shots of beautiful dogs, and one that is perfect for an inexpensive gift for that student or friend who could use a little touch of whimsy and wonder in their daily life. Enjoy!	2004-08-09
560973:US	52447634	R2Q23QA0YJCMBQ	0060083824	427318436	Don't Know Much About History: Everything You Need to Know About American History but Never Learned	Books	5	23	30	N	N	Entertaining, Edifying, & Eminently Readable History Text!	What an unalloyed joy this book is, even for someone like me who does indeed know a bit about history. The author's clever trick here is to make the ordinarily dry stuff of American history that all of us were supposed to be learning in public schools (back in the days when they actually taught American history!) and make it much more approachable, digestible, and yes, even interesting and absorbing. And that has been the key to this book's success and durability over the last decade or so since its publication. It continues to sell well, and for good reason. The previous reviews abound with tales of people who have used it to cram for entrance exams, and for some in whom the book ignited a roaring curiosity regarding history that otherwise might never have been lighted.<br /><br />He parses the true elements of history into small pieces, each of which becomes an amusing and understanding tale of real human beings caught up in the welter of circumstances they must then contend with in some fashion. And by so doing he makes the drama of history breathe and come alive for many who otherwise have long considered it the dry and arid stuff of ninth grade civics lessons. He also succeeds marvelously in making historical figures come alive and act like ordinary humans do, and lifts them down from those stuffy pedestals too many high school history teachers placed them on. This is a great book, and one well worth your time and money, whether you know anything about history or not. Enjoy!	2004-08-09
561060:US	52447634	R13AMJF3FESRQI	0763175994	579183334	Labrador Retriever Puppies 2005 Wall Calendar	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Lovely Puppy Calendar For Lab Lovers!	For any of us who have an undying love for puppies, and Labrador Retriever puppies in particular, this 2005 calendar is the perfect gift for friends and loved ones. What better way to celebrate your love and appreciation for that four-legged wonder in your life than to have one of these calendars hanging in their workplace or dormitory room, so they can casually gaze at one as they slog along their busy way each day? I know having such a calendar hanging in my office often breaks the ice with students who otherwise might feel intimidated. My only problem is that with both yellow and black Labradors myself, I have to either alternate the calendars year by year or buy one of the versions that has all three varieties (black, yellow, and chocolate. This calendar nicely solved my fetish, as it features a dozen shots of Yellow, Black, and Black Labrador puppies in its monthly renderings. Yet, whatever version you may prefer, the Browntrout series of calendars is a great ornament to have deocrating your wall, or to give to someone who loves them as a gift. Early Merry Yuletide, and enjoy!	2004-08-09
561246:US	52447634	RR5FBITD4L53D	0763183458	604158739	Labrador Retrievers, Yellow Mini Wall	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Lovely Mini Calendar For Your Desk Or Shelf!	What better gift for your college student or friend than the gift of Yellow Labrador Retrievers perching on the desk in his dorm room waiting for him or her after a long hard day in the study hall? Sure, it may be August as I am writing this, but in a wink and a nod it will be December and you will be scrambling around trying to figure out what to buy for as stocking stuffers or extra little gifts for loved ones and friends. Get them this calendar and do both them and yourself a favor; them for having this great gift to enjoy all year long, and you for finding something both inexpensive and eminently approprate for all dog lovers. It is no secret that Labrador Retrievers are the favorite breed in America, and a casual look through this calendar will tell you why so many people love them so much. Hope you catch the hint, and the dog lovers in your family will remember you every month of next year when they turn the page and find a new icon to stare at in wonder for the new month! Enjoy!	2004-08-09
561587:US	52447634	R1X7CLNEHHBUH9	0763176036	590649994	For the Love of Black Labrador Retrievers Deluxe 2005 Wall Calendar	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Another Gorgeous Black Labrador Retriever Calendar!	I must have opened Pandora's box, because the more I browse the local bookstores the more I am discovering a virtual plethora of truly magnificent Labrador Retriever Calendars for next year. Sure, it is a bit early to be buying them, but for anyone who has one of more of God's most perfect creature (the Labrador Retriever) at home, what better present for your loved one away in the service or at college than the gift of a great stocking stuffer like this, chock-full of neat colored photographs of man's (and woman's) best companion, sitting, sleeping, and swimming. As a matter fo fact, it is a pretty neat present to yourself, for feeding that furry rascal all year long, and cleaning up that drooly mess around his water dish! Aww, why not just give those dogs a bone? You will go as crazy as me for all of these terrific calendars, of which this is just one. Go ahead and take a gander at them right away, and avoid that nasty end of the year Christmas rush! Hahahaha. Enjoy!	2004-08-09
561618:US	52447634	R88SGCDE4F4O0	0763183431	970834181	Black Labrador Retrievers 2005 Mini Wall Calendar	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Nice Desk-Sized Black Lab Calendar For Your Enjoyment!	While I have enjoyed having both Yellow and Balck Labradors around the house for more than twenty years now, a special place in my heart will always belong to Black Labs, as my first two dogs were such sweet and faithful friends that I have nothing but the fondest memoreis of them since they passed a few years ago in their mid-teens, a relatively old age for Labs. This calendar reminds of what a joy such stalwart canines are, and how very much they can come to mean to us. I have two Black Lab females now, and they light up my life, as do the two yellow Lab males they share the house with. This beautifully photographed and handily-sized desk calendar will add color and zest to your workspace, and give you a lovely daily reminder of just how lucky we humans are to have Labradors barkign around the house as our constant companions. Enjoy!	2004-08-09
561691:US	52447634	R1FYSJTURVUC8F	0763163090	790776370	For the Love of Black Labrador Retrievers Deluxe 2004 Calendar	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Terrific Calendar Featuring Black Labrador Retrievers!	Last september I finally graced my home with a new Black Labrador Retriever puppy, an adorable but unstoppable little fireball that we named Annabelle Lee, and she has quickly proved to be an unalloyed blessing for us in terms of her personality and her antics around the house. For all of you that love Black Labs in particular, you will know just how adorable and irresistable a Black Lab puppy can be. This calendar reminds us all of what a wonderful gift they are to us humans, and many of the photographs gracing this calendar remind me of sweet little Annabelle, who now is a yearling, and who graces the scales at well over seventy pounds, a puppy no more. Alas, like toddlers, they grow up to soon to suit those of us that love them, and although she is still a joy to behold, we all seem to lose something precious when our puppy matures. Capture that brief moment in time with a calendar like this, one which can remind you all year long just how special our Black Labrador Retriever puppy friends are. Enjoy!	2004-08-09
561749:US	52447634	RKFV0YVJ045X0	0763182141	722440801	Yellow Labrador Retrievers 2005 Slimline Wall Calendar	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Neat Slimline Calendar Featuring yellow Labrador Retrievers!	I know it is a early in the year to be buying a 2005 calendar, but the photos in this one are so awesome that I wanted to mention it, for you can literally cut the photos out after using the calendar and frame them. There are a variety of shots, all taken by professionals, and they all add together to contribute to the overall charm and attractiveness of the calendar. I have one in the kitchen, so as I am feeding my hoarde of five dogs I can glance up to see even more Labs staring back at me from the wall. At any rate, this is a wonderful calender, and it is certainly something anyone who loves Labrador Retrievers would love to have looking back at him or her from the wall of choice. Enjoy!	2004-08-09
562717:US	52447634	R386E7TZQWF0GZ	0763176095	508314650	For The Love Of Chocolate Labrador Retrievers Deluxe 2005 Calendar	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Terific Photographs Highlight This Inexpensive Calendar!	If I had endless needs for calendars, I still would not be able to exhaust the supply of great Labrador Retriever calendars available for purchase. This is once such calendar. If there is a single inexpensive gift that is always appropriate, it is a stocking stuffer article like this lovely dog calendar for 2005 featuring Chocolate Labrador Retrievers. So, while it may seem more than a bit early to start thinking about Christmas gifts just yet, it is also a wonderful gift for students going off to college, who may have a bad case of homesickness, and a charming set of smiling Chocolate Labradors gracing their dorm space may do a lot to add warmth and hominess to what can otherwise be a somewhat strange and dreary institutional environment. The photographs are all taken by professional, and there is such a variety of shots that one marvels at just how beautiful and magnificent Chocolate Labradors are. I am sure this is a gift that will always please, and one bound to bring a smile to your loved one's face many times over the year to come. Enjoy!	2004-08-07
562843:US	52447634	R21IT1OJY6VCO2	1932617892	953196926	Artlist Collection the Dog 2005 Calendar Labrador Retriever (Yellow) (Multilingual Edition)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Wonderful Whimsical Look At Yellow Labradors	What a great and well photographed calendar this is! What better way to celebrate your love and appreciation for that four-legged wonder in your life than to have one of these calendars propped up on your desk in your office, so you can casually gaze at one of his or her cousins as you slog along your busy way each day? I know having such a calendar in my office often breaks the ice with students who otherwise might feel intimidated. My only problem is that with both yellow and black Labradors myself, I have to either alternate the calendars year by year or buy one of the versions that has all three varieties (black, yellow, and chocolate. This version nicely serves my love for Yellow Labs by having a variety of Yellow Labs prominently featured, and the shots are so striking and so memorable you may want to frame a few after the year is done. At any rate, this is a great ornament to have decorating your desk, or to give to someone who loves them as a gift. Enjoy!	2004-08-07
567896:US	52447634	R3BDAFH5JZ9NPV	157223265X	988619364	The Life of a Lab	Books	5	19	20	N	Y	Beautiful Coffee-Table Book About Labrador Retrievers	Starting, as this book does, with the all too believable notion that the Labrador Retriever is perhaps the single most agreeable and people-oriented creature this side of Paradise, the author shows the reader how and why to care for God's most perfect earthly creature, the Labrador Retriever! He entices us into the earthly domain of the heavenly Labs with a torrent of photos that show them in all their splendor and glory, and reading this book is such an utter enjoyment it is easy to overlook the valuable information it also provides.<br /><br />For example, by showing us the degree to which the breed represents a witch's brew of intelligence, honesty and loyalty to its human companions, the author illustrates why the Labrador has become the single most popular breed of dog in the world today. Labradors are sturdy creatures indeed, bred for sporting use along the quicksilver shores of Newfoundland, where the water temperatures and sea conditions require a healthy dollop of strength and endurance, and those are qualities these dogs have in spades.<br /><br />For any of us that have seen them at work or play in the fields and in the water, their unique combination of physical attributes and obvious intelligence makes them the ideal human companion. I should know; I live with four of them! The proof of their adaptability to almost any condition and their loyalty, intelligence, and unparalleled work ethic is demonstrated by the wide use of them as guide dogs and as adjunct partners for the physically handicapped. Stories of Labradors crawling out onto the ice to save their masters are legendary, as are the tales of them rescuing children from fires or from underneath rubble. Never has there been a dog superior to them.<br /><br />The author has testifed as to the qualities and abilities of the dog, and one walks away from a reading of the book much better informed as to the all of the many qualities and capabilities of the breed, which seems to represent an astonishing list of useful and worthwhile attributes. We also get quite critical information as to what to look for when choosing a lab, and how to analyze the quality of the puppy you see before you. The author offers information regarding genetics, feeding, health care, and inherited dispositions, as well as some sage advice as to how to ensure your puppy becomes the grown up Labrador companion you will come to view as another family member. This is a great book, and one I heartily recommend! Enjoy!onishing list of useful and worthwhile attributes. We also get quite critical information as to what to look for when choosing a lab, and how to analyze the quality of the puppy you see before you. The author offers information regarding genetics, feeding, health care, and inherited dispositions, as well as some sage advice as to how to ensure your puppy becomes the grown up Labrador companion you will come to view as another family member. This is a great book, and one I heartily recommend! Enjoy! <br /> <br />	2004-08-03
568242:US	52447634	R2U9E6KHYAAYQE	140005267X	829341821	The Onion Platinum Prestige Encore Gold Premium Collector's Collection	Books	5	30	31	N	N	Great Compilation Of The Best From The &quot;Onion&quot; Website	For those of us who have long chuckled at the wry and winsome humor of the collective effort at the \\"Onion\\" website, this compilation of several earlier collections into one effort is a treasure trove of biting satire and clever use of modern language. Somehow the writers manage to tickle our funny bones as they educate and entertain us with their insight and insider's understanding of the madness know as politics, social farce, and correct cultural thinking. They most often approach the subject at hand via parody, and some of the finest I have ever read have been within their pages. They are almost monotonously brilliant, nearly uniformly informative, and best of all, universally irreverent. This is one to take to a trip to the rest room, folks, for it will have you enjoying life's most personal moments with tears of laughter the unavoidable net result.<br /><br />The editors and writers at the Onion website, one of the most often visited such sites on the web; routinely attack the most sacred shibboleths and taboos of society, ranging from abortion to homophobia, from sexism to animal rights, and from racism to the dangers of cloning. One of my favorites is a tongue-in-cheek examination of the Canadians as though they were nothing more than closet Americans trying to rebel against the monolithic forces of our culture. To be sure, the humor that results is by its very nature often tasteless and even a little but crude, so if you have a delicate stomach or a fragile disposition this collection of satiric pieces culled from three previous collections may not be something you would enjoy.  But those of us with a taste for such bawdy fare will read the pieces again and again, until the whole book gets a little dog-eared. Nice to have all this stuff in print and available for instant replay. Enjoy!	2004-08-02
572100:US	52447634	R2T5QGSRIYPJ23	0763176109	795160954	Chocolate Labrador Retrievers, 2005 Calendar	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Terrific Chocolate Labrador Retriever Monthly Calendar!	If there is a single inexpensive gift that is always appropriate, it is a stocking stuffer article like this lovely dog calendar for 2005 featuring Chocolate Labrador Retrievers. So, while it may seem more than a bit early to start thinking about Christmas gifts just yet, it is also a wonderful gift for students going off to college, who may have a bad case of homesickness, and a charming set of smiling Chocolate Labradors gracing their dorm space may do a lot to add warmth and hominess to what can otherwise be a somewhat strange and dreary institutional environment. The photographs are all taken by professional, and there is such a variety of shots that one marvels at just how beautiful and magnificent Chocolate Labradors are. I am sure this is a gift that will always please, and one bound to bring a smile to your loved one's face many times over the year to come. Enjoy!	2004-07-29
572133:US	52447634	R1IGLU61RB6XT6	0763176060	474853218	Black Labrador Retriever Puppies 2005 Wall Calendar	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Winsome and Adorable Black Labrador Puppy Calendar!	Last fall I graced my home with a new Black Labrador Retriever puppy that we named Annabelle Lee, and she has quickly proved to be an unalloyed blessing for us in terms of her personality and her antics around the house. For all of you that love Black Labs in particular, you will know just how adorable and irresistable a Black Lab puppy can be. This calendar reminds us all of what a wonderful gift they are to us humans, and many of the photographs gracing this calendar remind me of sweet little Annabelle, who now is a yearling, and who graces the scales at well over seventy pounds, a puppy no more. Alas, like toddlers, they grow up to soon to suit those of us that love them, and although she is still a joy to behold, we all seem to lose something precious when our puppy matures. Capture that brief moment in time with a calendar like this, one which can remind you all year long just how special our Black Labrador Retriever puppy friends are. Enjoy!	2004-07-29
572165:US	52447634	RTGRXSL4UDFR4	0763176184	820755480	Labrador Retriever, Yellow Puppies Wall	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Lovely 2005 Yellow Labrador Puppy Calendar!	For any of us who have an undying love for puppies, and Labrador Retriever puppies in particular, this 2005 calendar is the perfect gift for friends and loved ones. What better way to celebrate your love and appreciation for that four-legged wonder in your life than to have one of these calendars hanging in their workplace or dormitory room, so they can casually gaze at one as they slog along their busy way each day? I know having such a calendar hanging in my office often breaks the ice with students who otherwise might feel intimidated. My only problem is that with both yellow and black Labradors myself, I have to either alternate the calendars year by year or buy one of the versions that has all three varieties (black, yellow, and chocolate. This calendar nicely solved my Yellow Labrador fetsih, as it features a dozen shots of Yellow Labrador puppies s in its monthly renderings. Yet, whatever version you may prefer, the Browntrout series of calendars is a great ornament to have deocrating your wall, or to give to someone who loves them as a gift. Early Merry Yuletide, and enjoy!	2004-07-29
572187:US	52447634	R1N1Y8YILLE3DX	0763182133	328107334	Chocolate Labrador Retrievers 2005 Slimline Wall Calendar	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Nice Slimline Chocolate Labrador Retriever Calendar!	While I do not personally have a Chocolate Labrador Retriever padding around my ten acres of sylvan splendor yet, I do hope to somehow garner one for the pack sometime soon. Meanwhile, I can plan ahead and grab myself a great 2005 calendar that is devoted exclusively to Chocolate Labs! It is a nice change of pace, and for people like me who love Labradors, you can never have too many of a good thing, although when I had six dogs late in the 1990s I was perhaps approaching the borderline of the limits to the tolerable. At least my lady friend at the time thought so; hehehehe.. At any rate, it is indeed a lovely calendar, one filled with great shots of beautiful dogs, and one that is perfect for an inexpensive gift for that student or friend who could use a little touch of whimsy and wonder in their daily life. Enjoy!	2004-07-29
572296:US	52447634	R1BCZ4MX2YFLXK	0763175978	67349947	For the Love of Labrador Retrievers Deluxe 2005 Wall Calendar	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	Wonderful Calendar For You Die-Hard Lab People!	What better gift for your college student or friend than the gift of Labrador Retrievers Hanging on the dorm wall waiting for him or her after a long hard day in the study hall? Sure, it may be July as I am writing this, but in a wink and a nod it will be December and you will be scrambling around trying to figure out what to buy for as stocking stuffers or extra little gifts for loved ones and friends. Get them this calendar and do both them and yourself a favor; them for having this great gift to enjoy all year long, and you for finding something both inexpensive and eminently approprate for all dog lovers. It is no secret that Labrador Retrievers are the favorite breed in America, and a casual look through this calendar will tell you why so many people love them so much. Hope you catch the hint, and the dog lovers in your family will remember you every month of next year when they turn the page and find a new icon to stare at in wonder for the new month! Enjoy!	2004-07-29
572402:US	52447634	R3OQDDUWL3BCIQ	0763176206	526543186	Labrador Retrievers, Yellow Hardcover Weekly Engagement	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Lovely Calendar Featuring Yellow Labrador Retrievers!	What better way to celebrate your love and appreciation for that four-legged wonder in your life than to have one of these calendars propped up on your desk in your office, so you can casually gaze at one of his or her cousins as you slog along your busy way each day? I know having such a calendar in my office often breaks the ice with students who otherwise might feel intimidated. My only problem is that with both yellow and black Labradors myself, I have to either alternate the calendars year by year or buy one of the versions that has all three varieties (black, yellow, and chocolate. This version nicely serves my love for Yellow Labs by having a variety of , Yellow prominently featured, and the shots are so striking and so memorable you may want to frame a few after the year is done. At any rate, this is a great ornament to have decorating your desk, or to give to someone who loves them as a gift. Enjoy!	2004-07-29
573217:US	52447634	R2LOPZOGR7MJ7F	0763163198	791573257	Yellow Labrador Retrievers 2004 Calendar	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Superb Set Of Labrador Photographs In This Calendar!	I know it is a bit late in the year to be buying a 2004 calendar, but the photos in this one are so awesome that I wanted to mention it, for you can literally cut the photos out after using the calendar and frame them. There are a variety of shots, all taken by professionals, and they all add together to contribute to the overall charm and attractiveness of the calendar. I have one in the kitchen, so as I am feeding my hoarde of five dogs I can glance up to see even more Labs staring back at me from the wall. At any rate, this is a wonderful calender, and it is certainly something anyone who loves Labrador Retrievers would love to have looking back at him or her from the wall of choice. Enjoy!	2004-07-29
579748:US	52447634	RX9IYOB43QX4E	0140277447	803730078	The Rape of Nanking: The Forgotten Holocaust of World War II	Books	5	203	221	N	N	Superb Book On Nanking Atrocities Committed By Japanese!	For the last twenty five years I have become increasingly something of an auto-didactic world war two scholar, and have read so many books on the subject to easily recall or remember. Often in all this time I have had to stop abruptly from reading particular passages in whatever book I happened to be reading to collect my thoughts about what seems to be yet more undeniable proof of the innate murderous impulses of the human animal. This is true, it seems for all combatant entities in all wars. It seems to hold true for every war, for every army, for every conflict. War is the ultimate de-humanizing experience, and it is a central lesson in understanding the constraints and limitations inherent in evaluating mankind's destiny.<br /><br />In truth, we are none of us immune from such blood-lust, whether we be Germans, Serbs, Vietnamese, Russians, Americans, English, Italian, French, Polish, Czech, Chinese, or Japanese (witness, for example, our own murderous treatment of the American Indian populations). Yet the magic of this superb book is to show just how massive, how planned, and how brutal the Japanese incursion into China was, despite the consistent denials by the Japanese government in the several decades since. Like the gruesome Russian purges, or the almost unimaginable scale of the Nazi death machine, the war against the Chinese population of Nanking and the surrounding area was total in its exercise of murderous force.<br /><br />Even as the Japanese mouthed platitudes of acting to free their Chinese 'brothers' of the yoke of western domination, in truth their intent from the very outset was to enslave and dominate the Chinese people for economic and cultural reasons. This is a difficult book to read, but one which is filled with important truths about what happened. Let the Japanese continue to deny it, telling themselves and those naive enough to listen to their attempts to rewrite this revisionist version of history, we who can read and discern can discover the truth. This is an important book, and one I can heartily recommend. Enjoy!iscover the truth. This is an important book, and one I can heartily recommend. Enjoy!  <br />	2004-07-22
580761:US	52447634	R3GNBM5ZGWGE1O	0763176168	298317358	Yellow Labrador Retrievers 2005 Wall Calendar	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Lovely Calendar Featuring Yellow Labraor Retrievers!	I know it is a bit early in the year to be suggesting for you to buy a 2005 calendar, but the photos in this one are so awesome that I wanted to mention it, for you can literally cut the photos out after using the calendar and frame them. There are a variety of shots, all taken by professionals, and they all add together to contribute to the overall charm and attractiveness of the calendar.<br /><br />It is also a terrific Christmas present as either a stocking stuffer or for a friend, especially if they love Yellow Labs and want a calendar to use in the office or in the dorm. I have the 2004 version of one currently hanging in the kitchen, so as I am feeding my hoarde of five dogs I can glance up to see even more Labs staring back at me from the wall. At any rate, this is a wonderful calendar, and it is certainly something anyone who loves Labrador Retrievers would love to have looking back at him or her from their wall of personal choice. Enjoy!	2004-07-21
581076:US	52447634	R2528XMHIMRD1V	0763175986	773072163	Labrador Retrievers 2005 Wall Calendar	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Lovely, Inexpensive Labrador Calendar For Students!	If there is a single inexpensive gift that is always appropriate, it is a stocking stuffer article like this lovely dog calendar for 2005 featuring Labrador Retrievers. So, while it may seem more than a bit early to start thinking about Christmas gifts just yet, it is also a wonderful gift for students going off to college, who may have a bad case of homesickness, and a charming set of smiling Labradors gracing their dorm space may do a lot to add warmth and hominess to what can otherwise be a somewhat strange and dreary institutional environment. The photographs are all taken by professional, and there is such a variety of shots that one marvels at just how beautiful and magnificent Labradors are. I am sure this is a gift that will always please, and one bound to bring a smile to your loved one's face many times over the year to come. Enjoy!	2004-07-21
581129:US	52447634	R21M3Q2YWELAPS	0763176001	418199420	Labrador Retrievers 2005 Weekly Engagement Calendar	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Terrific Weekly Engagement Calendar For Dog Lovers!	What better way to celebrate your love and appreciation for that four-legged wonder in your life than to have one of these calendars propped up on your desk in your office, so you can casually gaze at one of his or her cousins as you slog along your busy way each day? I know having such a calendar in my office often breaks the ice with students who otherwise might feel intimidated. My only problem is that with both yellow and black Labradors myself, I have to either alternate the calendars year by year or buy one of the versions that has all three varieties (black, yellow, and chocolate. This version nicely serves by having a variety of Black, Yellow, and Chocolate Labs prominently featured, and the shots are so striking and so memorable you may want to frame a few after the year is done. At any rate, this is a great ornament to have decorating your desk, or to give to someone who loves them as a gift. Enjoy!	2004-07-21
581170:US	52447634	RE1AB5YX4RAV9	1553811445	477068615	Just Labs 2004 Wall Calendar	Books	5	17	17	N	N	For All Of Us Who Love Labradors!	What better way to celebrate your love and appreciation for that four-legged wonder in your life than to have one of these calendars hanging in your office, so you can casually gaze at one of his or her cousins as you slog along your busy way each day? I know having such a calendar hanging in my office often breaks the ice with students who otherwise might feel intimidated. My only problem is that with both yellow and black Labradors myself, I have to either alternate the calendars year by year or buy one of the versions that has all three varieties (black, yellow, and chocolate. Which ever version you prefer, the &quot;JustLabs&quot; series of calendars is a great ornament to have deocrating your wall, or to give to someone who loves them as a gift. Enjoy!	2004-07-21
581328:US	52447634	R12Z7CPNV2JJJ7	1572238135	955082851	Just Black Labs	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Terrific Early Shopping Idea For Christmas For Lab Lovers!	What better gift for your college student or friend than the gift of Labrador Retrievers Hanging on the dorm wall waiting for him or her after a long hard day in the study hall! Sure, it may be July as I am writing this, but in a wink and a nod it will be December and you will be scrambling around trying to figure out what to buy for as stocking stuffers or extra little gifts for loved ones and friends. Get them this calendar and do both them and yourself a favor; them for having this great gift to enjoy all year long, and you for finding something both inexpensive and eminently approprate for all dog lovers. It is no secret that Labrador Retrievers are the favorite breed in America, and a casual look through this calendar will tell you why so many people love Black Labs in particular. Hope you catch the hint, and the dog lovers in your family will remember you every month of next year when they turn the page and find a new icon to stare at in wonder for the new month! Enjoy!	2004-07-21
581456:US	52447634	R3NODM93DNT4EM	1572238712	252858638	Just Lab Puppies 2005 Calendar	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Perfect Christmas Gift For All Labrador Retriever Lovers!	For any of us who have an undying love for puppies, and Labrador Retriever puppies in particular, this 2005 calendar is the perfect gift for friends and loved ones. What better way to celebrate your love and appreciation for that four-legged wonder in your life than to have one of these calendars hanging in their workplace or dormitory room, so they can casually gaze at one as they slog along their busy way each day? I know having such a calendar hanging in my office often breaks the ice with students who otherwise might feel intimidated. My only problem is that with both yellow and black Labradors myself, I have to either alternate the calendars year by year or buy one of the versions that has all three varieties (black, yellow, and chocolate. This calendar nicely solved that dilemma, since it had black, chocolate and yellow Labs within its dozen photographs. But whatever version you may prefer, the &quot;Just Labs&quot; series of calendars is a great ornament to have deocrating your wall, or to give to someone who loves them as a gift. Merry Yuletide, and enjoy!	2004-07-21
581481:US	52447634	RUOVHUJMY7KM8	1572236043	846449127	Just Yellow Labs	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Wonderful Calendar For You Die-Hard Lab People!	I know it is a bit late in the year to be buying a 2004 calendar, but the photos in this one are so awesome that I wanted to mention it, for you can literally cut the photos out after using the calendar and frame them. There are a variety of shots, all taken by professionals, and they all add together to contribute to the overall charm and attractiveness of the calendar. I have one in the kitchen, so as I am feeding my hoarde of five dogs I can glance up to see even more Labs staring back at me from the wall. At any rate, this is a wonderful calender, and it is certainly something anyone who loves Labrador Retrievers would love to have looking back at him or her from the wall of choice. Enjoy!	2004-07-21
581597:US	52447634	R13WJ5MNWJ60AE	0763182672	308411263	Chocolate Labrador Retriever 365 Days 2005 Calendar	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Neat Calendar Featuring Chocolate Labrador Retrievers!	While I do not personally have a Chocolate Labrador Retriever padding around my ten acres of sylvan splendor yet, I do hope to somehow garner one for the pack sometime soon. Meanwhile, I can plan ahead and grab myself a great 2005 calendar that is devoted exclusively to Chocolate Labs!  It is a nice change of pace, and for people like me who love Labradors, you can never have too many of a good thing, although when I had six dogs late in the 1990s I was perhaps approaching the borderline of the limits to the tolerable. At least my lady friend at the time thought so; hehehehe.. At any rate, it is indeed a lovely calendar, one filled with great shots of beautiful dogs, and one that is perfect for an inexpensive gift for that student or friend who could use a little touch of whimsy and wonder in their daily life. Enjoy!	2004-07-21
586625:US	52447634	R2OU4HB7VFZMH3	0688079571	56224818	The Other Nuremberg: The Untold Story of the Tokyo War Crimes Trials	Books	4	20	20	N	N	Absorbing, Well-Written Account Of Japanese War Trials!	For those of us who marveled at the manner in which the combined Allies created and conducted the trials of the German hierarchy at Nuremberg, successfully demonstrating to the world the fashion in which the British, French, American and Russian allies could cooperate and compromise sufficiently to prosecute some of the most murderous of the motley crew  comprising the Nazi regime, the stunning failures of our similar attempts to settle the issues surrounding the disposition of the Japanese war criminals was a bitterly disappointing revelation.<br />Indeed, by the time the collected Allies gathered to consider the fate of the Japanese offenders, the world had changed, and the welter of economic, social, and geo-political concerns that had united the Allies now served to separate them. As a result, the efforts to render anything approaching objective justice to the often barbaric behavior of high ranking Japanese officials were doomed from the inception.<br />Moreover, the relative lag in time between the war's cessation and the first beginnings of serious efforts to enact a tribunal served to work against justice by making it more difficult to locate and secure evidence, much of which had been destroyed in the final stages of the war.  As mentioned above, the lack of international cooperation and a variety of differences in terms of perceived national interests also contributed to a seeming inability to move forward on any but a few of the defendants in the first two years following the end of hostilities in August 1945.<br />As the author reveals, the Japanese war crimes trials were troubled from beginning to end in terms of relative respect, loss of critical evidence, insufficient staff and resources available, and an inhospitable cultural atmosphere which tended to stifle and limit the range of punishments unnecessarily. Still the author, who had participated as a news correspondent at the trials, skillfully mines both his own recollections and the range of materials he had at his disposal, including memoirs, transcripts, and interviews to meaningfully reconstruct a sometimes riveting account of this historic event. This is an interesting book, and one I would not hesitate to recommend. Enjoy!terials he had at his disposal, including memoirs, transcripts, and interviews to meaningfully reconstruct a sometimes riveting account of this historic event. This is an interesting book, and one I would not hesitate to recommend. Enjoy!	2004-07-16
587313:US	52447634	R2H3A85B3G6AP0	0374252874	48810266	Running on Empty: How the Democratic and Republican Parties Are Bankrupting Our Future and What Americans Can Do About It	Books	4	100	104	N	N	Thought-Provoking Book About Our Current Dilemma!	Over the last several years, former Secretary Of Commerce Pete Petersen has become something of a cottage industry in and of himself, writing several books, appearing as a pundit on talk shows, and acting as chairperson for both the Blackstone Group and the prestigious Council for Foreign Relations (CFR). Here he continues the caustic warnings he first articulated in \\"Gray Dawn\\", a polemic ranting against the potentially devastating consequences of the graying of the American population and the stress this demographic factor would have on growing federal deficits, the aging population itself, and on the national debt. He amplifies those warnings by making a rather alarming set of observations as to the consequences of the reckless and foolhardy policies of the current federal government, policies that combine the worst elements of supply side `voodoo economics' with continued growth in federal entitlement programs.<br />The mix, Mr. Petersen argues, may become a disastrous witch's brew with catastrophic results both for the domestic economy and the continued well-being of the American people. He saves his most strident criticism for the style of morally questionable leadership currently in vogue, a reckless world view that seems to shamelessly trade immediate and permanent tax cuts for the very wealthy for a mounting tidal wave of debt for our children and their heirs.  In detailing his grievances with current policies, Petersen cites a series of common partisan myths, including the notion that the majority of the elderly are poor, that more elderly than children are poor, that Americans are over-taxed, that providing tax cuts for the rich can successfully shrink government, and that imposing so-called \\"means-testing\\" for federal benefits will be catastrophic for the needy.<br />The author places the majority of the blame for our current set of problems upon the shoulders of a variety of forces within contemporary society, from interest groups and their lobbies to an almost pathological concern with short-term results, to the cult of individualism we all seem to suffer from, and, of course, to generational change. He views a number of strategies as potentially helpful in abating the negative set of circumstances we are ensconced in; indexing social security benefits to prices rather than wages, extending health care to all using the plan offered to federal employees as a model, and forcing Congress to include unfunded retirement obligations in the balance sheet (thus ending the thirty five year old sham of never mentioning to the American people the reason we have such a serious shortfall in social security funds in the out-years is because the federal government has consistently and quite deliberately violated the provisions of the Social Security law by spending the extra funds collected every year rather than investing them in accordance with federal law and allowing the investment income to grow). This is an interesting and thought-provoking read, and one that is sure to be the topic of continuing debate. Enjoyo an almost pathological concern with short-term results, to the cult of individualism we all seem to suffer from, and, of course, to generational change. He views a number of strategies as potentially helpful in abating the negative set of circumstances we are ensconced in; indexing social security benefits to prices rather than wages, extending health care to all using the plan offered to federal employees as a model, and forcing Congress to include unfunded retirement obligations in the balance sheet (thus ending the thirty five year old sham of never mentioning to the American people the reason we have such a serious shortfall in social security funds in the out-years is because the federal government has consistently and quite deliberately violated the provisions of the Social Security law by spending the extra funds collected every year rather than investing them in accordance with federal law and allowing the investment income to grow). This is an interesting and thought-provoking read, and one that is sure to be the topic of continuing debate. Enjoy	2004-07-16
589196:US	52447634	R2VNIH3YY6DGGI	0385506724	283863984	A Pretext for War: 9/11, Iraq, and the Abuse of America's Intelligence Agencies	Books	5	17	22	N	N	The Collective Failures Of Our Current Leadership!	In this superb synthesis of the historic events that led us to where we are today in the war on terror, veteran author James Bamford continues the penetrating work he has given to us in works such as the \\"The Puzzle Palace\\" and \\"Body Of Secrets'. In the former book, Bamford revealed the ultra-secret machinations of the National Security Agency (NSA), and then furthered our understanding of just how profound that agency's effect on our civil lives is in post-modern society with \\"Body Of Secrets\\". In this book, \\"A Pretext For War\\", he demonstrates with devastating precision the collection of traditional cold-war mindsets, mindless careerism, and political corruption wracking the intelligence hierarchy, all of which contributed to the manifest failures of that collective community to successfully comprehend and interpret the world-wide terrorist network and the meaning and import of its actions over the last twenty years.<br />Mr. Bamford traces with both fidelity and precision the historical record of successive failures by a series of administrations, intelligence agencies, and Congress to deal with the rising threats emanating from stateless entities such as the PLO, a variety of Iranian and Syrian-based terrorists groups, and of course, the increasingly influential Muslim Brotherhood and offshoots of that organization such as al Qaeda. In the author's mind, there is plenty of blame to go around, and he spares no one in his critique, from Ronald Reagan, who dithered after the disastrous attack in Beirut that left 247 US Marines dead in the rubble, George Bush the elder, who lacked the nerve to finish the job he started with Saddam Hussein, or Bill Clinton, who also made a series of mistakes in underestimating and discounting the threat that Arab extremist organizations posed both to this country ands to the world community at large.<br />Yet it obvious that the author reserves special scorn for George W. Bush and in making his argument, Mr. Bamford mounts the single best summation for the evidence damning the manifestly counterproductive adventures we have recently undertaken in the name of fighting world-wide terrorism.  Mr. Bamford deftly illustrates for the reader the numbingly Machiavellian mindset of the Bush administration, which arrived in office with a quite well-defined set of provocative and aggressive precepts in hand, including both pre-emptive action and the need for active intervention in Iraq to overthrow Saddam Hussein. Thus, he notes, the advent of 911 became a pretext for war, an opportunity for pursuing their preordained aggressive agenda against Iraq.<br />Much of what the author offers has been stated elsewhere, but he offers the reader what is by far the most cogent, well organized and damning account of just how politically corrupt and fatally flawed both the intelligence apparatus and the federal government seems to be in terms of its grasp on reality and its wild-eyed capacity to do ghastly deeds in the name of the people. This is a primer on just how vulnerable we are to an administration hell-bent on forwarding their revolutionary form of imperial expansion regardless of the consequences either for its citizens themselves or for the watching world at large. This is an important and essential book, one I recommend to all citizens interested in contemporary political affairs. Enjoy!e best summation for the evidence damning the manifestly counterproductive adventures we have recently undertaken in the name of fighting world-wide terrorism.  Mr. Bamford deftly illustrates for the reader the numbingly Machiavellian mindset of the Bush administration, which arrived in office with a quite well-defined set of provocative and aggressive precepts in hand, including both pre-emptive action and the need for active intervention in Iraq to overthrow Saddam Hussein. Thus, he notes, the advent of 911 became a pretext for war, an opportunity for pursuing their preordained aggressive agenda against Iraq. <br />Much of what the author offers has been stated elsewhere, but he offers the reader what is by far the most cogent, well organized and damning account of just how politically corrupt and fatally flawed both the intelligence apparatus and the federal government seems to be in terms of its grasp on reality and its wild-eyed capacity to do ghastly deeds in the name of the people. This is a primer on just how vulnerable we are to an administration hell-bent on forwarding their revolutionary form of imperial expansion regardless of the consequences either for its citizens themselves or for the watching world at large. This is an important and essential book, one I recommend to all citizens interested in contemporary political affairs. Enjoy!	2004-07-15
590259:US	52447634	R1W996S0SCP67X	1574888498	892390637	Imperial Hubris: Why the West is Losing the War on Terror	Books	5	71	83	N	Y	Powerful And Provocative Examination Of The War On Terror!	What is most intriguing about this book is the way it struggles to face, with unabashed honesty, a series of heart-rending life and death questions many of us have been wondering aloud about these many months since the tragedy of 911. The current administration often seems to be more energetically engaged in an effort to manage our perceptions while prosecuting a puzzlingly pointless adventure in Iraq than in actually confronting the deadly foes that really do face us. Herein the author, an anonymous CIA analyst, carefully defrocks the pontificating puerile punditry that passes for conventional political wisdom these days by asking some seemingly basic questions which must either elude or embarrass the apparently dazed and befuddled governing elite, for they consistently refuse to acknowledge or address them. In essence, the author puzzles over why the powers that be seem either unable or unwilling to face the threats we actually must confront as opposed to the more convenient traditional bogeymen they choose to combat.<br />For example, the disastrous misadventure in Iraq is so blatantly counter-productive relating to our efforts to the war on terror one has to wonder whose side Mr. Bush and Mr. Cheney are actually on, those fomenting terrorism or those combating it. Nothing has done more to emphasize the maniacal accusations of the bin Laden camp than our actions against both Afghanistan and Iraq. Meanwhile, we ignore the much more pressing threats both here at home and on the larger world stage in terms of the terrorist groups acting to endanger us. The real tragedy, of course, is that in all this time, the ghastly though carefully-managed facts relating to the real cost, in both blood and treasure are being justified to bolster the political fortunes of the current administration. Thus we continue to squander our finest young men and women in this vainglorious albeit quixotic adventure abroad, even as we face growing danger from another 911-style terrorist assault at home. If the truth be told, according to the author, we are demonstrably much less safe now than we were in the aftermath of September 11, 2001.<br />The author's theme is that the single greatest continuing threat for Americans is the mistaken notion that the Islamist terrorists are targeting us because of our beliefs and our values rather than for the actions our government and corporations have taken against the Muslims across the Middle East. Of course, our political superstructure finds it advantageous to promote this set of misperceptions; again and again in a series of speeches over the last three years, for example, Mr. Bush emphasizes that the terrorists hate us because we are free and prosperous, never acknowledging that perhaps they  hate us for much more tangible and controversial reasons, such as our biased and knee-jerk tendency to support Israel regardless of the circumstances, or our promotion and protection of corrupt and authoritarian Muslim regimes such as Saudi Arabia or Iran under the late Shah. Nor do our leaders seem to consider our invasions of Afghanistan or Iraq as potential provocations to the Muslim world.  Our leaders never acknowledge such possibilities because they do not want us to question their actions (or inactions) regarding the terrorist threats.<br />The most provocative and damning of the points made in the book is the way the author illustrates how cleverly and ingenuously Mr. bin Laden has threaded together a powerful invective that uses our actions and our words to prove that, in his perception, we represent a grave and present danger to the world's Muslim community. And as the author warns us, unless we begin to recognize the true nature of the terrorist threats and stop flailing about for short term geo-political gain through misadventures that waste our precious strengths and sap our treasure, we are likely to continue losing the war against terrorism. This is a valuable and worthwhile book, and one I recommend forany serious student of current affairs.any serious student of current affairs.	2004-07-14
644496:US	52447634	R3NMW3K5QZV54Z	0671675621	5679789	Patriots: The Men Who Started the American Revolution	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Terrific Exploration Of The American Revolution!	Several recent authors have profited by employing a common method to breathe new life and energy into the somewhat over-trodden path of early American history. By meaningfully locating specific critical personalities ranging from Samuel Adams to Patrick Henry within the locus of the specific times, writers like A.J Langguth and others use the intersection of biography and history to best advantage, rendering the essential glue of drama and circumstance to help the reader better appreciate the human drama within the welter of historical circumstance.  Langguth has done so memorably elsewhere with his tome on Vietnam, \\"Our Vietnam\\", where he was a journalist for several years in the 1960s during the war.  In \\"Patriots; The Men Who Started The American Revolution\\", he succeeds marvelously in enthusiastically re-animating our latent interest in events that many of us are at least superficially quite familiar with.<br />Here we find the basis for and conduct of the revolution as it unfolds before us, in all its complex circumstance, as seen through the eyes of those who experienced it. The book opens with a stirring explanation of how early patriots like Sam Adams came to view the British with seething contempt and a growing belief in the need for independence, based as much on economic concerns as on a sad litany of injustices and neglect visited on the colonists by the Crown. One quickly comes to appreciate Langguth's amazing eye for telling detail and informative description, and one finds himself drawn into the vortex of the colonial world in all its vexing dimensions. We stand with Washington in his times of doubt and despair, and marvel at the intellect and foresight of daring dreamers with an almost uncanny appreciation for the art of the practical by watching Thomas Jefferson,  Benjamin Franklin, and Thomas Paine crafting the various documents articulating the revolution and the evolving breakaway government for the foundling republic in its first formative stages.<br />This is a book full of both meticulously performed research and arresting facts, which the author uses to advantage to build the story and create a sense of suspense despite the fact that we all know how it turns out. By locating us with the actors on the ground as things are happening, he gives us what can only be described as a journalistic look at the unfolding drama, such that we better comprehend what life was like for the colonist as they struggled toward freedom and independence, often at most unattractive odds. One walks away from the book with a finer understanding of the specifics of the revolution itself, its importance historically, and a profound admiration for the astounding human beings who carried it all off. Enjoy!ges.  <br />This is a book full of both meticulously performed research and arresting facts, which the author uses to advantage to build the story and create a sense of suspense despite the fact that we all know how it turns out. By locating us with the actors on the ground as things are happening, he gives us what can only be described as a journalistic look at the unfolding drama, such that we better comprehend what life was like for the colonist as they struggled toward freedom and independence, often at most unattractive odds. One walks away from the book with a finer understanding of the specifics of the revolution itself, its importance historically, and a profound admiration for the astounding human beings who carried it all off. Enjoy!	2004-06-03
644698:US	52447634	RUAIFI2KQWN7T	0553348973	579811820	Still Life with Woodpecker	Books	5	14	19	N	N	An Experimental Absurdist Masterwork Of A Novel!	Tom Robbins is perhaps one of the most winsome and unforgettable novelist of the late 20th century. In a series of absurdist novels, he has memorably stretched the boundaries of what can be said and how with some of the most creative, artful, and poetic turns of words this side of Shakespeare. His celebration of the central absurdities of modern life provide the matte on which he paints indelible portraits of contemporary human lives in motion, from characters as memorably unique as Sissy Hankshaw in \\"Even Cowgirls get The Blues\\" to our intrepid \\"Woodpecker\\" in this novel. Robbins is anything but predictable, and to the reader's considerable advantage, he always takes a slapstick look at things we might otherwise disregard or take to be a fact of life, so that when he renders a fact of contemporary culture much more recognizable in all its absurd colors and hues, we come to appreciate the method in his madness. In that sense, Still Life With Woodpecker\\" is a work of art indeed.<br />Indeed, amid the carnage of everyday life, full of its endless claptrap and rife with people trying to get by with slogan management, our heroine struggles to find her way clear to some sort of better and more meaningful life, in spite of her well-intentioned parents' attempts to sway her almost irresistibly onto the eventual path of the numbing conformity they think life has for its reward. Like Sissy Hankshaw before her, mere convention cramps her style and her spirit, and in her own way struggles to be free. Enter the Woodpecker, of the outlaw species, cynic extraordinaire, fast talker, hard lover, and a wild-eyed redhead to boot (hence the Woodpecker moniker), and suddenly everything changes. A few clues here: Robbins is asking the most central and profound of contemporary questions in this work; how do you make love stay?  And the arguments and insights he contrives to throw in our direction will amuse, entertain, and edify. This is another of the sweet confections Robbins continues to give us, covered over with a wonderful weave of wry words and wisdom, disguised as an entertaining and eminently readable absurdist novel. Enjoy!s to give us, covered over with a wonderful weave of wry words and wisdom, disguised as an entertaining and eminently readable absurdist novel. Enjoy!	2004-06-03
646292:US	52447634	R2L2SW4ZQC7NUQ	0761520465	210279857	Your Lab's Life: Your Complete Guide to Raising Your Pet from Puppy to Companion (Your Pet's Life)	Books	4	21	23	N	N	Nice Compendium Of Information On Labradors!	Here is an attractive entry by author Virginia Parker Guidry, abook that takes a loving look at America's singular and by far most popular wonder dog, the Labrador Retriever. As Berger points out so well, there are few other animals who draw such love from humans as a dog, and surely the Lab is the most loveable of the breeds. Here she presents the Labrador Retriever in all its wonder and does a yeoman service to the rest of us by enumerating all of the superb qualities the dog has to offer potential human enthusiasts. They are by reputation excellent working dogs, both as field dogs and as guide dogs for the disabled. They are also incredibly loyal, and the news services are often filled with wonderful and heartwarming stories of Labs crawling out on the ice to save their masters, often at considerable danger to themselves. Nonetheless, they stand by our sides.<br />Therefore, this book, &quot;Your Lab's Life&quot;, is the ultimate tribute to the breed, and is chock-full with stories and photos that actively serve to substantiate what might otherwise seem as idle boasts and overethusiastic praise. In fact, for anyone who spends any time around Labs, like me, it is hard nto to use superlatives when describing them. More than one of the stories herein will bring a smile to your face, a tear to your eye, and the idea in your noggin perhaps it is time to consider getting one of these incredible creatures into you rlife, and that of your extended family. they boost the energy level in any room they enter, are incredible chick-magnets, and have been shown to reduce high blood pressure and dissipate depression through their mere presence. This is a wonderful book about what I believe to be the world's most nearly perfect living creature, the Labrador Retriever! Enjoy!	2004-06-01
649245:US	52447634	R2TWCD0GJEJBKO	1594200041	518829493	The Coming of the Third Reich	Books	5	79	86	N	Y	Masterful First Volume Of Planned Trilogy On Nazi Germany!	As Karl Marx once wrote, people make their own history, but not under conditions of their own choosing. So it is that academic Richard J. Evans from Cambridge University approaches the superb first volume of the planned trilogy of a complete history of the rise and fall of the Third Reich, ?The Coming Of the Third Reich?, recognizing the existential constraints people living in the era of National Socialism faced. As Professor Evans puts it, not only are men constrained and shaped by the unique and quite specific web of cultural and social conditions in which they are enmeshed, but they also view these particular conditions through a particular perspective, and through the prism of a socially prescribed set of values, beliefs, and ideologies. Thus, the author argues that in the vast bibliography of works covering the history of the Nazi era, no one has yet covered the epoch in a fashion that does justice to the complex welter of ways, as sociologist C. Wright Mills would phrase it, in which biography and history meaningfully intersect such that one can appreciate what it was like for an individual to live in the times of the National Socialists, and to experience life on the ground as real people who lived through the turbulent 1930s and 1949s did.<br /><br />Indeed, this trilogy is offered in a brilliant attempt to render such a comprehensive history that makes sense of how it that such a baffling and troubling phenomenon could arise in what was considered the most economically, socially, and culturally advanced society of the early 20th century. This volume recounts the story of the origins of the Third Reich in 19th century Germany, from the its very beginnings as Bismarck?s foundling empire, through the events of the First World War, and the turbulent unrest and dissatisfaction of the Weimar years. It also describes the rise of the National Socialists through what the author describes as being an ingenuous combination of electoral success and massive political violence that took place in the chaotic epoch of the Great Depression.  The book's central theme centers around how the Nazis managed to forge a one-party dictatorship in a democratic society so quickly, and with so little organized resistance.<br /><br />This volume is, much like William Shirer's classic effort in ?The Rise And Fall of the Third Reich?, a narrative account of the events surrounding the events of the Nazi era.  It is a massively documented effort to document the story of the Third Reich in chronological order, and much as Shirer did, attempts to ?give voice to the people who lived through the years? of Nazi rule.  The author is quite passionate in voicing his own concern that history once more render for the reader an intelligence recounting of the experiences of ordinary individuals, of the sheer complexity of the their existential constraints and available options, and the often incomprehensible choices they faced. So, what Evans aims to give to the reader in the early 21st century is a better understanding of the Nazi era by recreating all of its elements, in all their complexity and interweaving perplexity, thus reminding readers that, as L.P. Hartley said, \\"the past is a foreign country, they do things differently there\\".<br /><br />Given the fact that it remains as important today as ever to understand both how and why the Nazis came to power with such speed and relative ease, it is critical to better appreciate the nature of life in the Third Reich, to comprehend why their opponents failed to stop them, and to better realize the nature and the operation of the machinery of the Nazi regime once it had grasped the reins of power. Moreover, it remains crucial to understand the complex mechanism through which the operation and goals of the Third Reich so quickly and fatefully engulfed the rest of Europe and then the world in such a bloodbath of carnage and ruin.<br /><br />Indeed, while the 20th century has no shortages of such catastrophes, including the soviet purge of the 1930s, none of the other such events had such terrifying and cataclysmic consequences for the rest of the world. What Evans offers us here is the masterful opening volume of a trilogy explaining in excruciating detail and breathtaking comprehensiveness the story of how Germany led Europe and the rest of the world into the depths of Hell. It is a book well worth the time and effort to read it. Enjoy!30s, none of the other such events had such terrifying and cataclysmic consequences for the rest of the world. What Evans offers us here is the masterful opening volume of a trilogy explaining in excruciating detail and breathtaking comprehensiveness the story of how Germany led Europe and the rest of the world into the depths of Hell. It is a book well worth the time and effort to read it. Enjoy!	2004-05-30
651642:US	52447634	R1NQWVRPN2A6Q1	0684870533	425722098	Who Are We: The Challenges to America's National Identity	Books	4	24	30	N	N	Close, Scholarly Examination Of A Provocative Subject!	Harvard Professor Samuel Huntington is an interesting scholar. As the best selling author of the 1996 tome \\"The Clash Of Civilizations And The Remaking Of World Order\\", Huntington argued quite persuasively on behalf of the notion that in the emerging global situation evolving from the dust of the collapsing cold war, the axis of conflicts in the future would be more likely conflicts between cultures as opposed to being conflicts between nation-states or ideologies. Certainly the events surrounding the attack on the World Trade Center on 911 seemed to prove his point quite dramatically, given the prominently cultural overtones relating to motives of the radical Muslim antagonists.<br />His latest book uses that set of assumptions as a launching point for exploring a whole rafter of various cultural, racial, and socioeconomic factors by looking at the inverse aspect of the assumptions. Thus, he posits, if the very cultures which provide us with meaningful orientations are themselves fracturing, even as we war with other cultures, then cultures like our own that are composed of multicultural strands and famous for pluralism are endangered species, so to speak, imperiled by losing the very social glue that holds us together with the norms, values, and web of understandings we use to orient ourselves toward others meaningfully. Therefore, he takes along, frightening, and somewhat pessimistic look at how multiculturalism and its trains of diversity in terms of language, social orientation, and values, so fractures the sense of common belonging so many scholars consider critical to holding a society together.<br />Certainly this is not an entirely new concern; academics from Marx to Max Weber to Emile Durkheim argued persuasively in the late 19th and early 20th century how losing the religious orientation might negatively affect social integration within modern society. So, when Professor Huntington argues that the United States is suffering through a momentous and quite revolutionary transformation, one that affects its very nature as well as its sense of social identity, he is firm academic ground. Everyone from C. Wright Mills to Alvin Toffler have noted the profound ways in which we are moving into unknown cultural territory in this country. Yet he goes further than others in identifying four key elements of cultural identity, all of which he sees as being under attack; race, ethnicity, culture (e.g. language and religious beliefs), and ideology.  For Huntington, the outlook is not good.<br />The book seems to sometimes suffer from a bad case of overgeneralization, as when he suggest that citizens immigrate to the USA for single reasons, or when he characterizes them as lacking the resident work ethic to try to make it here on their own. Mere anecdotal evidence aside, one finds it hard to agree with a thesis so poorly presented.  Moreover, he seems to suggest that the way to correct this is to return to the values of the past, which, while I might also prefer to think would provide for more meaningful and rational connection between interacting individuals and for the society as a whole, represents the kind of fanciful armchair philosophizing no social experiment could ever engineer. The past is irretrievably lost, and there is no return to it or to its more meaningful orientations to the world and to the others we inhabit the planet with. The better and more useful question relates to how we get ourselves out of the growing cultural disconnections he details, describes, and chronicles so accurately in this thought-provoking work. Enjoy!e revolutionary transformation, one that affects its very nature as well as its sense of social identity, he is firm academic ground. Everyone from C. Wright Mills to Alvin Toffler have noted the profound ways in which we are moving into unknown cultural territory in this country. Yet he goes further than others in identifying four key elements of cultural identity, all of which he sees as being under attack; race, ethnicity, culture (e.g. language and religious beliefs), and ideology.  For Huntington, the outlook is not good. <br />The book seems to sometimes suffer from a bad case of overgeneralization, as when he suggest that citizens immigrate to the USA for single reasons, or when he characterizes them as lacking the resident work ethic to try to make it here on their own. Mere anecdotal evidence aside, one finds it hard to agree with a thesis so poorly presented.  Moreover, he seems to suggest that the way to correct this is to return to the values of the past, which, while I might also prefer to think would provide for more meaningful and rational connection between interacting individuals and for the society as a whole, represents the kind of fanciful armchair philosophizing no social experiment could ever engineer. The past is irretrievably lost, and there is no return to it or to its more meaningful orientations to the world and to the others we inhabit the planet with. The better and more useful question relates to how we get ourselves out of the growing cultural disconnections he details, describes, and chronicles so accurately in this thought-provoking work. Enjoy!	2004-05-28
659319:US	52447634	R3MCBCK7F86UDD	078671378X	376587747	The Politics of Truth: Inside the Lies that Led to War and Betrayed My Wife's CIA Identity: A Diplomat's Memoir	Books	5	42	54	N	N	A Surprisingly Entertaining Read!	One of the greatest surprises emanating from this tightly written and immensely entertaining book by former Ambassador Joseph Wilson is the fact that he spins so wide and long a tale about his life's adventure, and chooses not to concentrate as much on the more immediate predicament surrounding his own misadventure to Niger in search of some evidence regarding the alleged attempt by Iraqis to buy \\"gold-cake\\" on the black market from sources inside that country.  I was spellbound by his narrative of his years within the Foreign Service, especially as it pertained to his time assigned to Baghdad in the months leading up to the 1991 Gulf War. Those of us who admire men who can traverse the slippery slopes between academia and the real world politics of the late 20th century will enjoy the anecdotes Wilson spins in recounting his some thirty years of involvement within the public domain, years spent admirably serving the country.<br />It is within the context of this long and honorable service that one winces at the account of how he and his wife, an operations officer for the Central Intelligence Agency, come to find themselves lodged in the reckless cross-hairs of an administration scorned and looking for political revenge. Wilson, of course, famously denied the allegations that President Bush had stated that he was not aware of the fact that the alleged Iraqi effort to buy yellow-cake uranium on the black market was a hoax, one based on a very bad attempt at forging the relevant documents. Instead, Wilson insisted he had dutifully reported the hoax to proper authorities, up to and including Vice President Dick Cheney's staff. So the idea that the administration was under the erroneous impression that the alleged incident was credible simply was not true, according to Wilson. Thus, Mr. Bush's unfortunate use of the allegation in the January 2003 State Of The Union address to the nation amounted to a deliberate misleading of the public regarding Iraq and its actions leading up to the decision to invade later that year.<br />It is certainly true that Mr. Wilson may have his own anti-Bush political agenda that he is attempting to forward with this book, and it may be true that he has taken sides with the Democratic Party in an election year. Yet no one has yet refuted the basic claims he has made in the book; namely that people within the administration deliberately and provocatively exposed his wife's name to the public by leaking the fact that she was a CIA agent to veteran columnist Robert Novak. Why Novak would then take it upon himself to recklessly endanger the woman by printing her name for any potential foe to learn is simply beyond comprehension. To me this was a despicable act for which Mr. Novak should be punished, regardless of his journalistic cover. This is a great book, one that will be far more enjoyable than anyone has a right to expect from a tome supposedly written and focused on current events. Enjoy!ading up to the decision to invade later that year.    <br />It is certainly true that Mr. Wilson may have his own anti-Bush political agenda that he is attempting to forward with this book, and it may be true that he has taken sides with the Democratic Party in an election year. Yet no one has yet refuted the basic claims he has made in the book; namely that people within the administration deliberately and provocatively exposed his wife's name to the public by leaking the fact that she was a CIA agent to veteran columnist Robert Novak. Why Novak would then take it upon himself to recklessly endanger the woman by printing her name for any potential foe to learn is simply beyond comprehension. To me this was a despicable act for which Mr. Novak should be punished, regardless of his journalistic cover. This is a great book, one that will be far more enjoyable than anyone has a right to expect from a tome supposedly written and focused on current events. Enjoy!	2004-05-21
694133:US	52447634	R18JF4LR53UQLT	0316817627	957754411	In a Time of Torment 1961-1967 (A Nonconformist history of our times)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Wonderful Compilation Of Stone's Essays!	I.F. Stone was a virtual legend among political junkies in the sixties and seventies, as indeed he was for well over a half century in various journalistic capacities from the Depression era until the late 1980s. He published an independent weekly journal for well over twenty years from the early 1950s until the mid-1970s in which he acted as soul reporter, editor, and publisher, and the work was acclaimed for its consistent accuracy, poignancy, and verve. He caught many scoops others were either not clever enough or courageous enough to cover, and his ability to focus on the way the facts of the situation fit together into a political byline made him a 'must-read' for anyone interested in understanding how politics actually got done (down and dirty) in Washington, DC.<br />This particular book, &quot;In A Time Of Torment, 1961-1967&quot;, is a superb collection of some of his most memorable articles, thought-pieces and observations taken from both the I.F. Stone Weekly as well as from the pages of 'The Nation' and elsewhere during the most outrageous of times indeed, the turbulent and raucous 1960s. Also important in understanding Stone's approach is the book's subtitle, 'A Nonconformist History Of Our Times'; Stone is the most radical of journalists in that he approaches the issues at hand with supreme objectivity and without political blinders, and yet does so informed by a set of values and ethics that one wonders at his ability to 'cut to the chase' and render the truth so consistently and so reliably that one often marvels at how simple he makes such erudition seem.<br />While describing himself as an anachronism, meaning he represented no one but himself, and found himself uncomfortable working within the constraints of a more institutional setting (even though he had done so quite marvelously for extended periods of time), he was that most rare of literary lions, a widely-read and intellectually circumspect truth-seeker. Like H.L Mencken, his prose often inspired one toward imitation, yet he also wrote clearly, unambiguously, and quite memorably. Herein we find a whole rafter of memorable articles, all short, ranging from several paragraphs to three or four pages in length. He covers subjects as distant from each other as JFK and the free press, from LBJ to China, and from Jeffersonian democracy to the racist issues inherent in the Israeli-Palestinian problem.<br />Indeed, Stone and his opinions were often viewed with alarm by the powers that be, for they understood all too well that he was read by many of the most important opinion makers and policy wonks within the Washington beltway and beyond, and that his weighing in on a specific issue often resulted in unwanted attention and a virtual spotlight being thrown in that general direction. This is a great book to have in your travel-bag; full of little gems you can read en route to almost anywhere, a pleasurable and intelligent companion that you can enjoy and finish in a few minutes and walk away better informed. He offers timeless intelligence, perspective, and some food for thought in almost everything he writes, and he can be taken in homeopathic doses. While most of the subjects he addressed are now dated, what he had to say was truly timeless. This is a great little book, and one I highly recommend. Enjoy!nspired one toward imitation, yet he also wrote clearly, unambiguously, and quite memorably. Herein we find a whole rafter of memorable articles, all short, ranging from several paragraphs to three or four pages in length. He covers subjects as distant from each other as JFK and the free press, from LBJ to China, and from Jeffersonian democracy to the racist issues inherent in the Israeli-Palestinian problem. <br />Indeed, Stone and his opinions were often viewed with alarm by the powers that be, for they understood all too well that he was read by many of the most important opinion makers and policy wonks within the Washington beltway and beyond, and that his weighing in on a specific issue often resulted in unwanted attention and a virtual spotlight being thrown in that general direction. This is a great book to have in your travel-bag; full of little gems you can read en route to almost anywhere, a pleasurable and intelligent companion that you can enjoy and finish in a few minutes and walk away better informed. He offers timeless intelligence, perspective, and some food for thought in almost everything he writes, and he can be taken in homeopathic doses. While most of the subjects he addressed are now dated, what he had to say was truly timeless. This is a great little book, and one I highly recommend. Enjoy!	2004-04-24
699104:US	52447634	R3L0QHYJEZPVD3	074325547X	828250107	Plan of Attack	Books	5	79	93	N	Y	Once Again, A War President Revealed!	One reason Bob Woodward is such a superb journalist is that he has a talent for developing and maintaining an incredible network of primary sources. Better than anyone else I can think of, Woodward manages to gain a wealth of insight from people who are both `in the know' and are willing to talk to him in damning detail about it. In this particular case, the information is devastating; Woodward both confirms what a flurry of other recent books about President Bush and his staff have alleged, that they were obsessed with invading and conquering Iraq from the very beginning of the administration, that they both knowingly exaggerated and even prevaricated about evidence and deliberately attempted to make spurious connections between Iraq and Al Qaeda in order to support their goals and objectives, and that there is a deep political and even cultural divide among some of the principals within the administration concerning our foreign policy.<br />Of course, the two principal antagonists other than the President himself are Vice President Dick Cheney, depicted here as a zealot in search of some kind of hopped-up moral justice he wants to visit against the middle east in general and Iraq in particular, and Colin Powell, a man who seems to know better that to go along with this con-game, but lacking the resident moral courage to stand up and cry wolf. The book is astonishing in its first-person indictment of the crony corruption and confusion resident both within and without the halls of the West Wing; Tommy Franks is pressured to publicly lie about not having been given instructions to develop a Iraqi war plan in the Spring of 2002 when Rumsfeld had done so on orders from the President the previous fall; Cheney gave a top secret briefing to Prince Bandar of Saudi Arabia giving specifics of that war plan in January 2003 even before Colin Powell was informed the decision to go to war had been made, even though release of such information to foreign nationals is a serious violation of federal law; Bush provocatively lied to the public in his 2003 State Of The Union message that he was still trying to use the United Nations to find a solution when he had already decided to go to war, etc. Anyone want to consider whether any or all of these acts were impeachable offenses?<br />Thus, perhaps the most telling aspect to Woodward's new book is the way in which this ultimate insider serves to help flesh out the intimate characteristics of many of the President's principal players, the interaction among them, and how these various cliques and petty jealousies fuel both how and what decisions as do get made, and why they wind up as radical as they often are. It also provides a wealth of insights into the President and his personality, as well.  Far from being the resolute loner, the rugged individualist making solitary decisions in the splendid isolation of his uniquely driven intellect, the current occupant of the White House seems to be a man who. On the one hand seems driven by a form of messianic belief in his own mission in life, and on the other hand, make decisions about going to war based nearly exclusively on what other \\"experts\\" think is best. Bush comes across as either intellectually unable or psychologically unwilling to make tough decisions without deferring to others, who relies overmuch on the opinions and guidance of others such as Dick Cheney and Karl Rove in making tough decisions.<br />In essence, Mr., Bush seems more like a character actor playing out his scripted part by saying his lines and trying not to stumble into the furniture. Yet, often his John Wayne impersonation draws thin, and there are moments when one catches a glimpse of his pancake makeup, when we can observe just how soft, unaccomplished and dependent this supposed he-man is. He seems, to use an old western expression, much more like a five-dollar horse with a hundred dollar saddle, someone born to privilege, so self-assured that he thinks all that is required of him is convey reassuring public images while others do all the heavy lifting. Perhaps not all that much has changed all that much from his days as a MBA student at the Harvard Business School, when according to other students, he sat aimlessly in the back of classes wearing his Air National Guard leather flight jacket while quietly expectorating his tobacco chew into a paper cup. Combine this persona with a apparent case of self-ordained messianic zeal, and what you have is the current occupant of the White House.<br />What one also discovers herein is a plethora of particulars describing the critical political and cultural divides among the various factions within the Bush regime; and the reader begins to appreciate the degree to which what is going on here is really much more of a shadow presidency for Dick Cheney than anyone had previously appreciated. Yet when one considers the evidence, such a conclusion is quite logical, given such insights into Bush as the fact that he is neither an impressive intellect nor a voracious reader. What he does like to do is jog, follow sports on TV, do manual chores around the ranch, and make sure he keeps regular hours. On the day he received the now famous 6 August 2001 PDB alerting him to the Al Qaeda threat to the continental United States, Mr. Bush was in the midst of the longest single vacation any president had ever taken, and he had been in office only seven months at that point. Moreover, at the conclusion of the briefing, he dismissed the briefing team without taking any action about the terrorist threat, donned his white ten gallon Stetson, and disappeared in his Ford F-350 Super Duty truck to go bass fishing for the rest of the day. So much for keeping your eye on the ball! Reading the book left me personally musing as to just how much Mr. Bush resembles Chauncy Gardener, the fictional Peter Sellers character in \\"Being There\\". To the extent the comparison is accurate,  \\"Dubya\\" provides us all with a frightening look at just how possible it is for someone so insular, intellectually limited, and self absorbed, a man so singularly unsuited for public office to actually become President of the United States. This is, then, indeed a book well worth reading. Enjoy!quired of him is convey reassuring public images while others do all the heavy lifting. Perhaps not all that much has changed all that much from his days as a MBA student at the Harvard Business School, when according to other students, he sat aimlessly in the back of classes wearing his Air National Guard leather flight jacket while quietly expectorating his tobacco chew into a paper cup. Combine this persona with a apparent case of self-ordained messianic zeal, and what you have is the current occupant of the White House. <br />What one also discovers herein is a plethora of particulars describing the critical political and cultural divides among the various factions within the Bush regime; and the reader begins to appreciate the degree to which what is going on here is really much more of a shadow presidency for Dick Cheney than anyone had previously appreciated. Yet when one considers the evidence, such a conclusion is quite logical, given such insights into Bush as the fact that he is neither an impressive intellect nor a voracious reader. What he does like to do is jog, follow sports on TV, do manual chores around the ranch, and make sure he keeps regular hours. On the day he received the now famous 6 August 2001 PDB alerting him to the Al Qaeda threat to the continental United States, Mr. Bush was in the midst of the longest single vacation any president had ever taken, and he had been in office only seven months at that point. Moreover, at the conclusion of the briefing, he dismissed the briefing team without taking any action about the terrorist threat, donned his white ten gallon Stetson, and disappeared in his Ford F-350 Super Duty truck to go bass fishing for the rest of the day. So much for keeping your eye on the ball! Reading the book left me personally musing as to just how much Mr. Bush resembles Chauncy Gardener, the fictional Peter Sellers character in \\"Being There\\". To the extent the comparison is accurate,  \\"Dubya\\" provides us all with a frightening look at just how possible it is for someone so insular, intellectually limited, and self absorbed, a man so singularly unsuited for public office to actually become President of the United States. This is, then, indeed a book well worth reading. Enjoy!	2004-04-20
703882:US	52447634	R2M7J8B62CVBAR	1594200076	469542612	Ghost Wars: The Secret History of the CIA, Afghanistan, and bin Laden, from the Soviet Invasion to September 10, 2001	Books	5	16	20	N	N	Masterful Depiction of CIA Nurturance Of MuslimTerrorism!	This absorbing new book,\\"Ghost Wars\\", written by noted journalist Steve Coll, managing editor of the Washington Post, deftly describes and explains the origins, progress, and consequences of the CIA's ill-fated sponsorship of radical Muslim fundamentalists in a concerted effort to turn the Soviet incursion into Afghanistan in the late 1970s into a Russian version of Vietnam. The devil lies in the details, as they say, and Mr. Coll does a yeoman's job of explaining how the specific actions taken by the United States to influence the long term course of the Soviet aggression against the Afghan people wrought the absolutely catastrophic unintended consequences it did by way of the creation, training and sustenance of the fanatical Arab fringe group that eventually emerged in the early 1990s as Al Queda.<br />Indeed, it is a tale full of unimaginable arrogance, thoughtless irresponsibility, and ultimate irony that many of the so-called masterminds of the various Arab groups loosely held together by Osama bin Laden's terrorist network were originally recruited, trained, and transported to Afghanistan by the CIA and its front organizations, and many of the most sophisticated of their members learned their tradecraft here in the United States in training courses offered and funded by the CIA.  Operating with the cooperation of a number of other national security organizations such as the KGB, the Saudi General Intelligence Department, and the dreaded Pakistani ISI, the covert agents of the Central Intelligence Agency played a dangerous game in creating an effective and often deadly counterforce to the brunt instrument of the Soviet military machine, and by creating the guerilla forces to do so, gave radical Muslim fundamentalists an object lesson in how to fight quite effectively against superior military forces.<br />In this fashion, the success enjoyed by the Arab terrorists in fighting against the Soviets encouraged them to think about how they could use their newfound capabilities to engage the forces that be within the orbit of the Middle East itself to effect change towards the creation of a theocratic fundamentalist Muslim state, or even a loose confederation, or Caliphate, of them, by employing such terrorist tactics against both the Western powers and (eventually) the Saudi royal family to accomplish their goals. It took us a while to recognize that the rag-tag confederation of Arab `freedom fighters baptized by combat in Afghanistan were now forming into a most formidable and extremely dangerous enemy, one that could hide at pleasure and strike when it suited them best.Moreover, one of the most interesting aspects to the book is the way in which the author threads the story of the growing and evolving threat of Al Queda into the history of what is also transpiring in Afghanistan over that quarter century of time.<br />Had we not cut and run, for example, after helping to defeat the Soviets, had we stayed behind to aid them in rebuilding the shattered country the Soviets left in their wake, we might have been able to do much to disarm the radical Muslim movement from gaining traction in the first place. Instead, we abandoned them to their misery and incredible tribal hatreds and animosities, and by so doing provided a haven in which radical Muslim fundamentalists could come to power, and thus creating a perfect setting for all that Al Queda did afterward. In tracing the sordid history of how these so-called ghost wars led to what happened later, eventuating in the attacks of the late 1990s and the events of 911,  Coll argues powerfully for a more informed, logical, and rational foreign policy, one informed by a keen understanding of the world and our place in it. Until such transformation takes place, our country and we will continue to be at great risk. Enjoy!capabilities to engage the forces that be within the orbit of the Middle East itself to effect change towards the creation of a theocratic fundamentalist Muslim state, or even a loose confederation, or Caliphate, of them, by employing such terrorist tactics against both the Western powers and (eventually) the Saudi royal family to accomplish their goals. It took us a while to recognize that the rag-tag confederation of Arab `freedom fighters baptized by combat in Afghanistan were now forming into a most formidable and extremely dangerous enemy, one that could hide at pleasure and strike when it suited them best.Moreover, one of the most interesting aspects to the book is the way in which the author threads the story of the growing and evolving threat of Al Queda into the history of what is also transpiring in Afghanistan over that quarter century of time. <br />Had we not cut and run, for example, after helping to defeat the Soviets, had we stayed behind to aid them in rebuilding the shattered country the Soviets left in their wake, we might have been able to do much to disarm the radical Muslim movement from gaining traction in the first place. Instead, we abandoned them to their misery and incredible tribal hatreds and animosities, and by so doing provided a haven in which radical Muslim fundamentalists could come to power, and thus creating a perfect setting for all that Al Queda did afterward. In tracing the sordid history of how these so-called ghost wars led to what happened later, eventuating in the attacks of the late 1990s and the events of 911,  Coll argues powerfully for a more informed, logical, and rational foreign policy, one informed by a keen understanding of the world and our place in it. Until such transformation takes place, our country and we will continue to be at great risk. Enjoy!	2004-04-16
704886:US	52447634	R7E1KYARDY009	0691114129	580734189	Universities in the Marketplace: The Commercialization of Higher Education	Books	4	22	23	N	N	Consideration Of Effects Of Commercialization On Academia!	Anyone who has been associated with higher education in this country in the last fifty years is aware of the massive changes that have been sweeping over private colleges and state university systems in the last twenty to thirty years, changes ranging from the unfortunate consequences of political correctness to those associated with a relaxation of more rigorous academic standards to make such education \\"more accessible\\" to the population at large to other changes associated with the increasing concentration on more practical \\"vocational\\" educational skills to the proliferation of shop-as-you-go graduate educational programs, diploma mills designed  to deliver to consumers a plethora of MBA and other business-oriented degrees in service to their career progression. Those of us professionally associated with higher education have often bemoaned the sad changes visiting themselves upon what was once a proud institution, the marvel of the western world in terms of its level of rigor, accessibility, and relative merit in terms of educational product.<br />In this recent tome by former Harvard University president Derek Bok, yet another form of change and devolution of all the academy once stood for is discussed with both intelligence and wit; the commercialization of institutions of higher education and the associated seduction and corruption of faculty, administrators and the university system itself.  Bok takes a probing look at the many ways in which financial enticements have entered the ivory towers, and how such temptations are profoundly altering the business of the university system itself, often warping both the mission of the institution as well as the intellectual products flowing from the academic marketplace. Beginning with the advent of financial gain associated with college sport programs, the author wonders out loud at what point the transformation of what was once an ancillary concern for additional source of academic funding became a much more purposeful source of university profit, resulting in much more deliberate efforts on the university's part to use sport for financial gain.<br />He similarly muses over the fashion in which independent medical research efforts within university setting have become captive to the driving force of pharmaceutical and other medical enterprises, such that the focus and progress of medical research becomes much more focused on particular kinds of patent-driven and/or profit-oriented enterprises, efforts that if successful can turn humble medical researchers into instant millionaire tycoons. Similarly, universities now find themselves competing over intellectual hot properties like cybernetic wiz-kids, with places like Harvard offering fringe benefits like free homes in Concord or Lexington MA in order to lure promising young computer superstars capable of drawing a lot of grant money and/or corporate sponsorship to the institution. Finally, he debates as to what the practice of beginning such internet-based distance learning programs will have on both the quality and nature of higher education in the future, since it could well have significant consequences for those wishing to actually do their study on-campus.<br />Of course, commercialization has some positive aspects to it, as with the excellent (and quietly profit-oriented) extension university system associated with Harvard. One can gain access to the same faculty and coursework as is available in the full-time day programs at Harvard in part-time evening programs (both undergraduate as well as graduate) that are relatively inexpensive, have few entrance requirements and all of the advantages of a more rigorous Harvard liberal arts education. While it is likely true that the program exists as a way of Harvard itself cashing in on the cache of its name, it offers a quality educational program and provides a potential excellent product for a discerning consumer. At base, this is an absorbing book, one well worth the time andeffort to thread through its 200 some pages in search of some provocative and thoughtful observations of the drawbacks associated with the increasing commercialization of the university marketplace.  It is a book I can highly recommend. Enjoy!and effort to thread through its 200 some pages in search of some provocative and thoughtful observations of the drawbacks associated with the increasing commercialization of the university marketplace.  It is a book I can highly recommend. Enjoy!	2004-04-15
707110:US	52447634	R1FFXYSNZLN6K6	074325337X	760100886	House of Bush, House of Saud: The Secret Relationship Between the World's Two Most Powerful Dynasties	Books	5	51	54	N	N	Seduction & Corruption Of The Bushes By Saudi Royal Family!	This superbly written and carefully documented book by Craig Unger,  a noted author and investigative journalist, adds handsomely to the burgeoning list of substantive tomes covering the somewhat seedy and troublingly fulsome state of contemporary Saudi-American relationships, warts and all, and impressively serves the reader by masterfully describing and detailing the manifest ways in which the rise in the Bush family fortunes (both in terms of political and financial capital) is inextricably intertwined with that of the Saudi royal family. Indeed, the specter of blatant double-fisted corruption and cronyism depicted here is difficult to understand without understanding the kind of systematic familial linkages and connections that are explained and described here. As with Robert Baer's recent \\"Sleeping With The Devil\\", author paints such a picture of consistent influence-peddling and access-enhancements at the highest levels of the federal government that the reader begins to see just how massively both American foreign policy on the one hand, and American electoral politics on the other, have been affected by the naked avarice and greed displayed by our one-time public officials such as James Baker, George H. W Bush, Dick Cheney, Condoleeza Rice, and other Bush family associates.<br /><br />Of course, most often this level of crony capitalism is cloaked under the self-serving flag of life-long public service, and an apparent confusion over where the public interest ends, on the one hand, and their own selfish profit begins, on the other. In Baer's terrific book, the overall policy of Saudi influence peddling through use of money and highly valued services to its friends and allies is described and placed in context in terms of its potential impact for American foreign policy. Herein, the author masterfully illustrates how the Bush family has acted as the sword's edge for such Saudi efforts, providing the entry point for Saudi financial and political goals within the American polity in exchange for nearly 1.5 billion dollars in rewards from the Saudi royal family and its entourage. Indeed, such the extent to which the corruption has progressed can be gauged in the unrivaled personal access the Saudi foreign minister, Prince Bandar, enjoys at the White House, having virtually unfettered free access to the Oval office 24/7. Given the close financial ties between the houses of the Saudi royal family and the Bushes, one wonders to what degree the Saud family has been allowed either illegal or unethical influence over critical matters of commerce and state within this country.<br /><br />Needless to say, this kind of personal political access is unique, and is more than any of our closest allies such as Britain or Israel, can claim to enjoy. Given the fact that fifteen of the nineteen terrorists involved in the attack on 911 were Saudis, and that the government of Saudi Arabia has never cooperated in helping us to learn more about these individuals, or the individuals involved in any of the other Saudi-related terrorist incidents, the situation is indeed quite peculiar. Even more peculiar is the mysterious fashion in which dozens of Saudis were literally systematically spirited out of the country in the immediate aftermath of the 911 attack; and agencies like the state Department, the FBI, and The White House all aided and abetted these somewhat hurried efforts by Saudi nationals to leave before they could be either questioned or detained in connection with the events and circumstances surrounding the terrorist attacks.<br /><br />Likewise, the willingness of the Bush administration to significantly alter Middle East policy in favor of Palestinian interests based on a Saudi threat serves as an object lesson in just how powerful and fateful the sudden confluence of personal interests and foreign policy can be. Something appears to be rotten in the state of contemporary foreign policy as it pertains to Middle East affairs, and the economic and political ties between the Saudi royal family, on the one hand, and the Bush family on the other may well be a quite significant element in the ongoing calculus of competing domestic and international interests and concerns.<br /><br />The very fact that George W. Bush was a `business success' is due in no small measure to repeated efforts by Saudi business dealers aligned with the royal family acting as angels in bailing Bush out of the exigent circumstances surrounding several business situations gone awry, from the ill-fated Armbruster oil deals of the late 1970s to the puzzling deals associated with Harkin Oil in the late 1980s and early 1990s. Only through the graces of Saudis absorbing significant financial losses could the scion of the Bush family muddle though one collapsing venture after another and yet emerge with enough \\"profit\\" and financial gain to buy into the Texas Rangers and the myth that he was a self-made millionaire. As the author wryly observes, Dubya was a man born on third base who somehow deduced he had himself hit a triple.  One must ask why the Saudis were so willing to subsidize the young Bush, unless they thought there would be a handsome political and financial dividend somewhere down the road.  And in this book, the nature of that dividend is richly explored. This is a terrific book, and one I can heartily recommend. Enjoy!ies between the Saudi royal family, on the one hand, and the Bush family on the other may well be a quite significant element in the ongoing calculus of competing domestic and international interests and concerns.    The very fact that George W. Bush was a `business success' is due in no small measure to repeated efforts by Saudi business dealers aligned with the royal family acting as angels in bailing Bush out of the exigent circumstances surrounding several business situations gone awry, from the ill-fated Armbruster oil deals of the late 1970s to the puzzling deals associated with Harkin Oil in the late 1980s and early 1990s. Only through the graces of Saudis absorbing significant financial losses could the scion of the Bush family muddle though one collapsing venture after another and yet emerge with enough \\"profit\\" and financial gain to buy into the Texas Rangers and the myth that he was a self-made millionaire. As the author wryly observes, Dubya was a man born on third base who somehow deduced he had himself hit a triple.  One must ask why the Saudis were so willing to subsidize the young Bush, unless they thought there would be a handsome political and financial dividend somewhere down the road.  And in this book, the nature of that dividend is richly explored. This is a terrific book, and one I can heartily recommend. Enjoy!	2004-04-14
712470:US	52447634	R1J6S7IQHOL1CI	0525948139	537228107	The President of Good and Evil: The Ethics of George W. Bush	Books	4	16	24	N	N	Provocative Essay On The President's Ethics!	Classic social analysis requires that one focuses on the actions a particular actor accomplishes in service to his cause rather than simply believe his utterances regarding that subject. Nowhere does such a rational focus pay greater dividends than with this straightforward exercise by ethicist Peter Singer into George W. Bush?s stated values and beliefs, on the one hand, and his many actions regarding each of these in turn. By showing the glaring contradictions between what the Bush administrations says it stands for, cares about, and wishes to accomplish, on the one hand, and what it actually does in service to such vital public concerns as public education, environmental protection, and foreign policy, the reader comes to understand just what the Bush White House really stands for and whose interests they are focused most on advancing. One clue here; it isn?t the common man whose basic concerns \\"Dubya\\" has at heart.<br /><br />The book takes a quite critical look at most of the official stated policies of the current administration, pitting the rhetoric against actual actions taken by the administration and the crony capitalists the President has placed in key positions in many federal departments and agencies, from Interior to Justice to Commerce to Education to Labor to the EPA. Singer?s argument?s are well stated and documented, and serve in each case to illustrate the facts as opposed to the public statements regarding the given policies. For example, he questions Attorney John Ashcroft?s personal crusade against individual state?s right-to die laws, something more motivated by personal religious beliefs held by Mr. Ashcroft than any need for the federal government to intervene. Similarly, he shows how candidate George Bush spoke so convincingly of our need to work in a multi-lateral fashion with our allies and friends to create and forward a more meaningful foreign policy, yet this administration had openly shown it contempt for such diplomacy, preferring to use blunt military force for fashioning American response to international situations.<br /><br />Indeed, sometimes one has to laugh out loud as one finds the sheer hubris of such contemptible arrogance and duplicity one often finds here, actions parading as being based on faith-based humility and honest earnest concern for the welfare of the common man, yet cynically used to accomplish exactly the opposite of htheir stated goals. George Bush as been described elsewhere as a guy fortunate enough to be born on third base who somehow has convinced himself that he has hit a triple, and nowhere is the arrogant disregard for all the stated pieties of the Bush administration more obvious than in his callous disregard for the American soldiers who he so casually sent into harm?s way in Iraq under false pretenses. This administration is one characterized by cynical manipulation and focused on advancing the causes of the corporate class, and the sooner we American come to understand the degree to which we have been lied to and deceived, the better off we will be. This book serves to forward such an admirable set of circumstances. Enjoy!nt military force for fashioning American response to international situations.    Indeed, sometimes one has to laugh out loud as one finds the sheer hubris of such contemptible arrogance and duplicity one often finds here, actions parading as being based on faith-based humility and honest earnest concern for the welfare of the common man, yet cynically used to accomplish exactly the opposite of htheir stated goals. George Bush as been described elsewhere as a guy fortunate enough to be born on third base who somehow has convinced himself that he has hit a triple, and nowhere is the arrogant disregard for all the stated pieties of the Bush administration more obvious than in his callous disregard for the American soldiers who he so casually sent into harm?s way in Iraq under false pretenses. This administration is one characterized by cynical manipulation and focused on advancing the causes of the corporate class, and the sooner we American come to understand the degree to which we have been lied to and deceived, the better off we will be. This book serves to forward such an admirable set of circumstances. Enjoy!	2004-04-10
721406:US	52447634	R10LXJ2JRA9LN6	0316817503	625978895	In a Time of Torment: 1961-1967 (Nonconformist History of Our Times)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Wonderful Collection Of Pieces By Legendary I.F. Stone	I.F. Stone was a virtual legend among political junkies in the sixties and seventies, as indeed he was for well over a half century in various journalistic capacities from the Depression era until the late 1980s. He published an independent weekly journal for well over twenty years from the early 1950s until the mid-1970s in which he acted as soul reporter, editor, and publisher, and the work was acclaimed for its consistent accuracy, poignancy, and verve. He caught many scoops others were either not clever enough or courageous enough to cover, and his ability to focus on the way the facts of the situation fit together into a political byline made him a `must-read' for anyone interested in understanding how politics actually got done (down and dirty) in Washington, DC.<br />This particular book,  \\"In A Time Of Torment, 1961-1967\\", is a superb collection of some of his most memorable articles, thought-pieces and observations taken from both the I.F. Stone Weekly as well as from the pages of `The Nation' and elsewhere during the most outrageous of times indeed, the turbulent and raucous 1960s. Also important in understanding Stone's approach is the book's subtitle, 'A Nonconformist History Of Our Times'; Stone is the most radical of journalists in that he approaches the issues at hand with supreme objectivity and without political blinders, and yet does so informed by a set of values and ethics that one wonders at his ability to `cut to the chase' and render the truth so consistently and so reliably that one often marvels at how simple he makes such erudition seem.<br />While describing himself as an anachronism, meaning he represented no one but himself, and found himself uncomfortable working within the constraints of a more institutional setting (even though he had done so quite marvelously for extended periods of time), he was that most rare of literary lions, a widely-read and intellectually circumspect truth-seeker. Like H.L Mencken, his prose often inspired one toward imitation, yet he also wrote clearly, unambiguously, and quite memorably. Herein we find a whole rafter of memorable articles, all short, ranging from several paragraphs to three or four pages in length. He covers subjects as distant from each other as JFK and the free press, from LBJ to China, and from Jeffersonian democracy to the racist issues inherent in the Israeli-Palestinian problem.<br />Indeed, Stone and his opinions were often viewed with alarm by the powers that be, for they understood all too well that he was read by many of the most important opinion makers and policy wonks within the Washington beltway and beyond, and that his weighing in on a specific issue often resulted in unwanted attention and a virtual spotlight being thrown in that general direction. This is a great book to have in your travel-bag; full of little gems you can read en route to almost anywhere, a pleasurable and intelligent companion that you can enjoy and finish in a few minutes and walk away better informed. He offers timeless intelligence, perspective, and some food for thought in almost everything he writes, and he can be taken in homeopathic doses. While most of the subjects he addressed are now dated, what he had to say was truly timeless. This is a great little book, and one I highly recommend. Enjoy!ne toward imitation, yet he also wrote clearly, unambiguously, and quite memorably. Herein we find a whole rafter of memorable articles, all short, ranging from several paragraphs to three or four pages in length. He covers subjects as distant from each other as JFK and the free press, from LBJ to China, and from Jeffersonian democracy to the racist issues inherent in the Israeli-Palestinian problem. <br />Indeed, Stone and his opinions were often viewed with alarm by the powers that be, for they understood all too well that he was read by many of the most important opinion makers and policy wonks within the Washington beltway and beyond, and that his weighing in on a specific issue often resulted in unwanted attention and a virtual spotlight being thrown in that general direction. This is a great book to have in your travel-bag; full of little gems you can read en route to almost anywhere, a pleasurable and intelligent companion that you can enjoy and finish in a few minutes and walk away better informed. He offers timeless intelligence, perspective, and some food for thought in almost everything he writes, and he can be taken in homeopathic doses. While most of the subjects he addressed are now dated, what he had to say was truly timeless. This is a great little book, and one I highly recommend. Enjoy!	2004-04-03
722690:US	52447634	R34LCBEQP99HIC	0812090187	72610574	Labrador Retrievers: Everything About Purchase, Care, Nutrition, Diseases, Breeding, and Behavior (Barron's Complete Pet Owner's Manuals)	Books	5	21	25	N	N	Terrific, Illustrative How-to Guide For Raising Labradors!	One of the aspects of this book that drew me in was its premise that the Labrador Retriever is perhaps the single most agreeable and people-oriented of all the domesticated breeds, the author shows the reader how and why to care for God's most perfect earthly creature, the Labrador Retriever! By showing us the degree to which the breed represents a witch's brew of intelligence, honesty and loyalty to its human companions, the author illustrates why the Labrador has become the single most popular breed of dog in the world today. Labradors are sturdy creatures indeed, bred for sporting use along the quicksilver shores of Newfoundland, where the water temperatures and sea conditions require a healthy dollop of strength and endurance, and those are qualities these dogs have in spades.<br />For any of us that have seen them at work or play in the fields and in the water, their unique combination of physical attributes and obvious intelligence makes them the ideal human companion. I should know; I live with four of them! The proof of their adaptability to almost any condition and their loyalty, intelligence, and unparalleled work ethic is demonstrated by the wide use of them as guide dogs and as adjunct partners for the physically handicapped. Stories of Labradors crawling out onto the ice to save their masters are legendary, as are the tales of them rescuing children from fires or from underneath rubble. Never has there been a dog superior to them.<br />The author has recruited a wide variety of experts to testify as to the qualities and abilities of the dog, and one walks away from a reading of the book much better informed as to the all of the many qualities and capabilities of the breed, which seems to represent an astonishing list of useful and worthwhile attributes. We also get quite critical information as to what to look for when choosing a lab, and how to analyze the quality of the puppy you see before you. The author offers a compendium of information regarding genetics, feeding, health care, and inherited dispositions, as well as some sage advice as to how to ensure your puppy becomes the grown up Labrador companion you will come to view as another family member. This is a great book, and one I heartily recommend! Enjoy!g genetics, feeding, health care, and inherited dispositions, as well as some sage advice as to how to ensure your puppy becomes the grown up Labrador companion you will come to view as another family member. This is a great book, and one I heartily recommend! Enjoy!	2004-04-02
728548:US	52447634	RK9Q24H8C4Y4F	1931046298	850604874	West Coast Bodybuilding Scene: The Golden Era	Books	5	34	34	N	N	Terrific Book Covering The Golden Age Of Bodybuilding!	Wow! I almost dropped a dumbbell on my toe in excitement when I discovered the publication of this book! I was indeed pleasantly surprised by this literal treasure-trove of original articles, anecdotes, and amusing characterizations of many of the most famous of the insiders in the golden age of bodybuilding in southern California in the 1950s and 1960s, all those amusing tales of the exploits and observations of all the most famous denizens from the golden age of bodybuilding back in the 'good old days\\", when few and far between such serious palaces of steel as the local Gold's Gym or World facility available for the faithful aspiring bodybuilders. Instead, most of us labored in valiant pursuit for bigger and stronger muscles either alone in our makeshift home gyms in our basements or garages, or just as often we worked out in the shabby but better equipped environs of the local YMCAs, where we were considered more muscle-headed curiosities than seekers after strength and fitness.<br />Indeed, all of those old memories and recollections are reincarnated by the recollections and observations in this wonderful book. Dick Tyler, a practicing Chiropractor (as is his good friend, former Mr. Olympia Franco Columbo), breathes fresh life into all the old legends, as does famed 60's sensation the Blond Bomber himself, Dave Draper, (who writes the preface for the book), throwing open the wide window allowing the reader to see these stars of the bodybuilding world as real breathing people, as individual personalities who just happened to comprise the inner elite of this special little world of the bodybuilding subculture. These recollections also serve as to provide a unique glimpse into an extremely short but quite special period of time within that bodybuilding world, at the very moment of its most amazing transformation from what had formerly been a small and curious little world of true believers comprised of dedicated bodybuilders who went about their lives chasing the \\"power of the pump\\", into all the other aspects of what they became at that moment that bodybuilding went \\"mainstream\\", as it became a national phenomenon in the wake of the rise of Arnold Schwarzenegger to prominence in the early 1970s.<br />As someone who spent his own formative years reading about that rarified world of the top bodybuilders living in the sun and surf along the backdrop of ocean and Santa Monica, I can finally say that a book exists that faithfully recreates the essence of that now long-gone world, a world more emblematic of a simpler, kinder, and less complicated existence, when one might just as easily catch Larry Scott or Steve Reeves working out in the free Muscle Beach gym as view newcomers like a young Dave Draper or the incredible Frank Zane walking along the street. This is a great book, and one that deserves a wide readership by all of us who might well find the golden age of bodybuilding as fascinating as those of us who grew up reading and dreaming about it still do.  Enjoy!\\"power of the pump\\", into all the other aspects of what they became at that moment that bodybuilding went \\"mainstream\\", as it became a national phenomenon in the wake of the rise of Arnold Schwarzenegger to prominence in the early 1970s.  <br />As someone who spent his own formative years reading about that rarified world of the top bodybuilders living in the sun and surf along the backdrop of ocean and Santa Monica, I can finally say that a book exists that faithfully recreates the essence of that now long-gone world, a world more emblematic of a simpler, kinder, and less complicated existence, when one might just as easily catch Larry Scott or Steve Reeves working out in the free Muscle Beach gym as view newcomers like a young Dave Draper or the incredible Frank Zane walking along the street. This is a great book, and one that deserves a wide readership by all of us who might well find the golden age of bodybuilding as fascinating as those of us who grew up reading and dreaming about it still do.  Enjoy!	2004-03-28
736450:US	52447634	R3A41Q32KYDLH7	0743260244	924900643	Against All Enemies: Inside America's War on Terror	Books	5	971	1138	N	Y	Absorbing Account Of Bush White House War On Terror!	As the sitting White House National Coordinator for Security, Infrastructure Protection, and Counter-terrorism on the President's National Security Council for more than eight years during both the Clinton and Bush administrations, former intelligence analyst Richard Clarke sat in the literal catbird's seat to observe as well as participate in the national security apparatus in action. As a consequence, his new book detailing the specifics of the government's progress on the war on terror both before and since the advent of 911 is provocative reading indeed. The portrait he paints so convincingly is that of a Bush administration populated by political ideologues and characterized by shooting from the hip at targets of opportunity. Thus, no one within the new administration wanted to believe in the frightening evidence of a mounting Al Qaeda threat in the weeks and months before September 11, 2001, despite the persistent warnings of advisors like himself.<br /><br />Instead, they seemed preoccupied, as former Treasury secretary Paul O'Neil suggested in his recent book, with regime change in Saddam Hussein's Iraq. Astonishingly, the morning after 911 Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld suggested attacking Iraq in the total absence of any evidence linking Saddam Hussein's regime to the attack on New York City or Washington, since Iraq represents a target-rich environment, as opposed to Afghanistan, which has so few. President Bush himself cornered Clarke and attempted to pressure him into finding a link between Hussein and the attack on the World Trade Center on 911 attack. To Mr. Clarke, the Bush administration was intent from that time on to use 911 as a convenient excuse to attack Iraq, something they seem to have desired to do from the very outset of the administration.<br /><br />Indeed, Clarke's impression of the modus operandi of the so-called \\"Vulcans\\" such as Paul Wolfowitz, Condi Rice, and Donald Rumsfeld is one of a previously set ideological agenda, of having a predetermined objective to attack and conquer Iraq, and then attempting to use the events of 911 as justification to proceed toward that objective. Indeed, the available public record suggests as much, with not only Mr. Bush, but also Mr. Cheney and Ms. Rice, as well as Mr. Rumsfeld trotting out a garden variety of ostensible rationales for invading Iraq in the post-911 time frame, all the way from the original \\"Axis Of Evil\\" comment in the 2002 State of The Union speech to the spurious linking of Saddam with Al Qaeda to the use of nerve gas against the populace some dozen years before to failure to comply with United nations resolutions since the 1991 attack by the international coalition that deliberately stopped short of regime change due to fear of destabilizing the region.<br /><br />Mr. Clarke has more than enough criticism to go around, and both Mr. Clinton and Mr. Bush find themselves seriously criticized and called to task for their lack of appropriate action, given what Mr. Clarke feels was the clear and present danger the evidence he offered indicated. So this book is no simple hatchet job against the Bush administration, as it casts aspersions on both sides of the political fence in terms of ascribing blame for our present set of circumstances regarding lapses in national security. Yet he reserves special scorn for the current administration, given its self-serving and somewhat cynical use of the 911 events to turn the political landscape upside down. What Clark describes as being tantamount to treason is the fashion in which President Bush has politicized the situation for short-term political benefit without taking serious and meaningful action to actually meaningfully combat the set of threats themselves.<br /><br />Most surprising to Clark is the way in which the Bush administration has done so little to accomplish relatively inexpensive and yet quite effective action against the terrorist threat, such as strengthening the infrastructure or beefing up border security, while hugely increasing the administrative manpower and salaries of personnel within agencies such as Homeland Security, which do little to actually counteract terror threats. Like many observers, Clarke believes the war in Iraq is at best a distraction from the real threat, robbing the country of valuable resources with which we could much more effectively protect ourselves and extend the reach of American power to combat terrorism.<br /><br />Meanwhile, he views the growth of terrorism and the extension of its world-wide capabilities with alarm, suggesting that our ineffective military actions as well as our inattentiveness to key details which would bolster internal security have led to increased danger and higher threat levels rather than the reverse, and wonders aloud how long it will take for this nightmare scenario to play out with potentially devastating consequences. He is utterly amazed that Bush attempts, through a cynical and self-serving media campaign, to convince Americans we are winning a war on terror we are not really fighting well at all. This is an absolutely riveting read, albeit in less than stirring prose or striking narrative. It serves as forewarning that we are on a wrongheaded and very dangerous path, and that it is high time for a course correction. I highly recommend this book! Enjoy!ly increasing the administrative manpower and salaries of personnel within agencies such as Homeland Security, which do little to actually counteract terror threats. Like many observers, Clarke believes the war in Iraq is at best a distraction from the real threat, robbing the country of valuable resources with which we could much more effectively protect ourselves and extend the reach of American power to combat terrorism.    Meanwhile, he views the growth of terrorism and the extension of its world-wide capabilities with alarm, suggesting that our ineffective military actions as well as our inattentiveness to key details which would bolster internal security have led to increased danger and higher threat levels rather than the reverse, and wonders aloud how long it will take for this nightmare scenario to play out with potentially devastating consequences. He is utterly amazed that Bush attempts, through a cynical and self-serving media campaign, to convince Americans we are winning a war on terror we are not really fighting well at all. This is an absolutely riveting read, albeit in less than stirring prose or striking narrative. It serves as forewarning that we are on a wrongheaded and very dangerous path, and that it is high time for a course correction. I highly recommend this book! Enjoy!	2004-03-22
737396:US	52447634	R39Z9FDAILUD8K	031600023X	827119224	Worse Than Watergate: The Secret Presidency of George W. Bush	Books	5	683	746	N	Y	Provocative Inquiry Into Mr. Bush's Criminal Culpability!	For a convicted felon, John Dean is an exceptional author. I remember reading his own recollections of the Watergate affair and his own association with the subsequent events that led both to his own denouement and the resignation of Richard Nixon in disgrace in \\"Blind Ambition\\" in the mid 1970s. Once again he weighs in impressively by building a very strong circumstantial case for the investigation and possible prosecution of President George W. Bush for criminal actions that Dean terms to be indeed, \\"worst than those of Watergate\\". Culling from public records and the recollections of other eye-witnesses, Dean shows how Mr. Bush has systematically exaggerated, embellished, and engineered a series of preverifications and outright lies to the American public in an effort to convince us of the need for military intervention in Iraq.<br />Dean argues that in asking Congress for a Joint Resolution authorizing the use of American force in Iraq, President Bush made a number of \\"unequivocal public statements\\" regarding the reasons this country needed to pursue military force in pursuit of national interests. Dean, now an academic and noted author, shows how through tradition, presidential statements regarding issues of national security are held to an expectation of \\"the highest standard of truthfulness\\". Therefore, according to Dean, no president can simply \\"stretch, twist or distort\\" the facts of a case and then expect to avoid resulting consequences. Citing historical precedents, Dean shows how Lyndon Johnson's distortions regarding the truth about the war in Vietnam led to his own subsequent withdrawal for candidacy for re-election in 1968, and how Richard Nixon's attempted cover-up of the truth about Watergate forced his own resignation.<br />Dean contends that while President Bush should indeed receive the benefit of the doubt, he must also be held accountable for explaining how it is that he made such a string of unambiguous and confident pronouncements to the American people (and to the world as well) regarding the existence of WMD, none of which have been substantiated in the subsequent searches that have been conducted by either Untied Nations nor American Military investigators. Dean explains how the vetting process for any public staement is processed within the executive branch.<br />[...]  Moreover, Dean contends, others such as Donald Rumsfeld were even more emphatic in claiming Saddam Hussein had WMD, even claiming to know the locations as being in the Tikrit and Baghdad areas. Finally, he concludes, given the huge implicit political risk to Mr. Bush, it would inconceivable that Mr. Bush would be so brazen as to make such statements without some intelligence to back them up.<br />Yet, according to Mr. Dean, we are left with a dilemma; either Mr. Bush's statements are grossly inaccurate, given the tons and tons of chemical agents he claimed Saddam possessed which can be neither located nor substantiated, or Mr. Bush has deliberately misled us. How do we reconcile what seem to be quite unequivocal statements from both the President and his agents and the evidence to date regarding the existence of WMD? According to Mr. Dean, there are two possibilities; first, that there is something devilishly wrong with the current administration's national security operations, a prospect Dean finds hard to swallow, or, second, the President has deliberately misled the American people and the world regarding the evidence supporting taking preemptive military action against the sovereign nation of Iraq.<br />Bluntly stated, if Mr. Bush led this country into war based on bogus intelligence data, he is liable under the Constitution for manipulation and deliberate misuse of that data under the \\"high crimes\\" statute of that document, given the fact it is a felony to defraud the United States through such a conspiratorial action. According to Mr. Dean, It is time for both Congress and the American people to demand of Mr. Bush the same kindof high-minded honesty he pledged to us under the oath of office. This is an important book, and one I urge you to read!ame kind of high-minded honesty he pledged to us under the oath of office. This is an important book, and one I urge you to read!	2004-03-21
737543:US	52447634	R16CIA6JN5UX6R	0060013990	688765715	The Eve of Destruction: The Untold Story of the Yom Kippur War	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Riveting Exposition of Progress of  Yom Kippur War!	This absorbing new book deftly employs the prosaic tools of journalism to approach the subject of the 1973 Yom Kippur war. Given the fact the war was one almost lost by the Israelis before they narrowly turned the tide, the riveting story-telling techniques used by author Howard Blum adds to the quality and drama of the unfolding events that fateful October. According to the author, even more than the six-day war in 1967 in which the Israelis made a preemptive strike against the forces arrayed around them to rewrite the maps and borders of the Middle East, this was a fateful struggle that created the perspective and defensive tactics that the Israelis have used to combat their enemies in the decades since.<br />Blum uses a variety of materials and documents to inform his history of the conflict; availing himself of newly released documents, a growing collection of memoirs and personal accounts, and by painstakingly squaring off with some provocative and quite insightful questions for the more than 200 interviewees he spent hundreds of hours with; the answers he derives leads him in unsuspected directions, and offers the reader an opportunity to understand the conflict as an unqualified disaster for everyone involved, Israeli and Arab alike. Furthermore, by inquiring as to how it was that Israel allowed itself to be so surprised and so unprepared for the onslaught of the invading Arab forces, and how it was the attack that was driving so forcefully into the heart of the country was finally slowed and turned around.<br />One fascinating and quite controversial aspect to the book is its reputed discovery of an Egyptian double agent who had successfully won the trust of the Israeli intelligence community and then subsequently gulled the top-level Israeli military leaders into believing that no attack was possible unless and until the several Arab states coalesced into a unified coalition, even while another Egyptian high in his country's planning prepared a scenario designed to play to the Israeli's strengths and use them against them to draw them out into dangerous territory and then counterattack again and again, bleeding the Israeli forces into defeat. To the extent it is true, it worked quite well, with the feckless Israeli Defense Forces flailing about ineffectually, losing large numbers of men, planes, and tanks in the first fateful 72 hours. So bad was the loss of men and equipment that the Israelis asked for and were given dozens of U.S F-4s, which were flown to Israel so urgently that many of them still carried USAF markings and insignia.<br />One point to ponder is the degree to which this supreme fighting force was caught unaware, given the fact of just how close Israel came to total defeat in the autumn war. Blum provides the reader with a stirring and unforgettable description of the war and its progress, and in doing so provides the reader with a much more complete picture of Israel's precarious position, an historical fact that should serve to remind us as to why Israel's  &quot;obsession&quot; with security is not necessarily the result of a siege mentality. This is truly a great read; enjoy!igned to play to the Israeli's strengths and use them against them to draw them out into dangerous territory and then counterattack again and again, bleeding the Israeli forces into defeat. To the extent it is true, it worked quite well, with the feckless Israeli Defense Forces flailing about ineffectually, losing large numbers of men, planes, and tanks in the first fateful 72 hours. So bad was the loss of men and equipment that the Israelis asked for and were given dozens of U.S F-4s, which were flown to Israel so urgently that many of them still carried USAF markings and insignia.<br />One point to ponder is the degree to which this supreme fighting force was caught unaware, given the fact of just how close Israel came to total defeat in the autumn war. Blum provides the reader with a stirring and unforgettable description of the war and its progress, and in doing so provides the reader with a much more complete picture of Israel's precarious position, an historical fact that should serve to remind us as to why Israel's  &quot;obsession&quot; with security is not necessarily the result of a siege mentality. This is truly a great read; enjoy!	2004-03-21
737592:US	52447634	RGY3IN1HHE2VT	0801878586	635302977	Peacemonger	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Absorbing Overview Of United Nations Peacekeepers!	This book, written by Sir Marrack Goulding, serves the educated reader well, observing the slippery and somewhat sodden state of the contemporary landscape of nation states with creative fidelity and verve. Goulding, currently Warden of St. Antony's College at the University of Oxford, is a veteran of the British Diplomatic Service, serving from 1959 in garden spots across the world such as Lebanon, Kuwait, Libya, Egypt, the United States, and Angola. Furthermore, from 1986 to 1993, he labored as the Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations for the United Nations, closing out his career as the Under-Secretary-General for Political Affairs from 1993 until 1997<br />Therefore, he brings a wealth of personal knowledge as well as a virtual cascade of personal anecdotes to bear as he observes the nature of these unsung heroes who attempt to preside over peace-keeping missions in all of the war-torn places where all other efforts to preserve civic order have failed. In one particular seven-year period (1986-1993) Goulding oversaw sixteen such peacekeeping efforts in places as far-flung as Angola, Yugoslavia, and Somalia. In so doing, he also witnesses a virtual transformation in the UN's attitude concerning its role in solving such regional conflicts.  In this book he provides the reader with the kind of privileged insider's look at the nature of the UN's missions, warts and all.<br />To his credit, he pulls no punches in describing his own sense of frustration in dealing with the endemically disorganized bureaucratic maze that characterizes the UN, yet allows us to learn much more about how the often courageous individuals serving under its banner attempt to carry out the mission despite the amalgam of disquiet and disagreement rumbling on by member states over the course of action in any particular locale. He also provides the reader with a number of no-nonsense insights into the personalities and motives of some of its more memorable principal players within the UN orbit such as Javier Perez de Cueller and the notoriously complex Boutras-Boutras-Ghali. In so doing he also chronicles the internal dissension and dissatisfactions that often undermine the organization's effectiveness and efficiency.  He also praises the gradual improvement of the UN's efforts in several of these conflicts to encourage democratic elections and the eventual demobilization of warring belligerents. This is an absorbing, honest, and unflinching look at the way in which the UN's peace-keeping efforts actually work, and as such it offers us some valuable insights as to its most dangerous and often most valuable activity. Enjoy!in the UN orbit such as Javier Perez de Cueller and the notoriously complex Boutras-Boutras-Ghali. In so doing he also chronicles the internal dissension and dissatisfactions that often undermine the organization's effectiveness and efficiency.   He also praises the gradual improvement of the UN's efforts in several of these conflicts to encourage democratic elections and the eventual demobilization of warring belligerents. This is an absorbing, honest, and unflinching look at the way in which the UN's peace-keeping efforts actually work, and as such it offers us some valuable insights as to its most dangerous and often most valuable activity. Enjoy!	2004-03-21
739398:US	52447634	R1M7131TKLY71O	0765309831	225802859	Last of the Donkey Pilgrims	Books	5	37	38	N	N	Wonderful Whimsical Book Of Self Discovery!	Only from a genuine son of Ireland could such a wonderfully whimsical book about a pilgrim's progress across its emerald expanse emerge. Kevin O'Harahas been alifelong friend of mine, as he grew up in a duplex on Wilson Street, a street or two away from me in quiet Pittsfield Massachusetts, the bright and charismatic son of struggling immigrant parents who had a heady brood of children, an Irish Catholic family so large that Kevin, Dermott and several other of the O'Hara boys caddied for golfers to get extra clothes money when barely into their teens. As a fellow afternoon paperboy along with his older brother for the local paper, the Berkshire Eagle, I gradually got to know the family pretty well, although they all went to the local parochial schools while we went to the public schools. And what a family of memorable characters they are!<br />Returning from Vietnam on the late 1960s, like many of us, Kevin was restless, and while attending the local community college decided to reward himself after graduation in the registered nursing program with an extended sojourn in the 'olde country', attempting to find his roots and himself, and hoping to end the wanderlust by exorcising it in the flesh. And though his leap of exploration took some explaining to his new young wife, he managed to carry it all off with a bit of blarney and bravado, setting out on an impressively improvised journey of self-discovery even as he discovered the Irish people themselves.<br />Indeed, what he discovered while shuffling across the land in the company of a donkey was the stuff of first novels; he was soon became as Irish as the rest of the denizens of the land of the little people, passing among them as one their own. After lolling about a bit and attempting rather humorously and disastrously to apprentice himself out as a thatcher, he eventually devises an ingenuous idea, to travel across the land with a donkey cart, retracing a old Irish tradition and living off the fabled generosity of the land and its people at the same time. In so doing, O'Hara unlocked a lot of doors, those of the trusting people who thrust open their doors and their hearths to him (and his four-legged friend), to aspects of his own personality that he had learned to bury over the years. On many levels then, this was a journey of discovery and liberation.<br />His footloose perambulation became a publicized event, both in local Irish papers and intercommunity gossip, so he often found people alerted to his approach and more than willing to exchange some food and shelter for a chance to both learn more about his own journey and the discoveries he was making about their fellow countrymen. Amazingly, many of the common folk he spent time with had never been far over the horizon, and were immensely curious about what lay over it, as to whether the neighboring counties were as clannish as they said, etc. So this psychically healing American-born Vietnam vet came to act as an ambassador among the Irish for the Irish as he wound his way through the valleys and hills of the emerald isle.<br />I remember being regaled with such tales more than twenty years ago whenever I bumped into Kevin, whether it be at the local pub or just on the street, and he would always tell his tales with a twinkling eye and a storyteller's gift. He has been struggling to reduce it all to print for all these years. The fact is that he has succeeded rather marvelously, capturing the essence of a land which is too quickly evaporating from our midst. Ireland is changing, and many of the aspects Kevin describes so lovingly herein are vanishing. This is, of course, all the more reason to treasure this wonderful set of essays and observations from a fresh, vibrant, and singular voice, a genuinely Irish American writer from whom we all hope we can expect much more. Hope we don't have to wait another twenty five years for the sequel! I highly recommend this book. Enjoy!y of the land and its people at the same time. In so doing, O'Hara unlocked a lot of doors, those of the trusting people who thrust open their doors and their hearths to him (and his four-legged friend), to aspects of his own personality that he had learned to bury over the years. On many levels then, this was a journey of discovery and liberation. <br />His footloose perambulation became a publicized event, both in local Irish papers and intercommunity gossip, so he often found people alerted to his approach and more than willing to exchange some food and shelter for a chance to both learn more about his own journey and the discoveries he was making about their fellow countrymen. Amazingly, many of the common folk he spent time with had never been far over the horizon, and were immensely curious about what lay over it, as to whether the neighboring counties were as clannish as they said, etc. So this psychically healing American-born Vietnam vet came to act as an ambassador among the Irish for the Irish as he wound his way through the valleys and hills of the emerald isle. <br />I remember being regaled with such tales more than twenty years ago whenever I bumped into Kevin, whether it be at the local pub or just on the street, and he would always tell his tales with a twinkling eye and a storyteller's gift. He has been struggling to reduce it all to print for all these years. The fact is that he has succeeded rather marvelously, capturing the essence of a land which is too quickly evaporating from our midst. Ireland is changing, and many of the aspects Kevin describes so lovingly herein are vanishing. This is, of course, all the more reason to treasure this wonderful set of essays and observations from a fresh, vibrant, and singular voice, a genuinely Irish American writer from whom we all hope we can expect much more. Hope we don't have to wait another twenty five years for the sequel! I highly recommend this book. Enjoy!	2004-03-19
739661:US	52447634	R2EJLH2ZDPOBSL	1859843980	415848956	The Trial of Henry Kissinger	Books	5	17	22	N	N	Searing Indictment Of Henry Kissinger For War Crimes!	One of the most memorable scenes in the original \\"Godfather' movie was a sequence in which Michael (played by Al Pacino), now firmly insinuated in the evil machinations of the family business, travels to rural New England to try to attempt to persuade Kate (played by Diane Keaton) to marry him. When she complains about his father's business and the violence associated with it, Michael says that his father is no different than any other powerful men, like a governor or senator. Kate looks at him with surprise and contempt, claiming governors and senators don't have people killed. With those cold dark eyes, Michael says, \\"Now Kate, who is being naive?\\"<br />Such a cynical recognition of the motives and methods of some of our leaders informs this insightful book by journalist Christopher Hitchens, who does the reader a yeoman's service in detailing the evidence mounting against Henry Kissinger for crimes against humanity. Chief and foremost of these many such incidents involves Kissinger's willful disregard for the welfare of American soldiers in harm's way in Vietnam, where his actions and policies served to both derail a possible settlement in the fall of 1968 (thereby condemning an additional 40,000 servicemen to unnecessary death in the fields and jungles of Vietnam, Cambodia, and Laos), and also extended a state of war over additional areas such as Cambodia and Laos for strictly political purposes, thus creating the conditions for millions of unnecessary and unfruitful deaths as well as unimaginable destruction for Americans, Cambodians, Laotians, and Vietnamese over the next several years.<br />Yet Hitchens' indictments of Kissinger's malice and misdeeds do not end here, but extend to many other situations and sets of circumstances, such as the involvement in the overthrow of Chile and the murder of Chile's elected President, Allende, as well as the sponsorship of murder and mayhem on the part of a plethora of indigenous dictators and potentates, ranging from Indonesia's Suharto to the Greek Cypriots, from Bangladesh to Angola. Everywhere Hitchens peered beneath the neatly papered-over official record, Kissinger's bloody fingerprints emerged, staining the truth with his personal brand of Realpolitik, extending his malevolence toward innocent bystanders who got in the way of his global ambitions. And the irony of all this is that despite all the evidence indicating there is more than adequate evidence of Kissinger's culpability and participation in many acts of genocide and murder, Kissinger is still held in such high esteem by so many unsuspecting Americans.<br />Of course, in point of fact, Kissinger is not alone. Others belong to this select group of indictable Americans culpable for their participation in crimes against humanity, including Robert McNamara, William Westmoreland, and William Rogers, along with many others who operated more anonymously in service to the bloody policies of the Johnson and Nixon administrations. Yet among these people, no one deserves the humiliation and discrediting as much as Kissinger, who should be charged, tried, and ultimately executed for his actions.Hang him high, as a beacon and a memorial for the memory of all the innocent victims he left in his terrifyingly reckless wake. This is a book that will illustrate just how heinous his actions while supposedly serving the country actually were. I highly recommend this book.ndonesia's Suharto to the Greek Cypriots, from Bangladesh to Angola. Everywhere Hitchens peered beneath the neatly papered-over official record, Kissinger's bloody fingerprints emerged, staining the truth with his personal brand of Realpolitik, extending his malevolence toward innocent bystanders who got in the way of his global ambitions. And the irony of all this is that despite all the evidence indicating there is more than adequate evidence of Kissinger's culpability and participation in many acts of genocide and murder, Kissinger is still held in such high esteem by so many unsuspecting Americans. <br />Of course, in point of fact, Kissinger is not alone. Others belong to this select group of indictable Americans culpable for their participation in crimes against humanity, including Robert McNamara, William Westmoreland, and William Rogers, along with many others who operated more anonymously in service to the bloody policies of the Johnson and Nixon administrations. Yet among these people, no one deserves the humiliation and discrediting as much as Kissinger, who should be charged, tried, and ultimately executed for his actions.Hang him high, as a beacon and a memorial for the memory of all the innocent victims he left in his terrifyingly reckless wake. This is a book that will illustrate just how heinous his actions while supposedly serving the country actually were. I highly recommend this book.	2004-03-19
751934:US	52447634	R5Z8KP3E6P92E	0670032999	510215142	Rise of the Vulcans: The History of Bush's War Cabinet	Books	4	65	108	N	Y	Wild Look At The Chicken Hawks Determining Foreign Policy!	In this absorbing albeit sometimes frightening look at the six most influential of GW's war cabinet, it is instructive to discover that they jokingly refer to themselves as \\"The Vulcans\\". Such free-associating and identifying themselves with a band of battle-hardened warriors is typical of the solipsistic way in which this coven of chicken-hawks views themselves and the wider world outside the rose-colored windows of the West Wing. So far out of touch with the realities of war and the pumped-up celebration of intellectual gamesmanship as opposed to battle experience, only two of the principals have any actual experience with the military at all, and only one, Colin Powell, ever actually saw combat. Indeed, it is exactly this sense of the callow intellectual arrogance of the others, impressively academically accomplished but only  marginally  administratively experienced in the praxis of the real world outside the ivory walls of the academy, bureaucratic functionaries like Paul Wolfowitz, Condoleeza Rice, Dick Cheney, and Richard Armitage, that shines through, and helps to explain the strange fevered brand of jingoistic and extremely self-serving patriotism that has characterized the deliberation of the Vulcan brotherhood. It is in the meticulous tracing of the individual careers and the internecine connections among the several individuals that this book provides such a yeoman's service to our understanding of the particular forms of madness that currently infects the Executive branch.<br />In this sense, this book by James Mann is an impressive work of scholarship and presents the reader with a wealth of information regarding each individual and how each of the principal's particular odyssey through a variety of academic, governmental, and corporate situations lends itself to their collectively peculiar take on the world, which the author characterizes as demonstrating a fevered embrace of American military power even as it eschews reasoning with traditional allies, as harboring and unfettered and unbending faith in the ability of American might to remake the world in its own image, and the power and allure of democracy as the model for the world's enthusiastic (or otherwise) evolution toward our kind of brave new world. In this sense, the fact that so few of them seem to remember Vietnam tells one volumes of the political blindfolds these people bring to their deliberations.<br />Of course, this is not to suggest that Mann shows uniformity of opinion or approaches among the principals, and he handily demonstrates how different orbits of power have emerged, with Colin Powell and Richard Armitage (those with the most diplomatic and military experience) arguing on behalf of more restrained and traditional diplomatic approaches to vexingly complex world problems, but often losing to the bureaucratic in-fighting to the combined forces of Dick Cheney and Donald Rumsfeld, who often pull Paul Wolfowitz and feckless Condoleeza Rice in tow to win the day in terms of the collegial (and otherwise) infighting that goes on within the Vulcan brotherhood. Yet, it is also accurate to characterize the six as sharing core values, viewing the military in general and the Pentagon in particular as the single most effective and efficient arm of American power and the standard holder for extension of the Bush administration's foreign policy prerogatives. Moreover, Mann seems to believe that this perception of the world and our place in it stems from the experience of 911 (something I strenuously disagree with, given Wolfowitz, Rumsfeld, Cheney and others having recommended invasion of Iraq to President Clinton in an open letter in the mid-1990s). Mann admits as much in tracing the history of these ardent proponents of intervention who themselves avoided military service in train to their own greater personal political and academic ambitions. Likewise, Cheney's reworked doctrine of preemptive attacks as being justified, which he first introduced inthe early 1990s.<br />These are people who believe an overpowering military capability is an essential underpinning for current policy, and is synonymous to corresponding American interests. In this solipsistic worldview America is held to be an unmitigated force for good regardless of the collateral damage we may cause in visiting hellfire and aggression. In addition, they are card-carrying professional Pollyannas regarding American power, dismissing any and all arguments about over-extension of resources; skeptical to the man (or uber-woman) about consultation with allies or pesky multilateralism. This book is a splendid read even if one sometimes wonders if the author is bending over backwards in deference to the principals. His treatment of broad policy issues such as the transition from the Realpolitik world of Kissingerian hegemony to the seedy notions of preemptive aggression and the use of 911 as an excuse for a multitude of excesses and extensions mentioned nowhere in the Constitution. The anecdotal flow is entertaining and educational, and we learn a great deal both about the individuals and the way in which our foreign policy is being created and executed. Enjoy!the early 1990s. <br />These are people who believe an overpowering military capability is an essential underpinning for current policy, and is synonymous to corresponding American interests. In this solipsistic worldview America is held to be an unmitigated force for good regardless of the collateral damage we may cause in visiting hellfire and aggression. In addition, they are card-carrying professional Pollyannas regarding American power, dismissing any and all arguments about over-extension of resources; skeptical to the man (or uber-woman) about consultation with allies or pesky multilateralism. This book is a splendid read even if one sometimes wonders if the author is bending over backwards in deference to the principals. His treatment of broad policy issues such as the transition from the Realpolitik world of Kissingerian hegemony to the seedy notions of preemptive aggression and the use of 911 as an excuse for a multitude of excesses and extensions mentioned nowhere in the Constitution. The anecdotal flow is entertaining and educational, and we learn a great deal both about the individuals and the way in which our foreign policy is being created and executed. Enjoy!	2004-03-10
756677:US	52447634	R3LDOYERU47X58	0764526391	15602032	The Ultimate Labrador Retriever (Howell Dog Book of Distinction)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Nice Compendium Of Information On Labrador Retrievers!	Starting with the quite believable notion that the Labrador Retriever is perhaps the single most agreeable and people-oriented creature this side of Paradise, the author shows the reader how and why to care for God's most perfect earthly creature, the Labrador Retriever! By showing us the degree to which the breed represents a witch's brew of intelligence, honesty and loyalty to its human companions, the author illustrates why the Labrador has become the single most popular breed of dog in the world today. Labradors are sturdy creatures indeed, bred for sporting use along the quicksilver shores of Newfoundland, where the water temperatures and sea conditions require a healthy dollop of strength and endurance, and those are qualities these dogs have in spades.<br />For any of us that have seen them at work or play in the fields and in the water, their unique combination of physical attributes and obvious intelligence makes them the ideal human companion. I should know; I live with four of them!  The proof of their adaptability to almost any condition and their loyalty, intelligence, and unparalleled work ethic is demonstrated by the wide use of them as guide dogs and as adjunct partners for the physically handicapped. Stories of Labradors crawling out onto the ice to save their masters are legendary, as are the tales of them rescuing children from fires or from underneath rubble. Never has there been a dog superior to them.<br />The author has recruited a wide variety of experts to testify as to the qualities and abilities of the dog, and one walks away from a reading of the book much better informed as to the all of the many qualities and capabilities of the breed, which seems to represent an astonishing list of useful and worthwhile attributes. We also get quite critical information as to what to look for when choosing a lab, and how to analyze the quality of the puppy you see before you. The author offers a compendium of information regarding genetics, feeding, health care, and inherited dispositions, as well as some sage advice as to how to ensure your puppy becomes the grown up Labrador companion you will come to view as another family member. This is a great book, and one I heartily recommend! Enjoy!health care, and inherited dispositions, as well as some sage advice as to how to ensure your puppy becomes the grown up Labrador companion you will come to view as another family member. This is a great book, and one I heartily recommend! Enjoy!	2004-03-06
757425:US	52447634	R2OJTFW2SG51PO	0876050445	475249208	The Labrador Retriever: The Dog That Does It All (Howell's Best of Breed Library)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Quite Readable Compendium On Raising Labrador Retrievers!	I loved this book, which is no mean feat, given the fact that I am a person who's had the distinct pleasure of sharing his house and his life with as many as six Labrador retrievers at a time over the last 20 years (I now have four), I am acutely aware of the wonder and awe associated with getting such a wonderful companion can be. Yet, sadly, I am also aware of the profound ignorance many would-be labrador-people are regarding how to select, introduce, and socialize this new member of the family. In that sense, this book , along with a number of others (e.g. Richard Wolper's \\"Family Dog\\") can provide the wary would-be initate with all of the essentials on how to successfully transform that cute little puppy into a happy, obdeient, and well-integrated member of the household.<br />This book does offer one the expert advice one needs regarding the care and nurture of what has now become the single most popular breed in the United States, with information ranging from an impromptu history of Labrador Retrievers to such topics such as adoption options. The book also delivers to the prospective owner a wealth of facts and details regarding Labrador Retrievers. It provides essential and vital information regarding nutrition, socialization, and exercise, and offers some sage advice about how to find and select a reputable breeder. In addition, it also touches on aspects of ownerships such as common illnesses and chronic problems associated with the breed. This is a book I can heartily recommend! Enjoy!	2004-03-06
757510:US	52447634	R2D9Q304AK3S8G	0793819695	124229097	The Proper Care of Labrador Retrievers	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Nice Inexpensive Primer	While I would not make this the single book I used to learn about and train a Labrador Retriever, it is indeed a quite serviceable treatment of the subject, and used in conjuction with another good book such as Richard Wolper's \\"Family Dog', can be an excellent reference resource for the neophyte Labrador person. The most improitant aspects of choosing, procuring, and settling your new canine family member into the fold are all covered here, as are a number of improtant other aspects of being thoughtful and helpful caretakers of Labradors.<br />One thing I would personally stress is that the new owner always use a kennel or crate in which to let the dog feel secure as his little private personal space, a retreat where he can eat, sleep, or watch his new humans as they go about their puzzling life activities. Knowing he or she is safe in the crate when you leave the house is comforting, and the dog is saved from making harmful or mischievous choices in your absence. And, of course, ensuring you take care to get proper vet care for you rnew friend is critical as well. This book offers some sage advice, and is a great bargain considering its value to the process of welcoming your new Labrador Retriever! Enjoy!	2004-03-06
757965:US	52447634	R2WZUAZNS59W0C	000633833X	423927920	Marx (Modern Masters)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Terrific Overview Of Marx's Work!	When one considers the overall impact of Karl Marx's thought on subsequent events in the history of the later nineteenth and twentieth century, one recognizes just how helpful a work like this can be to the beginning student of the writings of Karl Marx and Engels, with this collection of the essential works of this pioneering socialist, which one has to consider absolutely essential reading. Its list of included works covers the waterfront of all that is required to gain a fruitful first look at the wealth of his philosophical musings, and the nature of his revolutionary canon, as well. Reading this material is essential if one is to understand the depth of Marx's understanding and the detail of his genius, however discredited he may be in current estimations. Indeed, with the rise of international corporatism is so close to his prognostications regarding the final phases of capitalism that it is hard to deny his continuing relevance.<br />Included here is everything from the Communist Manifesto all the way to Volume One of Das Capital. One can gain a better appreciation for his ideas regarding the way in which the antagonism between the oppressed and the oppressors provides the motive force for history, and how all history is the history of such class struggles between the owners of the means of production, on the one hand, and the workers, who have nothing to barter with but their considerable capacity to accomplish labor. If one want to gain a better appreciation for the nuances regarding how alienation is created buy the organization of work, or the origin of property, or even the ways in which all of the aspects of a particular society's culture are manifestations of the values of the ruling class, then a careful reading of the material found here will serve you well.  I highly recommend this book. Enjoy	2004-03-05
758431:US	52447634	R1O8SDO46OPE4C	0028644069	364673205	The Complete Idiot's Guide to Labrador Retrievers	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Entertaining &amp; Informative Primer On Labrador Retrievers!	Regardless of the title to the contrary, this is not a book for idiots, but rather a no nonsense nuts and bolts primer for the new caretaker of a the best dog breed yet devised by the Heavens; the Labrador Retriever. As someone who shares his house and life with four of God's single most nearly perfect craeature, I can testify as to the accuracy and relevance of all the information in this wonderful compendium. It is a literal treasure trive of data about how to raise and care for your new best friend, and it covers everything from potty training to kennel care.<br />As a personal note, it is improtant to remember how sensitive Labs are, that one never ever strikes one, and that gently scolding them will get you the reaction you want much more efficiently than would any unjustified corporal punishment. Just remember, friends, there are really no bad dogs; only ignorant and incompetent people trying in vain to train the dogs. What you need to avoid such pitfalls is all here! Enjoy!	2004-03-05
767592:US	52447634	R44B3L6CO4JUW	0842373624	806511644	The Passion: Photography from the Movie "The Passion of the Christ"	Books	5	200	211	N	N	Beautifully Produced Book Covers Mel Gibson's Superb Movie!	This superbly crafted, photographed and carefully scripted book, along with the wonderful daily vespers book \\"His Passion' (see my review) provide an excellent set of companion material for those moved to action by the experience of the film itself, and who want to explore more into both the project Mel Gibson embarked on in the making of the film as well as the particualr sect of scriptural teachings informing the endeavor. It also provides Gibson for a forum in which he can explain the project and deal with the multitude of criticism emanating from both the secular and wider religious communities.<br />As a result of these considerations, the reader is presented with a great deal of relevant material explaining why Gibson chose to use some fairly obscure and narrow interpretations of the events surrounding Jesus' Passion during the final days of His life on earth. For example, within the pages of the foreword of the book, Gibson explains how he came to depend so heavily on the use of Biblical passages from the \\"New Living Translation\\" version of the Bible almost exclusively as the material for the spoken dialogue in the script. He also articulates why he deliberately decided to use more original antique languages along with English subtitles in order to maximize the authenticity of the moviegoer's experience of the final twelve hours of Jesus' life.<br />The book works quite well, using the combination of both diverting text and a wonderful collage of stunning photographs to display the movie-making experience. One caution, however; those who have not seen the movie should be aware that Gibson assumes those reading the book have seen the epic, and although one can get a fairly good representation of the film from the book, it is clearly no substitute for the experience itself. I highly recommend the book for people who have seen the movie and who want to extend the experience with a wonderfully reproduced book that showcases both Gibson's artistry and the magic talents of his cinematographer's craft. Enjoy!talents of his cinematographer's craft. Enjoy!	2004-02-27
768904:US	52447634	R2IYEXSWX648RB	0198782659	912273333	Karl Marx: Selected Writings, 2nd Edition	Books	5	18	23	N	N	Wonderful Anthology Of Marx's Theories and Ideas	When one considers the incredible influence that Marxism has had in the unfolding history of the later nineteenth and twentieth century, the beginning student of the combined writings of both Marx and Engels will find this collection of the essential works of these two pioneering socialists absolutely essential reading. Its list of included works covers the waterfront of all that is required to gain a fruitful first look at the wealth of their philosophical musings, and the nature of their revolutionary canon, as well. Reading this material is essential if one is to understand the depth of Marx's understanding and the detail of his genius, however discredited he may be in current estimations. Indeed, with the rise of international corporatism is so close to his prognostications regarding the final phases of capitalism that it is hard to deny his continuing relevance.<br />Included here is everything from the Communist Manifesto all the way to Volume One of Das Capital. One can gain a better appreciation for his ideas regarding the way in which the antagonism between the oppressed and the oppressors provides the motive force for history, and how all history is the history of such class struggles between the owners of the means of production, on the one hand, and the workers, who have nothing to barter with but their considerable capacity to accomplish labor. If one want to gain a better appreciation for the nuances regarding how alienation is created buy the organization of work, or the origin of property, or even the ways in which all of the aspects of a particualr society's culture are manifestations of the values of the ruling class, then a careful reading of the material found here will serve you well. I highly recommend this book. Enjoy!	2004-02-26
770504:US	52447634	R30F1EL8Y15P8A	0333118405	828854193	Thought of Karl Marx	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Wonderful Introduction To Marx's Thought And Theories!	It would be a far easier task to understand Karl Marx's thought and theories were there not so many millions of Marxists in the world, people whose own take on Marx and his ideas are colored by the politics of those supposedly Marxist states such as the former Soviet Union or The Republic of China. The problem with this is that there are as many interpretations and variations on what supposedly constitutes Marxist thought as there are believers. Thus, one must take great care to stick to the original tests and concentrate on what Marx himself had to say (and he indeed had a quite prolific pen with which he quite liberally expressed himself over a fifty or sixty year period of active deliberation.<br />Thankfully, it is this treasure trove of original text that David McLellan employs so impressively in this wonderful introductory text relating to the broad sweep of Marx's thought. The author uses first hand quotes in context to pencil out both the broad outlines of Marx's impressively complex and comprehensive system of thought, on the one hand, and many important insights into the details that are so important in making this system of thought coherent. Using materials he has used in other texts quite successfully, the author shows how the various social, political and economic texts Marx wrote all tie together in a stunning system of critical; thought, and how they spell out the essentials of Marxism.<br />Thus, whether outlining how the antagonisms between opposing social classes provides the motive force of history, showing how surplus value is expropriated from the workers through exploitations and turned into profit for the business owner, or showing how alienation originated in the selling of one's time and energies in enterprises in which one is essentially a forced laborer, McLellan breathes life into Marxian thought. This is an excellent introductory text, and one I recommend for the beginning student of Marxist thought. Enjoy!	2004-02-25
770983:US	52447634	R272OBZ6JL5XD	0807844624	737131014	The Sixties: From Memory to History	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Wonderful Compilation Of What The Sixties Were Like!	Anyone who lived through the tumult of the 1960s will enjoy this history focusings on the recollections of a wide spectrium of people interviewed about their experiences and recollections of those turbulent times.  Asking some provocative and thought-provoking open-style interview questions, the authors fashion together a fascinating and entertaining study that centers on the anecdotal reminiscences of ordianry people who lived through some interesting events ranging from the civil rights sit-in of the early years to participation in communes within the burgeoning counterculture. One of the most disarming aspects of the book is its willingness to let the respondents speak for themselves, which has the salutary effect of making the individual recollections come to life.<br />In this sense the book both celebrates and rues the various events and historical events, most often through the common words and phrases of the people who were, in fact, eyewitnesses to almost everything they describe. Given the lack of such testimony relating to that era, it is indeed terrific to have it so recorded and systematically organized as it is here. Here we have it all, from activists in the anti-war movement to veterans from the same conflict, from denizens of the counterculture to those who remained within the more comfortable orbits of conventional mainstream societies. The reader will find absorbing information regarding everything from the feminist movement to gay pride, from student protest to the free speech movement. One finds almost every aspect of the sixties wondeully reconstructed and recalled here, so varied was the subject matter and tenor of the individual responses. This is an interesting book, and one anyone who lived through the times might well enjoy.	2004-02-25
771084:US	52447634	REFCNYBBB6GFB	0851831710	672673836	Marxism: An introduction	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Excellent Primer On Marx and Marxism	Few scholars could match the feat accomplished by academic David McLellan in this superb introductory text to the thought and theory collectively known as Marxism. From it consideration of the basics, including the ways in which Marx showed how the eternally recurring theme of exploitation of workers by the owners of the means of production provides the point and counterpoint which composes history, on the one hand, to the basic elements of the theory of value underlying his masterwork, Das Capital, McLellan traces with the faith of a seismographic needle the essential ingredients to Marxism, a revolutionary social theory which has driven bloody revolution throughout the world, and has been vulgarized by the misuses of pragmatists like Lenin, Stalin, and Mao, as well as sociopaths like the Pathet Lao.<br />Marxism is a fairly complex system of thought, and what is often thought to be its tenets are most often the vulgarized forms crafted by Lenin and his ilk, attempting to use Marx's complex and idealistic theory to justify their own murderous and selfish political aims. Marx wanted more than anything to usher in an age in which the common man was a person who was much, rather than a person who had much. He believed he had discovered the motive forces of hsiotry in terms of the class struggle, and sought to end the exploitation of the common man as well as the sense of alienation the commoner felt through his participation in which he sold his labor in a marketplace allowing little or no chance for his innate creativity or humanity to show through.<br />Although largely discredited and ignored today, much of what Marx wrote regarding the course and eventual destiny of capitalist society is as relevant today as ever, and much of what he posited regarding the increasing polarization of society along class lines is proceeding apace today, with the eerie way in which global capitalism conforms to his prognostications regarding the final stages of bourgeoisie society. The book is still open, and the future still remains, and this excellent introductory text on Marx is still, in my humble opinion, worthwhile reading. Enjoy!The book is still open, and the future still remains, and this excellent introductory text on Marx is still, in my humble opinion, worthwhile reading. Enjoy!	2004-02-25
772591:US	52447634	R2JVJ7VTF9UJL6	0060905859	114457943	Karl Marx: His Life and Thought	Books	5	19	21	N	N	The Definitive Intellectual Biography Of Marx!	Karl Marx's contribution to modern social thought is so immense it is now difficult to understand the profound degree to which much of what he thought and wrote has been almost totally discredited and discounted. This is not to deny the fact that his social theory is indeed quite essentially flawed, but rather to suggest that given the relative proportions of his contribution to sociology, economics, and cultural critique, one tends to throw out the baby with the bath water in summarily rejecting all that this intellectual genius had to offer regarding the nature of modern capitalistic society. No book does a better job of presenting the broad sweep of Marx's remarkable critical contributions than this wonderful and quite comprehensive biography of Marx by renowned psychologist and academic David McLellan.<br />With painstaking care and meticulus attention to detail, McLellan places Marx's life in context, showing how the multitude of social, cultural, and economic issues that formed him and scarred him early in life carried with them a most urgent message regarding the nature of modern society. Growing up a secular Jew in Germany, the phenomenally gifted young academic found himself barred from teaching based both on virulent anti-Semitism within the academic community and the fact that he was indeed correctly perceived as a radical thinker and political dissident from the beginning in the truculent and suffocating political environment within the society itself. Yet there was no denying either his intellectual brilliance or his charismatic abilities to fan the flames of political discontent almost everywhere he went over his sixty some years. The son of a comfortable Jewish professional who had adopted the Protestant faith for secular convenience, Marx found himself set adrift within currents that his own proclivities toward radical social, economic, and political analysis forced him to often flee one step ahead of arresting authorities.<br />Marx finally settled into London, surviving through a combination of writing short newspaper articles and through the largesse and generosity of his long-time confidant and erstwhile ally in arms, Freidrich Engels, the scion of a quite prosperous industrial family who incessantly came to the aid of Marx and his perpetually destitute family. McLellan helps us to see how all the elements of the times and the sweep of historical circumstances sped Marx along toward political involvement in one of the most important social developments of the twentieth century. My own personal opinion is that a careful reading of Marx leads one to the conclusion that his observations are still strikingly accurate in terms of his prognostications regarding the destiny of capitalism and I remind the prospective reader that the jury is yet out, time still marches on, and that what is going on now around us can be quite persuasively interpreted in elegant Marxian terms. Enjoy!ed into London, surviving through a combination of writing short newspaper articles and through the largesse and generosity of his long-time confidant and erstwhile ally in arms, Freidrich Engels, the scion of a quite prosperous industrial family who incessantly came to the aid of Marx and his perpetually destitute family. McLellan helps us to see how all the elements of the times and the sweep of historical circumstances sped Marx along toward political involvement in one of the most important social developments of the twentieth century. My own personal opinion is that a careful reading of Marx leads one to the conclusion that his observations are still strikingly accurate in terms of his prognostications regarding the destiny of capitalism and I remind the prospective reader that the jury is yet out, time still marches on, and that what is going on now around us can be quite persuasively interpreted in elegant Marxian terms. Enjoy!	2004-02-24
772739:US	52447634	R2QJX33FOG4NSR	1591451566	517330810	His Passion: Christ's Journey to the Resurrection	Books	5	18	19	N	N	A Wonderful Year's Worth Of Daily Devotions!	For any serious Christian, this spin-off journal released in conjunction with the new Mel Gibson Movie describing \\"The Passion\\" of the Christ is a wonderful daily companion, one that offers a year's worth of daily devotions organized around passages from the Gospels and accompanying reflections from a wide selection of erstwhile Biblical scholars.  By focusing attention on the period of Jesus' passion, from Palm Sunday up to Easter Sunday a week later, this series of thought-provoking and educational daily devotions offers an opportunity for both personal experience and religious contemplation.<br />The book is lovingly illustrated, and is small enough to fit in one's jacket pocket or briefcase for easy reference and daily quiet time. The range of individual contributors referenced herein is impressive indeed, from Saint Augustine to Charles Wesley, from John Bunyan to Max Lucado, and from Philip Yancey to Walter Wangerin. Therefore, given the fact of 365 entries, there is a plethora of individual interpretations to aid one in his or her own spiritual questioning and growth. And the fact that it is such an attractive volume makes it a very personal and meaningful Easter gift for one's loved ones.<br />To avoid any possible confusion, however, one should mention that although this volume was inspired by and released in conjunction with the movie, and obviously has the same religious subject matter (The Passion of the Christ), as does the movie, it really has nothing to do with the Mel Gibson production in terms of photographs or movie dialogue. Instead, this is a wonderful religious tutorial organized as a series of daily vespers, tracing the course of the events of that most momentous week in the history of the world, the week covering the events leading to the divine sacrifice of the Christ.  Beginning with the triumphal entry of Jesus into Jerusalem on Palm Sunday through His capture in the Garden of Gethsemane to the raucous trial, His murderous treatment during the final twelve hours, and His final moments on the Cross, bearing the sins of the world. This is a serious book meant to facilitate both personal contemplation and religious devotion, and one I plan to use to my own continuing religious education.uring the final twelve hours, and His final moments on the Cross, bearing the sins of the world. This is a serious book meant to facilitate both personal contemplation and religious devotion, and one I plan to use to my own continuing religious education.	2004-02-24
772952:US	52447634	R2DIQEDKZMKZYD	039309040X	574896906	The Marx-Engels Reader (Second Edition)	Books	5	42	50	N	N	Essential Works Of Marxs &amp; Engels For the Beginner!	Given the impact of Marxism on the unfolding history of the later nineteenth and twentieth century, the beginning student of the combined writings of both Marx and Engels will find this collection of the essential works of these two pioneering socialists absolutely essential reading. Its list of included works covers the waterfront of all that is required to gain a fruitful first look at the wealth of their philosophical musings, and the nature of their revolutionary canon, as well. Reading this material is essential if one is to understand the depth of Marx's understanding and the detail of his genius, however discredited he may be in current estimations. Indeed, with the rise of international corporatism is so close to his prognostications regarding the final phases of capitalism that it is hard to deny his continuing relevance.<br />Included here is everything from the Communist Manifesto all the way to Volume One of Das Capital. One can gain a better appreciation for his ideas regarding the way in which the antagonism between the oppressed and the oppressors provides the motive force for history, and how all history is the history of such class struggles between the owners of the means of production, on the one hand, and the workers, who have nothing to barter with but their considerable capacity to accomplish labor. If one want to gain a better appreciation for the nuances regarding how alienation is created buy the organization of work, or the origin of property, or even the ways in which all of the aspects of a particualr society's culture are manifestations of the values of the ruling class, then a careful reading of the material found here will serve you well.  I highly recommend this book. Enjoy!	2004-02-24
781133:US	52447634	R2V2OS7ZOWR7XV	0765804018	572423086	Main Currents in Sociological Thought: Montesquieu, Comte, Marx, Tocqueville and the Sociologists and the Revolution of 1848	Books	5	28	29	N	Y	Raymond Aron's Sociological Masterpiece, Volume One!	This is the paperback edition of the first of the superb two-volume treatment of classical social theory written by the famous French Professor and philosopher Raymond Aron. This first volume centers around the theories of a number of early sociological theorist, ranging from the eccentric theorist and philosopher Auguste Comte, to Alexis deToqueville, to Montesquieu, and finally to Karl Marx. Professor Aron traces how the contribution of each helped to create the foundation of modern social theory, and he masterfully threads these collective contributions together into a narrative of theory that later masters of sociological thought like Durkheim, Pareto, and Max Weber then built upon. This is an acclaimed and masterful treatment not only of each theorist's ideas but also how each fits into the overall growth in understanding the structure and function of modern industrial society and what makes it work. Thus, his text strings together the various aspects of each theorist's work into a common thread that links them to their successors.<br />This approach works brilliantly, largely because of Aron's contribution. His treatment of Karl Marx is particularly masterful, and is perhaps the standard against which other, and much more detailed treatments are judged. The same is true of his treatment Durkheim and Max Weber in the second volume. The two books, which originally were created as part of a yearlong graduate seminar Aron taught at the University of Paris, are an artful combination of scholarship and repartee. Aron's tone is suitable scholarly and thoughtful, and yet is also eminently readable and accessible to the average reader. This two volume set, first printed in hardcover in the mid 1960s, has never been long out of print in the forty years since, and has long been the standard text for use in graduate courses in classical sociological theory.<br />One caution is appropriate, however. These books are not for Everyman, although they are written in a style and a language that makes them quite accessible and easy to comprehend and understand. Rather, the two volume set is more apt reading material for those readers who are seriously interested in the western tradition of classical social thought, and it acts as a suitable introduction to the heritage of critical thought and intellectual insight extending back hundreds of years in western thought. Enjoy!a language that makes them quite accessible and easy to comprehend and understand. Rather, the two volume set is more apt reading material for those readers who are seriously interested in the western tradition of classical social thought, and it acts as a suitable introduction to the heritage of critical thought and intellectual insight extending back hundreds of years in western thought. Enjoy!	2004-02-17
785313:US	52447634	R1TF5FODK0JKN7	0252063384	28962542	IF I HAD A HAMMER: The Death of the Old Left and the Birth of the New Left	Books	4	19	20	N	N	Provocative And Diverting History Of American Socialism!	In this wonderful history of how the ghost of the old American Communist movement informed and influenced the birthing and early history of the so-called New Left of the late 1960s and beyond, scholar Maurice Isserman shows how the contradictions and themes motivating the socialist of the late 1940s and 1950s profoundly affected the birth and growth of the new cultural critique emanating from the several leftist movements of the turbulent 1960s. Is so tracing the social history of the leftist movements within the domestic political scene. Isserman helps to make greater sense of many of the predominating themes of later domestic radicalism, as with the notorious rise of the Students For A Democratic Society (or SDS) movement, one that transpired largely on large, metropolitan college campuses.<br />Indeed, several of the founders of the SDS organization such as sociologist Todd Gitlin and California politician/social activist Tom Hayden were sons of socialist radicals themselves, raised in middle class households in which spirited intellectual discussions centering round the plight of the ordinary working man and his or her exploitation at the hand of capitalism was `de rigueur' for dinnertime conversation.  We are treated to an inside look at how the wartime pacifism of Gandhi-like non-violent opposition played out over several decades to become the largely non-violent protests of the civil rights and anti-Vietnam war movements of the sixties. Isserman has also authored other interesting tomes about the times, including both \\"Which Side Were You On\\", a study of the American Communist Party, and the provocative \\"America Divided\\", a study of the rise of the American Counterculture of the later sixties.<br />Here Isserman shows how the personalities of several key participants in the avant-garde urban socialist scene such as Michael Harrington (noted author of \\"The Other America\\"), Max Shachtman, and Irving Howe (author of several noted tomes on the rise of an urban and mainly Jewish intellectual class in America such as \\"World Of Our Fathers\\") and how they transformed the collapse of the American Communist Party in the 1950s into a nascent socialist movement that was more consonant with the needs and characteristics of the contemporary American social scene. Isserman is most interesting when tracing how individual beliefs become transformed into social policy, and he does this here with these several personalities quite well. For me, this was a memorable journey back into the intellectual and social heritage and the political genesis of the 1960s protest movements, and a reading experience I thoroughly enjoyed.and mainly Jewish intellectual class in America such as \\"World Of Our Fathers\\") and how they transformed the collapse of the American Communist Party in the 1950s into a nascent socialist movement that was more consonant with the needs and characteristics of the contemporary American social scene. Isserman is most interesting when tracing how individual beliefs become transformed into social policy, and he does this here with these several personalities quite well. For me, this was a memorable journey back into the intellectual and social heritage and the political genesis of the 1960s protest movements, and a reading experience I thoroughly enjoyed.	2004-02-14
824195:US	52447634	R19XEZV5N4FWWV	0060922249	12294410	Care of the Soul : A Guide for Cultivating Depth and Sacredness in Everyday Life	Books	5	31	35	N	N	Wonderful, Thoughtful Book On The Sacred	Evidently the author is a neighbor of mine, given the fact that he lives less than a dozen miles away in another local rural hamlet. Yet I knew virtually nothing about him or his masterwork until a friend gave it to me as a present, telling me with a chuckle and a knowing look that I needed some work on my soul. Indeed.  For anyone attempting to take amore spiritual path, this book certainly provides some essential grist for grinding away on the eternal issues facing each of us, the battle for good against evil within our own hearts. The narrative of the book reminds me of no one more than Thomas Merton, and in this fashion, Moore, also once a monk, as was Merton retraces some familiar pathways for those of us who were earlier exposed to a dollop of his thought in undergraduate or graduate school.<br />Yet it would be grossly unfair to Moore to simply dismiss him as being nothing more than a revisionist of Merton's weighty and somewhat puzzling observations and prognostications about the world and our place in it. Moore does much more than that in this thin yet provocative and thought-stirring tome; what he winds up offering the reader is nothing less than a life-embracing philosophy.  Moore encourages the reader to cultivate his or her own peace, dignity, and depth of character by grounding ourselves in meaningful and eventful daily rituals, things that firmly plant us in our natural surroundings. In times such as these, when the media and the outside world tries to overwhelm us with all they want to sell us and convince us we need from them to live more meaningful and more fulfilled lives. It is hard to do justice to the benefit one can derive from reading about the simple virtues or the provocative truths he offers in this book. Enjoy!	2004-01-16
825307:US	52447634	R1HVOP87X2BF2G	1586481584	516136956	The Two Percent Solution: Fixing America's Problems In Ways Liberals And Conservatives Can Love	Books	5	25	28	N	N	Profound Book Concerning Contemporary Socioeconomic Issues!	One is always delighted to find such a thought-provoking and daring book as this one by noted author and NPR analyst Matthew Miller. It is thought-provoking along the lines of other recent tomes such as \\"Rogue Nation\\" in carefully delineating the manifest fashions in which the current Bush economic approach undermine some of the most deeply cherished aspects of American society, and daring in the sense that like other recent works such as \\"The Soul Of Capitalism\\", the author reaches beyond his grasp to attempt to find some answers of the most enduring and vexing problems facing contemporary society.  And, by locating the fundamental malaise within the political and economic orbit of crony capitalism and its running dogs of politics, he illustrates how corrupted politicians serving the interests of the power elite repeatedly foist \\"cutting-edge\\" short term solutions which not only do not help, but instead makes matters terribly worse over the longer run.<br />Therefore, the author argues quite persuasively on behalf of the idea that we could dig our way out of this downward spiral we seem to be riding over the last dozen years or so, by simply dedicating two percent of the total tax revenue exclusively toward solving the most pressing and critical looming financial problems facing the polity over the next several decades; universal health care, equal education, and livable wages, by acting to avert the catastrophe of baby-boomer pensions, the social security debacle, and the profound loss of American working class jobs that both the Congress and President seem to be determine to not only ignore, but to exacerbate with their short-sighted political machinations. His basic solution amount to the following equation: fund all the bright young kids to ensure their full education and incorporation into the work force, and doing so will produce the kind of traditional American genius and sustained innovative capability the country needs to continue its economic expansion and the kind of substantial job growth we will need to fund the baby boomers in their retirement. And while one may not agree with the accuracy of the simple equation (I personally think it is necessary but not sufficient), it is indeed hard to argue with the well-documented arguments he foists against the kinds of mind-boggling perfidy that characterizes what passes for current economic policy.<br />One of the most straight-forward aspects of his argument is his plain-spoken assertion that the politicians of both the right and the left have dissembled and prevaricated with us about what is possible politically, or about to the degree to which they have been co-opted and corrupted by the extraordinary demands of funding for re-elections. And, in what is truly an argument one finds hard to assail or question based on its substantial documentation, Miller then proceeds to show us how the investment of just two percent of all this tax funding can right so many of the enduring and persistent social problems in this country. In addressing the patently cynical approach of the Bush administration toward education, the author illustrates just how flawed and failed a policy the \\"No Child Left Behind\\" notion truly is, and why it is certain to do exactly the opposite of what it states.  The worst aspect of this is that with some intelligence and innovation, similar amounts of money correctly applied could help to turn the situation around. By centering on how mediocre teaching skills and practices are profoundly mortgaging the potential progress for our children, he shows just how indemnifying the current educational policy is for the future.<br />Similarly, he indicts the current approach toward both pensions and social security, which he cites a bevy of reasons for the current counterproductive and solipsistic world-view of the situation, and how everything from the petty political prerogatives undermine any serious attempt to correct the course of the ship of state in time toavoid a looming financial crash on the shoals of exponentially rising demands on the available financial capital.  In all of this he repeatedly draws the lines to illustrate how the media has failed to inform and engage the public in discussions regarding these quite fundamental and increasingly critical issues. By striving more to entertain than to edify the public, they have acted in concert with the poltiical structure to obviate the truth, which the author is somehow quite optimistic about, given his belief that the public is becoming more interested and more sophisticated, and more able and more likely to begin much more serious active intervention in the poltiical end-game. This is indeed an important and worthwhile book, and one all of us should read and discuss for the benefit of the country and ourselves. Enjoy!ime to avoid a looming financial crash on the shoals of exponentially rising demands on the available financial capital.  In all of this he repeatedly draws the lines to illustrate how the media has failed to inform and engage the public in discussions regarding these quite fundamental and increasingly critical issues. By striving more to entertain than to edify the public, they have acted in concert with the poltiical structure to obviate the truth, which the author is somehow quite optimistic about, given his belief that the public is becoming more interested and more sophisticated, and more able and more likely to begin much more serious active intervention in the poltiical end-game. This is indeed an important and worthwhile book, and one all of us should read and discuss for the benefit of the country and ourselves. Enjoy!	2004-01-15
827611:US	52447634	RSWFDEGRI4ZWL	0415930405	811003345	Imagine Nation: The American Counterculture of the 1960's and 70's	Books	5	33	35	N	N	Wonderful Book Of Essays On The Counterculture!	One of the most fascinating artifacts arising in the midst of the turbulent 1960s was the creation and promulgation of a new subculture in the shadow of the mainstream material culture, one that had quite different aspects to its lifestyle, including a different set of predominating social, economic and political perspectives, experiences, and perspectives. In the main the thrust of the counterculture, as it came to be known, was a rabid rejection of the ethos, perspectives, and behaviors of the mainstream culture, including its meaningless materialism, its warlike nature, and its xenophobia about anyone different. In this terrific book edited by Peter Braunstein and Michael William Doyle, we are presented with fourteen wonderful essays written by scholarly eyewitnesses to the phenomenon.<br />These are arranged into several sections according to chapters dealing with popular culture, the media, the use of drugs to free oneself of predominating cultural baggage, social and cultural politics, and race, sex, and communal issues. Each of the sections is prefaced with a brief but integrating essay that helps immeasurably to both connect the subject of each chapter to the rest of the welter of considerations concerning the counterculture, and to help to explain various aspects concerning themes with the subject itself. The editors aid the overall effort by stitching together such important elements as the predominating \\"geist' or worldview of the members of the counterculture that helps to better locate them both historically and culturally within the particular and relatively brief moment in time that enveloped the counterculture itself.  Yet another scholarly aspect of the book that makes it worthwhile is its extensive footnoting, which provocatively slows the reader down to enjoy the depth of the ride as well as to invite the reader in the direction of further reading and cogitation.<br />The opening section of the book is comprised of a wonderful essay that both locates the fourteen other essays in terms of the popular philosophy that so actively fueled the movement away from the predominating mainstream material culture, and points out how beneficial further historical analysis would be to further explicate the ways in which the sudden explosion of the counterculture onto the social scene in the late 1960s actively changed the society and continue to influence it today. This is a we'll-written and entertaining read that helps the reader to understand what other authors have simply explained away as being nothing more than \\"Sex, drugs, and rock and roll\\". For those of us who lived through it, it was so much more, and this book gives one a glimpse of everything the counterculture was, and all that it aspired unsuccessfully to become. Enjoy!ates the fourteen other essays in terms of the popular philosophy that so actively fueled the movement away from the predominating mainstream material culture, and points out how beneficial further historical analysis would be to further explicate the ways in which the sudden explosion of the counterculture onto the social scene in the late 1960s actively changed the society and continue to influence it today. This is a we'll-written and entertaining read that helps the reader to understand what other authors have simply explained away as being nothing more than \\"Sex, drugs, and rock and roll\\". For those of us who lived through it, it was so much more, and this book gives one a glimpse of everything the counterculture was, and all that it aspired unsuccessfully to become. Enjoy!	2004-01-14
831141:US	52447634	R3TU00YB002MFK	067003214X	177308601	Patriots: The Vietnam War Remembered from All Sides	Books	5	31	35	N	N	Wonderful Discussion Of Vietnam From All Sides!	The use of oral histories as a specific historical device has been popularized over the last decade by such notable authors as Stephen Ambrose and Studs Terkel. Here we have the concept applied assiduously and quite comprehensively by scholar Christian Appy. Thus, \\"Patriots: The Vietnam War Remembered From All Sides\\" follows the track of previous tomes such as Myra MacPherson's memorable \\"Long Time Passing\\" and even David Marannis' recent \\"They Marched Into Sunlight\\", both of which in somewhat different manner broach the same panoply of issues as are discussed herein. This book represents an almost Herculean attempt to catch once more the dissipating and evaporating tenor of a vanishing time.<br />His coverage is indeed comprehensive, reaching all the way from the vapors of the late 1940s almost into the present. We find conversations and comments from people from all walks of life, from presiding generals like William Westmoreland to obscure stewardesses (even that term is dated, as they now are universally referred to as flight attendants), from politicians like blowhard Alexander Haig (remember \\"I am in control here\\"?) to the very grunts who dragged themselves and their buddies who hacked their way past the rotting jungle and raging rivers through the South Asian mud.  There are voices from every side, from the son of former Soviet Premier Nikita Krushchev to former South Vietnamese Vice President Thu Bihn to former war resisters and anti-war activists.  Indeed, the book attempts quite admirably to cover all the colors and hues of a multifaceted phenomenon that was the war in Vietnam.<br />As such, the work is a valuable resource for those who honestly want to understand what all the tumult over the war I Vietnam was in the 1960s. Certainly it is difficult for the later generations to understand the significance of the draft, given the fact that they have been raised in a country that now uses an all-volunteer force, one in which such conflicts pose no personal risk to them or their families. As such, the book does indeed serve as a formalized source for reference and discussion over what the war in Vietnam was all about, what the turmoil in this country over our involvement sprang from, and how it was finally resolved, albeit to no one's satisfaction. In using the emotionally freighted term of \\"patriots\\" he also calls attention to the current tendency to believe any dissent is anti-American as a patent falsehood, that indeed, such active voices of dissent are critical to the survival of the republic. To quote the author himself, he was interested in discovering and discussing \\"in what ways might patriotism be a force for good or inspire noble sacrifice, and when does it become a club for stifling dissent and a rallying cry for unjustifiable destruction?\\" This is a pertinent question for our troubled times. Enjoy!risk to them or their families. As such, the book does indeed serve as a formalized source for reference and discussion over what the war in Vietnam was all about, what the turmoil in this country over our involvement sprang from, and how it was finally resolved, albeit to no one's satisfaction. In using the emotionally freighted term of \\"patriots\\" he also calls attention to the current tendency to believe any dissent is anti-American as a patent falsehood, that indeed, such active voices of dissent are critical to the survival of the republic. To quote the author himself, he was interested in discovering and discussing \\"in what ways might patriotism be a force for good or inspire noble sacrifice, and when does it become a club for stifling dissent and a rallying cry for unjustifiable destruction?\\" This is a pertinent question for our troubled times. Enjoy!	2004-01-11
831598:US	52447634	R3UYZMZFJXTDCU	0815735812	656208379	The Media and the War on Terrorism	Books	5	14	18	N	N	Provocative Discussion About Embedded Reporting!	This is a superb collection of essays, first-person observations, and recollections of so-called embedded reporters and photographic journalists, edited jointly by Marvin Kalb, a former CBS reporter turned Harvard resident scholar, and Stephen Hess, a senior fellow at the prestigious Brookings Institution. Written in the first person, each of the collected essays takes the reader up-close and personal and shows how difficult it is to know the degree to which such observations are typical or representative of what is going on the overall conflict in which they are embedded. And therein lies the rub, for to some extent it is apparent that even embedded reporter can be manipulated and co-opted by the military, and in several cases that is apparently the case for the individual reporters recounting their war tales.<br />The pieces are both candid and raw; in the sense they somehow manage to catch the very essence of the intricate dance between accurate reporting and the tension with the host army to whom they owe their sustenance and their safety. This tension between the ostensibly objective reporters, on the one hand, and the very partisan military representatives overseeing them, on the other, is what drives the considerable insight the correspondents manage to extricate from the madness of the ongoing battle they cover. This is especially true for electronic media journalists, whose products are almost immediately available to the general public, and who still find themselves both physically and existentially with the troops.<br />The latest tendency to meaningfully embed reporters with elements of the shock troops racing across Iraq, seen in context, is just another of many such attempts by the military to deftly manage the reporting from the front, and indeed, to prejudice the reporters by forcing them to live alongside the often valiant and sometimes suffering soldiers, whose personalities and sacrifices do indeed win the reporters over to see the war through their eyes. The experience in Iraq, upon reflection, will likely show that reporters and journalists were kept \\"on the reservation\\" by sequestering them into small groups seeing only limited actions, and seldom allowing them to see aspects of the conflict not consistent with military goals and objectives. Once again, the omnipresent tension between the needs for security on the one hand, and the rights of the citizens of a free society to know what is being done in their names, on the other, is all too apparent here. Enjoy!heir eyes. The experience in Iraq, upon reflection, will likely show that reporters and journalists were kept \\"on the reservation\\" by sequestering them into small groups seeing only limited actions, and seldom allowing them to see aspects of the conflict not consistent with military goals and objectives. Once again, the omnipresent tension between the needs for security on the one hand, and the rights of the citizens of a free society to know what is being done in their names, on the other, is all too apparent here. Enjoy!	2004-01-11
831762:US	52447634	R127CGMN58AXCZ	0962991007	617721657	001: Bill Pearl's Keys to the Inner Universe	Books	5	39	40	N	N	Unlock The Door To The Body Of Your Dreams!	This is quite likely the single best compendium of bodybuilding information ever released, written by a man who single-handedly conquered all the worlds of bodybuilding, and did so repeatedly over a thirty year period. From the early 1950s until the mid-1970s, Bill Pearl was never defeated in bodybuilding competition, and although he and Arnold Schwarzenegger never met in competition, Arnold considered Pearl (along with Reg Park of South Africa) one of the best bodybuilders of all time. For some of the younger bodybuilding enthusiasts, this book may seem a bit dated, but when one recognizes that Pearl built mass and incredible definition primarily through hard exercise and natural nutrition, without ever resorting to steroid use, one can appreciate what a giant he has been in the field. To date, no one else has even come close to his natural achievement.<br />Everything one needs to know to get huge and cut is here, from the basics to the nitty-gritty about what kind of gym atmosphere to be in search of, from the most sage advice going regarding the role of nutrition and vitamins in building a muscular and powerful physique. Since nothing is so important to the aspiring bodybuilder than information, it is important to know that everyone from the neophyte to more experienced muscle bomber will find everything he or she needs to cultivate the kind of body they dream of in this superb compendium and life story wrapped into a single volume.<br />Culled from a life time of experience and filled with personal anecdotes, this treasure trove of relevant information and wise advice will serve up all you need to know, from the best way to flare your quadriceps to the best way to widen your shoulders by bombing the lateral heads of the deltoids. Given all this, the book is both highly informative and quite inspirational, showcasing a number of favorite Pearl routines and using both photographs and drawings to illustrate correct exercise performance, useful training techniques, and the best way to both trim down or bulk up en route to the body of your dreams. Take a trip with Bill Pearl, one of the all time great of the game; you won't regret it! Enjoy!s, and the best way to both trim down or bulk up en route to the body of your dreams. Take a trip with Bill Pearl, one of the all time great of the game; you won't regret it! Enjoy!	2004-01-11
833158:US	52447634	R2ZQDMSO37NUFY	0809228114	424061497	Ironman's Ultimate Bodybuilding Encyclopedia	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Terrific Paperback Compendium For Workout Enthusiast!	Other than regular access to a good gym with all the right equipment and all the necessary nutrition, nothing is so important to the aspiring bodybuilder than information, and everyone from the neophyte to more experienced muscle bombers will find everything they need to grow into the body they dream of in this wonderful bodybuilder's encyclopedia. Culled from a variety of sources from deep within the culture of the west coast bodybuilding havens of Venice Beach and Santa Monica, this compendium of relevant information and sage advice has been produced by veteran bodybuilding coach Peter Sisco, who used extensive interviews with bodybuilding stars and the mounds of information produced by research technicians associated with Ironman magazine, who also produced a wide variety of helpful publications such as this one. You will find everything you need here, from the best way to flare your quadriceps to the best way to widen your shoulders by bombing the lateral heads of the deltoids.<br />Given all this, the book is both highly informative and quite inspirational, showcasing a number of recent bodybuilding luminaries, using both photographs and drawings to illustrate correct exercise performance, useful training techniques, and the latest in scientific breakthroughs that are on the very cutting edge of what contemporary bodybuilders are using to constantly attempt to get even bigger, stronger, and more striated and cut. Using the treasure-trove of Ironman's photographic archives, Sisco has produced one of the best single volume works covering the waterfront of bodybuilding yet. It compares well to the standard Weider's \\"Ultimate Bodybuilding\\", Schwarzenegger's version of the book, and even Bill Pearl's superb \\"Keys To The Inner Universe\\". This is a book that works well for the bodybuilding enthusiast wanting or needing a handy reference volume he can throw in his gym bag and read between sets at the local iron dungeon. Enjoy!	2004-01-10
833628:US	52447634	R1E5DU1NVWKG6U	0671892894	44177409	President Kennedy: Profile of Power	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Wonderful Personal View Of Kennedy's Presidential Years!	Noted author, pundit, and journalist Richard Reeves has a well-deserved reputation as a journalist and author, as this classic book detailing the three-year term of slain president John F. Kennedy deftly illustrates. This tome, based on Reeve's own extensive research into the vast cornucopia of official correspondence, White House files, and literally hundreds of personal interviews, weighs the evidence of JFK's tenure in office, during the fabled thousand days of the Kennedy administration. Indeed, it is a quite detailed reconstruction of the day to day life within the orbit of the administration from its launching in early 1961 up to its denouement with his assassination in November 1963. As such, it provides an \\"up close and personal\\" view of the presidency in action, and gives one an incredible insight into what it means to be the President.<br />Moreover, given the times in which the Kennedy administration lived out its short lifespan, it is a brilliant look at some momentous events and phenomena, from the Berlin crisis of 1961 to the unfolding civil rights movement under the masterful ministrations of firebrand Martin Luther King.  What is so unforgettable about Reeves' exposition is the fact that he manages to give us both memorable history as well as a very personal glimpse of the fascinating and charismatic man inhabiting the oval office in a singular book, one that has remained, in the ten years since its original publication, a standard on the JFK years. He shows how badly Kennedy wanted to succeed as president. Overcoming personal pain, religious prejudice, and his father's unseemly legacy to become one of the nation's most popular executives. And the times certainly gave him all the fuel to test himself, as any one man might need to prove himself.<br />Humiliated by the events of Khrushchev's bullying moves in the Berlin corridor, Kennedy became convinced the Soviets were determined to start a war, one Kennedy understood no one would really win. Yet, with steely resolve, Kennedy began preparing both himself and the nation at large for the war of wills that began to unfold. Thus, throughout the Cuban missile crisis of 1962, Kennedy feared we were on the very brink of Armageddon, yet managed to steer us through the maze by both brilliant backdoor diplomacy and a dollop of devious wheeling and dealing to placate the Soviets.  In the meantime, he administered the single largest military build-up of the Cold War era, massively increasing our capability to better meet the perceived Soviet threat both in conventional and nuclear conflict.<br />On the domestic scene, he witnessed turbulence due to both the civil rights movement and the violence of white hate groups in the South against it. He employed federal troops, as Eisenhower had done before him, to stabilize potentially explosive situations, and moved to establish a more comprehensive voting rights bill and further civil rights legislation in Congress, though none of it came to fruition before his death. The book takes us back into these eventful and exciting times, when he was deciding most fatefully on issues as far flung as our involvement in Vietnam to the best way to reach a kind of detent with the Soviets, from strong-arming the steel industry back into compliance with the law and with the building of the Berlin Wall. This is a fascinating book, one that takes the reader on an unforgettable journey into the past, and one I highly recommend. Enjoy!with steely resolve, Kennedy began preparing both himself and the nation at large for the war of wills that began to unfold. Thus, throughout the Cuban missile crisis of 1962, Kennedy feared we were on the very brink of Armageddon, yet managed to steer us through the maze by both brilliant backdoor diplomacy and a dollop of devious wheeling and dealing to placate the Soviets.  In the meantime, he administered the single largest military build-up of the Cold War era, massively increasing our capability to better meet the perceived Soviet threat both in conventional and nuclear conflict.  <br />On the domestic scene, he witnessed turbulence due to both the civil rights movement and the violence of white hate groups in the South against it. He employed federal troops, as Eisenhower had done before him, to stabilize potentially explosive situations, and moved to establish a more comprehensive voting rights bill and further civil rights legislation in Congress, though none of it came to fruition before his death. The book takes us back into these eventful and exciting times, when he was deciding most fatefully on issues as far flung as our involvement in Vietnam to the best way to reach a kind of detent with the Soviets, from strong-arming the steel industry back into compliance with the law and with the building of the Berlin Wall. This is a fascinating book, one that takes the reader on an unforgettable journey into the past, and one I highly recommend. Enjoy!	2004-01-09
833808:US	52447634	R2YQEBV5QG9SH	0060941243	960402567	More Things Change	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Engaging and Entertaining Look At The Sixties	Author Michael Gross has taken a provocative yet still systematic look at the lives of nineteen babyboomers, many of whom have gone to experience either great success or noteable achievment in one fashion or the other since that time, and relates how growing up in the turbulent sixties was the common formative experience for each, with special emphasis on the fact that their life courses were widely variable. Thus, using the sixties experience as the common existential thread weaving together these lives of note, Gross conducts pentrating interviews with each, and allows each of the respondents to tell, in his or her own words, how the current of thought, activities, and events helped to shape their perspectives and send them propelling into lives of greater involvment and purpose. Thus with personalities ranging from former hunted revolutionaries like 'Weatherman'member Mark Rudd all the way to the feckless Doanld Trump, each adds to the patchwork of meanings and recollections that were the sixties.<br />The author seems intent to challenge popular misconceptions regarding the times, and fairly effectively demonstrates how different the sixties were in terms of how each of the respondents grew up, most of them as children of the burgeoning middle class, with a few noteable exceptions, such as Trump. Yet the predominating tone of the book is one of cultural celebration for the counterculture generation, as each of the people profiled explains in detail the motivating factors and critical insights that living through the so-called days of sex, drugs, and rock and roll, to be frivolous, gave them in terms of how to subsequently organize, direct, and conduct the rest of their lives. For several of them there were serious setbacks, disappointments and failures along the way. One even spent time in prison. And from the view of either a jail cell, on the one hand, or the sweeping vista of the New York skyline from \\"the Donald's\\" suite (pre-911, of course), one cannot help but be impressed by just how far each of the people have come, largely due to their own merit.<br />Thus, in the end, each in his or her own fashion comes to terms with his demons and redeeems himself in terms of more usefully locating himself in the context of a more meaningful and satisfying life commitment. It is a book that uses the common experience of the sixties more as a launching point for understanding how \\"our generation\\" has finally come of age, in several cases spendidly so, and how difficult the passage from those times to the inane present have indeed transpired. This is a fun book to read, one that I very much enjoyed, and one that is both entertaining and edifying. It is a neat and easy read, but one that is still well worth your time and money. Enjoy!but be impressed by just how far each of the people have come, largely due to their own merit.  <br />Thus, in the end, each in his or her own fashion comes to terms with his demons and redeeems himself in terms of more usefully locating himself in the context of a more meaningful and satisfying life commitment. It is a book that uses the common experience of the sixties more as a launching point for understanding how \\"our generation\\" has finally come of age, in several cases spendidly so, and how difficult the passage from those times to the inane present have indeed transpired. This is a fun book to read, one that I very much enjoyed, and one that is both entertaining and edifying. It is a neat and easy read, but one that is still well worth your time and money. Enjoy!	2004-01-09
833988:US	52447634	R1G9M2T7JCCZP2	0670874744	618502779	The American Heritage New History of WWII	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Substantial Coffee Table Version For Your Use!	This attractive and fairly substantive book is another welcome addition to the pantheon of books covering the Second World War, serving to introduce the neophyte to the massive worldwide conflict through the employment of a credible narrative with the clever and helpful photographs, maps and charts placed alongside the text to aid learning and understanding. While not the kind of masterful text as some other books on the subject, such as Gerhard Weinberg's superb &#34;A World At Arms&#34;, or the even more recent &#34;A War To Be Won&#34; by Murray and Millett, this revised version of the American Heritage book is a good teaching resource for use at either the high school or introductory undergraduate college level course.<br /><br />It is expensive, and for that reason is likely less often utilized as a standard text that would otherwise be the case. Yet, given the average cost of a single hardbound text in school bookstores these days, its hefty price tag is not unreasonable given all the collected merits the book delivers. Featuring a new introduction by the late Stephen Ambrose, dean of the popular WWII authors until his recent demise, the book quite handily incorporates a lot of additional material into the text and uses dozens of new photographs as well as a bevy of updated maps, charts, and other devices all geared toward greater understanding of one of the most complex and far-fetched historical phenomena in modern history.<br /><br />As with the original version, the revised text features over 700 dramatic and visually haunting photographs, artist's renderings, cartoons, and state of the art computer-aided maps. Thus the student can gain a much-improved understanding of how battles progressed, the strategic importance of certain situations, and the ways in which opposing forces deployed and then redeployed to gain advantage over the course of a particular engagement. Given the fact that WWII has had such a monumental impact on the world and for subsequent history, this book provides a stunning opportunity to engage students, capture their imaginations, and compel learning by offering a plethora of meaningful media through which to do so.  I highly recommend this book for use in the classroom, and for anyone wanting an entertaining, educational, and eminently useful book covering the waterfront that was World War Two. Enjoy!ovides a stunning opportunity to engage students, capture their imaginations, and compel learning by offering a plethora of meaningful media through which to do so.  I highly recommend this book for use in the classroom, and for anyone wanting an entertaining, educational, and eminently useful book covering the waterfront that was World War Two. Enjoy!	2004-01-09
834387:US	52447634	R2ZXYBY6OTUZGV	0700612297	219577037	American Soldiers: Ground Combat in the World Wars, Korea, and Vietnam	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Terrific  Exploration of Combat's Effects  On Individuals!	Wow! It isn't often that I actually feel a little shaken by virtue of what I have read, but if anything can conjure up for one an unforgettable yet eminently non-fictional picture of the modern battlefield in the post-WWII era, then this book by retired U. S. Army historian Peter Kindsvatter does so. What the author offer is literally a phenomenological exploration into the heart of darkness of modern combat, one into which young soldiers have been sucked into the vortex of the experience with wildly inaccurate and romanticized notions regarding their own fallacious expectations of the experience. As the dust jacket appropriately remarks, this is a journey into the hearts and minds of the average soldier, in Korea, Vietnam and since, and shows how popular \\"John Wayne\\" colorized fictions set our kids up for a fateful slam into the brick wall of a much more horrible reality. Thus, beginning with such unrealistic ideas of what to expect, Kindsvatter argues quite forcefully that such inaccurate conceptualizations aided the solders in creating what he refers to as a \\"fictionalized\\" set of images of war.<br />Therefore, despite the relatively intensive military training the young recruits received, the author contends nothing could succeed in disabusing them of these fallacious notions or completely prepare them for the horror of actual combat. The nature of that combat, with its extreme emotional stress, physical hardships, and bloodthirsty graphics, spawned a kind of emotional syndrome that the author argues progresses fairly predictably from initial shock and disbelief through a period of confusion toward a perpetual state of much more hyperawareness, a state in which their immediate performance becomes maximal while the effects on their long-term mental health becomes progressively more dangerous. Critical to the success of this progression of this 'pilgrim's progress' from disbelief through confusion and into a battle-weary hyper-vigilance was the camaraderie of their fellow soldiers, their belief systems, and each soldier's individual will to survive. Obviously, Kindsvatter observes, in situations such as Vietnam, where the belief systems came into serious question both within the ranks and in the culture back home, successful maintenance of this state of combat readiness was more and more imperiled.<br />What the author contends is that once such belief systems are destroyed, few things can repair or sustain them. For some, the excitement of battle turns them into \\"combat junkies\\", and it is these guys who may succeed in surviving only to find readjustment to civil society later is extremely hazardous. For the majority, it was integration into the unit and the friendships within it that sustained them, and allowed them to continue under some of the most extreme continuing conditions modern humans can experience.  Yet eventually, for most soldiers the ability to function slowly eroded, to the point that many casualties occurred for \\"burned out\\" grunts who had more than enough savvy to protect themselves, but who has lost the kind of emotional edge they needed to continue. In these cases, many of them suffered emotional breakdowns and/or total physical exhaustion. This is an important book, and one that anyone with either a friend or relative in the military would do well to read. I hope it gains wider readership, as it is a serious, enlightened, and worthwhile entry into the field of military history. Enjoy!eir fellow soldiers, their belief systems, and each soldier's individual will to survive. Obviously, Kindsvatter observes, in situations such as Vietnam, where the belief systems came into serious question both within the ranks and in the culture back home, successful maintenance of this state of combat readiness was more and more imperiled. <br />What the author contends is that once such belief systems are destroyed, few things can repair or sustain them. For some, the excitement of battle turns them into \\"combat junkies\\", and it is these guys who may succeed in surviving only to find readjustment to civil society later is extremely hazardous. For the majority, it was integration into the unit and the friendships within it that sustained them, and allowed them to continue under some of the most extreme continuing conditions modern humans can experience.  Yet eventually, for most soldiers the ability to function slowly eroded, to the point that many casualties occurred for \\"burned out\\" grunts who had more than enough savvy to protect themselves, but who has lost the kind of emotional edge they needed to continue. In these cases, many of them suffered emotional breakdowns and/or total physical exhaustion. This is an important book, and one that anyone with either a friend or relative in the military would do well to read. I hope it gains wider readership, as it is a serious, enlightened, and worthwhile entry into the field of military history. Enjoy!	2004-01-09
834949:US	52447634	R2R0ZVHHE8M82E	0312229674	943071577	Freedom in Chains: The Rise of the State and the Demise of the Citizen	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Disturbing Examination Of State Usurpation Of Civil Rights!	According to perpetual social and political critic James Bovard, the power inherent in government is alive and well; unfortunately, as he reminds us, they are not always necessarily accomplishing the people's will. Thus we find ourselves in circumstances in which governments are both larger and more powerful than ever before, while the individual citizen's ability to control and influence the course of his or her own life and liberty is becoming more and more problematic. In this stirring expose, the author explores how the federal government increasingly poses a threat to destroy individual rights and liberties in an attempt to preserve the fiction of government as superceding the citizen. Bovard wonders along with us how this state of affairs has managed to occur, and takes a thoughtful and impressive tour of the history of government control over individual liberties in an attempt to better understand it, and the future it presents for our cogitation.<br />Long before it was either fashionable or popular, conservative author Bovard was railing against the accumulating power and privilege of the crony-based capitalists who now seem to control the country.  Here he draws blood from a dissection of the notion of state sovereignty, which he contends amounts to nothing so much as a glossy justification for the power elite's lust for ever-increasing power and privilege. Especially egregious in the author's view is the way the doctrine is being used to justify the behavior of others, to limit their rights to protect themselves, or to keep the fruit of their own labor. Indeed, all of this is food for thought. Moreover, Bovard is an interesting and quite eclectic scholar, someone who accomplishes both meticulous research and establishes the substantiation for his claims as he proceeds, and does so quite convincingly. He also seems to be profoundly well read, based on his wide use of quotations from such luminaries as Marx, Hegel, Rousseau, and Thomas Hobbes.<br />Thus, he manages to raise some thought provoking issues regarding our seeming need to regulate many aspects of private behavior (such as the use of pot) that we can neither effective enforce nor usefully demonstrate to be evil for the individual. Bovard argues quite convincingly regarding the potential dangers of allowing others to regulate our Constitutionally guaranteed civil liberties according to their own moral prerogatives. Bovard reserves special scorn for the so-called \\"Peter Pan\\" theory of government as the benevolent and paternalistic defender of the commonweal, and actively guides the reader through a critical review of the two hundred year history on the subject, a history he finds rife with examples through which government has repeatedly used its power to thwart rather than support the will and civil liberties of the majority. This is a splendidly researched book that reads well and which has some disturbing thoughts regarding the state of our polity. It is also one I highly recommend. Enjoy!s, he manages to raise some thought provoking issues regarding our seeming need to regulate many aspects of private behavior (such as the use of pot) that we can neither effective enforce nor usefully demonstrate to be evil for the individual. Bovard argues quite convincingly regarding the potential dangers of allowing others to regulate our Constitutionally guaranteed civil liberties according to their own moral prerogatives. Bovard reserves special scorn for the so-called \\"Peter Pan\\" theory of government as the benevolent and paternalistic defender of the commonweal, and actively guides the reader through a critical review of the two hundred year history on the subject, a history he finds rife with examples through which government has repeatedly used its power to thwart rather than support the will and civil liberties of the majority. This is a splendidly researched book that reads well and which has some disturbing thoughts regarding the state of our polity. It is also one I highly recommend. Enjoy!	2004-01-09
835078:US	52447634	R3FMWS8YH31KSN	0684862190	628491114	The Soul of Capitalism: Opening Paths to a Moral Economy	Books	5	23	25	N	N	Provocative Investigation of  Postmodern Capitalism	No one writes with more verve, insight, and human compassion than long-time Rolling Stone contributor and Editor William Greider. His perspective always centers on the human cost of social phenomena, and is always heartfelt, compassionate, and extremely well focused. In this book he centers in brilliantly on the ways in which the so-called &quot;Third Wave&quot; of global trading and commerce has both complicated and corrupted the social, economic, and political landscape of the countries in which it has flourished. His writing skills are superb, and the ordinarily dry and stuffy stuff of economics come alive in this highly readable and quite entertaining work. Moreover, Greider demonstrates his understanding of the Marxian critique of postmodern capitalism as well as its relevance for what appears to be a critical point in capitalism's history.<br />This is a brilliant and perceptive book, one which both recognizes the dangers that confront us as well as the opportunities lingering beneath the surface of the sputtering global economy, which has seemingly turned inward and against itself, with some quite disturbing retrogressive long-term effects for both the workers and middle classes of the societies in which it is most advanced. Yet, Mr. Greider's perspective is more sanguine than one might expect, expressing both concern over the many ways in which this fundamentally anti-democratic strain of global commerce tends toward becoming a revolutionary &amp; extraordinarily well-focused force literally power-hosing the new wealth generated by this commerce in the direction of the rich and well placed at the expense of almost everyone else, and yet at the same time giving signs of some irresistible movements toward greater responsiveness and attention to actual consumer needs, as opposed to those they manufacture and market so well today.<br />In summary, Greider argues that while the world is still likely to experience a period of difficult &amp; chaotic social &amp; economic circumstances; disastrous levels of industrial plant overcapacity, unmanageable surplus goods, unemployable labor pools, frantic &amp; often irrational stock speculation, unserviceable debts, and chronic massive unemployment, there is also the opportunity for new directions from new sources as the sheer size and scale of global corporations make them seemingly more and more ossified and less and less able to serve the public from which it hopes to maintain its profit margins.<br />Thus, while all may seem to be wonderful to a casual observer watching along the surface, we are in fact skating bravely over the very thin ice of a totally new and revolutionary set of socioeconomic circumstances, and we should hardly be racing across this fragile and frozen expanse so quickly or so recklessly, trusting so blindly in so many anonymous corporate forces that historically have never bothered to concern themselves with the social, economic or political consequences following in the wake of their profit-oriented activities. We need to recognize the genius of capitalism, and refocus the forces of it toward more human and vital needs in order to build a more sustainable economy for the future.; economic circumstances; disastrous levels of industrial plant overcapacity, unmanageable surplus goods, unemployable labor pools, frantic &amp; often irrational stock speculation, unserviceable debts, and chronic massive unemployment, there is also the opportunity for new directions from new sources as the sheer size and scale of global corporations make them seemingly more and more ossified and less and less able to serve the public from which it hopes to maintain its profit margins.  <br />Thus, while all may seem to be wonderful to a casual observer watching along the surface, we are in fact skating bravely over the very thin ice of a totally new and revolutionary set of socioeconomic circumstances, and we should hardly be racing across this fragile and frozen expanse so quickly or so recklessly, trusting so blindly in so many anonymous corporate forces that historically have never bothered to concern themselves with the social, economic or political consequences following in the wake of their profit-oriented activities. We need to recognize the genius of capitalism, and refocus the forces of it toward more human and vital needs in order to build a more sustainable economy for the future.	2004-01-08
835244:US	52447634	R1DFKSASFV70RG	0809247151	451979311	Joe Weider's Ultimate Bodybuilding	Books	5	31	35	N	Y	Wonderful Reference Book For Practicing Bodybuilder	As someone who has actually been tossing around the iron for longer than I personally like to admit (try 1960 on for size), I have always found this particular book to be a wonderful reference book for the practicing bodybuilder, one he or she can employ to solve persistent problems, answer a technical question, or browse in search of alternative exercises working a particular muscle group from a specific angle. For example, the fact that each exercise emphasizes not only how to correctly perform the exercise, but also stresses which aspects of the muscles are most stressed, hence which are likely to most benefit from regular use of the exercise in a complex routine.<br />There are many aspects of the book which could use to be revised to improve it, such as its reference to newer machines and new technology in general is a bit lacking, and it also is a bit dated in that it trades heavily on Weider's long association with famous bodybuilders of the classic period of the 1960s and 1970s. For old horses like me, that is neat, but it may not play well to some of the younger enthusiasts. Yet the fundamental facts found in the book are still quite credible, and the fact that it is a paperback issue you can actually drag along to the gym with you is to its credit. I recommend it for the reasons I mentioned, although I would also suggest you purchase a copy of Arnold's own version of a how-to manual, as well as Bill Pearl's superb \\"Keys To The Kingdom\\". The more recent Iron Man version is also an excellent resource, especially for the intermediate bodybuilder ready to spread his wings and intensify his workout. Enjoy!	2004-01-08
835447:US	52447634	RA3HN64VMHNRM	0896584895	979216704	Labs Afield	Books	5	6	6	N	N	For Anyone Who Loves Labrador Retrievers	Even though none of my four Labrador Retrievers hunts for anymore substantial than the errant squirrel or chipmunk that happens to scamper through my big back yard that the Labs  haunt at every opportunity, I read this wonderful book with awe and surprise, for author Todd Berger has used both a pictoral and an amusing descriptive narrative approach sure to enchant the casual Labrador fan. This is a book devoted exclusively to field dogs, meaning that branch of the Labrador breeding tree tuned specifically to the needs and prerogatives of the hunter, and his or her quest for the perfect hunting companion, which the Labrador at his best certainly is.<br />Berger employs an electic mix of talented sports writers who relay entertaining personal anecdotes concerning their adventures with their own Labs, and as any Lab owner can tell you, the dogs have such loveable and irrascible personalities it impossible not to have such amusing tall tales to tell. Indeed, to me this book represents a virtual celebration of wonders and qualities of the country's most popular working dog, a dog now so universally recognized as to literally define what it means to have a \\"family\\" dog. This particulur volume now rests on my living room coffee table, with a number of other such books, and it always provides guests and visitors with grist for comparing what they see whirling around them by way of my own dogs with somewhat less frantic and worshipping models of the very dogs so many of us have come to love. Enjoy!	2004-01-08
835711:US	52447634	R3PD3J2P4ZQFO	0896584682	704300005	Love of Labs: The Ultimate Tribute to Labrador Retrievers (Petlife Library)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Another Wonderful Book On The Wonders Of Labs!	Here is another attractive entry by naturalist author Todd Berger, one that takes a truly loving look at America's singular and by far most popular wonder dog, the Labrador Retriever. As Berger points out so well, there are few other animals who draw such love from humans as a dog, and surely the Lab is the most loveable of the breeds. Here he presents the Labrador Retriever in all its wonder and does a yeoman service to the rest of us by enumerating all of the superb qualities the dog has to offer potential human enthusiasts. They are by reputation excellent working dogs, both as field dogs and as guide dogs for the disabled. They are also incredibly loyal, and the news services are often filled with wonderful and heartwarming stories of Labs crawling out on the ice to save their masters, often at considerable danger to themselves. Nonetheless, they stand by our sides.<br />Therefore, this book, \\"The Love Of Labs', is the ultimate tribute to the breed, and is chock-full with stories and photos that actively serve to substantiate what might otherwise seem as idle boasts and overethusiastic praise. In fact, for anyone who spends any time around Labs, like me, it is hard nto to use superlatives when describing them. More than one of the stories herein will bring a smile to your face, a tear to your eye, and the idea in your noggin perhaps it is time to consider getting one of these incredible creatures into you rlife, and that of your extended family. they boost the energy level in any room they enter, are incredible chick-magnets, and have been shown to reduce high blood pressure and dissipate depression through their mere presence. This is a wonderful book about what I believe to be the world's most nearly perfect living creature, the Labrador Retriever! Enjoy!	2004-01-08
835910:US	52447634	R37PABL7Z5EDIO	0312315600	636970772	Big Lies: The Right-Wing Propaganda Machine and How It Distorts the Truth	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Entertaining Examination Of Basis For Far Right Lies!	This provocative book represents another nail in the burgeoning coffin Bush is building around himself by way of the growing number of voices openly criticizing the Bush regime and the radical far-right cabal associated with it. Noted author Joe Conason, whose new book, \\"Big Lies\\", fires off a volley of convincing broadsides against the perfidy and systematic misrepresentations of the neo-conservative elements within the Republican party. The author employs a rather interesting and disarmingly straightforward approach to \\"outing\\" each of the lies, citing one at the outset of each chapter, and then systematically examining the evidence regarding the outrageous and inflammatory charges. According to Conason, the charges of the far right would be laughable, were they not so easily accepted as true within the public domain.<br />Yet even more worrisome has been the specter of a Democratic party either unable or unwilling to engage any of these outrageous charges until the rise of recent proponents like Al Franken, whose humorous and yet hard-punching fisticuffs have finally begun to turn the tables against the Republican fear-mongering with a spate of best selling books and associated lecture tours.  For Conason, the right wing is composed of a quite calculating and dissembling gaggle of skilled propagandists bankrolled by the kind of slush funds made available by a political system that rewards such squalid perfidy with the excess of crony capitalism. Thus, rather than being bastions of virtue and the defenders of freedom they present themselves as, such representatives from front-organizations such as the Heritage Foundation are actually the front-line shock troops of a new form of media-based fascism that is attempting to paint the opposition as ineffective, corrupt, and even un-American.<br />Hmmm. Who was it that said patriotism is the last refuge of scoundrels? Seems the comment certainly fits in with the analysis presented here. Taking particular aim at the electronic media pundits like blowhard Tucker Carlson and the feckless fat man himself, William Bennett, Conason shows how easily their hot air bags can be deflated through the quick insertion of a few facts into the equation.  In a moment all of their invective and shocking string of accusations about public figures become patently obvious as being what they are, scurrilous attempts to smear decent human beings with the argot of hate and fear.  Conason writes with both passion and precision, and one is edified at the same time as one is being entertained, so learning more about tall of this is a rather effortless affair, and one I would highly recommend for anyone interested in learning more about the truth regarding so much of the political nonsense presenting itself as learned analysis on endless TV talk shows. Enjoy!ctronic media pundits like blowhard Tucker Carlson and the feckless fat man himself, William Bennett, Conason shows how easily their hot air bags can be deflated through the quick insertion of a few facts into the equation.  In a moment all of their invective and shocking string of accusations about public figures become patently obvious as being what they are, scurrilous attempts to smear decent human beings with the argot of hate and fear.  Conason writes with both passion and precision, and one is edified at the same time as one is being entertained, so learning more about tall of this is a rather effortless affair, and one I would highly recommend for anyone interested in learning more about the truth regarding so much of the political nonsense presenting itself as learned analysis on endless TV talk shows. Enjoy!	2004-01-08
836347:US	52447634	R1AQ8JLD9JV7Z8	0195144538	506360287	From Camelot to Kent State: The Sixties Experience in the Words of Those Who Lived it	Books	3	12	13	N	N	Interesting Oral History Of The Sixties	Many people who lived through the tumult of the 1960s will enjoy this oral history that focuses on the recollections of a group of influential Americans who lived with pitch and moment through those turbulent times.  Asking such fundamental survey questions of these respondents as \\"what motivated you to act the way you did during the 1960s\\", the author fashion together a fascinating and entertaining study that centers on the anecdotal reminiscences of some very newsworthy people, and explore a number of interesting issues and events ranging from the civil rights sit-in of the early years to participation in communes within the burgeoning counterculture. One of the most disarming aspects of the book is its willingness to let the respondents speak for themselves, which has the salutary effect of making the individual recollections come to life.<br />In this sense the book both celebrates and rues the various events and historical events, most often through the common words and phrases of the people who were, in fact, eyewitnesses to almost everything they describe. Given the lack of such testimony relating to that era, it is indeed terrific to have it so recorded and systematically organized as it is here. Here we have it all, from activists in the anti-war movement to veterans from the same conflict, from denizens of the counterculture to those who remained within the more comfortable orbits of conventional mainstream societies. The reader will find absorbing information regarding everything from the feminist movement to gay pride, from student protest to the free speech movement. One aspect in which the book seems to draw short is in an analysis of the meaning of all this data, which, for understandable reasons, might seem something like trying to herd cats, so varied was the subject matter and tenor of the individual responses. This is an interesting book, and one anyone who lived through the times might well enjoy.	2004-01-08
836361:US	52447634	R3JB9OF8OTZ2BA	0684813785	681707236	The Making of the Atomic Bomb	Books	5	65	70	N	N	Superb Historical Account Of Etiology of First Atomic Bomb!	One of the most admirable qualities of this truly marvelous work is its ability to paint the story of the creation of the first atomic weapon on the broadest possible canvas, reaching back into the bowels of history to trace, with the fidelity of a seismographic needle, the rise of both the specific intellectuals as well as the critical scientific mass to make the work not only conceivable, but possible. This is indeed a work that one reads repeatedly, for there is so much to digest within the pages of this masterwork as to defy any easy such description. So both the cast of involved personalities is long and incredibly interesting to witness as the author develops it, but then again, so is his description of the rise of theoretical physics through the work of Albert Einstein and his colleagues within the mostly European academic orbit in the first third of the twentieth century. In that sense, it is not strictly speaking, merely a detailed exposition dealing with what happened in New Mexico under incredibly secret circumstances during World War Two, as the Manhattan Project, even though it eventually gravitates toward being exactly that.<br />Instead, the book opens as an exploration into the minds of some brilliantly eccentric professors and intellectuals struggling within theoretical physics on the very cutting edge of the unknown, and then stretching it in quite unsuspected and revolutionary ways. And as the critical mass of theoretical knowledge began to cluster within the fairly small community of like-minded souls, the scene changes based on world politics and the rise of fascism. It is an interesting curiosity that had Hitler been less vitriolic in his condemnation of Jews, he might have forestalled the emigration of critical players in this unfolding melodrama, and so might have altered his own destiny and that of his most important ally, Japan. For just as the kluge of intellectuals conceded that such a weapon was indeed theoretically possible and feasible, many of them began to flee to more hospitable environs, including both the USA and Britain. Without their help, it is questionable as to whether the Manhattan Project could have ever succeeded.<br />The author is also quite convincing in his take concerning the long-rumored notion that the Nazis were also rushing toward development of the bomb, which Rhodes believes to be unsubstantiated by the available evidence. In fact, he argues exactly the opposite, that the Nazis were neither very interested in the development of such a weapon, and did not enjoy sufficient access to the kinds of materials they would have needed to mount a serious developmental nuclear program. Yet the majority of the book focuses memorably on the events transpiring in and around Los Alamos. The program to develop a useable atomic bomb was so massive and so secret that it is hard to imagine its scope at the time.  Rhodes' prose admirably supports his sometimes almost confessional style, and he writes well enough to interest us in the most prosaic description even as he is describing events and people who literally transformed the world. This book has an incredible panorama to its rather ambitious scope, which includes biographical, scientific, sociological, political, and economic elements to it.  It is indeed a classic, and deserves its status as one of the best-written accounts of the events of World War Two yet published. Enjoy!e, many of them began to flee to more hospitable environs, including both the USA and Britain. Without their help, it is questionable as to whether the Manhattan Project could have ever succeeded.  <br />The author is also quite convincing in his take concerning the long-rumored notion that the Nazis were also rushing toward development of the bomb, which Rhodes believes to be unsubstantiated by the available evidence. In fact, he argues exactly the opposite, that the Nazis were neither very interested in the development of such a weapon, and did not enjoy sufficient access to the kinds of materials they would have needed to mount a serious developmental nuclear program. Yet the majority of the book focuses memorably on the events transpiring in and around Los Alamos. The program to develop a useable atomic bomb was so massive and so secret that it is hard to imagine its scope at the time.  Rhodes' prose admirably supports his sometimes almost confessional style, and he writes well enough to interest us in the most prosaic description even as he is describing events and people who literally transformed the world. This book has an incredible panorama to its rather ambitious scope, which includes biographical, scientific, sociological, political, and economic elements to it.  It is indeed a classic, and deserves its status as one of the best-written accounts of the events of World War Two yet published. Enjoy!	2004-01-08
839157:US	52447634	RXF5VZG98FFXS	0312295278	796517538	Why The North Won The Vietnam War	Books	4	21	29	N	N	Excellent, Provocative Examination Of Vietnam War!	It is a commonplace observation that history is interpreted and written by the victors. In this case however, it seems to have been the vanquished, i.e., the United States and the western world, which has succeeded in predominantly defining the nature of the conflict in Vietnam and its environs, including Cambodia, Laos, and Thailand. With the special hubris and arrogance of the young ascending American academic establishment and its struggle to redefine the world in terms less dystonic to its neo-conservative worldview, we have suggested seemingly endless theories relating to how it is that \\"we\\" actively lost the war through incompetence, treachery, or misunderstanding, without ever seriously considering the quite formidable nature of the foe, and what the opposite side did to win the same conflict. Herein this imbalance is corrected, with thoughtful essays offered by nine noted scholars with convincing credentials regarding the war in Southeast Asia.<br />The several essays succeed marvelously in exploring the myriad of ways in which the Vietnamese actively prosecuted a multifaceted campaign against their American antagonists and ultimately defeated them, both on the battlefield, but much more critically, in terms of the revolutionary political struggle which was central to final success in transforming the country and uniting the people under a single flag. In so doing, they put the lie to such conventional wisdom as has gathered momentum in the last decade or so here in this country through the active if somewhat disingenuous ministrations of a bevy of enthusiastically neo-conservative authors who have redefined Vietnam as a so-called \\"necessary war\\".<br />This volume is masterfully edited by Professor Marc Jason Gilbert. Gilbert, a history professor, has managed to gather together an impressive collection of pertinent essays by such noted authors as Jeffrey Record, John Prados, William Duiker, and George Herring, among others. The essays cover a broad array of issues and concerns relating to the conduct of the war, and include discussions of elements such as foreign and domestic policy here in the United States, employment of military tactics, long term strategy of both sides, and the many ways in which the Vietnamese opposition laid the groundwork for the seemingly sudden collapse of the South Vietnamese capital in 1975. It also includes provocative examination of our intelligence failures on the ground in Vietnam, our misunderstanding and lack of appreciation for the nature of the civil war that underlay the whole conflict, and the ways in which our defeat would reverberate through our system of international relations. This is a wonderful book, and one I would recommend for use in an introductory class for undergraduates for both a balanced and fresh look at one of the most troubling military involvements of the U.S. military in the last century. Enjoy!<br />.of issues and concerns relating to the conduct of the war, and include discussions of elements such as foreign and domestic policy here in the United States, employment of military tactics, long term strategy of both sides, and the many ways in which the Vietnamese opposition laid the groundwork for the seemingly sudden collapse of the South Vietnamese capital in 1975. It also includes provocative examination of our intelligence failures on the ground in Vietnam, our misunderstanding and lack of appreciation for the nature of the civil war that underlay the whole conflict, and the ways in which our defeat would reverberate through our system of international relations. This is a wonderful book, and one I would recommend for use in an introductory class for undergraduates for both a balanced and fresh look at one of the most troubling military involvements of the U.S. military in the last century. Enjoy!<br />.	2004-01-06
840943:US	52447634	RWKA6Y8X2HC11	0743237099	112318511	After: The Rebuilding and Defending of America in the September 12 Era	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Entertaining Overview Of The Meaning of 911 Afterward	In the wake of the 911 tragedy came a virtual tidal wave of tomes relating in one fashion or another to the effects and meaning of the events of that fateful day. Yet with all those books, none has succeeded quite so colorfully or in such an entertaining and edifying fashion as has noted journalist Steven Brill in \\"After: How America Confronted The September 12 Era\\". Focusing on the individual lives of a variety of different people from any of a number of separate and distinct walks of life, Brill pulls us up close and personal into the vortex of what is swirling around within the events and consequences flowing from the actions of nineteen madmen bent on murder and mayhem. Yet this is not a maudlin book, in the sense that it concentrates on a tragic event and its aftermath. Instead, it is a celebration of why we Americans have much to be proud of regarding the conduct of many of the involved individuals.<br />The book, while meticulously noted and researched, flows rather like a work of fiction, moving us with its portrayal of the shuddering impact of the day's events. Yet, despite its stirring narrative and impressive dialogue, each of the characters in this well-written work are real breathing individuals, most of them still walking among us, most of them still relatively anonymous. And it is due to this sheer raw humanity exposed in its most vulnerable moments of loss and renewal. In so doing, Brill offers us a stirring and unforgettable portrait of how our culture works. Thus we follow a customs officer as he reacts to his own eyewitness experience of the hits on the World Trade Centers with an emotional and yet critical effort to rein in control over a massive field full of potentially dangerous cargo containers, any of which might hold weapons of mass destruction, or a customs officer who suddenly must curtail the rather informal border crossings with few men or resources at her disposal.<br />We watch as an executive reacts to the news by immediately issuing orders for the materials to expand production of airport x-ray machines needed to ensure greater passenger safety, and as other individuals with loved ones lost in the carnage struggle to draw meaning and sustenance from their bewildering losses. The few negative aspects of the book have to do with Brill's seemingly nave acceptance of several bureaucrat's spin on the events in self serving ways, a la Tom Ridge and John Ashcroft, who attempt to justify actions taken by the federal bureaucracy on the basis of protecting Americans, when elsewhere it has been demonstrated that there were other, ulterior motives for much of these moves to consolidate power and capability more exclusively within the federal executive branch. Yet the nearly 350 interviews and extensive research accomplished by Brill shine through with a most memorable and meaningful essay into the aftermath of a day that will certainly live in infamy for decades to come. Enjoy!g orders for the materials to expand production of airport x-ray machines needed to ensure greater passenger safety, and as other individuals with loved ones lost in the carnage struggle to draw meaning and sustenance from their bewildering losses. The few negative aspects of the book have to do with Brill's seemingly nave acceptance of several bureaucrat's spin on the events in self serving ways, a la Tom Ridge and John Ashcroft, who attempt to justify actions taken by the federal bureaucracy on the basis of protecting Americans, when elsewhere it has been demonstrated that there were other, ulterior motives for much of these moves to consolidate power and capability more exclusively within the federal executive branch. Yet the nearly 350 interviews and extensive research accomplished by Brill shine through with a most memorable and meaningful essay into the aftermath of a day that will certainly live in infamy for decades to come. Enjoy!	2004-01-05
841516:US	52447634	RG7SXU3Q7DW06	0807854360	519418822	Confronting the War Machine: Draft Resistance during the Vietnam War	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Wonderful Overview Of Vietnam War Draft Resistance Movement	Nothing inspires so much enduring controversy and strongly held opinions as the subject of active draft resistance during the Vietnam War.  The draft resisters were composed of a relatively small segment of the hundreds of thousands (if not millions) of young American men of draft age who avoided serving in the Army in one fashion or another. While most avoided active service in one or another fashion by enrolling in colleges or graduate schools, getting married and quickly having children, or by crossing the border into Canada, the draft resisters stood their ground and actively (and often quite dramatically) confronted the system by openly opposing the draft, burning their draft cards publicly, and serving themselves up for the legal and social consequences of refusing to serve in the military.<br />The author's approach is both appealing and effective; he uses a plethora of anecdotes and then places them in context by providing an overall history of the movement as well as an effective analysis of the effect of the movement both for the individuals choosing to participate in it as well as for the society at large.  Author Michael Foley is a history professor at the City University of New York College of Staten Island, and he obviously has some personal experience informing his awareness of the phenomenon, which was in his estimation one of the most important and most progressively attempted efforts at defanging the war machine, a technique which comprising the cutting edge of young Americans opposition to the war in Southeast Asia. It found its inspiration in the Gandhi-like examples of the civil rights movement, and found widespread philosophical and legal support for a method that eventually forced the formal apparatus of government to sit up and take notice.<br />What I found especially fascinating about Foley's approach is his concentration on events transpiring in the greater Boston area, where I had many personal experiences, both with the active resistance against the war as well as the other related anti-war activities. So the author's cogent analysis and colorful anecdotes often churn up memories of people and the times from my own reservoir of such experiences some thirty-five years ago. What was so intriguing about the movement was the way it transformed what was initially a massive loathing for what was considered an unmanly and suspect strategy into one that was much more widely supported and endorsed by mainstream Americans. Thus, by placing themselves and their futures on the line (many resisters eventually served time in prison rather than serve in the military), the resisters did change public opinion and popular perception of the war itself and on the ways in which honorable young men could behave in response to it.<br />Eventually, such efforts actually helped to end the draft, as President Nixon foisted a lottery system as an interim approach to the patently unfair policies of the draft, and soon thereafter created an all-volunteer service in response to the public outcry over 'selective service'. The actions of the war resisters sparked a wide-spread recognition among their peers of the obviously unfair nature of the draft itself, and helped to legitimize the mass-protests against the war involving millions of Americans outraged by the racist and social class distinctions made in draft policies.  Finally, Foley shows how greater civic awareness is required to ensure a more enlightened and informed understanding of one's patriotic duties to the country during time of war. Enjoy!ance against the war as well as the other related anti-war activities. So the author's cogent analysis and colorful anecdotes often churn up memories of people and the times from my own reservoir of such experiences some thirty-five years ago. What was so intriguing about the movement was the way it transformed what was initially a massive loathing for what was considered an unmanly and suspect strategy into one that was much more widely supported and endorsed by mainstream Americans. Thus, by placing themselves and their futures on the line (many resisters eventually served time in prison rather than serve in the military), the resisters did change public opinion and popular perception of the war itself and on the ways in which honorable young men could behave in response to it.     <br />Eventually, such efforts actually helped to end the draft, as President Nixon foisted a lottery system as an interim approach to the patently unfair policies of the draft, and soon thereafter created an all-volunteer service in response to the public outcry over 'selective service'. The actions of the war resisters sparked a wide-spread recognition among their peers of the obviously unfair nature of the draft itself, and helped to legitimize the mass-protests against the war involving millions of Americans outraged by the racist and social class distinctions made in draft policies.  Finally, Foley shows how greater civic awareness is required to ensure a more enlightened and informed understanding of one's patriotic duties to the country during time of war. Enjoy!	2004-01-04
842195:US	52447634	ROQTUPZOMGISX	1403963681	657786037	Terrorism and Tyranny: Trampling Freedom, Justice and Peace to Rid the World of Evil	Books	5	24	25	N	Y	An Important And Essential Book For Our Times	On the dust jacket of his new book, author James Bovard quotes Attorney General John Ashcroft's chilling words regarding the costs associated with the raging war against terrorism. Ashcroft claims, \\"Those who scare peace-loving people with phantoms of lost liberty...will only aid terrorists as they erode our national unity and diminish our resolve. They give ammunition to America's enemies and pause to America's friends\\".  Such is the poisonous atmosphere created by the current administration and its utter disregard for the civil liberties and precious personal freedoms of average Americans. This then, is an extremely well written book that exhaustively details the manifest ways in which the Bush administration has misused and abused its power and privilege in what is obviously the most blatant grab for exclusive executive power in the last two hundred years.<br />Characterizing the war on terror as the single most aggressive growth industry of the new millennium, Bovard boldly documents the specifics of the Bush' administration's war against its own people through the implementation of a wide range of anti-democratic measures to ensure its hold on power and to use the rationale of the war on terror to pursue a plethora of totally unrelated neo-conservative goals. For Bovard, the current range of executive branch actions against terror has more to do with ensuring its own survival in an abrasive political environment than it does with combating the actual terrorist threat. Every action taken is done with public assurances it is being done with scrupulous and diligent concern for protecting individual rights and personal privacy, when in fact the administration then eschews any and all efforts to oversee or surveil its constitutionally questionable actions and policies. It misrepresents the actions of its agencies such as the FBI or the Department of Homeland Security at the same time it seeks to extend its ability to monitor and control the civil liberties of its innocent citizens.<br />Much of the book centers on the specific ways in which the tyranny of the established order attempts to justify its own actions by portraying them as being taken in the public interest. Yet rather than commit sufficient funds for enhancing internal security or bolstering first responder capabilities for cities, states, and municipalities at risk of terrorist strikes, they engage in the single largest tax-refund program for wealthy Americans since the initiation of the federal tax code in the 20th century. They exaggerate victories and minimize failures, and use \\"bait and switch\\" tactics to sell a war in Iraq by claiming Iraq posed a clear and present terrorist danger to the United States. The Bush administration constantly conjures up references to freedom and liberty, yet supports many governments that are both anti-democratic and authoritarian to their own citizens.<br />Most provocatively, Bovard shares a wealth of documents and sources showing how a group of neo-conservative intellectuals have hijacked the means of governance for their own ideological and self-interested purposes. Several of the insiders are prominent Zionists like Paul Wolfowitz and Richard Perle, who seem to view the current questionable and sometimes brutal military and political tactics of the Sharon government in Israel against the Palestinian refugees in the so-called territories as an ostensible model for how to manhandle and subjugate the truth into a tool to help fashion their own agendas through astute public relations and incredible `chutzpah' in terms of political spin of the situation. Thus anyone disagreeing with neo-conservative doctrines is accused of tacitly suspect patriotism.  More worrying is the seeming unilateral agenda of the administration for remaking the world into a form more congenial to American corporate interests. In Bush's view, American hegemony and American service to democratic ideals seem to be the same thing. This is an important book, and one that honestly deserves your most earnest attention. Enjoy!k, and one that honestly deserves your most earnest attention. Enjoy!	2004-01-04
842601:US	52447634	R39H53ZCR8KLOJ	0743217721	663582620	Carry Me Home: Birmingham, Alabama: The Climactic Battle of the Civil Rights Revolution	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Masterful Account of the Final Struggle In Birmingham!	In the last ten years there have been a number of truly excellent first hand accounts of the events that transformed America in the 1950s and 1960s through the actions of the civil rights movement. Yet none of these masterful accounts is better than this first hand account by one of the principals in the final such confrontation in Birmingham, Alabama in 1963. Diane McWhorter, a journalist and also a native Alabamian, carefully essays the complex welter of conflicting forces animating the growing battle between the conservative forces of the white establishment on the one hand, and the coalition of different black and other liberal groups on the other, determined to finally break down the color barriers in Birmingham once and for all.<br />In language that often seems more powerfully written in the prose of fiction than in the antiseptic words of journalism, the author ignites the pages with a firestorm of powerfully etched incidents and images, describing the seemingly indescribable historic events that frame the story of the epic struggle that was Birmingham. Early in the spring of 1963, civil rights protestors, including black school children, were met with senseless systematic ferocity by armed thugs and attack dogs. A few short weeks later, the KKK cowardly bombed the 16th Street Baptist Church, murdering four pre-adolescent black girls in one of the most horrific and despicable acts of the entire civil rights era. Thus in a few short months, Birmingham became the most violent epicenter for the most bloody final episode of the entire burgeoning civil rights struggle.<br />The scenes recounted are gripping and dramatic, ranging from those of ordinary black folks facing down brutality and violence with quiet resolve, never resorting to all too understandable revenge or payback. Each scene is backed up by a extremely well-documented series of vignettes and facts, supporting all of the historical accounts with a riveting web of first person knowledge and a sense for the central crucial elements of the story as it memorably unfolds with all of its native drama and innate excitement. From the opening events of terror-filled reprisals against \\"nonconforming\\" 'colored' individuals to the increasingly well organized and masterfully orchestrated campaigns conducted by savvy and experienced civil rights activists, as the smoke clears it is the forces for change that emerge victorious, despite all of the resources and powers of the established order being marshaled against them.<br />This is an extremely well written and eminently readable book that masterfully summarizes a plethora of related incidents and historical events into an entertaining and educational work that will certainly stand the test of time and will likely become a standard reference for students wishing to understand one of the most fateful of the battles eventuating in the success of the civil rights movement. This is a book I can highly recommend for all readers. Enjoy!for the central crucial elements of the story as it memorably unfolds with all of its native drama and innate excitement. From the opening events of terror-filled reprisals against \\"nonconforming\\" 'colored' individuals to the increasingly well organized and masterfully orchestrated campaigns conducted by savvy and experienced civil rights activists, as the smoke clears it is the forces for change that emerge victorious, despite all of the resources and powers of the established order being marshaled against them.  <br />This is an extremely well written and eminently readable book that masterfully summarizes a plethora of related incidents and historical events into an entertaining and educational work that will certainly stand the test of time and will likely become a standard reference for students wishing to understand one of the most fateful of the battles eventuating in the success of the civil rights movement. This is a book I can highly recommend for all readers. Enjoy!	2004-01-03
843669:US	52447634	R3NWYANJTT3VYF	067400471X	551238409	Northern Passage: American Vietnam War Resisters in Canada	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Terrific Study Of Draft Reisters Fleeing to Canada !	This is truly a fascinating book for anyone familiar with the decade-long 'sturm und drang' associated with the anti-war movement of the 1960s, when tens of thousands of young American men fled across the Canadian border in an effort to avoid the military draft and service in Vietnam. In many respects this emigration became a lightening rod for the conflict between the pro-war forces within this country and the wider anti-war movement composed at first of hundreds of thousands and then even millions of Americans willing to aid and abet such young men in their efforts to avoid becoming part of what was referred to as the \\"war machine\\".  What is most interesting in this scholarly account of the phenomenon, however, is its examination of what happened to the welter of young men so intent on living life on their own terms that they were willing to become expatriates to do so.<br />The author, Professor John Hagen, is a sociologist interested in examining the pilgrim's progress of individual draft-dodgers/emigrants who poured over the border for close to a decade, often with a surprising set of expectations and unresolved internal conflicts associated with the personal experiences that had led them so far from home. His ability to recount the many levels on which the war continued to determine the options and the world view of the individuals so affected is fascinating stuff, and the author does a yeoman's job of breathing life and substance into a work that might otherwise be dry and difficult reading indeed. While his account is earnest and quite well documented, it is also quite revealing and entertaining to read. Hagan often poses questions for the respondents that result in illuminating glimpses into the lingering ways in which the fateful decision to move north continue to affect them in most fateful ways, both for better and for worse. What is most amazing is the degree to which the majority of the individuals rose above the difficulties associated with this move and made successes of their lives.<br />In this sense, the work is a penetrating effort to unmask and explore the consequences of the war in Vietnam for all of us. In this sense it is a resounding affirmation of how each of us was transformed and changed by our participation in the culture of the sixties, whether for better or for worse. The best in sociology is its ability to locate the individual meaningfully in his times and embedded within the context of his or her cultural meanings. Such a book is this, an effort to locate and recognize the ways in which our times help to determine how we live and under what specific set of existential circumstances we strive to realize our most important goals and most personal dreams. This is a great book, and one I wish many more people would read. Enjoy!ve and made successes of their lives. <br />In this sense, the work is a penetrating effort to unmask and explore the consequences of the war in Vietnam for all of us. In this sense it is a resounding affirmation of how each of us was transformed and changed by our participation in the culture of the sixties, whether for better or for worse. The best in sociology is its ability to locate the individual meaningfully in his times and embedded within the context of his or her cultural meanings. Such a book is this, an effort to locate and recognize the ways in which our times help to determine how we live and under what specific set of existential circumstances we strive to realize our most important goals and most personal dreams. This is a great book, and one I wish many more people would read. Enjoy!	2004-01-03
855234:US	52447634	RZMF5FXB9Z760	0805074007	932608591	Hegemony or Survival: America's Quest for Global Dominance (The American Empire Project)	Books	5	43	54	N	Y	Wonderful Primer On Bush Administration's Global Ambitions!	Whatever one may say about famed linguist Noam Chomsky regarding his provocative political views, it seems difficult to seriously doubt either his intellect or his integrity. While he may sometimes seem didactic or repetitive in his exhortations against the evils manifesting themselves in contemporary America, he always views the circumstances with insight, sophistication, and verve. In this offering, Chomsky faces off brilliantly with a superb broadside against the emerging unilateral imperialism represented by the Bush administration's foreign policy, and presents us with what he sees as a most fateful fork in the republic's future polity; with one road leading to a corporate-driven totalitarian society organized and conducted for the exclusive benefit of the rich and well-placed, or, on the other hand, a road leading toward a renewed commitment to America's more traditional values of moral leadership, a more constrained and human-oriented capitalism, and a turn toward greater inclusiveness within our own borders.<br />Chomsky's argument finds its emotional traction by focusing on the nascent rise of what he views as a neo-conservative regime as represented by the Bush administration, one capable of becoming a fascistic totalitarian entity capable of attempting to recreate the world in its image, and willing to use the military in a no-holds barred attempt to unilaterally remake the world in a fashion more consonant to our tastes and sensibilities. Indeed, he fear that with the thrust of current policy, only a combined effort uniting what he refers to as the `planet's public' can succeed in turning the momentum toward such a kinder and gentler fascism from permanently taking root in this country. After all, as he argues, once such a crypto-fascist regime takes power, they are hardly likely to relinquish it willingly.<br />As in his previous works, Chomsky quickly disabuses readers of any lingering notions regarding the nature of the current polity by walking us through the litany of sins it is guilty of, from its contempt for tradition and international law to its arrogance in dealing with other nations, from its blatant militarism and saber-rattling to its consistent disregard for existing international agreements, and from its somewhat arbitrary attitude toward aggression of other sovereign states to its alarming support of anti-democratic and totalitarian regimes. He also decries American support of Israeli excesses toward the Palestinians, and suggests that American troops are becoming consistently involved in activities that can only be fairly described as constituting crimes against humanity and/or war crimes.<br />All of this is, as usual, impeccably documented, and it is hard to ague with the amassed citations or the logic employed. He is particularly convincing in assailing the Bush record of active attempts to reverse tradition norms and attitudes toward freedom and civil liberties, such that, left unchecked, could conceivably deflate a half-century of tradition in terms of American respect for law, human rights, and international cooperation. He is at his most provocative here in citing the evidence of a deliberate American support for world-wide repression through surrogate client states such as Turkey, Pakistan, and Columbia, in which both American arms and generous foreign aid in what Chomsky argues is in direct proportion to their level of terror they visit upon their domestic populations. He notes that given current levels of citizen ignorance and apathy domestically, American policy is likely to continue along its current path without some intervention by concerned citizens.<br />He concludes with a quite convincing demonstration of the many ways in which American policy has directly contributed to and sponsored the growth of international terrorism, and shows how our current policies of disregard for international law and the need for cooperation with our fellow nations leads to a geometric increase in thenumbers of terrorist organizations and groups actively working against the USA. Needless to say, the book has a number of provocative threads running through it, and is definitely not for the feint of heart. But nowhere will you find a book that so intelligently and carefully documents all the reasons citizens have to become more concerned and more involved in the actions of their government and all the horror that the current administration is doing in the people's name. I highly recommend this book. Enjoy!se in the numbers of terrorist organizations and groups actively working against the USA. Needless to say, the book has a number of provocative threads running through it, and is definitely not for the feint of heart. But nowhere will you find a book that so intelligently and carefully documents all the reasons citizens have to become more concerned and more involved in the actions of their government and all the horror that the current administration is doing in the people's name. I highly recommend this book. Enjoy!	2003-12-23
856210:US	52447634	R3R7L3YJFQS2HZ	0771015011	705385418	The Guns of Victory: A Soldier's Eve View, Belgium, Holland, and Germany, 1944-45	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Brilliant Final Volume Of A Superb WW II Trilogy!	In this, the concluding chapter of Canadian war veteran George G. Blackburn's superb three-volume eyewitness history of our northern neighbor's involvement in the war in Europe, we find a truly stunning successor to the previous two volumes. As with \\"The Guns Of Normandy\\" volume, we discover a masterful narrative punctuating the combination of dramatic life and death struggles contrasted with moments of drumming ennui or utter despair. For the Canadian soldier on the ground, the several months following the heroic and costly landing on D-Day were seemingly a coda, a time that seemed unreal because while they had the enemy on the run, the remaining elements of the Wehrmacht fought savagely and well in the ensuing period of time. So, although many of the allies felt it was all over but the shouting, especially after the re-taking of Paris and much of France, as Blackburn shows us from the ground grunt's view, it was anything but over and done with.<br />This volume picks up the narrative thread where the previous volume left it, with the much-vaunted Canadian 4th Field Regiment ordered in to relentlessly pursue the Germans as they retreated through the treacherous topography of the flooded French area known as the `Low Country'. As the pursuit ensued, the soldiers began to reach the limits of their physical and emotional endurance. And the battle as it unfolded before them promised no respite from the hellish demands posed by an enemy with no real thought of surrendering or fleeing. Yet, as they knock the Wehrmacht from its hastily devised defense perimeters within the Scheldt estuary again and again, they gradually succeeded in creating the conditions for re-opening of Antwerp, and thus helped to unleash the productive power and formidable logistics trail previously left hanging for want of such a large and capable deep-water port.<br />In the midst of all this, the Canadians, along with the rest of the Allied forces, had to suffer through the worst winter in decades in the European theater in the open and on the ground, and many died from such harsh exposure to the elements. Yet the Germans, fighting under these horrific conditions, still were able to mount savage resistance as they fought even more ferociously even as they began to understand how desperate their situation was. And as they beat the foe back yard by yard, mile by mile, back across the Rhine, the Canadians are enlisted in the increased fight once more in the Battle of the Rhineland, the final push toward the German heartland. And, as victory finally comes, Blackburn assures us it was indeed a bittersweet experience, felt equally with measures of pride and relief, knowing the unbelievable ordeal of the last several years was finally over.<br />As with his other books, here Blackburn relates his personal experience with a wonderfully literate and engagingly approachable writing style, and he surely uses his journalist's experience and his obvious facility with words to great advantage here, adding immeasurably to our understanding of what the experience on the ground was in as the first fatal hours and days turned into weeks and months of savage fighting, as the Allies bludgeoned their ways through the brutal resistance of a frenzied Nazi war machine. This is a story we should hear again and again, as we rediscover once more how truly amazing the feat of both the Canadians in particular, but all the Allies in general, stood tall in the very face of tyranny and smashed it into smithereens, saving the world from what has to be considered the face of absolute evil. Mr. Blackburn writes with surprising intensity and emotion, and his sense of recall of particular events and existential circumstances for himself and his fellows is both impressive and quite moving at points in his narrative. This is first person history at its best, one that employs both a more objective coda to the book, which also serves to lend a more authoritative aura to the proceedings than would otherwise have been possible. I recommend not only this book, but the other two volumes as well. Enjoy!d otherwise have been possible. I recommend not only this book, but the other two volumes as well. Enjoy!	2003-12-23
872080:US	52447634	R1RUFIGJ8966DI	0609803379	40416312	The Times Were a Changin': The Sixties Reader	Books	4	27	28	N	N	Impressive Collection Of Sixties Documents!	For students of the counterculture and the sixties in general, and for those interested in learning more about the turbulent times and momentous social, political, and cultural events swirling through the 1960s, this book offers a plethora of articles, speeches, and eye-witness accounts of the myriad of speeches, declarations, and court decisions marking that topsy-turvy decade. Indeed, no decade in the 20th century was so pock-marked with mass protest, social excitement, or utter confusion than was that time, and the authors have gathered together here a commendable collection of works that help to present a number of notable perspectives on all that transpired.<br />The sixties were a time of confusion, liberation, and, more than anything else, a general sense of questioning conventional wisdom and common cultural practices. And the series of works presented here help to explain and describe how all these competing shouts and movements amid the many streams of issues and concerns helped to form the changes that literally changed the social and cultural landscape of contemporary America forever. There are articles here that reveal much about a wide spectrum of contravening forces, from the anti-war movement to the influence of Woodstock on the public imagination, from the civil rights movement to the landing of American astronauts on the moon, and from politicians and spokesmen as varied as Barry Goldwater on the one hand, and Abbie Hoffman on the other.<br />This anthology is a well thought-out effort, and covers a lot of important ground in its selections, and the authors provide the reader with a lot of research and information on issues as varied as the Bay of Pigs invasion to the infamous Tet campaign launched by the Viet Cong in early 1968, fatally changing the course of the Vietnam war. While the book is unlikely to change many minds, it does provide grist for a lot of soul-searching and rethinking of ideas about what happened during the sixties and how it still affects us to this day.  It is likely to infuriate denizens of the right while confirming the predispositions of the New Left. In any event, there is no doubt it is a valuable book that accomplishes the difficult task of assembling a meaningful and useful collection of essays, speeches, and other documents concerning the truth about what happened in the 1960s and why. Enjoy!it still affects us to this day.  It is likely to infuriate denizens of the right while confirming the predispositions of the New Left. In any event, there is no doubt it is a valuable book that accomplishes the difficult task of assembling a meaningful and useful collection of essays, speeches, and other documents concerning the truth about what happened in the 1960s and why. Enjoy!	2003-12-08
886867:US	52447634	R2WLE4Q5R37CZK	1586481843	626448035	Franklin Delano Roosevelt: Champion of Freedom	Books	5	73	80	N	N	Wonderful Overview Of FDR's Fascinating Life!	This book is an example of how much difference a writer's gift can make in the success of his efforts at biography. While there is little that is new or novel in this superb one-volume interpretation of Franklin Delano Roosevelt's storied life, the integration of the established facts and the use of mainly secondary sources is done with such art and ability that it becomes a stunning read, one the average reader will find immensely approachable and eminently readable. What is more amazing is that this effort is done so well by a non-professional in the sense that author Conrad Black is neither an academic historian nor a professional author. Yet no one who reads this can doubt his way with words, a gift so considerable that he turns this mainly derivative biographical effort into what is sure to become one of the most widely read biographies of FDR yet.<br />The book is both entertaining and engaging, told in such an eloquent way that his often-humorous anecdotes and descriptions of various events involving both FDR and his significant orbit of friends and family is a source of constantly evolving interest to the reader. The author shows his admiration for FDR based on what he refers to colorfully as an abiding show of personal courage in the face of adversity and pain, as well as by his enormous social and political skills in nudging individuals and groups in the direction of what he felt to be in the greater good.  Examples given include his meticulous and adroit handling of the country's movement away from an abiding isolationism and in the positive direction of active support of Britian as well as of China. His single-minded determination to slide the country away from the dangers of neutrality in the face of the global threat of fascism was perhaps one of the most skillful uses of political persuasion and cultural 'spin' of the 20th century.<br />The author seems to view FDR as the primary force working toward a radical reconstruction of the post WWII world, and a man who in conjunction with Winston Churchill, so accurately foresaw the dangers of such a world that his prescription for working through it remained valid for several decades after his death.  In fact, his idea that the key to the future peace of the postwar world lay in the focusing on the democratization of that world did more than anything to help legitimize democratic forms of government to the very audience he strove to convince, the members of the United Nations forum he helped so much to breathe air into even as he was himself dying.<br />The author, interestingly, is a staunch advocate of the merits of the so-called \\"New Deal\\" that FDR's administrations help to invoke in the midst of the worldwide crisis of the Great Depression, which Black correctly views as having saved capitalism and the free market system it connotes at a time when both capitalism itself as well as the free market system was being widely suspected as being the cause of the troubles themselves. In addition, the creation of social security, farm subsidies, wage and price legislation, and of course, securities regulations (which in the last twenty years we have legislated into meaningless self-regulation) helped to correct the egregious excesses of the times, and paved the way to the economic recovery that the war finally provided the impetus for. So, while at times the author seems a bit too reverential of the subject at hand, he does a superb job covering the waterfront, something he does indeed with style, verve, and an entertaining intelligence. Enjoy!and a man who in conjunction with Winston Churchill, so accurately foresaw the dangers of such a world that his prescription for working through it remained valid for several decades after his death.  In fact, his idea that the key to the future peace of the postwar world lay in the focusing on the democratization of that world did more than anything to help legitimize democratic forms of government to the very audience he strove to convince, the members of the United Nations forum he helped so much to breathe air into even as he was himself dying.   <br />The author, interestingly, is a staunch advocate of the merits of the so-called \\"New Deal\\" that FDR's administrations help to invoke in the midst of the worldwide crisis of the Great Depression, which Black correctly views as having saved capitalism and the free market system it connotes at a time when both capitalism itself as well as the free market system was being widely suspected as being the cause of the troubles themselves. In addition, the creation of social security, farm subsidies, wage and price legislation, and of course, securities regulations (which in the last twenty years we have legislated into meaningless self-regulation) helped to correct the egregious excesses of the times, and paved the way to the economic recovery that the war finally provided the impetus for. So, while at times the author seems a bit too reverential of the subject at hand, he does a superb job covering the waterfront, something he does indeed with style, verve, and an entertaining intelligence. Enjoy!	2003-11-26
889083:US	52447634	R3A2RNN0ZBE8YE	0753810697	532719469	To the Bitter End (v. 2)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	A Harrowing Look At Life In The Final Years Of Nazi Germany	As with Volume One (see my review), the most disarming and appealing feature of this tome is its slow and ineluctable building of suspense and empathy as World War I veteran Klemperer steadily weaves the day to day details of his life in Nazi Germany in the 12 years of that regime into a portrait of a rogue state moving irresistably down the path to tyranny and terror. The reader is sucked into the vortex of what it is like to live under such circumstances, where an aging Jewish professor who has built a life of purpose and meaning based on scholarship, hard work, and the belief in the rationalism of the state begins to understand that it will all unravel around him.<br />As the story continues here, the years of tyranny of National Socialism reach their climax, so that Klemperer, a Jew married to an Aryan woman, increasingly finds solace and relief from the growing insanity swirling around him by concentrating on his academic writing, which he continues against all odds. Even the most simple and basic freedoms are denied them, so his refusal to submit to the progressively more invective growth of lies, invectives, and accusations of the Nazi regime build into a quiet resolve to resist in the way he knows best, by maintaining an intelligent, insightful, and careful witness to the everyday horrors perpetrated with malice and cunning on the Jews as the scapegoat for all of Germany's post-WWI social and economic woes.<br />One reads in horror as Victor and Eva continue to be persecuted and systematically stripped of everything of meaning to them; their house, car, telephone, typewriter, even their beloved cat. While he understands all too well the dangers for him and his family, he consistently resists the increasingly strident pleas from family members for him to emigrate primarily because he identifies himself first and foremost as a German, and he refuses to abandon the Fatherland to the beastial likes of Hitler and the Nazis. One's sense of horror is magnified by his careful attention to the day to day details of living in the regime, the difficulties in finding socks, or clothing, or a cobbler, or vegetables, coffee, tobacco (both he and Eva are smokers), dealing with increasingly restrictive curfews, the ordeal and shame associated with the enforced wearing of the yellow star of David, the progressive acts of enforced segregation from the general populace, the occasional experiences at degradation at the hands of a youthful crowd of Hitler Youth.<br />Yet there is great humanity evidenced here, both within the Jewish community and without it. The pathos of ordinary people caught in the web of a totalitarian state is made quite clear; unlike other academics who recently have argued in belief of a generalized and universalized hate on the part of ordinary Germans leading to their willing complicity in the persecution of Jews, Klemperer offers almost daily testimony of the unending acts of kindness, generosity, and personal risks that everyday citizens take to help and assist Jews to survivie against the dictates of the totalitarian regime. Again and again he is given free food, extra provisions, someone looking deliberately the other way when they did so at personal risk.<br />In sum, Klemperer seems to acknowledge that life in Nazi Germany was a hell for all of the citizens, Jew and non-Jew alike. He pointedly gives credit to all the Aryans who assit Eva nd him as they flee from the Nazis into the more anonymous countryside in the tumult and confusion caused by the firebombing of Dresden. This, like the first volume, is a book that should become required reading for college students in world history.his careful attention to the day to day details of living in the regime, the difficulties in finding socks, or clothing, or a cobbler, or vegetables, coffee, tobacco (both he and Eva are smokers), dealing with increasingly restrictive curfews, the ordeal and shame associated with the enforced wearing of the yellow star of David, the progressive acts of enforced segregation from the general populace, the occasional experiences at degradation at the hands of a youthful crowd of Hitler Youth. <br />Yet there is great humanity evidenced here, both within the Jewish community and without it. The pathos of ordinary people caught in the web of a totalitarian state is made quite clear; unlike other academics who recently have argued in belief of a generalized and universalized hate on the part of ordinary Germans leading to their willing complicity in the persecution of Jews, Klemperer offers almost daily testimony of the unending acts of kindness, generosity, and personal risks that everyday citizens take to help and assist Jews to survivie against the dictates of the totalitarian regime. Again and again he is given free food, extra provisions, someone looking deliberately the other way when they did so at personal risk. <br />In sum, Klemperer seems to acknowledge that life in Nazi Germany was a hell for all of the citizens, Jew and non-Jew alike. He pointedly gives credit to all the Aryans who assit Eva nd him as they flee from the Nazis into the more anonymous countryside in the tumult and confusion caused by the firebombing of Dresden. This, like the first volume, is a book that should become required reading for college students in world history.	2003-11-24
889662:US	52447634	R2FYTC7OWF0SJM	1566399769	821684027	New Left Revisited (Critical Perspectives On The P)	Books	4	17	20	N	N	Engaging Look At Sixties New Left Political Perspective!	I have to admit to being less than enthusiastic about this book when I purchased it, given the fact that most of the young authors featured here were old enough to have consciously experienced, much less to actually remember, the tumultuous sixties and the so-called new-left politics that informed and characterized them. Yet, after having dutifully plowed through the well-written and quite thoughtful essays, I do have to admit that it does in fact now seem as though that is really possible to gain the sixties geist (or at least some reasonable facsimile of it). With verve and style to spare, the various authors trace the consequences of `New Left' thought, and add some new twists and turns to its utility and value as a heuristic political perspective in understanding and approaching contemporary American society.<br />The range of authors included in this entertaining and edifying collection of essays is interesting, from David Cochran to Michael Foley, from Jennifer Frost to Andrew Hunt, and from David McBride to Gregg Michel. And there are a number of notable others here, as well. The book is carefully co-edited by John McMillian and Paul Buhle. What is so refreshing about the book is the fact that it seems to breathe fresh air into the rather moribund corpse of so-called New Left thought, thereby rendering it much more approachable and much more palatable a vehicle for contemporary criticism and cultural comment regarding the currents of contemporary political thought. This is a book that many of my peers among the sixties generation will find engaging and enjoyable. I recommend the book for all of these reasons. Enjoy!	2003-11-24
889879:US	52447634	RWAM4ZJ8PSFQJ	0297818422	808799668	I Shall Bear Witness the Diaries of Victor Klemperer 1933-41 (v. 1)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Spellbinding Account Of A Jew's Life In The War Years	As with Volume One (see my review), the most disarming and appealing feature of this tome is its slow and ineluctable building of suspense and empathy as World War I veteran Klemperer steadily weaves the day to day details of his life in Nazi Germany in the 12 years of that regime into a portrait of a rogue state moving irresistably down the path to tyranny and terror. The reader is sucked into the vortex of what it is like to live under such circumstances, where an aging Jewish professor who has built a life of purpose and meaning based on scholarship, hard work, and the belief in the rationalism of the state begins to understand that it will all unravel around him.<br />As the story continues here, the years of tyranny of National Socialism reach their climax, so that Klemperer, a Jew married to an Aryan woman, increasingly finds solace and relief from the growing insanity swirling around him by concentrating on his academic writing, which he continues against all odds. Even the most simple and basic freedoms are denied them, so his refusal to submit to the progressively more invective growth of lies, invectives, and accusations of the Nazi regime build into a quiet resolve to resist in the way he knows best, by maintaining an intelligent, insightful, and careful witness to the everyday horrors perpetrated with malice and cunning on the Jews as the scapegoat for all of Germany's post-WWI social and economic woes.<br />One reads in horror as Victor and Eva continue to be persecuted and systematically stripped of everything of meaning to them; their house, car, telephone, typewriter, even their beloved cat. While he understands all too well the dangers for him and his family, he consistently resists the increasingly strident pleas from family members for him to emigrate primarily because he identifies himself first and foremost as a German, and he refuses to abandon the Fatherland to the beastial likes of Hitler and the Nazis. One's sense of horror is magnified by his careful attention to the day to day details of living in the regime, the difficulties in finding socks, or clothing, or a cobbler, or vegetables, coffee, tobacco (both he and Eva are smokers), dealing with increasingly restrictive curfews, the ordeal and shame associated with the enforced wearing of the yellow star of David, the progressive acts of enforced segregation from the general populace, the occasional experiences at degradation at the hands of a youthful crowd of Hitler Youth.<br />Yet there is great humanity evidenced here, both within the Jewish community and without it. The pathos of ordinary people caught in the web of a totalitarian state is made quite clear; unlike other academics who recently have argued in belief of a generalized and universalized hate on the part of ordinary Germans leading to their willing complicity in the persecution of Jews, Klemperer offers almost daily testimony of the unending acts of kindness, generosity, and personal risks that everyday citizens take to help and assist Jews to survivie against the dictates of the totalitarian regime. Again and again he is given free food, extra provisions, someone looking deliberately the other way when they did so at personal risk.<br />In sum, Klemperer seems to acknowledge that life in Nazi Germany was a hell for all of the citizens, Jew and non-Jew alike. He pointedly gives credit to all the Aryans who assit Eva and him as they flee from the Nazis into the more anonymous countryside in the tumult and confusion caused by the firebombing of Dresden. This, like the first volume, is a book that should become required reading for college students in world history.his careful attention to the day to day details of living in the regime, the difficulties in finding socks, or clothing, or a cobbler, or vegetables, coffee, tobacco (both he and Eva are smokers), dealing with increasingly restrictive curfews, the ordeal and shame associated with the enforced wearing of the yellow star of David, the progressive acts of enforced segregation from the general populace, the occasional experiences at degradation at the hands of a youthful crowd of Hitler Youth. <br />Yet there is great humanity evidenced here, both within the Jewish community and without it. The pathos of ordinary people caught in the web of a totalitarian state is made quite clear; unlike other academics who recently have argued in belief of a generalized and universalized hate on the part of ordinary Germans leading to their willing complicity in the persecution of Jews, Klemperer offers almost daily testimony of the unending acts of kindness, generosity, and personal risks that everyday citizens take to help and assist Jews to survivie against the dictates of the totalitarian regime. Again and again he is given free food, extra provisions, someone looking deliberately the other way when they did so at personal risk. <br />In sum, Klemperer seems to acknowledge that life in Nazi Germany was a hell for all of the citizens, Jew and non-Jew alike. He pointedly gives credit to all the Aryans who assit Eva and him as they flee from the Nazis into the more anonymous countryside in the tumult and confusion caused by the firebombing of Dresden. This, like the first volume, is a book that should become required reading for college students in world history.	2003-11-24
890202:US	52447634	R2FCSKVTQHZNNR	B00005XHQN	301737599	I shall bear witness : the diaries of Victor Klemperer, 1933-41	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Frightening Eyewitness Look At Life In Hitler's Germany!	The most disarming and appealing feature of this tome is its slow and ineluctable building of suspense and empathy as World War I veteran Klemperer steadily weaves the day to day details of his life in 1930s Germany into a portrait of a rogue state moving irresistably down the path to tyranny and terror. The reader is sucked into the vortex of what it is like to live under such circumstances, where an aging Jewish professor who has built a life of purpose and meaning based on scholarship, hard work, and the belief in the rationalism of the state begins to understand that it will all unravel around him. You begin to experience how difficult and incomprehensible it must be for him, and empathize and worry for his fate as the building storm clouds of violent fascism fill the skies of 1930s Germany. As the days and weeks pass into months and years under the growing tyranny of National Socialism, Klemperer, married to an Aryan woman, increasingly finds solace and relief from the growing insanity swirling around him by concentrating on his academic writing, which he continues against all odds.<br />As he faces an arbitrary enforced early retirement from his professorial duties, he also begins to take more time to enjoy simple pleasures with his wife, Eva, as they revel in long nature walks, the perils and pleasures of driving a second-hand car, and in watching the cinema. His refusal to submit to the progressively more invective growth of lies, invectives, and accusations of the Nazi regime build into a quiet resolve to resist in the way he knows best, by maintaining an intelligent, insightful, and careful witness to the everyday horrors perpetrated with malice and cunning on the Jews as the scapegoat for all of Germany's post-WWI social and economic woes.<br />One stands by as we watch Victor and Eva systematically stripped of everything of meaning to them; their house, car, telephone, typewriter, even their beloved cat. While he understands all too well the dangers for him and his family, he consistently resists the increasingly strident pleas from family members for him to emigrate primarily because he identifies himself first and foremost as a German, and he refuses to abandon the Fatherland to the beastial likes of Hitler and the Nazis. One's sense of horror is magnified by his careful attention to the day to day details of living in the regime, the difficulties in finding socks, or clothing, or a cobbler, or vegetables, coffee, tobacco (both he and Eva are smokers), dealing with increasingly restrictive curfews, the ordeal and shame associated with the enforced wearing of the yellow star of David, the progressive acts of enforced segregation from the general populace, the occasional experiences at degradation at the hands of a youthful crowd of Hitler Youth.<br />Yet there is great humanity evidenced here, both within the Jewish community and without it. The pathos of ordinary people caught in the web of a totalitarian state is made quite clear; unlike other academics who recently have argued in belief of a generalized and universalized hate on the part of ordinary Germans leading to their willing complicity in the persecution of Jews, Klemperer offers almost daily testimony of the unending acts of kindness, generosity, and personal risks that everyday citizens take to help and assist Jews to survivie against the dictates of the totalitarian regime. Again and again he is given free food, extra provisions, someone looking deliberately the other way when they did so at personal risk. Klemperer seems to acknowledge that life in Nazi Germany was a hell for all of the citizens, Jew and non-Jew alike.<br />Interestingly enough, at one point he mentions his personal willingness to forgive and forget towards most other Germans, but reserves enduring special scorn, animosity and bile for academics who became fellow-travelers of the regime to save their personal position and privilege. This is a book that should become required readingfor college students in world history.ing for college students in world history.	2003-11-24
890203:US	52447634	R3P69BTQ8CGKUS	084202896X	766229193	Antiwarriors: The Vietnam War and the Battle for America's Hearts and Minds (Vietnam: America in the War Years)	Books	4	34	38	N	N	Once More Into The Breach, Dear Readers!	From the time I climbed back into civil society from my military duty, I stepped exactly into the vortex of the turmoil and raging debate over the so-called anti-war movement. In this well-written and eminently readable book, author Melvin Small precisely captures the tenor of the times, and recapitulates the ongoing arguments against our misguided and massively tragic military adventure in Southeast Asia in the 1960s. Small is well qualified for such a discussion; as an active academic he has lectured on the subject for over thirty years. He is also a noted author on different aspects of the Vietnam war, having penned several books related to Nixon's prosecution of the war, Johnson's conflicted but ever deepening commitments to the war, and the roles of anti-war doves in the overall history of the war.<br />Given the fact that the war in Vietnam represented a new milestone for the history of our republic, the first time that an absolute majority of its citizens were actively against the war in one fashion or another, it is an absorbing history that reveals just how such massive public antipathy for the war was either ignored or spun politically by the media and the policymakers in order to continue their active pursuit of the country's war goals. Small carefully describes and explains exactly where the loci of dissent were to be found, and much more importantly, why. For although the revolutionary levels of active opposition to the war never actually ended the war, which dragged on for more than a decade, it did indeed profoundly influence the conduct of the war. From its import in President Johnson's decision not to seek a second term to Nixon's own involvement in the Watergate imbroglio, the political import of the high levels of active dissent to the war played a major part in how the government proceeded to conduct the war, and in the way it was explained and justified publicly.<br />Another endlessly absorbing aspect to the book is its treatment of the entire anti-war movement itself, tracing it from its origins in the civil rights and free speech movements to its eventual dissolution as the war spun down in the mid 1970s. One of the most amazing things we learn is just how little heed the elected leaders paid to public opinion on the one hand, yet at the same time recognizing the power of public antipathy to the war as a constraint they increasingly had to recognize in their machinations, especially under the Nixon administration, when anti-war views were held to be both unpatriotic and traitorous. Gee, does any of this stuff sound familiar?  This is a wonderful book that one can learn a great deal about concerning the nature of the anti-war movement in the 1960s, and the wide variety of people who manned the barricades against the war with such consistency and energy for so long a period of time. I recommend this book. Enjoy!ire anti-war movement itself, tracing it from its origins in the civil rights and free speech movements to its eventual dissolution as the war spun down in the mid 1970s. One of the most amazing things we learn is just how little heed the elected leaders paid to public opinion on the one hand, yet at the same time recognizing the power of public antipathy to the war as a constraint they increasingly had to recognize in their machinations, especially under the Nixon administration, when anti-war views were held to be both unpatriotic and traitorous. Gee, does any of this stuff sound familiar?  This is a wonderful book that one can learn a great deal about concerning the nature of the anti-war movement in the 1960s, and the wide variety of people who manned the barricades against the war with such consistency and energy for so long a period of time. I recommend this book. Enjoy!	2003-11-24
890208:US	52447634	R1V41VD7CCHMIU	0297818805	259701701	To the Bitter End the Diaries 45 (Vol 2)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	The Ghastly Truth About A Jew's Life In Nazi Germany	As with Volume One (see my review), the most disarming and appealing feature of this tome is its slow and ineluctable building of suspense and empathy as World War I veteran Klemperer steadily weaves the day to day details of his life in Nazi Germany in the 12 years of that regime into a portrait of a rogue state moving irresistably down the path to tyranny and terror. The reader is sucked into the vortex of what it is like to live under such circumstances, where an aging Jewish professor who has built a life of purpose and meaning based on scholarship, hard work, and the belief in the rationalism of the state begins to understand that it will all unravel around him.<br />As the story continues here, the years of tyranny of National Socialism reach their climax, so that Klemperer, a Jew married to an Aryan woman, increasingly finds solace and relief from the growing insanity swirling around him by concentrating on his academic writing, which he continues against all odds. Even the most simple and basic freedoms are denied them, so his refusal to submit to the progressively more invective growth of lies, invectives, and accusations of the Nazi regime build into a quiet resolve to resist in the way he knows best, by maintaining an intelligent, insightful, and careful witness to the everyday horrors perpetrated with malice and cunning on the Jews as the scapegoat for all of Germany's post-WWI social and economic woes.<br />One reads in horror as Victor and Eva continue to be persecuted and systematically stripped of everything of meaning to them; their house, car, telephone, typewriter, even their beloved cat. While he understands all too well the dangers for him and his family, he consistently resists the increasingly strident pleas from family members for him to emigrate primarily because he identifies himself first and foremost as a German, and he refuses to abandon the Fatherland to the beastial likes of Hitler and the Nazis. One's sense of horror is magnified by his careful attention to the day to day details of living in the regime, the difficulties in finding socks, or clothing, or a cobbler, or vegetables, coffee, tobacco (both he and Eva are smokers), dealing with increasingly restrictive curfews, the ordeal and shame associated with the enforced wearing of the yellow star of David, the progressive acts of enforced segregation from the general populace, the occasional experiences at degradation at the hands of a youthful crowd of Hitler Youth.<br />Yet there is great humanity evidenced here, both within the Jewish community and without it. The pathos of ordinary people caught in the web of a totalitarian state is made quite clear; unlike other academics who recently have argued in belief of a generalized and universalized hate on the part of ordinary Germans leading to their willing complicity in the persecution of Jews, Klemperer offers almost daily testimony of the unending acts of kindness, generosity, and personal risks that everyday citizens take to help and assist Jews to survivie against the dictates of the totalitarian regime. Again and again he is given free food, extra provisions, someone looking deliberately the other way when they did so at personal risk.<br />In sum, Klemperer seems to acknowledge that life in Nazi Germany was a hell for all of the citizens, Jew and non-Jew alike. He pointedly gives credit to all the Aryans who assit Eva and Viktor himself as they flee from the Nazis into the more anonymous countryside in the tumult and confusion caused by the firebombing of Dresden. This, like the first volume, is a book that should become required reading for college students in world history.his careful attention to the day to day details of living in the regime, the difficulties in finding socks, or clothing, or a cobbler, or vegetables, coffee, tobacco (both he and Eva are smokers), dealing with increasingly restrictive curfews, the ordeal and shame associated with the enforced wearing of the yellow star of David, the progressive acts of enforced segregation from the general populace, the occasional experiences at degradation at the hands of a youthful crowd of Hitler Youth. <br />Yet there is great humanity evidenced here, both within the Jewish community and without it. The pathos of ordinary people caught in the web of a totalitarian state is made quite clear; unlike other academics who recently have argued in belief of a generalized and universalized hate on the part of ordinary Germans leading to their willing complicity in the persecution of Jews, Klemperer offers almost daily testimony of the unending acts of kindness, generosity, and personal risks that everyday citizens take to help and assist Jews to survivie against the dictates of the totalitarian regime. Again and again he is given free food, extra provisions, someone looking deliberately the other way when they did so at personal risk. <br />In sum, Klemperer seems to acknowledge that life in Nazi Germany was a hell for all of the citizens, Jew and non-Jew alike. He pointedly gives credit to all the Aryans who assit Eva and Viktor himself as they flee from the Nazis into the more anonymous countryside in the tumult and confusion caused by the firebombing of Dresden. This, like the first volume, is a book that should become required reading for college students in world history.	2003-11-24
890984:US	52447634	R1Z82TN886VFC1	0231113730	178202218	The Columbia Guide to America in the 1960s (Columbia Guides to American History and Cultures)	Books	5	34	38	N	N	Comprehensive Purview Of the Fascinating 1960s!	Aging baby-boomers like myself can rest more easily; herein one discovers a wonderful effort, which succeeds marvelously in accurately and faithfully recounting and retelling the somewhat convoluted and always multi-currented tenor of the times for the 1960s. Given the massive neo-conservative effort to discredit the theoretical positions and social ethos of the sixties generation, it is terrific to have such a carefully researched and meticulously documented effort as is \\"The Columbia Guide To America In The 1960s\\" to give greater voice and renewed verve and credibility to the ideas and theoretical positions that arose from the ongoing new-left critique of mainstream society that emanated from the events of that storied decade. Authors David Farber and Beth Bailey are both academics with considerable expertise in the area of contemporary 20th century history, and this aplomb with the facts and the sense of the times is fascinating to plow through on both an intellectual and also an emotional level. This is scholarship well done!<br />It does one well to remember that the sixties decade and what came out of it are both subjects of serious disagreements as well as continuing controversy, given the attempt by the right wing to define the ideas stemming from those times as bogus and discredited. Therefore, making sense of all that is brought back to the surface in this book represents a considerable effort, but it is hard to deny such an effort to make sense of a time with so many crosscurrents and so much social, cultural, and political turbulence is well worth the effort. Therefore, the book is organized around several different perspectives and approaches. In the first section, we are presented with a well-developed and intricately organized narrative that superbly covers the waterfront of the era's most significant events, policies, and changes. The second part of the book is organized around ten different essay efforts by well-regarded contemporary historians on various salient aspects of the decade, ranging from the counterculture, the civil rights movement, the sexual revolution, and of course, the war in Vietnam.<br />The net effect of the combined first and second sections is to give us a much more comprehensive and detailed understanding of both the issues and events on the one hand, and how they fit into the mosaic of the sixties, on the other hand.  Subsequent section also add to the overall contribution of the book, by giving us shorter essays on other aspects of the era, subjects of particualr interest to each of the authors, and a terrific extended bibliography for those of us interested in further exploring the eddies and currents of various aspects of the decade in question. It fairly well smashes revisionist interpretations of the era into smithereens by exposing them for the solipsistic efforts at refashioning the truth that they are, and does so while educating and entertaining us on an number of levels at one. This is a great book, and one I can recommend to anyone interested in learning more about the most fascinating decade of the 20th century. Enjoy!arious salient aspects of the decade, ranging from the counterculture, the civil rights movement, the sexual revolution, and of course, the war in Vietnam.<br />The net effect of the combined first and second sections is to give us a much more comprehensive and detailed understanding of both the issues and events on the one hand, and how they fit into the mosaic of the sixties, on the other hand.  Subsequent section also add to the overall contribution of the book, by giving us shorter essays on other aspects of the era, subjects of particualr interest to each of the authors, and a terrific extended bibliography for those of us interested in further exploring the eddies and currents of various aspects of the decade in question. It fairly well smashes revisionist interpretations of the era into smithereens by exposing them for the solipsistic efforts at refashioning the truth that they are, and does so while educating and entertaining us on an number of levels at one. This is a great book, and one I can recommend to anyone interested in learning more about the most fascinating decade of the 20th century. Enjoy!	2003-11-23
891948:US	52447634	R6CMV3WBR8F36	0385263465	234811182	A World of Ideas :  Conversations With Thoughtful Men and Women About American Life Today and the Ideas Shaping Our Future	Books	5	17	18	N	Y	Superb Collection Of Interesting Interviews By Moyers!	This wonderful large print coffee table-sized effort by the inimitable Bill Moyers is a spin-of from the wonderful PBS TV series, and showcases the intellectual thoughts and perspectives of more than forty intriguing and perceptive individuals, all intimately involved in the mainstream of American life in fashion or another. One fo the most fascinating aspects of the book is the wild variety of people he has chosen, from preeminent black sociologist William Julius Wilson to novelist Joseph Heller, from film-maker David Putnamm to linguist Noam Chomsky, from geneticist Maxine Singer to historian Barabara Tuchman.  What they have to say, and the pointedly intriguing questions Moyers has the unique insight to ask makes the interviews fairly sing with purpose and the verve of provocative thinkers.<br />Moreover, one certainly has to give Bill Moyers due credit for having many intriguing and innovative ideas. Given the various television series and books he has produced over the last several decades, he is by far one of the most prolific contributors and critics of the American social and cultural scene. This particular book, as well as the sequel that followed it, represents another fascinating look at an eclectic collection of seminal thinkers, some three dozen or so dozen or so academics, statesmen, and luminaries whose thoughts, ideas, and perspectives help the rest of us to better understand and appreciate the power of the world of ideas.<br />I read somewhere that Moyers thought it would be immensely beneficial at this point in the secular history of the republic to have a kind of old-fashioned chautaugua series of public discussions featuring such intellectuals as a way of sparking further discussion and debate about the most basic and yet enduring aspects of democracy itself, and wanted to further the flow of ideas within the public realm. Herein, as with the second marvelous offering, he has succeeded quite marvelously, and what has been rendered for your reading pleasure and edification is worthwhile indeed.<br />In doing so Moyers opens up the possibility for both television (the series was originally a very popular series) as well in printed format to become instruments of more meaningful communication. Many of the discussions center around Moyers' own concerns for the state of the polity, but also range from discussions about personal morality to more family-oriented concerns. This is a lovely book full of thought-provoking conversations with people you would love to have facing you across the living room coffee table. Enjoy!ding pleasure and edification is worthwhile indeed. <br />In doing so Moyers opens up the possibility for both television (the series was originally a very popular series) as well in printed format to become instruments of more meaningful communication. Many of the discussions center around Moyers' own concerns for the state of the polity, but also range from discussions about personal morality to more family-oriented concerns. This is a lovely book full of thought-provoking conversations with people you would love to have facing you across the living room coffee table. Enjoy!	2003-11-22
893370:US	52447634	RLW3P71RS7AFP	0385416652	921807923	A World of Ideas II	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Another Terrific Collection Of Intellectual Conversations!	One certainly has to give Bill Moyers due credit for having many intriguing and innovative ideas. Given the various television series and books he has produced over the last several decades, he is by far one of the most prolific contributors and critics of the American social and cultural scene. This particular book, a sequel to a previous effort, represents another fascinating look at an eclectic collection of seminal thinkers, some two dozen or so academics, statesmen, and luminaries whose thoughts, ideas, and perspectives help the rest of us to better understand and appreciate the power of the world of ideas.<br />I read somewhere that Moyers thought it would be immensely beneficial at this point in the secular history of the republic to have a kind of old-fashioned chautaugua series of public discussions featuring such intellectuals as a way of sparking further discussion and debate about the most basic and yet enduring aspects of democracy itself, and wanted to further the flow of ideas within the public realm. Herein, as with the first marvelous offering, he has succeeded quite marvelously, and what has been rendered for your reading pleasure and edification is worthwhile indeed.<br />In doing so Moyers opens up the possibility for both television (the series was originally a very popular series) as well in printed format to become instruments of more meaningful communication. The intellectuals featured herein range from Ronald Reagan to director Peter Sellars, from medical researcher Jonas Salk to poet Robert Bly, and from novelist Toni Morrison to writer and critic Maxine Hong Kingston. My favorite interview here is with the late writer/historian William Shirer, who proves to be as erudite and provocative as a subject for such discussions as he is as a writer. Many of the discussions center around Moyers' own concerns for the state of the polity, but also range from discussions about personal morality to more family-oriented concerns. This is a lovely book full of thought-provoking conversations with people you would love to have facing you across the living room coffee table. Enjoy!full of thought-provoking conversations with people you would love to have facing you across the living room coffee table. Enjoy!	2003-11-21
894461:US	52447634	R3VG2F3V92CANF	0195104579	46232438	The Movement and The Sixties: Protest in America from Greensboro to Wounded Knee	Books	5	32	33	N	N	Terrific Look At The Sixties Social Movement!	I stumbled upon this wonderful book as a used book at the local bookshop, and was delighted to discover just how complete and accurate a description it renders of the virtual kaleidoscope of activities associated with what came to be called 'the movement\\" in what was likely the most turbulent and tumultuous decade of the 20th century; the nineteen sixties. Professor Terry Anderson delivers a yeoman historian's look at the details of how what began as a fairly narrowly circumscribed civil rights effort on behalf of American blacks was transformed into a far-more comprehensive and sometimes all-inclusive broadside social and cultural critique of mainstream American society.  In this book, \\"The Movement and the Sixties\\", Anderson breathes considerable life & pointed animation into a cautionary tale many of us actually lived through some forty years ago.<br />Anderson finds the origins of the so-called movement in the civil rights movement originating in the Greensboro sit-in protests in 1960. Through meticulous research and impressive documentation, he traces how the combination of moral outrage, youthful energy, and the rapid economic changes transforming American society itself combined to create an almost unstoppable cultural force, one that literally brought millions of citizens into the streets into social activism, and in the process transformed almost every aspect of contemporary society, from race relations to sexual equality, from student activism to the cultural view on the war in Vietnam. This is indeed a penetrating effort that succeeds in meaningfully exploring the nature of the social history of the sixties generation, who dared to question the very nature of and validity surrounding the American social system. Anderson shows how the initial efforts of the civil rights activists eventually blossomed into a garden variety of different protest activities, most profoundly, of course, in connection with the war in Vietnam.<br />In the fullness of time, the coalition of different communities in this widely-supported anti-war effort led to the further flowering of cultural criticism into many other areas of the contemporary culture, from minority rights to the counterculture, from gay rights to feminism.  In the process, an impressive array of important aspects of our society came to be more closely examined, and were subsequently criticized and attacked, ranging from elements such as corporate polluters, who were then attacked by the environmental movement, to the behavior of organizations like the FBI and CIA, who were revealed later to have committed a wide range of transgressions against American citizens, most of whom had done nothing wrong and who the federal agencies had no legal right to either spy upon, nor to harass, nor to smear in the mass media, all of which was done. Anderson covers the history of the era with precision and a plethora of evidence regarding how the events and individuals depicted made the history of the times, and how profoundly they influenced how life in this country changed forever as a result. Enjoy!coalition of different communities in this widely-supported anti-war effort led to the further flowering of cultural criticism into many other areas of the contemporary culture, from minority rights to the counterculture, from gay rights to feminism.  In the process, an impressive array of important aspects of our society came to be more closely examined, and were subsequently criticized and attacked, ranging from elements such as corporate polluters, who were then attacked by the environmental movement, to the behavior of organizations like the FBI and CIA, who were revealed later to have committed a wide range of transgressions against American citizens, most of whom had done nothing wrong and who the federal agencies had no legal right to either spy upon, nor to harass, nor to smear in the mass media, all of which was done. Anderson covers the history of the era with precision and a plethora of evidence regarding how the events and individuals depicted made the history of the times, and how profoundly they influenced how life in this country changed forever as a result. Enjoy!	2003-11-20
895813:US	52447634	RMULI6UVWN7X0	0670032328	394944678	America's Splendid Little Wars: A Short History of U.S. Military Engagements: 1975-2000	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Terrific Effort At Contemporary Military History!	This is a splendid little exploration of the flurry of American military engagements in the thirty years since the end of the Vietnam imbroglio, and illustrates both the awesome power and inherent limitations of attempting to accomplish political goals through force of military arms. And somewhat of a decidedly mixed bag is what we have to show for the more than a dozen such operations detailed and analyzed herein.  And herein Peter A. Huchthausen, best selling author of the absorbing \\"K-19\\", takes the reader on a fascinating and thought-provoking journey into each of these adventures.<br />Many of the operations have been successful indeed, including the Mayaguez incident in the mid 1970s, Operations Desert Shield and Desert Storm all being impressive displays of our incredible ability to project power into any little corner of the world. On the other hand, sordid failures abound as well, such as the botched Iranian hostage situation in the desert, the disastrous peacekeeping operation in Lebanon, and the exercise in `nation-building' amid the squalor of Somalia. The author pulls few punches in relating how such elements as arrogance, ignorance, and inter-service rivalries often hamper and limit our military exercises, such that having not properly done the necessary homework can sometimes result in massive casualties or miscalculation when we do not appreciate the threat of the opposing forces or underestimate their resolve.<br />Finally, he discusses successful but somewhat conflicted efforts such as both the intervention in Bosnia and later Kosovo, where we limited ourselves to air campaigns which translated into much higher levels of unintended civilian collateral casualties then would otherwise have been the case, and where the enemy defended themselves by using innocent civilians as `human shields', and Grenada, where our own casualties were higher than necessary due to lack of inter-service cooperation. The author, a retired navy officer, displays a magnificent respect for the men and women in arms, especially the enlisted troops, while being less kind and deferential to the officers and higher echelons of the power elite, who often send the fighting force off on what are destined to become fools' errands for their own somewhat limited and sometimes selfish political reasons. This is an interesting book and provides a wonderful summary of American miltary actions over the last quarter century. Enjoy!agnificent respect for the men and women in arms, especially the enlisted troops, while being less kind and deferential to the officers and higher echelons of the power elite, who often send the fighting force off on what are destined to become fools' errands for their own somewhat limited and sometimes selfish political reasons. This is an interesting book and provides a wonderful summary of American miltary actions over the last quarter century. Enjoy!	2003-11-19
896193:US	52447634	RH7X82FGSBIJG	1879646013	11005372	Jewish Continuous Presence in the Land of Israel and The Israeli-Palestinian Conflict	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Well-Written &amp; Provocative Look At The Important Issues!	For many contemporary Middle-Eastern scholars, one of the most enduring questions surrounding the continuing drama of the seemingly endless Israeli-Palestinian conflict revolves around the question of historical claim to the land. Given the commonly stated Palestinian claim of being forcibly disenfranchised of their property through the United Nations imposed partitioning of Palestine in the aftermath of World War Two, it is of keen interest to read here the other side of this story; the argument being that Israel (Palestine) belongs to the Jews based both by heritage and by scriptural promise. In this provocative and thoughtful new book, \\"Jewish Continuous Presence in the land of Israel' by author Hal Margolis, the most pertinent question regarding what scholars refer to as continuous Jewish presence in the Holy Land is scrupulously examined and explored.<br />For Margolis, this question is much more than academic, and the issue of entitlement to the land composing Israel herein describes a personal effort informed by deeply held values and a keen intellect eager to `excavate' the truth about the nature of Jewish presence in the Holy Land over the two thousand years ensuing since the enforced demise of Israel under the Roman sword. For these reasons, this is not an entirely objective search, given Margolis' obvious deeply felt Jewish roots. Yet that much admitted, the author does indeed offer a great deal of credible evidence concerning the claim for continuous Jewish presence in the intervening centuries to raised serious questions regarding the nearly maniacal insistence by Palestinians that they have been grievously wronged by their forced dislocation from the area in the late 1940s. Moreover, the author openly discusses the ways in which both sides have been both aggressors and victims in the often-pitiless struggle between the Jews and the Arabs to survive and prosper under the merciless racial and ideological conditions persisting in the Middle East.<br />Perhaps the most intriguing aspect of the book is its exploration of the various rationales used to explain and justify Arab violence by way of terrorism. The author offers seven precepts that are employed as often as rhetorical devices to bolster Palestinian claims to entitlement to the Holy Land. These include (1) reference to the Qur' anic Suras, which posit that present-day Israel is not a legitimate successor to the ancient land of the Jews, (2) reference to the \\"after-life\\" including \\"Ad'n\\" (Paradise) where defenders of the Islamic faith are redeemed after suffering a martyr's death, (3) Jihad, the pathway to inclusion in this Paradise, (4) natural apprehension by Arabs of potential political agreement based on a history of foreign subjugation at the hands of Europeans, (5) a continuing perception of the world in political terms along the lines of those drawn during the two world wars, (6) a tendency by most Arabs of the establishment of Israel as an illegal act, and (7) a perception that the wars of both 1948 and 1967 as basically efforts by the Israelis to extend their borders through the acquisition of additional Arab territories through extra-legal means.<br />Obviously, as stated above, this is a fascinating intellectual exploration of a little discussed aspect to the continuing imbroglio in the Middle East, albeit a somewhat partisan viewpoint, taken by a scholar informed by a Jewish perspective. After finishing the book, I must conclude that the book is one that is impressively well reasoned, meticulously researched, and colorfully and deliberately argued. As such, it is a thoughtful and a provocative work, one that deserves judicious consideration and careful reading. It is not only a personal exploration but also a bona-fide work of academic investigation, and one expects that Dr. Margolis will enjoy a wide readership for this timely entry in the scholarly reads available concerning one of the most troubling and enduring problem spots in the world. It isa book I can heartily recommend for your reading consideration. Enjoy!t is a book I can heartily recommend for your reading consideration. Enjoy!	2003-11-18
896346:US	52447634	R185MVBQ38ZPCK	0582280915	515675453	Social Movements of the Sixties and Seventies	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Nice Overview Of the Turbulent Sixties!	For those of us who lived through the times and the waves of social movements and protests described herein, reading this book is like a visit from an old friend who reminds you, with anecdotes and memories, of things long since lost and forgotten. From the sit-ins of the civil rights movement in Greensboro, in the early years to the armed confrontation between federal forces and the rag-tag group of grim Native Americans at Wounded Knee and beyond to the anti-nuclear power movement, this tome covers the garden variety of different movements and social events commonly referred to as sixties protest. It is a book characterized by smart reporting, detailed documentation, and a sparkling prose style ins service to show just how wild and varied the perspectives and issues swirling through the decade or so covered in the book really were.<br />The turbulence started, of course, with the civil rights movement, and the book works well in threading through the various aspects of the movement and its many twists and turns. With the start of the war in Vietnam, all hell broke loose in terms of the social tumult that seemed to be released, and the campuses became a hotbed of political foment and active questioning of authority in general. This led, as the author shows, to a whole rafter of different movements, ranging all the way from the violent protests against the war in Vietnam and the Gene McCarthy campaign in the Spring and summer of 1968 and the student revolt at the Chicago location of the Democratic national Convention, to the evolution of the feminist movement and later the anti-nukes crusade of the seventies.<br />The flood of names and places recollected here is indeed fairly comprehensive, as is the catalogue of different issues and concerns raised in the various social concerns and civil protests. The author is fairly faithful to the social philosophies informing much of this activity, which is of critical import in placing the activity in better social context. While other books serve to better describe the philosophies of the leaders of various movements, this book does a credible job of providing a concise, accurate, and fairly comprehensive overview of the wide range of different albeit related issues and concerns that led to so much active protest and activism during the most turbulent decade in the last century. Enjoy!. While other books serve to better describe the philosophies of the leaders of various movements, this book does a credible job of providing a concise, accurate, and fairly comprehensive overview of the wide range of different albeit related issues and concerns that led to so much active protest and activism during the most turbulent decade in the last century. Enjoy!	2003-11-18
896763:US	52447634	RLAIU4LJI3WY2	1565846826	800406179	The Radical Reader: A Documentary History of the American Radical Tradition	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Superb, Comprehensive Look At Radical Thought In America	The ordinary American's personal experience of history is often organized around a pantheon of readings and tomes that view our democratic experience as a pristine and elevated philosophical exercise by icons of verity and probity.  Recent treatments such as Howard Zinn's \\"A People's History of The United States\\" and the wonderful \\"Founding Brothers\\" by Joseph J. Ellis have helped us to recognize the fact that while brilliant they were, the founders of this country were both mortal and fallible, and were hardly disinterested and objective idealists. This superb work by Timothy McCarthy and John McMillan (both history professors at Harvard) offers us over 150 short but spellbinding works by a wide variety of authors that help to widen the reader's understanding of the radical American experience, and to demystify the highly emotional and politically explosive issues and concerns that have faced us in terms of home-grown radical perspectives regarding social and political issues ranging from the original Articles of Confederation to those surrounding slavery, from corporate sponsored police brutality against union organizing  to the war in Vietnam, from strident environmentalism to the current protests against the war in Iraq. All of it is here, and wonderfully so.<br />In essence, the authors have culled a treasure-trove of radical statements and observations that breathe life into our rather checkered history. Far from the sanitized and revisionist efforts one finds in most public school treatments of American history, herein one discovers a masterfully articulated series of articles written in colorful prose by those intimately involved in the radical protest, and most usually written from the radical perspective. The reader fins himself on an incredible journey into the various issues and concerns that have animated our long and often fractious progress toward a more perfect civil union.  The book is organized into eleven principal chapters, each of which offers an absorbing selection of articles pertaining to cross-cutting issues such as the American revolution; the utopian visions relating to the very idea of a constitutional republic itself; abolitionism; suffrage and feminism; labor, anarchism, and socialism; civil rights; the new left and the counterculture; radical environmentalism; gay rights; and an epilogue with articles directed to some recent transcending issues and the radical writings relating to them.<br />The list of notable authors included ranges from Samuel Adams to Ralph Nader, from Thoreau to Frederick Douglas, from Susan B. Anthony to Huey Long, and from Barry Commoner to Malcolm X. The list of worthwhile notables just goes on and on. Without a doubt, this is the most readable, provocative, and useful collection of American critical writings by radical thinkers I have personally had the joy and benefit of reading. What I truly love about it is that it is the perfect way to read short articles and thought-pieces without spending hours plowing through individual chapters. The length of the individual articles ranges from two to seven pages, so the book is a great way to spend some break time or lunch time reading material along and to be able to finish the particular piece in a single short sitting. It is also provides an extremely eclectic and electrifying range of views and opinions for one to have the chance to experience, and adds immeasurably to the reading experience as a companion teaching device one could use admirably as an adjunct to a text such as Zinn's for use with the average undergraduate student. This is a book I would heartily recommend for anyone interested in a fascinating exploration of radical American thought and critiques of the mainstream culutre, and one that is certainly a terrific way to give a meaningful educational gift to aloved one this holiday season! Enjoy!n absorbing selection of articles pertaining to cross-cutting issues such as the American revolution; the utopian visions relating to the very idea of a constitutional republic itself; abolitionism; suffrage and feminism; labor, anarchism, and socialism; civil rights; the new left and the counterculture; radical environmentalism; gay rights; and an epilogue with articles directed to some recent transcending issues and the radical writings relating to them.   <br />The list of notable authors included ranges from Samuel Adams to Ralph Nader, from Thoreau to Frederick Douglas, from Susan B. Anthony to Huey Long, and from Barry Commoner to Malcolm X. The list of worthwhile notables just goes on and on. Without a doubt, this is the most readable, provocative, and useful collection of American critical writings by radical thinkers I have personally had the joy and benefit of reading. What I truly love about it is that it is the perfect way to read short articles and thought-pieces without spending hours plowing through individual chapters. The length of the individual articles ranges from two to seven pages, so the book is a great way to spend some break time or lunch time reading material along and to be able to finish the particular piece in a single short sitting. It is also provides an extremely eclectic and electrifying range of views and opinions for one to have the chance to experience, and adds immeasurably to the reading experience as a companion teaching device one could use admirably as an adjunct to a text such as Zinn's for use with the average undergraduate student. This is a book I would heartily recommend for anyone interested in a fascinating exploration of radical American thought and critiques of the mainstream culutre, and one that is certainly a terrific way to give a meaningful educational gift to aloved one this holiday season! Enjoy!	2003-11-18
903339:US	52447634	R5YR30Y91O1N5	1400050219	164626155	Sleeping with the Devil: How Washington Sold Our Soul for Saudi Crude	Books	5	41	41	N	N	Compelling Reading!	Given his stature as a former CIA operative working extensively within the Middle East, author Robert Baer uses his unique blend of personal insight and extensive research to illustrate just how dangerous a road we Americans have embarked on by hitching our wagon to the star hovering over the House of Saud. From the opening nightmare scenario of a fragile and exposed oil delivery network that is dangerously vulnerable to terrorist attack to the final considerations of just how intertwined and interminably convoluted the geo-politics among the American government, the international oil concerns, the Saudi royal family, and the radical Islamic fundamentalists such as the Muslim Brotherhood seems to be, this is a book that all of us can profit by reading.<br />What is most rotten within the welter of factors is the Saudi royal family itself, so large, so cumbersome, and so bedeviled by greed and corruption that it is crumbling from within. The fact of this wracking corruption and approaching demise of the House of Saud may well be catastrophic, according to Baer, yet people within the American government are so compromised by the overwhelming flood of money via bribes, payoff, and subsidies that no one dare speak an angry or critical word against the Saudis, even as the royal family provides hundreds of millions of dollars to terrorist front organizations and as it actively supports and promotes the radical anti-western Wahabbi sect within the Kingdom itself. It is a kingdom built on what is proving to be a literal time bomb built of contradictory impulses and interests.<br />Given the fact that Saudi oil provides the lynchpin of world wide petroleum prices, instability within the regime is extremely threatening to economic stability of world markets, and the fall of the House of Saud could well be catastrophic for the west, which depends on relatively cheap and easily available oil for its economy and its very basis of life.  Yet the Saudi regime tolerates thievery, ignores prostitution, and both directly and indirectly promotes both radical Muslim fundamentalism and terrorism. For Baer, it is no accident that the bulk of the hijackers involved in the 911 tragedy were dissident Saudis. Nor is it an accident that both the Muslim Brotherhood and Al Quaida are so well financed, since the royal family has been sponsoring their activities for more than a decade.<br />Given this, the stage is set, argues the author, for a potentially catastrophic event, one that might require American military intervention and result in the triggering of an economic meltdown the likes of which have not been seen since the great Depression. Amazingly, though, the American government continues to maintain the idea that the situation is stable, that the Saudis are our friends and allies, and that the Kingdom is moving down the road toward a more egalitarian form of self-government.  Unless we adopt a more enlightened policy and work toward the end of protecting American interests for the long term, we are likely to find ourselves on the wrong end of a losing proposition. This is an important and quite informative book, and one I highly recommend. Enjoy!ignores prostitution, and both directly and indirectly promotes both radical Muslim fundamentalism and terrorism. For Baer, it is no accident that the bulk of the hijackers involved in the 911 tragedy were dissident Saudis. Nor is it an accident that both the Muslim Brotherhood and Al Quaida are so well financed, since the royal family has been sponsoring their activities for more than a decade. <br />Given this, the stage is set, argues the author, for a potentially catastrophic event, one that might require American military intervention and result in the triggering of an economic meltdown the likes of which have not been seen since the great Depression. Amazingly, though, the American government continues to maintain the idea that the situation is stable, that the Saudis are our friends and allies, and that the Kingdom is moving down the road toward a more egalitarian form of self-government.  Unless we adopt a more enlightened policy and work toward the end of protecting American interests for the long term, we are likely to find ourselves on the wrong end of a losing proposition. This is an important and quite informative book, and one I highly recommend. Enjoy!	2003-11-12
903576:US	52447634	RID928JZ7DGYG	0375714499	38005795	Manufacturing Consent: The Political Economy of the Mass Media	Books	4	9	13	N	N	Absorbing, Provocative Analysis of Media Bias!	Since the path-breaking critical analysis of modern capitalist society as ruled by the power elite by C. Wright Mills in the 1950s, a number of social critics have noted the many ways in which the media plays a critical role in disarming and pacifying the general public through the manipulation and presentation of news and information. No one better summarizes the ways in which this is accomplished on a continuing basis than do these authors, Edward Herman and Noam Chomsky. The book focuses on what the authors refer to as a `propaganda model', one comprising a heuristic framework that views the actual performance of the national media in terms of its rudimentary structural characteristics and the relational milieu in which they operate. Put into more simple terms, they observe the ways in which the fact of the media being the creation of the elite to promulgate their take on reality results from who inhabits the news room and collects the news, on the one hand, and who owns the means of media production, on the other.<br /><br />According to the authors' views, not only does the media serve the interests of the power elite, but they promulgate and extend the general view of the world of those interests that both control and finance them. The powers that be have vested interests and ulterior goals and objectives that they wish to forward, and given their singular power to both influence and constrain the actions of the media, they have a unique ability to both shape and direct media policy and content. The means by which this undue influence is operated is through the selection of the people manning the posts of the media itself, through ensuring that those chosen to operate in the milieu are `right-thinking' people who share their values, their goals, and their upper class perspectives. Given the selection criteria, it should be no surprise to discover the degree to which media professional share the internalized priorities and definitions of the power elite itself.<br />The authors show how the use of the so-called free market model of the media leads inexorably toward the normative and extremely focused reporting characteristic of the conservative and pro-business values of the upper class.  With lucid prose and illuminating case studies, they carefully document how the interaction of the American federal government and the corporate structure profoundly influence the content and context of everything Americans read, see on TV, and hear over the radio. Herman and Chomsky identify three major forces creating such a propaganda-prone media bias; first, the motivation for profit via the device of advertising; second, the fact that the media is embedded within, and controlled by, corporations whose views are predictably pro-business; and third, the near-exclusive use of information coming from highly biased sources. Taken in total, the authors handily demonstrate the ways in which information disseminated from the media to the public is heavily weighted toward the views, idea, and perspectives of the ruling class, and in this way the realities that surround us are systematically distorted. It is a media system which panders without shame toward to the interests and goals of the power elite ands which systematically ignores it stated obligation under the Constitution to inform ordinary citizens of what they need to know to act responsibly and knowledgably as active citizens in a democratic society. Enjoy!<br />The authors show how the use of the so-called free market model of the media leads inexorably toward the normative and extremely focused reporting characteristic of the conservative and pro-business values of the upper class.  With lucid prose and illuminating case studies, they carefully document how the interaction of the American federal government and the corporate structure profoundly influence the content and context of everything Americans read, see on TV, and hear over the radio. Herman and Chomsky identify three major forces creating such a propaganda-prone media bias; first, the motivation for profit via the device of advertising; second, the fact that the media is embedded within, and controlled by, corporations whose views are predictably pro-business; and third, the near-exclusive use of information coming from highly biased sources. Taken in total, the authors handily demonstrate the ways in which information disseminated from the media to the public is heavily weighted toward the views, idea, and perspectives of the ruling class, and in this way the realities that surround us are systematically distorted. It is a media system which panders without shame toward to the interests and goals of the power elite ands which systematically ignores it stated obligation under the Constitution to inform ordinary citizens of what they need to know to act responsibly and knowledgably as active citizens in a democratic society. Enjoy!	2003-11-12
904092:US	52447634	R2PQVNBS540HQY	1586482181	485666128	Winning Modern Wars: Iraq, Terrorism, and the American Empire	Books	4	25	27	N	N	An Absorbing Entry By A Presidential Hopeful!	Parts of this fairly brief yet well-written work by former general Wesley Clark fairly sing. For example, when describing the active military strategy employed that shrewdly manipulated the Iraqis into alternatively exposing themselves to Allied airpower and armor, Clark is obviously in his element, illustrating how the kind of `lean and mean' profile of the new American military tactics can be used to actively spur and influence the conduct of overwhelming blitzkrieg-type rapid advances. Moreover, as he describes the geo-political hazards of playing bait and switch with Saddam Hussein, using him as the `flight dummy', a substitute standing in for Osama Bin laden as the resident bad-guy American military might can be deployed against, Clark illustrates why he was a controversial yet acknowledged tactician who understood every element of the quicksilver calculus of modern battle. Yet when he begins to draw obvious political conclusions from all this, his argument somewhat stalls and slows down.<br />While it is hard to argue with his observations regarding the way the Bush administration cynically manipulated and played on the fears and trepidations of the populace in pursuing rather conventional engagements since it would be easy and likley successful, first with the Afghans and later the Iraqis, it is also true that it is extremely self-serving to do so for a man who is now an announced candidate for President. And while I agree that he is very much on the mark in terms of the accuracy and cogency of his arguments against both the tenor and intensity of the war effort since 911, one tires of the repeated criticism and attacks on Bush, even though Clark sometimes does so quite convincingly. For example he cites how Donald Rumsfeld and others within his entourage craved a chance to attack Iraq even before assuming office, and also how both they and Condoleeza Rice consciously viewed the event of 911 as offering them an opportunity to use the situation to go after Saddam. For Clark, Saddam was a virtual \\"hobbyhorse\\" they wanted to ride, even at the expense of ignoring more pressing concerns such as the active pursuit of Al Qaeda and exaggerating the threat and the evidence concerning Saddam's possible role as a threat to America. So, Clark maintains, we attacked the wrong target at the worst possible moment, squandering our resources in an unnecessary and pointless showdown with Sadam Hussein.<br />Finally, as he turns his focus to concentrate on more global concerns, including how he would approach the foreign policy issues he feels have so far vexed the current administration, he becomes more general, more philosophical, and less specific. Just like a serious Presidential candidate might! While this is to be expected, I was disappointed by his reflections, which seemed to me to be more likely written by consulting committees worried about offending popular sensibilities than anything else. Yet all that said, it is obvious that he is bright, energetic, and extremely ambitious. What worries me most about this remarkable man is the fact that he rose within the military to become a general, which mean he is a master politician, for no one becomes a general in today's army without being what they call a \\"team player\\" one who goes along to get along\\". The military values conformity and obedience more than anything, and we have to ask ourselves, do we really need another Colin Powell type, another guy so willing to work for consensus above all else that he sacrifices his beliefs and principles to carry the day? Based on what I read in this book, Clark is obviously bright enough to carry it off. Whether he makes a good choice to be our next President is something the reader will have to decide for himself. Enjoy!ddam. For Clark, Saddam was a virtual \\"hobbyhorse\\" they wanted to ride, even at the expense of ignoring more pressing concerns such as the active pursuit of Al Qaeda and exaggerating the threat and the evidence concerning Saddam's possible role as a threat to America. So, Clark maintains, we attacked the wrong target at the worst possible moment, squandering our resources in an unnecessary and pointless showdown with Sadam Hussein. <br />Finally, as he turns his focus to concentrate on more global concerns, including how he would approach the foreign policy issues he feels have so far vexed the current administration, he becomes more general, more philosophical, and less specific. Just like a serious Presidential candidate might! While this is to be expected, I was disappointed by his reflections, which seemed to me to be more likely written by consulting committees worried about offending popular sensibilities than anything else. Yet all that said, it is obvious that he is bright, energetic, and extremely ambitious. What worries me most about this remarkable man is the fact that he rose within the military to become a general, which mean he is a master politician, for no one becomes a general in today's army without being what they call a \\"team player\\" one who goes along to get along\\". The military values conformity and obedience more than anything, and we have to ask ourselves, do we really need another Colin Powell type, another guy so willing to work for consensus above all else that he sacrifices his beliefs and principles to carry the day? Based on what I read in this book, Clark is obviously bright enough to carry it off. Whether he makes a good choice to be our next President is something the reader will have to decide for himself. Enjoy!	2003-11-12
937532:US	52447634	RNDT629RU37EG	1588341666	532479759	Senator Mansfield: The Extraordinary Life of a Great American Statesman and Diplomat	Books	5	27	28	N	N	Superb Biography of a 20th Century Marvel!	For young soldiers returning from the war in Vietnam, Senator Mike Mansfield was a literal legend in his own time, the consistent voice for greater moderation, caution, and reason during the escalation of the war in Vietnam. As chronicled so marvelously in this new biography by noted historian Don Oberdorfer, from the very beginning of the sordid Vietnam affair Mansfield had cautioned long-time colleagues as friends John Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson as to the absolute futility and danger associated with pursuing a military victory in Southeast Asia. A long-time member of the Foreign Relations committee in the Senate, he was well aware of the complexities and national aspirations simmering under the surface of the region, and recognized the morass we might soon find ourselves in if we succumbed to the siren song of the so-called `domino' theorists, who posited the loss of South Vietnam would lead inextricably to the loss of Laos, Cambodia, and Thailand. Mansfield maintained the domino we needed to worry about was Vietnam itself, which might well topple our whole far-eastern strategy if we allowed ourselves to become entwined in its silken grips.<br />Alas, no one among the `best and the brightest' of either the Kennedy or Johnson administration listened, and instead dragged us into more than a decade of death, destruction, and depravity. Yet in this fascinating biography, we learn that Mike Mansfield had many more facets to his marvelous personality and many more intellectual insights to offer the American people during his long and illustrious career as a public servant. He presided over the U.S. Senate during the difficult and angst-filled deliberations over the Civil Rights Act passed in 1964, its companion bill for Voter Rights Act passed the following year, and the donnybrook that ensured over the initial passing of Medicare legislation. A man of almost encyclopedic knowledge, he spoke carefully and constructively, and listened as intently as he had spoken. Like his predecessor as Senate majority leader, LBJ, he was a master of personal one-on- one persuasion, and his soaring intellect and engaging personality made him scores of friends and precious few enemies in his many travels and engagements. He was, however, much like Harry Truman in terms of being both a straight-talker and a straight shooter, and he was known to be a man of incredible principle and integrity.<br />His only regret in later serving as Ambassador to Japan was that it took him so far a field from his beloved Montana, a place he could sometimes become almost doggedly appreciative of. He was a hunter, an outdoorsman, and an early champion of what was then called conservation and is now better understood as environmentalism. His was a life that spanned a myriad of different concerns, causes, and conflicts, and although we will always remember him best for his earnest, informed, and heartfelt opposition to the war in Vietnam, Mike Mansfield was certainly a public man for all seasons. This is a wonderful book about a noteworthy American who until now has been seriously under-appreciated. Enjoy!his predecessor as Senate majority leader, LBJ, he was a master of personal one-on- one persuasion, and his soaring intellect and engaging personality made him scores of friends and precious few enemies in his many travels and engagements. He was, however, much like Harry Truman in terms of being both a straight-talker and a straight shooter, and he was known to be a man of incredible principle and integrity.  <br />His only regret in later serving as Ambassador to Japan was that it took him so far a field from his beloved Montana, a place he could sometimes become almost doggedly appreciative of. He was a hunter, an outdoorsman, and an early champion of what was then called conservation and is now better understood as environmentalism. His was a life that spanned a myriad of different concerns, causes, and conflicts, and although we will always remember him best for his earnest, informed, and heartfelt opposition to the war in Vietnam, Mike Mansfield was certainly a public man for all seasons. This is a wonderful book about a noteworthy American who until now has been seriously under-appreciated. Enjoy!	2003-10-16
937933:US	52447634	RBI4OKXKJNA9Y	0679640886	90801042	The Boys' Crusade: The American Infantry in Northwestern Europe, 1944-1945 (Modern Library Chronicles)	Books	5	17	20	N	N	Eyes Wide Open? Read!	Sometimes it seems that we tend to romanticize and glorify the nature of the general experience of war to better adopt ourselves to the idea of it and our tacit acceptance of and participation in it. Thus, with memorable novels such as \\"From Here To Eternity\\" or in movies like \\"Saving Private Ryan\\", we overlay the experience of war with a sentimentality that makes the whole notion of combat much more palatable. Yet, in this relatively brief but articulately stated and footnoted book, noted historian Paul Fussell takes able aim at such sentimental balderdash regarding the welter of pimple-faced post-adolescent warriors we sent by the millions to help liberate Europe in 1944. He announces early on that far from flying with the angels of popular culture, which imply that the experience of war produces admirable and even desirable factors as pride, companionship, and \\"the consciousness of virtue enforced by deadly weapons\\", the actual experience of the men on arms was anything but ennobling, prideful, or mutually embraced courage among one's peers. For, although the youngsters sent to liberate Europe were surely launched on what can only be described as a moral crusade, their experience of the events surrounding it were anything but romantic and sentimental.<br />They arrived in Britain by the very boatloads, settling down amidst small rural setting in the countryside to polish their rather rudimentary soldiering skills and to prepare for the oncoming onslaught, the single largest amphibious landing ever attempted, and they understood from the beginning what a bloody affair it was all destined to be. They were more consumed with the particulars of their experience, an affair better characterized in terms of massively poor planning, inadequate training regimes, antiquated and obsolete weapons until close to the launch dates for the invasion, and a lackluster officer corps. Once launched into battle in France, these problems were additionally compromised by incidents of frequent desertions, self-inflicted gunshot wounds, and overwhelming fear. This was, according to Fussell, especially true for infantry, which, while only composing some on eighth of the total allied forces in Europe, suffered more than seventy percent of all the deaths and wounded. Moreover, they were often poorly led, as by General Bradley in an unconscionable and yet insistent push into the Hurtgen Forest area in the late fall of 1944, managed to suffer over thirty thousand casualties. Indeed, before the end of the war in Europe, scores of units refused to obey orders, feigned illnesses, or shot themselves to avoid further combat. Many even broke ranks and ran. In fact, close to twenty thousand Americans deserted their units during the final campaign on 1944-45.<br />In surveying all this, Professor Fussell is neither denying the heroic efforts of countless young men and women, nor is he suggesting the sacrifices of millions was anything less than justified for the result it produced; the total liberation of Europe. Rather, he is accentuating the actual experience of the combat on the individuals who suffered through it so that we might better appreciate the true magnitude of their sacrifice on the one hand, and the true horrific cost of the conflict for those who lived through it, day by day, and on the solid bloody ground of the battlefield, far from the sounding trumpets and the roar of the crowds in the victory parades. For Fussell, it is crucial for us to understand just how momentous and fateful the decision to send such young men and women into combat is. It something that should only be done as a last resort, when no other choice pertains. To do it on any lesser basis, especially while clinging to some sentimental and romantic notion of heroism pertaining to war, is heinous and inhumane. This will be a controversial book, but one I hope will be widely read and appreciated for what it is, a mature view of the actual experience of modern war.frequent desertions, self-inflicted gunshot wounds, and overwhelming fear. This was, according to Fussell, especially true for infantry, which, while only composing some on eighth of the total allied forces in Europe, suffered more than seventy percent of all the deaths and wounded. Moreover, they were often poorly led, as by General Bradley in an unconscionable and yet insistent push into the Hurtgen Forest area in the late fall of 1944, managed to suffer over thirty thousand casualties. Indeed, before the end of the war in Europe, scores of units refused to obey orders, feigned illnesses, or shot themselves to avoid further combat. Many even broke ranks and ran. In fact, close to twenty thousand Americans deserted their units during the final campaign on 1944-45.  <br />In surveying all this, Professor Fussell is neither denying the heroic efforts of countless young men and women, nor is he suggesting the sacrifices of millions was anything less than justified for the result it produced; the total liberation of Europe. Rather, he is accentuating the actual experience of the combat on the individuals who suffered through it so that we might better appreciate the true magnitude of their sacrifice on the one hand, and the true horrific cost of the conflict for those who lived through it, day by day, and on the solid bloody ground of the battlefield, far from the sounding trumpets and the roar of the crowds in the victory parades. For Fussell, it is crucial for us to understand just how momentous and fateful the decision to send such young men and women into combat is. It something that should only be done as a last resort, when no other choice pertains. To do it on any lesser basis, especially while clinging to some sentimental and romantic notion of heroism pertaining to war, is heinous and inhumane. This will be a controversial book, but one I hope will be widely read and appreciated for what it is, a mature view of the actual experience of modern war.	2003-10-16
938146:US	52447634	RHQM5MFDVA5IC	1568582587	345430994	War Against the Weak Eugenics and America's Campaign to Create a Master Race	Books	3	57	92	N	N	Interesting Muckraker  Look At American Eugenics Movement!	Many are familiar with the litany of 20th century regarding the plethora of ways in which the Nazi thugs used the much-hyped science of eugenics to gain acceptance for their many horrific activities, from programs of forced sterilization, euthanasia of the old and infirm, and later even as the justification of genocide during the conduct of the war along the Eastern front. In fact, much of the rationalization for the racist phlegm spouted by Hitler and his ilk was derived from the semi-scientific ideas of the eugenics movement. Much less well known is the fact that the early medical experiments and notions spouted by medical doctors like the infamous Dr. Josef Mengele were highly respected and even revered in the United States as well as Europe, and that Dr. Mengele in fact held public presentations that were hugely successful in this country.  Moreover, as the author of this provocative book reveals, there were several popular centers of eugenics research and support for such research for well over thirty years before the Second World War.<br />While the book is both interesting and full of shocking facts, it is also not especially convincing nor especially well written. It appears to be a somewhat muckraking attempt to sensationalize a particularly lurid aspect of 20th century history in American history, and much of what he purports does not appear to be independently verifiable or consistent with information one finds elsewhere on the topic.  In fact, his most outrageous claim, one that argues that the notion of so-called \\"Nordic \\" racial superiority originated here in the United States, is quite poorly supported by the evidence he cites. While it is admittedly a sad and despicable period of our history, there is little verifiable documentary evidence to lend credence to such a thesis.<br />This is not to deny there is much of interest in this book. He traces the sad progress of the so-called Immigration Act of 1924, showing how it was inextricably tied to the pseudo-scientific notions popularly associated with the eugenics movement, and with a rampant fear of foreigners as well. Given the rapid influx of immigrants from both eastern and southern Europe at the time, the purported facts regarding potential damage to the genetic makeup of the country was seen to be at risk, and some sad and retrogressive legislation attempted to stem the tide against such potential dangers.  The legislation led to a number of state laws outlawing interracial marriage, and were part of a growing campaign of both racial and ethnic intolerance most Americans would just as soon forget rather than learn about in the kind of detail offered here. Thus it is a potentially valuable book, but one which one can recommend only with appropriate caution regarding its veracity and accuracy.<br />Still, while the author does admit as to the fact that the eugenics movement arose in an atmosphere of ignorance, fear and intolerance, and added and aggravated the long-term manifestations of such emotive passions, the kind of complied list of eugenic sins delivered in a polemic style is hardly the sort of dispassionate and accurate document one would associate with a more scholarly approach that attempts less to sensationalize and much more to elucidate, explain, and analyze the topic at hand. It is indeed a sad period of time in our history, but one that deserves a more dispassionate, less muckraking, and more scholarly approach to truly serve the admirable stated purpose of this work. Enjoy!the pseudo-scientific notions popularly associated with the eugenics movement, and with a rampant fear of foreigners as well. Given the rapid influx of immigrants from both eastern and southern Europe at the time, the purported facts regarding potential damage to the genetic makeup of the country was seen to be at risk, and some sad and retrogressive legislation attempted to stem the tide against such potential dangers.  The legislation led to a number of state laws outlawing interracial marriage, and were part of a growing campaign of both racial and ethnic intolerance most Americans would just as soon forget rather than learn about in the kind of detail offered here. Thus it is a potentially valuable book, but one which one can recommend only with appropriate caution regarding its veracity and accuracy.<br />Still, while the author does admit as to the fact that the eugenics movement arose in an atmosphere of ignorance, fear and intolerance, and added and aggravated the long-term manifestations of such emotive passions, the kind of complied list of eugenic sins delivered in a polemic style is hardly the sort of dispassionate and accurate document one would associate with a more scholarly approach that attempts less to sensationalize and much more to elucidate, explain, and analyze the topic at hand. It is indeed a sad period of time in our history, but one that deserves a more dispassionate, less muckraking, and more scholarly approach to truly serve the admirable stated purpose of this work. Enjoy!	2003-10-16
947985:US	52447634	RC2NL6G4MUD7O	0375507523	644345297	Bushwhacked: Life in George W. Bush's America	Books	5	135	156	N	Y	Eye-popping Revelations On the rue Bush Agenda For America!	With this book, authors Molly Ivans and Lou Debose employ both considerable wit and a biting sarcasm to advantage in bringing to ground the terrible truth of how the cumulative actions of the Bush administration massively dislocates the hopes, fortunes, and welfare of ordinary Americans. What the Bush White House and its political appointees across the spectrum of executive departments are about can only be described as a kind of radical right reformation of the federal government and a revolutionary redefinition of the government's role as the defender and protector of the average citizen against the power and prerogatives of massive corporate entities like Enron and the auto industry. In so doing, they are transforming government policies into pro-business and anti-consumers cheerleaders and co-conspirators with the corporate interests, in a retrogressive movement back toward the days of plant lockouts and union busting, when workers were forced by robber barons like the Rockefellers and Duponts to dance to the tune of the capitalistic enterprises without benefit of government regulation or assistance.  In so doing, Ivans and Dubose provide us with yeoman services in displaying, for public view, the truly hideous dimensions of the social, economic, and political changes the Bush White House is quietly foisting on average Americans.<br />The authors begin by laying out the horrific consequences of the Bush tax cut package, which have the net effect of ignoring fiscal responsibility during a time of egregious national crises (the war on terror, rotting national utility infrastructure, health care, etc) in favor of a gratuitous financial bonus for the richest one percent of the population. The tax cuts have the effect of transferring net responsibility for repayment of the mountain of national debt to the less privileged socioeconomic classes, and employ fiscal arguments much like those of supply-sider David Stockman's \\"voodoo economics\\" to justify the actions taken. The long term effect of the tax cuts will be to send a massive tidal wave of crushing debt rolling down the years to wash over future generations of working class Americans, such that noted economics author Pet Petersen recently characterized it as a an act so reckless and shameful that he didn't know how to explain it to either his children or grandchildren.  Likewise, the we are left to puzzle as to why, after literally dictating the terms and conditions of the package of environmental agreements collectively referred to as the Kyoto Accords, the United States would suddenly repudiate the agreement, which amounts to its own businessmen's regimen for how to reasonably alleviate the industrial impact on global warming and other environmental degradations.<br />Meanwhile, that richest one percent of the electorate is benefiting mightily from the changed tax codes and relaxed and rolled-back federal regulations in everything from assistance for cost of winter fuel for heating for the elderly to safety requirements for red meat inspection. As a consequence, average Americans suffered and in some cases died, as Ivans and Dubose document. Theses sweeping retrogressions in public policy can only be described as prima fascia evidence of a return to an age of egregious crony capitalism, where profit trumps public safety and popular concern. It is a blatant transgression of the social compact between the federal government with the citizenry through a betrayal of the public trust, and a vitiation of the vital role that the government plays in ensuring the well being of its populace through socially enlightened policies such as those laid out in FDR's New Deal. In the vision of the Bush era, it turns out to be a case of \\"every creep for himself\\". Thus, in taking no aggressive action to ignore the crisis associated with the under-funding the Social Security trust Fund, Mr. Bush et al perpetuate and aggravate a problem that owes much to a history of forty years of annual misappropriation of the surplus monies collected for the fund, which were used by Congress with the blessing of successive presidents to fund other programs in order to mislead the American people of the true dimensions of the federal deficit. We are in a potential crisis state because of near-criminal mismanagement of the Trust Fund by the federal government, and Mr. Bush chooses to conveniently ignore the problem, since his constituency has profound philosophical reservations about what they regard to be social welfare programs.<br />Moreover, even as the Bush team surreptitiously dissembles and prevaricates to the public regarding its systematic acts to deconstruct the intrinsic elements of so-called new deal legislation, they are taking simultaneous action to enormously assault the constitutionally guaranteed civil liberties of its citizens through the invocation of the provision of the so-called Patriot Act, which the Ashcroft team at the Department of Justice has used to enthusiastically pursue a wide spectrum of non-terrorism related criminal and civil offenses by ordinary citizens. Meanwhile Bush whistles in seeming disregard even the economy sputters, all the while his corporate cronies continue to cut costs in pursuit of short term profit by transferring millions of both blue and white collar jobs to places like India, Indonesia, the Philippines, and China. Finally, the White House chooses to ignore the criminal excesses of its Enron buddies like Ken Lay by choosing to pursue media opportunities for `show trials\\" with high-profile offenders like Martha Stewart. This is a fascinating book, and one crammed with thought-provoking facts and a lot of food for thought. Enjoy!ppropriation of the surplus monies collected for the fund, which were used by Congress with the blessing of successive presidents to fund other programs in order to mislead the American people of the true dimensions of the federal deficit. We are in a potential crisis state because of near-criminal mismanagement of the Trust Fund by the federal government, and Mr. Bush chooses to conveniently ignore the problem, since his constituency has profound philosophical reservations about what they regard to be social welfare programs. <br />Moreover, even as the Bush team surreptitiously dissembles and prevaricates to the public regarding its systematic acts to deconstruct the intrinsic elements of so-called new deal legislation, they are taking simultaneous action to enormously assault the constitutionally guaranteed civil liberties of its citizens through the invocation of the provision of the so-called Patriot Act, which the Ashcroft team at the Department of Justice has used to enthusiastically pursue a wide spectrum of non-terrorism related criminal and civil offenses by ordinary citizens. Meanwhile Bush whistles in seeming disregard even the economy sputters, all the while his corporate cronies continue to cut costs in pursuit of short term profit by transferring millions of both blue and white collar jobs to places like India, Indonesia, the Philippines, and China. Finally, the White House chooses to ignore the criminal excesses of its Enron buddies like Ken Lay by choosing to pursue media opportunities for `show trials\\" with high-profile offenders like Martha Stewart. This is a fascinating book, and one crammed with thought-provoking facts and a lot of food for thought. Enjoy!	2003-10-08
948762:US	52447634	R2X8BRMI5TNG5R	0393058506	904288157	The Great Unraveling: Losing Our Way in the New Century	Books	5	54	60	N	Y	Terrific, Enticing Collection Of Krugman's Columns!	Princeton economist Paul Krugman sits in the catbird seat to better view the massive socioeconomic and political changes that have washed over the United States and the world in the last decade. As a columnist for the New York Times he has consistently demonstrated an uncanny ability to see the larger picture in which specific social, economic, and poltiical events are meaningfully embedded. This collection of winsome and worldly columns gathered from those published over the last several years provide a telling snapshot of a system in change, in terms of its values, its mores, and its leaders. And it is in the depiction of these leaders, both in private and public life, that the reader senses the alarm and concern the author so earnestly conveys regarding the cultural changes sweeping over us.<br />Krugman's columns comprise a collectively pessimistic view of people acting badly, selfishly, and with little regard for the welfare of the people from whom they derive their power, whether it be economic, social or political. And Professor Krugman reserves special scorn and sarcasm for George W. Bush, who he sees as a man who personally embodies the notion of incredibly bad leadership, and whose Bush administration takes on the power of a `revolutionary' movement foisted on the unsuspecting public by public servants who neither respect the populace they serve nor hold the ideas of the current political system as legitimate. Indeed, for Krugman these knaves prancing in knights' attire are really radical zealots presenting themselves as much more moderate and practical denizens of change. HE reserves special scorn for their disingenuous stated policies on issues such as social security, which Krugman understands are based on a cooking of the books, and which are the direct result of forty years of ignorance and dissembling politics on both sides of the political aisle.<br />Krugman's greatest strength is his savvy and knowing ability to meaningfully employ numbers and statistics in support of his articulations concerning the sorry state of affairs regarding our corporate and political leaders. HE waxes well on subjects as diverse as social security, as mentioned above, as well as on tax programs, the conscious and perhaps criminal manipulation of the stock market in the runaway 1990s, the federal budget and its priorities, and the sudden transformation of a massive budgetary surplus into an equally staggering deficit. Yet, alas, what really won my heart is Krugman's taking to task of his fellow media mavens, who in his opinion have fallen asleep on the journalistic beat, and have allowed many of the social, economic and political events of the last several years to pass unexamined, and by doing so have badly disserved the American public, who should, in his estimation (and mine) have been able to expect more from its designated watchdogs. This is a terrific book to carry with you, as each piece is fairly short and comprises a stand alone article which can be read nicely during a lunch break or while sitting in an airport terminal waiting for your luggage to magically reappear. Enjoy!atistics in support of his articulations concerning the sorry state of affairs regarding our corporate and political leaders. HE waxes well on subjects as diverse as social security, as mentioned above, as well as on tax programs, the conscious and perhaps criminal manipulation of the stock market in the runaway 1990s, the federal budget and its priorities, and the sudden transformation of a massive budgetary surplus into an equally staggering deficit. Yet, alas, what really won my heart is Krugman's taking to task of his fellow media mavens, who in his opinion have fallen asleep on the journalistic beat, and have allowed many of the social, economic and political events of the last several years to pass unexamined, and by doing so have badly disserved the American public, who should, in his estimation (and mine) have been able to expect more from its designated watchdogs. This is a terrific book to carry with you, as each piece is fairly short and comprises a stand alone article which can be read nicely during a lunch break or while sitting in an airport terminal waiting for your luggage to magically reappear. Enjoy!	2003-10-07
949553:US	52447634	RO71LZ850ATZS	0316544906	725523175	The Arms of Krupp 1587-1968	Books	5	14	17	N	N	Wonderful History Of Germany's Foremost Arms Maker	&quot;The Arms Of Krupp&quot; is the incredible biography of a powerful and incredibly rich and powerful family that was central in the advent and progress of European history for the more than four hundred years they presided as an almost imperial force within the boundaries of what is present-ay Germany. Certainly no other non-royal dynasty engenders such controversy and hotly expressed differences in opinion than does the multiple generations of this critically based family so critical to the development and technological capabilities of the German war machine. Of course, no one could do a better job at providing a definitive historical biography of the Krupp family than William Manchester. This is truly a magnificent book, a spellbinding story splendidly told by a master of English prose, rendered in a flawless, comprehensive, and objective treatment of this fascinating, often outrageous, and sometime imperious string of Krupp family member who ignited the wars raging in Europe in terms of their ability to provide the motherland with such complex, ingenious, and technically superior weapons of war.<br />This is, in fact, considered a masterwork of history, an eminently readable and elegantly stylish work by Manchester, a master of the trade. Manchester, a retired history professor at Wesleyan University in Connecticut, is widely regarded as one of this country's preeminent biographers and historian. The Krupp dynasty was extinguished in 1967, when the last surviving family member passed away. With his death the legacy of a four hundred year span of contribution to the European armaments industry came to an end, and so brought to a conclusion a tradition spanning wars and quite profoundly influencing outcomes of European history for centuries. The Krupp Arms conglomerate was technologically innovative, devising new weapons such as a superior cannon to an anti-air vehicle weapon designed to counter the reconnaissance capabilities of aerial observation balloons to exotic and much more capable submarines, which they then built for over four decades.<br />In so doing, they became fabulously rich, and rose to become extremely influential and exceedingly conservative voices within the realm of German political circles. No German leader could hope to marshal the resources or the weapons of war necessary to mount a military campaign without first gaining the trust, confidence and support of the Krupp family, which then cleverly and cynically manipulated this influence to vastly enrich themselves. During World War One, their cannons helped to flatten the French city of Verdun, and at one point succeeded in lobbing projectiles into Paris from as distant a location as some eighty miles away, an unheard-of innovation at the time. Aiding the Third Reich in its secret rearmament effort after the end of the First Word War, they provided a much advanced tank design that eventuated in the Panzer tank, used subsequently so successfully in Hitler's blitzkrieg through France in the summer of 1940.<br />They were quite influential within the German society as well, having armed the forces of Kaiser Wilhelm for battle before World War One, and then surreptitiously backed Hitler financially in the so-called terror-campaign&quot; of 1933. Incredibly, the Krupps participated in the war crimes of the Third Reich, even controlling and operating more than 130 concentration camps during the war. Afterwards, they help to rebuild Europe in the eventual development of the European Common Market. This is a truly fascinating book written with all of the usual style and substance one come s to expect of William Manchester, and it is certainly a book I can highly recommend to anyone with an interest in European history. Enjoy!exotic and much more capable submarines, which they then built for over four decades. <br />In so doing, they became fabulously rich, and rose to become extremely influential and exceedingly conservative voices within the realm of German political circles. No German leader could hope to marshal the resources or the weapons of war necessary to mount a military campaign without first gaining the trust, confidence and support of the Krupp family, which then cleverly and cynically manipulated this influence to vastly enrich themselves. During World War One, their cannons helped to flatten the French city of Verdun, and at one point succeeded in lobbing projectiles into Paris from as distant a location as some eighty miles away, an unheard-of innovation at the time. Aiding the Third Reich in its secret rearmament effort after the end of the First Word War, they provided a much advanced tank design that eventuated in the Panzer tank, used subsequently so successfully in Hitler's blitzkrieg through France in the summer of 1940. <br />They were quite influential within the German society as well, having armed the forces of Kaiser Wilhelm for battle before World War One, and then surreptitiously backed Hitler financially in the so-called terror-campaign&quot; of 1933. Incredibly, the Krupps participated in the war crimes of the Third Reich, even controlling and operating more than 130 concentration camps during the war. Afterwards, they help to rebuild Europe in the eventual development of the European Common Market. This is a truly fascinating book written with all of the usual style and substance one come s to expect of William Manchester, and it is certainly a book I can highly recommend to anyone with an interest in European history. Enjoy!	2003-10-07
950125:US	52447634	R18YIVJLLDIJIX	0743217802	276350978	They Marched Into Sunlight: War and Peace Vietnam and America October 1967	Books	5	23	31	N	Y	Masterful Historical Look At Vietnam And The Sixties Era!	In his book, \\"The Sociological Imagination\\", the late C. Wright Mills described the mark of meaningful social analysis as employing the ability to intersect the lives of ordinary human beings purposefully within the locus of their unique historical circumstances. In this masterful work by Pulitzer Prize winner David Maraniss, such a perspective is wonderfully achieved concerning the meanings and contexts of the Vietnam War for those of us who lived through it. Maraniss does so by juxtaposing two disparate events occurring over a two-day period in October 1967, a savagely waged battle in Vietnam and an anti-war demonstration on the campus grounds of the University of Wisconsin in Madison. And the slowly emerging set of similarities and differences associated with these two sets of events emerges, in all its Techicolor hues and tones, as never before for the reader's edification and entertainment.<br />Deftly avoiding the twin traps of first, Hollywood stereo types of both sets of circumstances one the one hand, and second, the nifty neo-conservative reconstructions of the truth a la David Lind as Vietnam being a 'necessary war' on the other, Maraniss dips deep into the heart of the complexities, contradictions, and human emotions swirling through one of the most contentious, ardently contested, and sometimes revolutionary period in 20th century American history. The cast of characters is long and difficult to keep in place, encompassing some six pages in the book's frontispiece. Likewise, the events and intertwining circumstances is sometimes not as well explained as it might be for any who are not familiar with it. Yet despite these quibbles, this is truly a magical book, one that transported me back to one of the most fascinating and memorable periods of my own life. The author's wondrous way with prose makes this effort seem more a novel than history, and surely that will make the book eminently accessible to a whole new generation of people willing to read serious nonfiction works.<br />A work of this magnitude is a seemingly overwhelming challenge, yet the author manages to draw the characters vividly and meaningfully, drawing our attention to the ways in which each of them individually and all of them collectively are swept up by the uncontrollable currents of events transpiring around them. The narrative pace is set wonderfully, and Maraniss somehow catches the essence of both the horror of the war as a personal event for the soldiers on both sides of the battle as well as the moral ambiguities associated with the ideological struggle ensuing on the home front. Even more amazing, he poses important moral questions relevant to current affairs in terms of his questioning America's perceptions about its role in the wider world as well as the terrible cost of the war, both in Vietnam and at home, for the individuals involved and the society at large. And in so doing he raises serious doubt about the jingoistic approach of another President yet ready to unleash the dogs of war without considering the long-term consequences of so doing for ordinary people. Enjoy!us nonfiction works.  <br />A work of this magnitude is a seemingly overwhelming challenge, yet the author manages to draw the characters vividly and meaningfully, drawing our attention to the ways in which each of them individually and all of them collectively are swept up by the uncontrollable currents of events transpiring around them. The narrative pace is set wonderfully, and Maraniss somehow catches the essence of both the horror of the war as a personal event for the soldiers on both sides of the battle as well as the moral ambiguities associated with the ideological struggle ensuing on the home front. Even more amazing, he poses important moral questions relevant to current affairs in terms of his questioning America's perceptions about its role in the wider world as well as the terrible cost of the war, both in Vietnam and at home, for the individuals involved and the society at large. And in so doing he raises serious doubt about the jingoistic approach of another President yet ready to unleash the dogs of war without considering the long-term consequences of so doing for ordinary people. Enjoy!	2003-10-06
950738:US	52447634	R3EVS3DY0UZU4M	0375414010	240704700	Imperial America: The Bush Assault on the World Order	Books	5	14	21	N	N	Masterful,Provocative Look At Bush Foreign Policy!	This most timely tome surveys the landscape of the new Bush administration and finds it wanting. This is a scathing indictment of the spectrum of foreign policy failures of the Bush administration, which the author, John Newhouse, attributes to an intentional disregard for traditional diplomacy and a goal of establishing a new American hegemony over the landscape of the political world. According to his argument in \\"Imperial America\\", in its series of actions few fairminded people could conceive of as being unrelated, political operatives operating within the White House single-handedly managed to alienate most of the rest of the civilized world, thereby squandering a virtual tidal wave of good-will in the aftermath of the events of September 2001 from friends and supposed foes alike. The fact that we have done so can be traced with some confidence to the wrong-headed and quizzical disregard that the Bush administration has shown for the rest of the world.<br />The list of particulars is especially damning for an administration that claims to be acting to protect us from a dangerous world. This view, according to the author, has the unfortunately paranoid perspective of a far-right radical bent toward the surrounding world, seing enemies everywhere. Indeed, without such an interpretation of the world views of such administration stalwarts as Dick Cheney, Donald Rumsfeld, Condoleeza Rice (who appears here to be more opportunistic sycophant than intellectual heavyweight) and influential others such as Paul Wolfowitz, Richard Perle, and John Bolton, it is difficult to comprehend the collective actions of the current administration in terms of its continuing callous disregard of former agreements, alliances, precedence, or international law. Whether referring to our handling of the war on terrorism, our attack on Iraq, or our diplomatic stumblings toward nearly everyone from the Russians to the Iranians, the Palestinians to the North Koreans, or the French to the Iranians, we have literally squandered our unique opportunity to use the massive goodwill of the post-911 world to reframe alliances, rebuild agreements, and solve long-standing difficulties with the Iranians, the North Koreans, and the Russians.<br />For Newhouse, the singular disregard that the current crew in the White House has shown for multilateral diplomacy, and its corresponding penchant for such policies as preemptive strikes and unilateral action that vitiates long-standing agreements and alliances has turned the world against us, so that they are beginning to regard both us and our policies as those of what even conservative authors like Clyde Prestowicz calls a \\"rogue nation\\" in his book of the same name (see my review). -Are our leaders so singularly and so consistently inept as to have amateurishly bungled so many opportunities to strengthen alliances, reassure friends, and build bridges to adversaries? Or, perhaps, is this part of a new view on what constitutes American policy and a new view of the world as the territory for American military and economic dominance? Such questions as these are provocatively discussed and examined herein, and one walks away from the book with much more information about recent foreign policy decisions and the contemporary world scene than one had before reading it. This is a book I can heartily recommend for all history and public affairs buffs. Enjoy!ns, we have literally squandered our unique opportunity to use the massive goodwill of the post-911 world to reframe alliances, rebuild agreements, and solve long-standing difficulties with the Iranians, the North Koreans, and the Russians.<br />For Newhouse, the singular disregard that the current crew in the White House has shown for multilateral diplomacy, and its corresponding penchant for such policies as preemptive strikes and unilateral action that vitiates long-standing agreements and alliances has turned the world against us, so that they are beginning to regard both us and our policies as those of what even conservative authors like Clyde Prestowicz calls a \\"rogue nation\\" in his book of the same name (see my review). -Are our leaders so singularly and so consistently inept as to have amateurishly bungled so many opportunities to strengthen alliances, reassure friends, and build bridges to adversaries? Or, perhaps, is this part of a new view on what constitutes American policy and a new view of the world as the territory for American military and economic dominance? Such questions as these are provocatively discussed and examined herein, and one walks away from the book with much more information about recent foreign policy decisions and the contemporary world scene than one had before reading it. This is a book I can heartily recommend for all history and public affairs buffs. Enjoy!	2003-10-06
951975:US	52447634	RNSRSRXFPS4PY	1401301061	848371321	The World According to Mister Rogers: Important Things to Remember	Books	5	121	126	N	N	Wonderful Posthumous Gift From Our Very Best Neighbor!	If ever there was a man in contemporary America who should serve as a wonderful role model, it was the late Fred Rogers. Using love and compassion as a flag for his humanitarian endeavors on public television and elsewhere, Fred Rogers became a symbol of all that is best and right with this country.  I first became hooked on him as my then toddling daughter watched him every evening on public television, and while he was hardly either macho or particularly masculine, there was an undoubtedly appealing aspect to his persona that literally would warm the room.  Here we have a selection of essays from Rogers that illustrate his deep philosophical concern for children as well as his abiding human compassion for others, something in seeming short supply today. Preaching a Christian cant of charity and tolerance, he continually lit a veritable beacon of positive examples through his words as well as in his life.<br />The selection gathered here range from his acceptance speech when inducted into the Television Hall Of Fame discussing having the courage to be an individual to various songs on his program, and an abiding message of love, the value of learning, and the desperate need to center our society around the enduring needs of children. I remember being moved each time he would gaze into the camera and seemingly tell my entranced toddler that he was proud of her, that she was special, and that to be herself was okay. She didn't have to be first, or to do anything other than to be whoever she was. His program format as being your neighbor worked magic, and tended to calm down my daughter as she watched his program and giggled at many of the hilarious antics of the puppets. But Rogers delivered some important messages to our children, and it is no mistake his programs run still, as I am sure they will forever.<br />His writing style is straightforward and direct, written in simple language that even younger children will comprehend. But this is not to suggest the book is meant for children. Rather it is meant for the rest of us, dazzled as we are by his daring to be himself, and to leave behind such memorable treasures, as are these essays and other works he wrote along the way. For whether he is counseling children as to how the attack on the world trade center was a result of people being so angry they didn't know what else to do with it, or counseling us as to how to express our pent-up love, caring, and compassion, Fred Rogers was a remarkable human being, and one many of us can profit by reading and heeding. Enjoy!ok is meant for children. Rather it is meant for the rest of us, dazzled as we are by his daring to be himself, and to leave behind such memorable treasures, as are these essays and other works he wrote along the way. For whether he is counseling children as to how the attack on the world trade center was a result of people being so angry they didn't know what else to do with it, or counseling us as to how to express our pent-up love, caring, and compassion, Fred Rogers was a remarkable human being, and one many of us can profit by reading and heeding. Enjoy!	2003-10-05
952451:US	52447634	R2DPG1HA3AL05O	0743457900	726391173	Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy	Books	5	11	13	N	Y	The First Of His Fabulous Spy Chronicle Trilogy!	Like most of the best-selling works emanating from the unchallenged master of the intelligent spy thriller John LeCarre, this is in reality a fictional but absorbing treatise on the hidden and conflicted corners of the human heart, the many ways in which our own natures feed into and extend the darker impulse of a society bent on pursuing the secrets and treachery that ever lurks for the unsuspecting victim. Here, in the first of three best-selling novels tracing the pilgrim's progress of George Smiley, the intrepid and unlikely hero of the post-industrial Western world, LeCarre initiates his marvelously convoluted narrative tracing the continuing history of the Smiley chronicles, a spell-binding and endlessly intricate treatise detailing the perfidy, moral compromises, and treachery of the world of British intelligence.<br />In &quot;Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy&quot;, once-cashiered intelligence expert George Smiley is called unofficially out of retirement to vet the suspects of passing British intelligence to the Russians by way of a deep-rooted mole with the Circus, the trade-name for British Intelligence. Once engaged, Smiley's ministrations are thrust toward unraveling the morass of conflicting evidence and false leads into a tapestry of meaningful clues. Much of the upper hierarchy within the Circus constitute the list of most likely suspects, so George has to proceed carefully, cautiously, and yet deliberately toward the truth, whatever it may be.<br />Given Smiley's past association and personal relationships with each of the protagonists, including one who cuckolded him by having a fling with George's now estranged wife, keeping the investigation on its deadly track is a delicate trick with many wild yet plausible and ingenious twists and turns. It is also the first of the several steps he must take to exact his revenge against the legendary Karla, the Chief of the Soviet Covert Espionage Bureau. So, as the he and his chosen covert investigation team begins to unravel the many points of light this careful sifting of signs through tradecraft, there is a number of levels of intelligence, motives, and intents all operating at once, and these LeCarre mines superbly in exploring the impulses rational and otherwise, that propel such urges.<br />The plot, as usual, is ingenious, intricate, and horrific in its human toll, played out against a landscape of the far-flung persons and places across the European landscape, from London to Berne to Deep inside the former Soviet Union. Once again LeCarre takes us on a cautious yet beautifully choreographed adventure into the heart of darkness of ourselves, and we shouldn't be surprised to find some scar tissue and broken bones as we descend deeper into the tortuous caverns we keep hidden in our subconscious realms. LeCarre is nothing if not a superb chronicler of the ways in which our own natures become a battle ground for the struggle between good and evil, the good we can be for others, and the evil we do to them and ourselves by subscribing to ideologies, almost any ideology, that finally forces us to choose between our values and our duty. This is a marvelous book, an entertaining read, and a stunning example of the sophistication, complexity, and sheer intelligence of the author in detailing the subterranean world of international espionage. Enjoy!gins to unravel the many points of light this careful sifting of signs through tradecraft, there is a number of levels of intelligence, motives, and intents all operating at once, and these LeCarre mines superbly in exploring the impulses rational and otherwise, that propel such urges. <br />The plot, as usual, is ingenious, intricate, and horrific in its human toll, played out against a landscape of the far-flung persons and places across the European landscape, from London to Berne to Deep inside the former Soviet Union. Once again LeCarre takes us on a cautious yet beautifully choreographed adventure into the heart of darkness of ourselves, and we shouldn't be surprised to find some scar tissue and broken bones as we descend deeper into the tortuous caverns we keep hidden in our subconscious realms. LeCarre is nothing if not a superb chronicler of the ways in which our own natures become a battle ground for the struggle between good and evil, the good we can be for others, and the evil we do to them and ourselves by subscribing to ideologies, almost any ideology, that finally forces us to choose between our values and our duty. This is a marvelous book, an entertaining read, and a stunning example of the sophistication, complexity, and sheer intelligence of the author in detailing the subterranean world of international espionage. Enjoy!	2003-10-04
952612:US	52447634	RH5KFIJLEQ9G5	1583225366	967029653	Media Control, Second Edition: The Spectacular Achievements of Propaganda (Open Media Series)	Books	4	33	35	N	N	Provocative essay By An Important Academic Critic!	Those interested in better understanding the many ways on which the electronic media manipulates public opinion would profit mightily from reading this rather short essay from Noam Chomsky concerning the myriad of methods used by what sociologist C. Wright Mills would have referred to as the power elite to shape and reduce the scope of what we know and how we see the world around us. In a wonderful quote from this essay lifted nearly verbatim from a public speech made to a recent Town Meeting for citizens interested in media coverage of foreign policy, Chomsky states that \\"propaganda is to a democracy what a bludgeon is to a totalitarian state\\". In this sense, he posits that the use of propaganda, and in particular what some pundits now refer to a political 'spin', is the single most useful device used by the power elite uses to keep the masses in line with their interests and world perspectives.<br />As the many faithful peripatetic readers of Chomsky's essays would expect, he adopts an academic approach to the issue, tracing the history of the use of propaganda in this country from the erudite yet deceptively rabble-rousing pro-intervention speeches made by President Woodrow Wilson, the similarly back-staged endeavors of FDR to draw American support for the embattled British position prior to the attack at Pearl harbor, and even the stage-managed and public-relations intensive efforts to portray the intervention in Kuwait in 1991 as an effort to free a brave democratic people, when the kingdom was in fact a petty fiefdom that was ruled with arrogance and imperious disregard for public comment.<br />As is usual for Chomsky, he is sometimes a bit over the top in the use of hyperbole, but there is a wealth of information and a few surprises in terms of how he illuminates some seemingly innocuous facts into a thesis supporting his overall hypothesis. For Noam, the important aspect of all this is the ways in which the blunt falsification of history (see historian Howard Zinn's volumes on the \\"History of the American People\\" for a good example of how badly others have warped it by overemphasizing the role of key elite figures and downplaying the contribution of ordinary people), the suppression of relevant information and the consequent selective publication of partial truths and outright falsifications, and the recent trend toward trivializing the news system through the concentration of the news media on entertainment, and the celebration of personalities and celebrities as opposed to attempting to inform and enlighten citizens regarding the crucial and valuable information they need to make informed decisions regarding their own lives. This is an interesting and worthwhile book, and one I can heartily recommend for the interested reader.Howard Zinn's volumes on the \\"History of the American People\\" for a good example of how badly others have warped it by overemphasizing the role of key elite figures and downplaying the contribution of ordinary people), the suppression of relevant information and the consequent selective publication of partial truths and outright falsifications, and the recent trend toward trivializing the news system through the concentration of the news media on entertainment, and the celebration of personalities and celebrities as opposed to attempting to inform and enlighten citizens regarding the crucial and valuable information they need to make informed decisions regarding their own lives. This is an interesting and worthwhile book, and one I can heartily recommend for the interested reader.	2003-10-04
1015596:US	52447634	R1JKFPSMZ1ZSJH	0944475175	914675717	Pictures from the Country: A Guide to Photographing Rural Life and Landscapes	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Wondrous Photography By A New England Master!	I first remember seeing one of Richard Brown's spectacular photographs on he cover of Country Journal, a magazine devoted to celebrating rural life styles that ran a span of several years in the early to late 1980s. Brown's stunning photographic style showcased the day-to-day confluence of ordinary Vermonters living their lives in the rural splendor of the Northeast Kingdom in the far reaches of the lovely &quot;People's Republic Of Vermont&quot;. Often Country Journal would feature a number of his photos inside each issue, so one subscribing the magazine began to look for them both on the cover and inside, as well. Indeed, his work was what made me search for the latest issue at the beginning of each month.<br />Here he stuns us with the majesty of Vermont as it transpires through its incredibly beautiful cycle of seasons in a way that only a photographer of such obvious abilities could. Herein he shares many of his favorites, and several of these I have seen before in other venues. The problem with a book filled with such gorgeously shot, developed and produced rural photographs is that one is tempted to carefully extract them for framing on the wall. They are really that terrific! Photographs range from shots of landscapes to silhouettes of a farmhouse steaming against the winter cold, from children walking down a dirt-covered tree lined country road exploding into autumn's extravagance to an elderly gentleman leaning against a barn with his favorite cat. One sits transfixed by the sheer variety of scenes and colors so native to the rural landscapes and personal portraits. This is a wonderful travelogue into the heart of New England.<br />Brown shows us all of the changes that transpire in the North country, a place where the changes are so frequent and so momentous that they comprise six seasons, adding both the dreaded mud season of early springtime on the one hand, and the so-called 'off-season' after the autumn glory has been swept away, leaving cold bare trees and a hauntingly spare and vacant atmosphere to settle over the region on the other. Listen a few times to folksinger Tom Rush's rendition of &quot;Urge For Going&quot; a few times on the CD player and you will get the idea. Brown's imaginative hand is lovingly apparent in this book, displaying both the soulful visages of local inhabitants and the unique flavor of the haunting ever-changing scenery so typically Vermont. This is a distinctive and memorable recreation of what we love so much about being native new Englanders! Enjoy!rees and a hauntingly spare and vacant atmosphere to settle over the region on the other. Listen a few times to folksinger Tom Rush's rendition of &quot;Urge For Going&quot; a few times on the CD player and you will get the idea. Brown's imaginative hand is lovingly apparent in this book, displaying both the soulful visages of local inhabitants and the unique flavor of the haunting ever-changing scenery so typically Vermont. This is a distinctive and memorable recreation of what we love so much about being native new Englanders! Enjoy!	2003-08-11
1018737:US	52447634	R1ONU6K6KIDEY5	0771015062	132031036	Where the Hell Are the Guns?: A Soldier's View of the Anxious Years, 1939-44	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Fascinating Story Of Canadian Preparations For WWII!	Canada has prove to be one of the inexplicable backwaters in terms of any self-generated genesis of texts covering the wartime experience for Canadians as the dark storm clouds of war drifted over the British commonwealth and as one of the dominion states Canada became more and more drawn into the conflict in defense of Britain. In this sense the certainty of war loomed larger over our northern neighbors long before it appeared as either likely or inevitable to the average American. In this book, \\"Where The Hell Are The Guns? A Soldier's Eye View of the Anxious Years 1939-1944\\", former Canadian soldier George Blackburn retells the fascinating tale of how Canada began to prepare in earnest for the deadly and fateful conflicts to come.<br />Although this represents the first volume of a trilogy of works that spans the duration of the Second World War and Canada's participation therein, it I the last of the three volume work to be published, largely made possible by the critical and commercial success of \\"The Guns Of Normandy; A Soldier's Eye View, France 1944\\" and  \\"Guns Of Victory: A Soldier's Eye View, Belgium, Holland and Germany 1944-45\\" before it.  Here the reader is treated to a quite personal and detailed description of how Canada turned its quiet, placid and peace-loving population into the veritable contributors to the Allied war effort it became in the fateful years leading up to the conflict and beyond. By using the device of concentrating on one particular unit, his own 4th Field Regiment, he traces with great fidelity and poignant accuracy the evolution of this rag-tag collection of untrained and undisciplined young recruits into a formidable fighting force, the so-called fighting sharp edge of the Canadian Artillery forces, a group about to prove themselves to the Allies and the world at large as one of the most adept and battle capable in the world.<br />What is so memorable about Blackburn's account is the fact that it is so representative of so many young men and women who came of age in the clear cool autumn of 1939 following the blitzkrieg attack by Germany's Wehrmacht against Poland. Like all the Allied forces, Canada was dreadfully poorly equipped for the coming fight, and was forced by the dint of circumstance to remake it military force from nothing into an incredible something, and that story of that transformation is interestingly documented here. In the midst of an unrequited economic Depression shared with its brothers below the national boundaries in the United States, the volunteers quickly streamed in under the twin flags of patriotic fervor and the growl of empty bellies looking for regular meals.<br />From such inauspicious and humble beginnings the training starts in earnest, and without the stuff of war, without guns, or trucks, or artillery, they began the long and arduous training process that would later hold them in such good stead on the beaches of Normandy and beyond. Surviving in makeshift barracks that were hastily converted from barns, stables, and even pigsties in regional fairs and exhibition grounds, the troops learned to improvise and train as best they could with the limited resources at hand. Even as they were trained they wore the outmoded and moth-ravaged leftover uniforms remaining from the Great War of 1914-1918.  Indeed, the chronicle of their training is an incredible tale of use of obsolete weaponry and outmoded tactics until their regiment is finally more fully equipped and trained in preparation for the invasion of Normandy in 1944, when they finally have the chance to prove their mettle under fire. This is an absorbing and entertaining book, one that is both well written and full of unusual material, and one I can highly recommend. Enjoy!young men and women who came of age in the clear cool autumn of 1939 following the blitzkrieg attack by Germany's Wehrmacht against Poland. Like all the Allied forces, Canada was dreadfully poorly equipped for the coming fight, and was forced by the dint of circumstance to remake it military force from nothing into an incredible something, and that story of that transformation is interestingly documented here. In the midst of an unrequited economic Depression shared with its brothers below the national boundaries in the United States, the volunteers quickly streamed in under the twin flags of patriotic fervor and the growl of empty bellies looking for regular meals.<br />From such inauspicious and humble beginnings the training starts in earnest, and without the stuff of war, without guns, or trucks, or artillery, they began the long and arduous training process that would later hold them in such good stead on the beaches of Normandy and beyond. Surviving in makeshift barracks that were hastily converted from barns, stables, and even pigsties in regional fairs and exhibition grounds, the troops learned to improvise and train as best they could with the limited resources at hand. Even as they were trained they wore the outmoded and moth-ravaged leftover uniforms remaining from the Great War of 1914-1918.  Indeed, the chronicle of their training is an incredible tale of use of obsolete weaponry and outmoded tactics until their regiment is finally more fully equipped and trained in preparation for the invasion of Normandy in 1944, when they finally have the chance to prove their mettle under fire. This is an absorbing and entertaining book, one that is both well written and full of unusual material, and one I can highly recommend. Enjoy!	2003-08-08
1020882:US	52447634	R3DH7A2VS64N0U	0333949447	310227080	The Eastern Front, 1941-45: German Troops and the Barbarisation of Warfare (St Antony's Series)	Books	4	24	27	N	N	Social Factors Of Wehrmacht Participation In Barbarossa!	This is a very interesting and quite different approach to experiencing the events of the Second World War. It is interesting in the fact that it comprises a sort of social history of the members of the Wehrmacht, or regular German army itself. So, this then is a fascinating if somewhat oddly focused study of the war along the eastern front from the viewpoint of the German foot soldier. It is often frightening and revealing, especially when one considers the fact that the author actually survived over five years of combat. So, although the writing style is a bit stiff and belabored, it is well worth the effort.<br />Given its attempt to be both more rigorous scientifically and paying attention to the details that comprise the German soldier's cultural makeup and prime orienting values, this is a very readable and absorbing exploration of an &quot;average&quot; foot soldier involved up to his muddy ankles in the most outrageous and provocative battles in modern history. This is truly a story for the record books, one told with brutal frankness regarding the soldiers existential circumstances as well as his willful cooperation in the widespread and savage atrocities systematically ordered and committed all along the eastern front; this is a story deserving of your time and study. Imagine slogging through the heat and rain and mud and snow and ice of the campaign into and then through Poland and Russia, and retracing mile by mile, yard by yard, foot by foot as the Russians relentlessly push the 200 divisions of the German Army slowly and painfully back from all of the gains, inflicting murderous tolls along the way.<br />The portrait given is one revealing the levels of hardship, depravations, depravities, and extreme experiences of a common soldier involved in the most terrible and hard-fought campaign of World War Two, Operation Barbarossa. One sees how the culture from which they sprang made all of this possible, the savagery toward Russian civilians, the rampant anti-Semitism, and the butchering of everything that walked, crawled, or flew into their pathway. Indeed, the changes such experiences must make on any ordinary human being; the slow but inexorable metamorphosis from callow and self-assured young men to war and world weary cynics willing to do anything to see another tomorrow, and the vaguest hope of someday going back to home and the world, makes them into battle-hardened survivors who do what need to be done to protect themselves and their comrades with trained indifference.<br />This is indeed a worthwhile and well-described (which is not to say easily read) story of a view of the Wehrmacht informed by a consideration of the social and cultural factors surrounding their participation in the barbarian behavior of the German Army in the Soviet Union and elsewhere. In the last analysis, it is in the close knit circles of comrades and friends that such things become possible, and the cultural background and social factors allowing these thousands of otherwise decent young men to willingly participate in the excesses of the Gernamn Army are much more understandable in light of the factors examined and discussed herein. Finally it comes down to living in the small community of buddies and surviving in that context that becomes paramount in the day-to-day experiences. This is, in that sense at least, a very moving and graphic document in describing such experiences, and should be read and understood by any serious student of WWII.anti-Semitism, and the butchering of everything that walked, crawled, or flew into their pathway. Indeed, the changes such experiences must make on any ordinary human being; the slow but inexorable metamorphosis from callow and self-assured young men to war and world weary cynics willing to do anything to see another tomorrow, and the vaguest hope of someday going back to home and the world, makes them into battle-hardened survivors who do what need to be done to protect themselves and their comrades with trained indifference. <br />This is indeed a worthwhile and well-described (which is not to say easily read) story of a view of the Wehrmacht informed by a consideration of the social and cultural factors surrounding their participation in the barbarian behavior of the German Army in the Soviet Union and elsewhere. In the last analysis, it is in the close knit circles of comrades and friends that such things become possible, and the cultural background and social factors allowing these thousands of otherwise decent young men to willingly participate in the excesses of the Gernamn Army are much more understandable in light of the factors examined and discussed herein. Finally it comes down to living in the small community of buddies and surviving in that context that becomes paramount in the day-to-day experiences. This is, in that sense at least, a very moving and graphic document in describing such experiences, and should be read and understood by any serious student of WWII.	2003-08-06
1021933:US	52447634	R1UHAY6QPZ1O8X	0465062792	340296974	Rogue Nation: American Unilateralism And The Failure Of Good Intentions	Books	5	42	46	N	N	Required Reading!	In a world increasingly defined in simple stark contrasts of black and white, for us or against us, and good and evil, noted conservative author and social analyst Clyde Prestowicz adds some much needed perspective that both explains why the rest of the civilized world increasingly views us with suspicion and alarm, on the one hand, and why we are reacting to this seemingly new state of world affairs with dismay and righteous indignation. While we Americans are rightly outraged by the events surrounding 911, our reaction as though we were the only nation, or even the first nation, to experience such outrageously murderous attacks by terrorists is not correct; nor is it a helpful tact to use in then attempting to justify international military action against a foe we have not so far demonstrated had any role in such terrorist attacks.  Based on this set of dangerous actions as well as a number of other unilateral actions, which collectively seem to signal a profound political indifference on our part toward legitimate international interests and concerns.<br />Thus, we thumb our noses at the United Nations and international law by unilaterally attacking Iraq, in defiance of agreements with the United Nations an NATO on the one hand, and in violation of the Geneva Convention and the Treaty Of Westphalia as well. After nearly ten yeas of painstaking efforts by politicians from 46 countries to define, negotiate, and finalize the so-called Kyoto Accords, a set of international agreements to slow down the degradation of the environment and help mitigate a multitude of problems associated with air, water, and ground pollution, the Bush administration suddenly reversed the course of the two previous administrations and refused to recommend ratification of the accords. Moreover, we also unilaterally abrogated from participating in the International Criminal Court system, and walked away from the mutually binding agreement with the former Soviet Union not to develop or deploy anti-ballistic missile defense systems.  From stem to stern, the Bush administration seemed to be telling the world that it was our way or the highway.<br />In so doing, Mr. Bush has done much to convince the world the USA cares only about ourselves. And it is this issue regarding the differences in our policies and our perceived consciousness of ourselves that the author mines such a provocative essay on what it means to be an American in today's complex and permanently interdependent world, and what we must understand about the rest of the world in order to act in a way that serves both our own interests and considers theirs as well. We must reconcile our self-image as the champion of freedom and liberty with our actions abroad, supporting democratic institutions instead of paying mere lip service to doing so while forging alliances with despots, dictators, and military juntas. More than anything, we must reassure our allies and friends abroad, from France to Japan, from Australia to Canada, and from China to Germany, which we are the defenders of freedom and liberty we claim, and that we are not attempting to foist onto the world a new century of American hegemony. This book is essential reading for concerned American citizens, and one that derives a lot of credibility based on the author's impeccable conservative credentials. Enjoy!y anti-ballistic missile defense systems.  From stem to stern, the Bush administration seemed to be telling the world that it was our way or the highway. <br />In so doing, Mr. Bush has done much to convince the world the USA cares only about ourselves. And it is this issue regarding the differences in our policies and our perceived consciousness of ourselves that the author mines such a provocative essay on what it means to be an American in today's complex and permanently interdependent world, and what we must understand about the rest of the world in order to act in a way that serves both our own interests and considers theirs as well. We must reconcile our self-image as the champion of freedom and liberty with our actions abroad, supporting democratic institutions instead of paying mere lip service to doing so while forging alliances with despots, dictators, and military juntas. More than anything, we must reassure our allies and friends abroad, from France to Japan, from Australia to Canada, and from China to Germany, which we are the defenders of freedom and liberty we claim, and that we are not attempting to foist onto the world a new century of American hegemony. This book is essential reading for concerned American citizens, and one that derives a lot of credibility based on the author's impeccable conservative credentials. Enjoy!	2003-08-05
1022140:US	52447634	R15G9V3SE03Z14	0553103741	135474617	The Illustrated Brief History of Time, Updated and Expanded Edition	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Wondrous Nature Of The Universe Explained To Laymen!	For those of us who were actually curious enough to actually open the covers of this remarkable exposition of very sophisticated scientific concepts laid simpler and comprehensible in Professor Stephen Hawking's disarmingly straightforward style, update and expanded original version of the originally published text is indeed a veritable treasure trove of layman's explanations for some wondrous scientific phenomena. Hawking, who is still a Lecturer in Physics at Cambridge University despite an progressively debilitating neuro-muscular disease, has a rather unique capability to eschew anything other than the bare minimum of all the otherwise stupefying scientific mumbo-jumbo as he explains various aspects of the expanding universe as black holes, the nature of time, the so-called &quot;big bang&quot;, and then again, even the phenomenon of gravity itself. Hawking addresses the fundamental nature of physics as he proceeds to sift through these fascinating and long enduring mysteries of the universe.<br />As a result, then, his somewhat rhetorical questions are presented for the single purpose of elucidating some interesting, provocative, and fairly indisputable answers to the nearly timeless ponderings we all seem to harbor about this wider world we all inhabit. Still, one's consciousness seems to struggle in vain to consider the sheer scale of such conceptual configurations, with concepts that appear to be so immense and so dislocated to anything within our common experience while absorbed in our ordinary day-to- day time-space continuum as to give any among us a pregnant pause while contemplating the nature of the universe. Of course, such a realization merely serves to magnify the sheer scope of the author's accomplishment in conceptualizing and executing such an approachable and accessible text, one that so vividly describes the origins and nature of our universe. This is a marvelous book, and one I can heartily recommend. Enjoy!	2003-08-05
1023373:US	52447634	R3L02CV3866KYD	0848805372	949556910	Brave New World Revisited	Books	5	5	7	N	Y	Another Aldous Huxley Masterwork!	Anyone who had the pleasure of reading the original edition of \\"Brave New World\\" published in the 1930s understands the nature of the concerns Aldous Huxley was exploring in this science fiction approach to the issues associated with modernization and where unleashed science and technology are taking us.  In this marvelous companion non-fiction work published some twenty-some years later, Huxley further defines and describes the substance and consequences of his original concerns as outlined in \\"Brave New World\\". These concerns range from the fairly mundane issues of overpopulation to the quality of life for citizens in such a future society to the concerns for individual freedom and consciousness, given what he terms to be the increasing capability and interest of the upper reaches to mold and control the attitudes, dispositions, and perceptions of its individual citizens.<br />Huxley is uniquely qualified to engage in such an exploration, largely due to his stature given the fateful ways in which so many aspects of his prognostications about the direction of future society have been substantiated and actualized before our very eyes, including, among other things, the development of nuclear weapons and the use of nuclear power. So too, as we approach ever greater integration of national economies into something gradually approaching a single global one, his fears regarding the likelihood of the rise of `fascism with a friendly face' seems much more to the mark than did all the fears of the Orwellian `1984' type totalitarian government.  Yet he also is known and respected for having been, like Edmund Wilson was here in the United States in the same time frame, as an eminent man of letters, a man capable of successfully straddling the various academic fields with a  vision so powerful and so true to the facts as to allow him immense credibility and latitude.<br />Here he one again provides us with a fascinating, provocative, and, in retrospect, remarkably accurate of what would come to transpire in the years of the 20th century. As even Huxley himself admits, much of what has already come into existence did so much more rapidly and much more widely than he originally imagined it might. His accomplishment in this superb book is to survey the prospects for what increasingly now, in the first years of the 21st century, is now an uncomfortably accurate set of predictions of not only how we live, but under what particular set of social, economic, and political circumstances. Reading this book, in combination with several of his other texts, such as the wonderful \\"Doors OF Perception\\", helps immeasurably to liberate one from the kind of propaganda-influenced and politically correct sets of personal perceptions so many of us view the world through. This is indeed a seminal book, one that any serious student of the human condition and who lives in the so-called advanced social democracies of the western world must read to comprehend the nature of the environment he or she exists within. Enjoy!of what would come to transpire in the years of the 20th century. As even Huxley himself admits, much of what has already come into existence did so much more rapidly and much more widely than he originally imagined it might. His accomplishment in this superb book is to survey the prospects for what increasingly now, in the first years of the 21st century, is now an uncomfortably accurate set of predictions of not only how we live, but under what particular set of social, economic, and political circumstances. Reading this book, in combination with several of his other texts, such as the wonderful \\"Doors OF Perception\\", helps immeasurably to liberate one from the kind of propaganda-influenced and politically correct sets of personal perceptions so many of us view the world through. This is indeed a seminal book, one that any serious student of the human condition and who lives in the so-called advanced social democracies of the western world must read to comprehend the nature of the environment he or she exists within. Enjoy!	2003-08-04
1026701:US	52447634	R2CQDT8R6I5WX1	0393051447	550346223	Khrushchev: The Man and His Era	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Superb Biography Of Stalin	No one is less understood in the so-called Western democracies than former Soviet General Secretary Nikita Khrushchev, who assumed the reins following the death of long-time ruler Joseph Stalin under somewhat mysterious circumstances in 1953. One of the reasons he is so poorly understood and appreciated not only here in the West but within greater Russia itself is largely due to the internal contradictions that marked his many-starred career as Soviet apparatchik and eventual ascension to the seat of power. After all, he rose due largely to the sponsorship and special status he held with Stalin himself, a man noted for his treachery and endless paranoid actions against enemies and allies alike. With this book, entitled \\"Khrushchev: The Man And His Era\\", we are presented with what is by far the most comprehensive, nuanced and carefully researched biographical effort to date. Indeed, this wonderful study by acclaimed history scholar, Professor William Taubman of Amherst College, in Amherst Massachusetts will likely become the benchmark study by which all others are henceforth compared.<br />Given his long association with Stalin, and having been complicit with all of the atrocities associated with the Stalinist era, including thousands of politically motivated arrests, executions, and deportations to the endless locations within the Gulag, as well as his well-known public endorsements of Stalin and his policies, it may be hard to understand how the same man could so quickly rebound to the other end of the ball park in terms of his subsequent harsh and quite critical public denouncements of the policies of the years under Stalin. Indeed, it was Khrushchev who more than anyone else within the Politburo who dared to reveal to the public the sheer scope and scale of Stalin's crimes against the Soviet people, using the shocking revelations as a political screen for the introduction of a wide series of reforms that began to allow the emergence of a rudimentary smattering of civil society where none had been allowed before. In this sense, Taubman maintains that Khrushchev deserves historical credit for having originated the beginnings of a thaw in Cold War relations that would eventually lead to the policy of \\"perestroika\\" under Mikhail Gorbachev three decades later.<br />However, this is not to suggest that Nikita Khrushchev boldly walked away from the policies instituted by Stalin into the cold light of another, more enlightened era in Soviet politics. Instead, he moved quite cautiously and with great care and aplomb amid the swirling quicksilver currents of Politburo politics, having learned from personal experience what it takes to survive in such a Machiavellian environment. What he had was a natural gift for political compromise and accommodating his colleagues; without it this rough and tumble man who was so limited in terms of education would not have survived in the murderous political atmosphere of the soviet Union in the Stalin years. His intellectual limitations made him less suspect in Stalin's eye, however, and Khrushchev later took particualr delight in embarrassing and even persecuting the better-educated elements of the intelligentsia. His poor stumbling efforts at public speaking belied his cleverness and political adroitness in dealing with comrades and enemies alike. In one amusing passage one of his successors, Leonid Brezhnev, complaining aloud to other Politburo members of how difficult a man to deal with Nikita could be; crocodile tears shed in the company of other reptiles.<br />Khrushchev was in many ways unprepared to be launched onto the international scene in terms of his native abilities or his legendary difficulty with elocution in particular or public oratory in general. Neither was he particularly adept at the more theoretical and intellectual aspects of ruling the Soviet Union. Bu the was easily the single best choice the Politburo had in terms of who to forward as the front man for the years immediately following Stalin's demise, and he provided the Soviet Union with the necessary leadership to survive the decade of the fifties and was quietly shelved in a bloodless removal n the early 1960s. This is a superb historical biography of one of the most enigmatic and least well understood public figures of the 20th century. This is surely a biography that will enjoy a long and sustained readership. Enjoy!iately following Stalin's demise, and he provided the Soviet Union with the necessary leadership to survive the decade of the fifties and was quietly shelved in a bloodless removal n the early 1960s. This is a superb historical biography of one of the most enigmatic and least well understood public figures of the 20th century. This is surely a biography that will enjoy a long and sustained readership. Enjoy!	2003-08-01
1026762:US	52447634	RRN9A8U7MNI8F	0553380168	135474617	A Brief History of Time	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The Wonderful Original Edition Of Hawking's Book!	For those of us curious enough to actually open the covers of this remarkable exposition of very sophisticated scientific concepts laid simpler and comprehensible in Professor Stephen Hawking's disarmingly straightforward style, this original version of the now updated text is indeed a veritable treasure trove of layman's explanations for some wondrous scientific phenomena. Hawking, who is still a Lecturer in Physics at Cambridge University despite an progressively debilitating neuro-muscular disease, has a rather unique capability to eschew anything other than the bare minimum of all the otherwise stupefying scientific mumbo-jumbo as he explains various aspects of the expanding universe as black holes, the nature of time, the so-called &quot;big bang&quot;, and of course, gravity itself.<br />Hawking addresses the fundamental nature of physics as he proceeds to sift through these fascinating and long enduring mysteries of the universe. As a result, then, his somewhat rhetorical questions are presented for the single purpose of elucidating some interesting, provocative, and fairly indisputable answers to the nearly timeless ponderings we all seem to harbor about this wider world we all inhabit. Still one's consciousness seems to struggle in vain to consider the sheer scale of such conceptual configurations, with concepts that appear to be so immense and so dislocated to anything within our common experience while absorbed in our ordinary day-to- day time-space continuum as to give any among us a reeling and recurring case of vertigo. Of course, such a realization merely serves to magnify the sheer scope of the author's accomplishment in conceptualizing and executing such an approachable and accessible text, one that so vividly describes the origins and nature of our universe. This is a marvelous book, and one I can heartily recommend. Enjoy!	2003-08-01
1027886:US	52447634	R2OHVYBNXLWTT0	0771015038	390672221	The Guns of Normandy: A Soldier's Eye View, France 1944	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Terrific First Person History Of Invasion Into France, 1944	What a wonderful bit of eye-witness history Canadian author George Blackburn has rendered in his recent book,  \\"The Guns Of Normandy: A Soldier's View, France 1944\\". This is an absorbing, entertaining, and fascinating account of a Canadian participant in the Allied invasion onto the beaches of Normandy in June of 1944, a wonderful second  volume in his three-volume trilogy. His eye-witness testimony concerning his own anecdotal experience during the historic campaign marshals a marvelously captivating and insightful perspective on the nature of combat as he experienced it while on the line as the action transpired all along the front. Indeed, it is Blackburn's unique ability to speak in the first person that makes his contribution so compelling and valuable.<br />The author's stated purpose is to take the reader on an accompanied tour of the battle as it progresses and evolves, helping us to better empathize with and understand the horrific and riveting circumstances under which the situation progresses, as they struggle from the killing ground of the beaches up the escarpment to the fields and deadly hedges, and on into the lush green of the waiting countryside of France. What we are privileged to experience, as a result, is a full metal jacket approach to the chaos of war, amid the acrid smells, blinding flashes of light, and ear-pounding crashes of both incoming and outgoing shells exploding day and night.  In doing so, Blackburn clears somewhat a path through the all too commonplace `fog of battle'.<br />Blackburn does so with a wonderfully literate and engagingly approachable writing style, and he sues his obvious facility with words to great advantage here, adding immeasurably to our understanding of what the experience on the ground was in those first fatal hours and days as the Allies bludgeoned their ways through the brutal resistance of a frenzied Nazi war machine. He writes with surprising intensity and emotion, and his sense of recall of particular events and existential circumstances for himself and his fellows is both impressive and quite moving at points in his narrative. This is first person history at its best, one that employs both a more objective coda to the book, which also serves to lend a more authoritative aura to the proceedings than would otherwise have been possible.<br /><br />Blackburn's other volumes are interesting as well, and are similarly eyewitness accounts of this remarkable Canadian war hero turned historian and author's personal experience as a participant in the Mediterranean and European campaigns of the Second World War.  Here he has shared with us his amazing, profound recollections of the men who fought so valiantly in France in 1944 in service to their countries. This is a story that should be told again and again, so we never forget what it took to take back the beaches, the surrounding countryside, all in preparation for moving on into the interior of France to push the Germans all the way back to Berlin. This was not only the longest day, but also one of the greatest days in history, when hundreds of thousands of Canadians, Brits, Australians, Frenchmen, and Americans strove out of their landing boats to set foot back on Europe, to take back by force of arms the liberty and freedom that had been wrested away from the mainland so cruelly nearly five years before. This, then, is the story of how that crusade to liberate Europe began, of its first shaky steps off the LSTs and boats onto the rocky bloodied shores of France. Enjoy!vents and existential circumstances for himself and his fellows is both impressive and quite moving at points in his narrative. This is first person history at its best, one that employs both a more objective coda to the book, which also serves to lend a more authoritative aura to the proceedings than would otherwise have been possible. <BR>    <BR>Blackburn's other volumes are interesting as well, and are similarly eyewitness accounts of this remarkable Canadian war hero turned historian and author's personal experience as a participant in the Mediterranean and European campaigns of the Second World War.  Here he has shared with us his amazing, profound recollections of the men who fought so valiantly in France in 1944 in service to their countries. This is a story that should be told again and again, so we never forget what it took to take back the beaches, the surrounding countryside, all in preparation for moving on into the interior of France to push the Germans all the way back to Berlin. This was not only the longest day, but also one of the greatest days in history, when hundreds of thousands of Canadians, Brits, Australians, Frenchmen, and Americans strove out of their landing boats to set foot back on Europe, to take back by force of arms the liberty and freedom that had been wrested away from the mainland so cruelly nearly five years before. This, then, is the story of how that crusade to liberate Europe began, of its first shaky steps off the LSTs and boats onto the rocky bloodied shores of France. Enjoy!	2003-07-31
1028182:US	52447634	R35QCSFGAC29OF	156025405X	513224163	Perpetual War for Perpetual Peace: How We Got to Be So Hated	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Another Tour-de Force By Gore Vidal	Gore is indeed at it again; with a book he had difficulty publishing in the post 911 environment in the U.SA. And while I do not always agree with the droll and yet penetrating notions that appear flow so effortlessly from Gore Vidal, he is always fun to read. His command of the language and his unusual perceptive take on everyday phenomena flavor his observations with a tasty mix of both well-seasoned and worldly wisdom on the one hand, and a spicy yen for old-fashioned common sense on the other. He is almost always provocative, and rarely shows any intent of even attempting to be either respectful or even civil. And that's when he is being restrained! Yet his finest and most useful quality is in turning his penetrating wit and keen intellect into laser sharp weapons he uses to surgically dissect specific instances of social and political life into their basic elements, and in doing so aids the reader in seeing the issue under question much more clearly and precisely than is otherwise possible. As one might imagine, with this book of essays Vidal once more renders an uncommon service for all of us ordinary citizens. <BR> <BR>Always the provocateur, Herein Vidal turns up the heat on the current Bush administration and its controversial activities in the post-911 domestic political environment. He openly questions what he terms to be the presumptuous rush to judgment by the American government regarding the nature of a number of domestic terrorist acts, including not only those of September 11, 2001, but also the Oklahoma City blast that destroyed the Federal Building and killed over two hundred civilians in the process. Vidal argues that the Bush administration never seems to have considered the ways in which the terrorist acts may have been related to specific American policies as well as the way individual members of terrorist organizations might have been treated by the federal government. Vidal is also extremely critical of the government in terms of the troubling ways in which government officials like John Ashcroft and the Justice Department, for example, have seriously taken actions to systematically sidestep individual civil liberties in ways that seriously compromise one's legal rights as otherwise guaranteed by the provisions of the Constitution and the Bill Of Rights.  <br />As a long-time part-time resident within the European community, Vidal also warns of the increasing fracture between our friends and allies on the one hand, and the arrogant and presumptive policies and activities taken unilaterally without the advice, consent or even consultation of the NATO signatories or the world at large. Europeans are rightly concerned, according to the author, to see the current administration frittering away the accumulated good will and empathy of the world community in what seems to be a frenzy of irrational and extremely shortsighted belligerence against Afghanistan and other nations as well. He is at his most persuasive in exploring the motivations of Oklahoma bomber Timothy McVeigh, who Vidal believes to be serving himself as a martyr for a more libertarian approach toward self-government, and yet Vidal is also quite provocative in questioning the motive s and ulterior purposes in prosecuting the war against terrorism, suggesting their actions are more oriented toward forwarding the conservative domestic agenda and in aiding international oil interests than they are directed at increasing our ability to defend ourselves against international terrorism. <br />Indeed, for the author, such corporate greed has been the driving forces behind the otherwise mysterious tactics used to date relating to the so-called war on terror the Bush White house has employed since 911. Vidal heaps special scorn on America's media, who he descries as the cheerleaders for the government's goals, acting as an enthusiastic chorus for the actions of the administration. Vidal turns his ironic style into a tool by which one can better see theways in which the power elite attempts to provoke, persuade, and exhort Americans into a new era of corporate-driven imperialism. And no one on the planet writes more colorfully or more masterfully about how the events that pounce upon us from the TV screen on a daily basis relate to those marvelous Jeffersonian ideals of democracy that the country was originally founded upon. This is an entertaining, edifying, and argumentative book you will have fun reading. Enjoy!	2003-07-31
1028250:US	52447634	R2G7KVFVYQDY7Q	0553196413	638231493	Smiley's People	Books	5	14	19	N	N	The Spy Master Trilogy Concludes!	Like most of the best-selling works that come from the unchallenged master of the intelligent spy thriller John LeCarre, this is a fictional but absorbing treatise on the hidden and conflicted corners of the human heart, the many ways in which our own natures feed into and extend the darker impulse of a society bent on pursuing the secrets and treachery that ever lurks for the unsuspecting victim. Here, in the final of three best-selling novels tracing the pilgrim's progress of George Smiley, the intrepid and unlikely hero of the post-industrial Western world, LeCarre concludes his marvelously convoluted narrative tracing the continuing history of the Smiley chronicles, a spell-binding and endlessly intricate treatise detailing the perfidy, moral compromises, and treachery of the world of British intelligence.<br />In \\"Smiley's People\\", the object of Smiley's ministrations is once again thrust toward achieving final revenge against the legendary Karla, the Chief of the Soviet Covert Espionage Bureau. Having stuck a devastating blow against Karla previously through the ingenious employment of Jerry Westerby in the Far East, Smiley now turns to using an assassination in London of an obscure Eastern European &eacute;migr&eacute; and would-be counter-revolutionary into an entry-point into Karla's domain, and as the Circus (British Intelligence) begins to unravel the many points of light this careful sifting of signs through tradecraft, they discover the one irresistible lure they need to tempt Karla out of the darkness and into their waiting clutches. Given all the murder and mayhem that Karla has visited both on the Circus in general and on George Smiley in particular, there is a number of levels of revenges operating here, and these LeCarre mines superbly in exploring the impulses rational and otherwise, that propel such urges.<br />The plot, as usual, is ingenious, intricate, and horrific in its human toll, played out against a landscape of the far-flung persons and places across the European landscape, from London to Berne to Deep inside the former Soviet Union. Once again LeCarre takes us on a cautious yet beautifully choreographed adventure into the heart of darkness of ourselves, and we shouldn't be surprised to find some scar tissue and broken bones as we descend deeper into the tortuous caverns we keep hidden in our subconscious realms. LeCarre is nothing if not a superb chronicler of the ways in which our own natures become a battle ground for the struggle between good and evil, the good we can be for others, and the evil we do to them and ourselves by subscribing to ideologies, almost any ideology, that finally forces us to choose between our values and our duty. This is a marvelous book, an entertaining read, and a stunning example of the sophistication, complexity, and sheer intelligence of the author in detailing the subterranean world of international espionage. Enjoy!ross the European landscape, from London to Berne to Deep inside the former Soviet Union. Once again LeCarre takes us on a cautious yet beautifully choreographed adventure into the heart of darkness of ourselves, and we shouldn't be surprised to find some scar tissue and broken bones as we descend deeper into the tortuous caverns we keep hidden in our subconscious realms. LeCarre is nothing if not a superb chronicler of the ways in which our own natures become a battle ground for the struggle between good and evil, the good we can be for others, and the evil we do to them and ourselves by subscribing to ideologies, almost any ideology, that finally forces us to choose between our values and our duty. This is a marvelous book, an entertaining read, and a stunning example of the sophistication, complexity, and sheer intelligence of the author in detailing the subterranean world of international espionage. Enjoy!	2003-07-31
1028345:US	52447634	R98A2LSEW9H7W	1576752046	601329249	Alternatives to Economic Globalization	Books	5	23	26	N	N	The Anti-Globalization Manifesto!	This provocative text is the work of an impressive collection of luminary scholars, writers, and environmental activists, all of whom have something important to contribute to the issue of economic globalization and how it is affecting the environment. This distinguished group of authors, including Jerry Mander, Ralph Nader, David Korten, John Cavanaugh, and Lori Wallach, have joined in a collaborative effort herein to render what is likely the single most definitive and sober critique of the current state of globalization as well as the rising tide of anti-globalization efforts across the planet. As the culminating product of a three-year effort by the International Forum on Globalization, the book can best described as being both painstaking and muckraking, providing a series of ten core requirements which must be instituted to make democratic societies sustainable; among which are equality, human rights, local decision-making, and of course, ecological sustainability. In the narrative, each is addressed in terms of both how they are affected by the globalization process as well as what kind of strategies work to counteract these untoward effects.<br />Moreover, the individual contributors offer a series of quite specific collective strategies for combating and limiting the extent of corporate domination, and also discuss various alternative systems in the critical areas of energy, agriculture, transportation, and manufacturing. There is also a lively discussion pertaining to modes of political action to deconstruct and even destroy the World Trade Organization (WTO), as well its predecessor and corollary institutions, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund or IMF. From the time of the creation of the post WWII international monetary system at Bretton Woods in 1944, through the institution of the World Bank, the IMF, and GATT, the rise of globalization has necessarily towed in its wake an increasing pressure both on the natural environment and the natural resources the corporate forces must dominate and control to continue its essential core function of international economic growth.<br />With the rise of an organized opposition and a declaration of that organization's policies to systematically resist and counter the effects of the WTO, the anti-globalization forces around the world now have a formal manifesto for the systematic resistance to the forces of corporate sponsored economic globalization. Of course, given the fact that the existing corporate effort is so widespread, pandemic, and attractive to a variety of international corporate forces, any prospect for reversing the trend will be problematic indeed. Yet, given the potential for catastrophic consequences stemming from the movement toward the expanding influence of such global corporate enterprises, the authors argue that we would do well to try.<br />This is an important book, one that arms the reader with an array of facts regarding what the so-called &quot;New World Order&quot; really means in terms of its potential impact on each us in every aspect of our lives, as individuals, as members of the local community, as consumers of necessary (and other) products, and as citizens of a nation and of the world at large. The scope of the change to come is immense, and it is obviously in the interest of each of us to better understand exactly what is at stake in terms of our lives, our freedoms as citizens, and our survival in a world increasingly endangered by reckless corporate activities that are destroying the biosphere. I highly recommend this book. Enjoy!ural resources the corporate forces must dominate and control to continue its essential core function of international economic growth. <br />With the rise of an organized opposition and a declaration of that organization's policies to systematically resist and counter the effects of the WTO, the anti-globalization forces around the world now have a formal manifesto for the systematic resistance to the forces of corporate sponsored economic globalization. Of course, given the fact that the existing corporate effort is so widespread, pandemic, and attractive to a variety of international corporate forces, any prospect for reversing the trend will be problematic indeed. Yet, given the potential for catastrophic consequences stemming from the movement toward the expanding influence of such global corporate enterprises, the authors argue that we would do well to try. <br />This is an important book, one that arms the reader with an array of facts regarding what the so-called &quot;New World Order&quot; really means in terms of its potential impact on each us in every aspect of our lives, as individuals, as members of the local community, as consumers of necessary (and other) products, and as citizens of a nation and of the world at large. The scope of the change to come is immense, and it is obviously in the interest of each of us to better understand exactly what is at stake in terms of our lives, our freedoms as citizens, and our survival in a world increasingly endangered by reckless corporate activities that are destroying the biosphere. I highly recommend this book. Enjoy!	2003-07-31
1028348:US	52447634	R2J6Y4R4657N5N	1552090701	563235726	Richard Brown's New England	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Superb Photographic Essay!	I first remember seeing one of Richard Brown's spectacular photographs on he cover of Country Journal, a magazine devoted to celebrating rural life styles that ran a span of several years in the early to late 1980s. Brown's stunning photographic style showcased the day-to-day confluence of ordinary Vermonters living their lives in the rural splendor of the Northeast Kingdom in the far reaches of the lovely \\"People's Republic Of Vermont\\". Often Country Journal would feature a number of his photos inside each issue, so one subscribing the magazine began to look for them both on the cover and inside, as well. Indeed, his work was what made me search for the latest issue at the beginning of each month.<br />Here he stuns us with the majesty of Vermont as it transpires the incredibly beautiful cycle of seasons in a way that only a photographer of such obvious abilities could. Herein he shares many of his favorites, and several of these I have seen before in other venues. The problem with a book filled with such gorgeously shot, developed and produced rural photographs is that one is tempted to carefully extract them for framing on the wall. They are really that terrific! Photographs range from shots of landscapes to silhouettes of a farmhouse steaming against the winter cold, from children walking down a dirt-covered tree lined country road exploding into autumn's extravagance to an elderly gentleman leaning against a barn with his favorite cat.<br />While gazing at the book, one sits transfixed by the sheer variety of scenes and colors so native to the rural landscapes and personal portraits. Brown shows us all of the changes that transpire in the North country, a place where the changes are so frequent and so momentous that they comprise six seasons, adding both the dreaded mud season of early springtime on the one hand, and the so-called `off-season' after the autumn glory has been swept away, leaving cold bare trees and a hauntingly spare and vacant atmosphere to settle over the region on the other. Listen a few times to folksinger Tom Rush's rendition of \\"Urge For Going\\" a few times on the CD player and you will get the idea.  Brown's imaginative hand is lovingly apparent in this book, displaying both the soulful visages of local inhabitants and the unique flavor of the haunting ever-changing scenery so typically Vermont. This is a distinctive and memorable recreation of what we love so much about being native new Englanders! Enjoy!settle over the region on the other. Listen a few times to folksinger Tom Rush's rendition of \\"Urge For Going\\" a few times on the CD player and you will get the idea.  Brown's imaginative hand is lovingly apparent in this book, displaying both the soulful visages of local inhabitants and the unique flavor of the haunting ever-changing scenery so typically Vermont. This is a distinctive and memorable recreation of what we love so much about being native new Englanders! Enjoy!	2003-07-31
1028462:US	52447634	RTQT7MRTFLWR1	0671042742	364376928	The Honourable Schoolboy	Books	5	42	47	N	N	LeCarre, The Thinking Man's Spy Master!	Like most of the best-selling works that come from the unchallenged master of the intelligent spy thriller John LeCarre, this is a fictional but absorbing treatise on the hidden and conflicted corners of the human heart, the many ways in which our own natures feed into and extend the darker impulse of a society bent on pursuing the secrets and treachery that ever lurks for the unsuspecting victim. Here, in the second of three best-selling novels tracing the pilgrim's progress of George Smiley, the intrepid and unlikely hero of the post-industrial Western world, LeCarre continues his marvelously convoluted narrative tracing the continuing history of the Smiley chronicles, a three volume spy novel treatise detailing the perfidy and treachery of the world of British intelligence.<br />In \\"The Honourable Schoolboy\\", the instrument of Smiley's revenge against the legendary Karla, the Chief of the Soviet espionage effort, is one Jerry Westerby, a man who comprises such an amalgam of honor, evil, and rage that he is perhaps one of the most complex and yet completely believable characters to pop from LeCarre's fertile mind. Westerby is the old hand in the Far East, Smiley's eyes and ears, and the man George has placed to push the first domino spinning toward the eventual collapse of all the others in the vast Soviet spy network. Smiley is spinning the network in the aftermath of the uncovering of a Soviet mole deep within the Circus, the code name within the trade for the center of British Intelligence.  As he probes the various aspects of the British network to discover the loci of damage and infiltration, Smiley picks the point of entry as Hong Kong, and no one is better suited to Smiley's complex undertaking that Jerry, a complicated, immensely intelligent, and yet absolutely dangerous and committed cold warrior who can be counted on to go the extra mile for the team and for Britian and the Queen.<br />The plot is ingenious, intricate, and horrific in its human toll, played out against a landscape of the far-flung persons and places of the former British Empire. With Westerby, the `honourable school boy' of the title, we embark on a cautious yet beautifully choreographed adventure into the heart of darkness of ourselves, and we shouldn't be surprised to find some scar tissue and broken bones as we descend deeper into the tortuous caverns we keep hidden in our subconscious realms. LeCarre is nothing if not a superb chronicler of the ways in which our own natures become a battle ground for the struggle between good and evil, the good we can be for others, and the evil we do to them and ourselves by subscribing to ideologies, almost any ideology, that finally forces us to choose between our values and our duty. This is a marvelous book, an entertaining read, and a stunning example of the sophistication, complexity, and sheer intelligence of the author in detailing the subterranean world of international espionage. Enjoy!layed out against a landscape of the far-flung persons and places of the former British Empire. With Westerby, the `honourable school boy' of the title, we embark on a cautious yet beautifully choreographed adventure into the heart of darkness of ourselves, and we shouldn't be surprised to find some scar tissue and broken bones as we descend deeper into the tortuous caverns we keep hidden in our subconscious realms. LeCarre is nothing if not a superb chronicler of the ways in which our own natures become a battle ground for the struggle between good and evil, the good we can be for others, and the evil we do to them and ourselves by subscribing to ideologies, almost any ideology, that finally forces us to choose between our values and our duty. This is a marvelous book, an entertaining read, and a stunning example of the sophistication, complexity, and sheer intelligence of the author in detailing the subterranean world of international espionage. Enjoy!	2003-07-31
1028764:US	52447634	R3CYU6U1R134Z1	088150467X	293630427	The Soul of Vermont	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Richard W. Brown Gives Us the Treasure Of New England!	I first remember seeing one of Richard Brown's spectacular photographs on he cover of Country Journal, a magazine devoted to celebrating rural life styles that ran a span of several years in the early to late 1980s. Brown's stunning photographic style showcased the day-to-day confluence of ordinary Vermonters living their lives in the rural splendor of the Northeast Kingdom in the far reaches of the lovely \\"People's Republic Of Vermont\\". Often Country Journal would feature a number of his photos inside each issue, so one subscribing the magazine began to look for them both on the cover and inside, as well. Indeed, his work was what made me search for the latest issue at the beginning of each month.<br />Here he stuns us with the majesty of Vermont as it transpires through its incredibly beautiful cycle of seasons in a way that only a photographer of such obvious abilities could. Herein he shares many of his favorites, and several of these I have seen before in other venues. The problem with a book filled with such gorgeously shot, developed and produced rural photographs is that one is tempted to carefully extract them for framing on the wall. They are really that terrific! Photographs range from shots of landscapes to silhouettes of a farmhouse steaming against the winter cold, from children walking down a dirt-covered tree lined country road exploding into autumn's extravagance to an elderly gentleman leaning against a barn with his favorite cat.  One sits transfixed by the sheer variety of scenes and colors so native to the rural landscapes and personal portraits. This is a wonderful travelogue into the heart of New England.<br />Brown shows us all of the changes that transpire in the North country, a place where the changes are so frequent and so momentous that they comprise six seasons, adding both the dreaded mud season of early springtime on the one hand, and the so-called `off-season' after the autumn glory has been swept away, leaving cold bare trees and a hauntingly spare and vacant atmosphere to settle over the region on the other. Listen a few times to folksinger Tom Rush's rendition of \\"Urge For Going\\" a few times on the CD player and you will get the idea.  Brown's imaginative hand is lovingly apparent in this book, displaying both the soulful visages of local inhabitants and the unique flavor of the haunting ever-changing scenery so typically Vermont. This is a distinctive and memorable recreation of what we love so much about being native new Englanders! Enjoy!d a hauntingly spare and vacant atmosphere to settle over the region on the other. Listen a few times to folksinger Tom Rush's rendition of \\"Urge For Going\\" a few times on the CD player and you will get the idea.  Brown's imaginative hand is lovingly apparent in this book, displaying both the soulful visages of local inhabitants and the unique flavor of the haunting ever-changing scenery so typically Vermont. This is a distinctive and memorable recreation of what we love so much about being native new Englanders! Enjoy!	2003-07-31
1028788:US	52447634	R3L0IAB8U1UIYC	0395771862	416559605	Moments in Eden	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Richard Brown's Photographic Magic!	We here in Northern New England consider Richard Brown and his camera a regional treasure. I have been a devotee of his published photographic work since the days twenty years ago when his gorgeous photography would grace the covers of Country Journal, a magazine celebrating the glories of rural life, and that often used Brown's spectacular work featuring magnificently natural shots of life in Vermont's Northeast Kingdom. Here brown focuses his talents and his camera to give us seven dozen spectacular photographs of various European gardens throughout Europe.<br />This book has a wonderful set of shots of quite breath-taking and beautiful gardens and garden scenes from all over the world. The settings vary, from the Cotswold's of Britain to the palace gardens at Versailles, from the gardens of Sissinghurst, to the rural background of  Keukenhof. Many of the photographs are of lesser-known spots, but all are uniformly eye-catching and memorable, whether they are of a window box in the Swiss Alps or the stone walkway in the British countryside. The photographs are a superb representation of one of the foremost contemporary landscape photographers.<br />Brown's photographs are truly a contemporary equivalent of those timeless pictures produced by legends such as Eliot Porter. Richard Brown demonstrates a singular talent for capturing the beauty native to the gardens and for sharing that extraordinary beauty with the world. Enjoy!	2003-07-31
1031187:US	52447634	R1DDNXR27OKO3D	1893224546	477056924	The Theory of Everything: The Origin and Fate of the Universe	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Wonderful Physics Text For The Average Citizen!	With a wonderfully whimsical title and a slim volume of text containing an absorbing series of Stephen Hawking lectures to browse through, this straightforward and carefully paced series of essay-style lectures has much to offer the layperson regarding the nature of the universe that surrounds us. While Hawking does not offer the students either easy answers to complex questions or a single unifying theory that neatly ties together all of the aspects of 21st century physics, the lectures do provide a marvelous set of precepts for use in understanding the nature of the phenomena that we find ourselves enveloped within.<br />For people with a math phobia, the text is quite friendly, exquisitely sidestepping any resort to such devices in describing, explaining and summarizing the total sum of the state of the art perspectives on 21st century physics. Thus, the lectures are both introductory in terms of the language employed in his expositions and occasionally are also quite metaphorical. Hawking uses a broad variety of authoritative sources, including everyone from Einstein to his contemporary (and colleague) Richard Feynman as well as his own provocative findings. Taken as a whole, the lectures (essays) are crisp, clear, and well accomplished, and while the reader will have to gird his loins occasionally to trudge through some difficult and vague areas within, the main thrust of the text is reader-friendly and easy to absorb intellectually.<br />Professor Hawking provides a yeoman service to the populace at large in helping to make science and the theoretical underpinnings of modern society much more accessible to everyman. In a world increasingly oriented around high technology and the offspring of such theoretical constructs, it is critically important for ordinary citizens to understand more about the revolutionary explosion in scientific knowledge that so profoundly affects us. By sharing such knowledge with us in an eminently accessible fashion, Stephen Hawking helps us to become better informed and more involved citizens.  I highly recommend this book for a general audience. Enjoy!g helps us to become better informed and more involved citizens.  I highly recommend this book for a general audience. Enjoy!	2003-07-29
1031274:US	52447634	R21CCCXTOUSLOV	1560255021	528901183	Dreaming War: Blood for Oil and the Cheney-Bush Junta (Nation Books)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Our Provocative Gore Vidal Is At It Again!	While I do not always agree with the droll and yet penetrating notions that appear flow so effortlessly from Gore Vidal, he is always fun to read. His command of the language and his unusual perceptive take on everyday phenomena flavor his observations with a tasty mix of both well-seasoned and worldly wisdom on the one hand, and a spicy yen for old-fashioned common sense on the other. He is almost always provocative, and rarely shows any intent of even attempting to be either respectful or even civil. And that's when he is being restrained! Yet his finest and most useful quality is in turning his penetrating wit and keen intellect into laser sharp weapons he uses to surgically dissect specific instances of social and political life into their basic elements, and in doing so aids the reader in seeing the issue under question much more clearly and precisely than is otherwise possible. Once again with this book Vidal renders an uncommon service for ordinary citizens.<br /><br />  Always the provocateur, Vidal argues persuasively that the current administration knew well in advance of the planned terrorist attack on September 11, 2001, just as FDR knew about the so-called surprise attack at Pearl Harbor in December of 1941. Furthermore, he points out, the administration has cynically exploited the terror events of 911 to initiate and extend a series of domestic political actions that amount to what Vial refers to as a Nixon-like war against its political enemies. According to the author, the ties between the Bush family on the one hand, and the family of Al Quaida leader Osama bin Laden are quite fascinating and have existed for decades, raising issues as to the administration's ulterior motives were in attacking Afghanistan. What is at the bottom of all this perfidy, according to Vidal, is that the blunt instrument of the American military is being used to accomplish what boils down to being the desires of our imperialistic corporate interests. For the author, such corporate greed has been the driving forces behind the otherwise mysterious tactics used to date relating to the so-called war on terror the Bush White house has employed since 911.<br />Vidal takes particular umbrage at the way America's media aid and abet the goals of the government by participating in what appears to be a deliberate pro-war propaganda campaign, up to and including the vilification of liberal critics such as himself, painting him as being anti-American, and accusing him of America-bashing. In truth however, it seems that what Mr. Vidal has given us is a quite thoughtful counter perspective from which one can view and interpret current events. As with his other recent book, \\"Perpetual War For Perpetual Peace\\", he turns his ironic style into a tool by which one can better see the ways in which the power elite attempts to provoke, persuade, and exhort Americans into a new era of corporate-driven imperialism. And no one on the planet writes more colorfully or more masterfully about how the events that pounce upon us from the TV screen on a daily basis relate to those marvelous Jeffersonian ideals of democracy that the country was originally founded upon. This is an entertaining, edifying, and argumentative book you will have fun reading. Enjoy!porate greed has been the driving forces behind the otherwise mysterious tactics used to date relating to the so-called war on terror the Bush White house has employed since 911. <br />Vidal takes particular umbrage at the way America's media aid and abet the goals of the government by participating in what appears to be a deliberate pro-war propaganda campaign, up to and including the vilification of liberal critics such as himself, painting him as being anti-American, and accusing him of America-bashing. In truth however, it seems that what Mr. Vidal has given us is a quite thoughtful counter perspective from which one can view and interpret current events. As with his other recent book, \\"Perpetual War For Perpetual Peace\\", he turns his ironic style into a tool by which one can better see the ways in which the power elite attempts to provoke, persuade, and exhort Americans into a new era of corporate-driven imperialism. And no one on the planet writes more colorfully or more masterfully about how the events that pounce upon us from the TV screen on a daily basis relate to those marvelous Jeffersonian ideals of democracy that the country was originally founded upon. This is an entertaining, edifying, and argumentative book you will have fun reading. Enjoy!	2003-07-29
1031912:US	52447634	R215XVDWQDLO4R	0896081494	785708033	Friendly Fascism: The New Face of Power in America	Books	5	137	142	N	Y	Prophetic Book Considers Effects Of Rise Of The Power Elite!	I lost my trusty old `dogged-eared' copy of this wonderful classic in a house fire a couple of years ago, and only recently found a used hardcover copy at the wonderful independent bookstore in Peterborough; The Toadstool Bookstore. Considering how relevant the book is to events transpiring in this country now, it was a fortuitous discovery. This is a relatively short but extremely cogent and well-argued treatise on the rise of a form of fascistic thought and social politics in late 20th century America. Author Bertram Gross' thesis is quite straightforward; the power elite that comprises the corporate, governmental and military superstructure of the country is increasingly inclined to employ every element in their formidable arsenal of `friendly persuasion' to win the hearts and minds of ordinary Americans through what Gross refers to as \\"friendly fascism\\".<br /><br /> For anyone familiar with modern social theory, it is apparent that the author's thesis is a quite clever and accurate extension of sociologist C. Wright Mills' well known notions of what came to be known as the `mass society' theory. This was an essential aspect of Mills' famous theory of the power elite as forwarded in a book with the same title. Like social theorist G. William Domhoff (\\"The Higher Circles\\"), Professor Gross shows how the deceptively friendly and engaging style of the powers that be actually constitute an increasingly dangerous threat to the democratic process and to the long-term survival of our precious civil liberties. Of course, for Americans used to the association between the term `fascism' and the image of angry totalitarian states such as Nazi Germany and the Italy of the same period of time, it is perhaps difficult to associate with the notion that clever and systematic manipulation of the general population through use of the mass media is a form of fascistic influence. Yet, as Gross argues so persuasively, that is exactly what it is.<br /><br />The term that pops to mind is that process that M.I.T. scholar Noam Chomsky would refer to as \\"manufacturing consent\\", a dangerous propensity which dangerously influences the perceptions of individual citizens by continually immersing the populace in an electronic stream of messages, both blatant and subliminal, that serves to condition them to a particular way of experiencing, participating, and perceiving the world around them. We find ourselves constantly bombarded by powerful and suggestive images, message-laden icons which deliver consistent themes regarding the nature of the environment we are living in, one we come to employ more and more exclusively as our preferred method of interacting in both the civil and legal aspects of contemporary society.<br /><br />As Professor Gross so prophetically forecasted, the mergers of all commercial news sources, both electronic and other, have come under the ownership and control of corporate America, one of the leading edges of the power elite. Amazingly, all of this also rings a responsive chord with the single most prophetic work of fiction in the 20th century, Aldous Huxley's \\"Brave New World\\". Lost in our petty diversions and self-absorbed in a pool of trivial pursuits, we become increasingly more vulnerable to the solid wall of subliminal and other messages all conveying a message regarding he nature of the world and our social, economic, and political place in it.<br /><br />As our experience with the several successful Presidents ranging from Ronald Reagan to George W. Bush, the artful use of personal charisma to cover a mean-spirited political agenda has worked amazingly well. In the twenty years since the book was originally published, many aspects of our collective socioeconomic well-being have been profoundly changed, almost exclusively to the favor of the rich and well placed and to the increasing detriment of the average man and woman on the street. The statistics available are overwhelming in detailing the levels to which ordinary citizens have been stripped of most of the socioeconomic gains of the last century. In every area of contemporary life, from the cost and extent of health coverage to the responsibility for a variety of aspects such as providing for individual retirements, the vastly expanding future tax liability, and the use of the federal treasury to provide for subsidies to corporate America, the story is the same.<br /><br />Increasingly we are being manipulated into surrendering our voice in the democratic process and to playing a more limited role as consumers, which the elite evidently sees as our only crucial civic responsibility. As George W. Bush said with a booming voice and a congenial charismatic smile, post 911 Americans just had to get out to do their patriotic duty by once again buying things, to get the economy going once more. Indeed, it is becoming a brave new world.  This is a wonderful book, and one that is a great, thought-provoking read. Enjoy!tizens have been stripped of most of the socioeconomic gains of the last century. In every area of contemporary life, from the cost and extent of health coverage to the responsibility for a variety of aspects such as providing for individual retirements, the vastly expanding future tax liability, and the use of the federal treasury to provide for subsidies to corporate America, the story is the same.<br /><br />Increasingly we are being manipulated into surrendering our voice in the democratic process and to playing a more limited role as consumers, which the elite evidently sees as our only crucial civic responsibility. As George W. Bush said with a booming voice and a congenial charismatic smile, post 911 Americans just had to get out to do their patriotic duty by once again buying things, to get the economy going once more. Indeed, it is becoming a brave new world.  This is a wonderful book, and one that is a great, thought-provoking read. Enjoy!	2003-07-28
1032317:US	52447634	R3QJWBTYX5VQF4	1585422762	756890865	Weapons of Mass Deception: The Uses of Propaganda in Bush's War on Iraq	Books	5	83	94	N	Y	Provocative Examination Of Selling Of Iraq War To Public!	In French academic Jacques Ellul's classic tome on the nature and uses of propaganda, Ellul warns against the arrogant and misguided assumption in most social democracies to discount the use of such unobtrusive means of political persuasion in their societies. According to Ellul, all of the Western democracies are every bit as vulnerable to propaganda's sinister anti-democratic effects as any other sort of `less sophisticated' (read \\"totalitarian\\" here) culture. As Ellul persuasively argues, no such invulnerability pertains. Indeed, in a modern society characterized by a powerful, affluent, and resourceful central government, one that is highly influenced by the predominant voices of industry and the economically powerful, the means of such `friendly persuasion' are both more prevalent and more dangerous than anywhere else. In this book, \\"Weapons Of Mass Deception\\", we have a literal case study of how the authors, Sheldon Rampton and John C. Stauber, have observed the current Bush administration blatantly attempt to subvert the democratic process by foisting such a propaganda campaign in support of a war of aggression against the Iraqis.<br />Indeed, shortly after the events of September 11, 2001, members of the current administration hired advertising executives to direct a media campaign to convince the populace of the need to conduct a preemptive attack of Iraq in pursuit of eventual security against perceived potential terrorist threats. President Bush's National Security Advisor Condoleeza Rice was quoted as pointedly requesting position papers from her White House staffers as to how the administration could immediately begin using the events of 911 to further the administration's domestic and foreign policy goals. Other public relation advisors were brought in to help construct the Bush administration's on-point approach toward justifying and selling the idea of the preemptive strike to a public both disoriented and frightened by the terrorist attack on 911. A variety of different attempts to forward this action were taken and `floated' in various ploys to judge what specific combinations of reasons and justifications would best `play' to sell the war to the aggravated and anxious populace.<br />Thus we had an initial attempt by the organs of government to use the realtively straightforward idea of simple `regime change' as a justification for moving against Iraq, which clearly failed to elicit the desired positive effect on public opinion. Next on the sheet of potential arguments that the Bush administration was auditioning was a rather tortured attempt to use the United Nations as a forum to drag out old unresolved charges against Iraq involving international inspections, an issue which had both they and the Clinton administration hasd allowed to lay fallow for the previous four years. When this argument also failed as the rest of the civilized world reacted in horror to the procoative notion of immedaitely attacking Iraq, the Bush administration began to thread together a more independent and more substantive (though circumstantial) set of `smoking gun' notions linking Iraq to terrorist groups like Osama Bin Laden's Al Quaida on the one hand, and suggesting renewed attempts to gain a significant new capability to develop and deploy weapons of mass destruction (WMD) on the part of Saddam Hussein's government, on the other. Evidently the Bush White House staffers and the analysts with both the Defense Department and intelligence agencies didn't allow themselves to be unduly hamstrung by the available evidence. Instead, they exaggerated, misinterpreted, and even prevaricated about both the nature of and the validity of such \\"evidence\\" in constructing their arguments suporting intervention to the public.<br />This is obviously a book that will be seen as exteremly controversial and politically provocative, one that the various pundits on either side of the political aisle will rush to either endorse or assail in order togain immediate advantage, and to attempt to put the best `spin' on long before the public has a chance to evaluate it on their own. In this way, even the argument about the way this administration has used a cynical,  subversive and anti-democratic propagandist approach to explain and justify the war against Iraq may become yet another weapon in the ongoing media effort to persuade and describe the public perceptions of and interpretation of, events the powers that be want to manipulate for public consumption. This is a wonderful book, and one that is sure to soon be the talk of the pundits. Move over, Ann Coulter, your fifteen minutes in the spotlight's glare is over. Enjoy!to gain immediate advantage, and to attempt to put the best `spin' on long before the public has a chance to evaluate it on their own. In this way, even the argument about the way this administration has used a cynical,  subversive and anti-democratic propagandist approach to explain and justify the war against Iraq may become yet another weapon in the ongoing media effort to persuade and describe the public perceptions of and interpretation of, events the powers that be want to manipulate for public consumption. This is a wonderful book, and one that is sure to soon be the talk of the pundits. Move over, Ann Coulter, your fifteen minutes in the spotlight's glare is over. Enjoy!	2003-07-28
1033602:US	52447634	R2CXXLE7N59Y14	1579546277	779815236	Unequal Protection: The Rise of Corporate Dominance and the Theft of Human Rights	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Examination Of Advent Of Corporate "Constitutional" Rights	This absorbing, provocative, and thoughtful book by author Thom Hartmann is an extremely welldocumented exploration of a plethora of ways in which corporate entities have assumed special rights and privileges in the last century through the slow and systematic abrogation of constitutional protections of private individuals from such impersonal business enterprises.  By employing what is essentially a sidestepping of the clear intent and letter of constitutional law, corporations have gained the functional equivalence of the rights of individuals to protection under the  law, foisting what is no more than a legal fiction in order to successfully pursue what now constitutes special, preferential treatment from both federal and state governments. In fact, the various governmental agencies and representatives now seem to be acting more in concert and collusion with the corporations as enthusiastic cheerleaders of corporate progress in the public domain rather than serving in their intended function as overseers and protectors of the common weal by restraining and limiting the rights and prerogatives of such global corporations.<br />Under Jeffersonian law as encoded in the U.S. Constitution carefully limited and restricted such access to the rights of individuals by large organizations, and was especially concerned about such organizations usurping the powers and privileges of the government itself. Yet as the society progressed, the corporate entities such as the railroads became more influential, gradually gaining sufficient access to policy makers as to begin to gain rights heretofore restricted to private individuals. Considered as a person, a corporation could seek legal protection from oversight through such devices as the Fourteenth Amendment, which was originally intended to redress grievances associated with the vestiges of slavery for recently emancipated AfricanAmerican slaves.  The virtual tripwire that unfortunately opened the proverbial barn door to corporations parading as private individuals was a Supreme Court decision, which in essence created a legal fiction by portraying the corporation (a railroad firm) to be a corporate person. This unfortunate precedent is father to all of the many subsequent decisions, which over time, have gradually extended this notion of corporate entities as having so-called individual rights which according to the author the Constitution had not only never intended, and in fact specifically used language to constrain and prevent.<br /><br />The authors argument complements the arguments and perspectives of legal scholar and author Charles Reich's Opposing The System. Hartmann uses a writing style, which is quite straightforward and therefore makes it eminently readable, not at all written in legalese, which makes the book more approachable and better suited for a lay audience that it would be otherwise. The research and scholarship he has invested in this work is obvious, and the text has many anecdotes illustrating the various ways in which the legal fiction perpetuated by the collusion between the corporations on the one hand, and the federal and state governmental agencies in lock-step with them on the other, works in insidious ways to undermine and diminish the constitutional rights and protections of the population at large. Hartmann also provides a virtual roadmap to the methods and arguments that the public can use to mollify this untoward encroachment on our rights, most specifically through a grass-roots movement that among other things, will serve to awaken ordinary Americans of this peril and its potential consequences for the society at large, and for us as private individuals as well.  This is an important book, and one I can heartily recommend. Enjoy!corporations parading as private individuals was a Supreme Court decision, which in essence created a legal fiction by portraying the corporation (a railroad firm) to be a corporate person. This unfortunate precedent is father to all of the many subsequent decisions, which over time, have gradually extended this notion of corporate entities as having so-called individual rights which according to the author the Constitution had not only never intended, and in fact specifically used language to constrain and prevent.   <BR>  <BR>The authors argument complements the arguments and perspectives of legal scholar and author Charles Reich's Opposing The System. Hartmann uses a writing style, which is quite straightforward and therefore makes it eminently readable, not at all written in legalese, which makes the book more approachable and better suited for a lay audience that it would be otherwise. The research and scholarship he has invested in this work is obvious, and the text has many anecdotes illustrating the various ways in which the legal fiction perpetuated by the collusion between the corporations on the one hand, and the federal and state governmental agencies in lock-step with them on the other, works in insidious ways to undermine and diminish the constitutional rights and protections of the population at large. Hartmann also provides a virtual roadmap to the methods and arguments that the public can use to mollify this untoward encroachment on our rights, most specifically through a grass-roots movement that among other things, will serve to awaken ordinary Americans of this peril and its potential consequences for the society at large, and for us as private individuals as well.  This is an important book, and one I can heartily recommend. Enjoy!	2003-07-27
1034002:US	52447634	R2D1J8GOYZKPKY	0060007761	568367162	The Gulag Archipelago: 1918-1956	Books	5	13	15	N	N	A Moden Classic In Literature!	With the publication of \\"The Gulag Archipelago\\" in the early 1970s, Alexander Solzhenitsyn shocked and dismayed the Western world by masterfully detailing the existence of a horrific shadow culture within the Soviet Union, a culture comprised of a mass society of slave laborers scratching out their bare-knuckled survival in unbelievable difficulty and squalor, and having been recruited into the Gulag for a variety of economic, social, and political reasons. Given the inherent limitations of this superb albeit shocking fictional work, still the author writes with stunning clarity and unimpeachable style about the many horrors for the Soviet everyman caught in the unbelievable grips of this brutal nightmare world.<br />The work is both massive and comprehensive, dealing not only with the ways in which the Gulag came into existence and then thrived under the active sponsorship of Lenin and Stalin, but also with a plethora of aspects of life within the Gulag, ranging from its laws, customs, folklore, and morality on the one hand to its slang, sexual mores, and cuisine on the other. He lovingly and yet unsparingly looks at the prisoners themselves, caught up in an insane world, and how they attempted to cope and survive, to interact with each other, and what the relationships between the prisoners and the many sorts of guards and jailers that kept them imprisoned were like.<br />What forced the Gulag into becoming a more or less permanent fixture within the Soviet system was its value economically in producing goods and services that were marketable both within the larger Soviet economy as well as in international trade. As it does in China today, forced labor within the Gulag for the Soviets represented a key element in expanding markets for Soviet-made goods ranging from lamps to those prototypically Russian fur hats.<br />The Gulag came into being as a result of the Communist elite's burning desire for purges of remaining vestiges of bourgeoisie aspects of Soviet culture, and its consequent need for some deep dark hole to stick unlucky cultural offenders into to remove them semi-permanently from the forefront of the Soviet society. Stalin found it useful to expand the uses of the camp system to enhance industrial growth, and the camps became flooded with millions of Soviets found wanting in terms of their ultimate suitability for everyday life in the workers' paradise.<br />Thus, the Gulag flourished throughout the 1920s and 1930s and even through the years of WWII, when slave labor provided an invaluable aid in producing enough war goods to help defeat the Axis powers. By the peak years of Gulag culture in the 1950s, the archipelago stretched into all twelve of the U.S. S. R.'s time zones, although it was largely concentrated in the northernmost and least livable aspects of the country's vast geographical areas.<br />One of the most interesting and certainly more controversial aspects of the book can be found in its expose of the existence of the Gulag itself by detailing the ways in which it was operating, albeit it fictionally. Yet both the existence and horrors associated with the Gulag have been greeted with something short of horror by the West. Compared to the much more extensively and discussed Holocaust of Europe's Jewish population perpetrated by the Nazi Third Reich over a twelve year period, until the publication of this masterful work almost nothing was known or published about the nearly seventy reign of the Gulag.<br />Given the recent demise of the Soviet state, and the dawning availability of data revealing the particulars of the existence of the Soviet system of political imprisonment, forced labor camps, and summary executions, one expects this massively documented, exhaustively detailed, and memorably written work of fiction will remain the standard in understanding the moving and horrible experience the Gulag posed for ordinary Russians. This is a terrific book, and although it is a work of fiction, it is one I can heartily recommend to any serious student of 20th century history. Enjoy!t is one I can heartily recommend to any serious student of 20th century history. Enjoy!	2003-07-26
1036884:US	52447634	R10LGP289FDZKC	0393057755	361013472	Terror and Liberalism	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Thoughtful Examination of Contemporary Islamic Terrorism!	Paul Berman is what one could fairly describe as a thinking man's pundit, unafraid of alienating either his more sympathetic supporters from the left, and sometimes drawing praise and agreement from the conservative right. The author of many provocative and thought-inspiring essays, Berman found himself surprised and befuddled by the turn of events on 911, which he watched with dismay from his perch on his apartment house roof in Manhattan.  Quite quickly he became much more aware of the radical threats pulsing through the city as, for example, a Yemeni cleric was indicted and subsequently convicted of laundering and forwarded tens of millions of dollars to Al Quaida.<br />In \\"Terror And Liberalism \\" he turns his penetrating wit and intellectual powers to a consideration of the nature of, and threats emanating from, what he has come to describe as \\"Islamic Totalitarianism\\" Far from flying with the angels of either the right or the left, Berman indicates understanding the rise of such radical organizations requires abandoning these kinds of simple dichotomous paradigms, and in examining the ways in which the terrorism of the 21st century finds its roots in the violent and reactionary  movements of the 20th century. Berman shows how the recent episodes of terror committed by such Islamic groups finds its origins in a continuation of the historical struggle between reactionary fascist and totalitarian groups such as the Nazis on the one hand, and the Soviet, Chinese and Cuban communists on the other against the entrenched liberal cultures of the Western democracies.<br />Seen in this perspective, self-described Islamic fundamentalist groups like Al Quaida and Hamas are less the exclusively pure religious rejections of the Christian West as they are a violent and ultimately secular ideology camping under the tent of a highly bastardized Islamic fundamentalism that finds its rage and purpose by rebelling against what they see as the \\"hideous schizophrenia\\" of modern society. This is all documented in a relatively obscure set of voluminous texts written by Egyptian scholar and intellectual Sayyid Qutb and entitled \\"In The Shade of the Qur'an\\", which Berman believes provides the theoretical underpinnings of the Islamic totalitarian movements now assailing the West.<br /><br />So, while Berman admits the philosophical musings of Outb to be sophisticated, intellectually profound, heartfelt and deeply nuanced, he also finds reason to criticize the more radical interpretation which spokespersons for radical Muslim fundamentalism such as Saddam Hussein or Osama Bin Laden approach the kind of crypto-fascist critique of post-modern Western societies, and indeed now constitute the same sort of grave threat to the continuation of our culture. Arguing quite persuasively, Berman posits that the radical forms of Islamism and Baathism (which is the variation of Islamic thought that ideologically propels Saddam Hussein's former ruling party) stem from the same kind of reactionary counter-revolution against the rising forces of liberalism that a century ago created the conditions for the First World War.  Therefore, he argues, we must marshal our resources to combat this ideological challenge that such violent ideologies arising within the Muslim world today.<br /><br />This makes great sense in trying to piece together a workable strategy for working through the issues and concerns being raised by our interventions in Afghanistan and in Iraq, and will give rise, Berman believes, to a more sophisticated and comprehensive world view than those offered in the overly simplistic liberal or conservative frames of reference in current vogue. He suggest perhaps amore enlightened liberalism will recognize, just as FDR did at the outset of World War Two, that there is great merit in rising to the international challenge and combating the tyrannical forces of radical Islamic totalitarianism. This is a terrific book, and one that will stretch and prod those old brain cells into active work. Enjoy!hose old brain cells into active work. Enjoy!	2003-07-24
1037785:US	52447634	R8PJAI2TE1M1Y	0865714827	597041364	The Party's Over: Oil, War and the Fate of Industrial Societies	Books	5	18	23	N	N	Chilling Examination Of Coming Crisis In World Oil Supply!	As someone who now has the time and energy to watch current world events with interest, I have puzzled over what seem to be possible ulterior motives for our aggressive intervention in Iraq.  Yet, given its rich supply of so much marker (or high quality) crude oil, this well documented book by author and academic Richard Heinberg book gives one a new perspective as to why we seem to be taking the actions we are to consolidate the stranglehold the Western world needs to guarantee a continuing and uninterrupted flow of it in its various forms. The author makes a strong and persuasive case for the notion that the world is running dangerously close to serious shortfall and consequent disruption in the overall supplies of crude oil for variety of reasons.<br />In \\"The Party's Over\\", Heinberg threads an argument that the world is quickly running out of inexpensive oil, and that the world economy as it is currently oriented around the  premise of such cheap sources of oil is about to undergo a relatively sudden sea change. In fact, he argues, within the next few yeas the high mark of such oil production will peak, much to the dismay of consistently expanding requirements for ever more total production. Given this gradual but consistently greater historical requirements for oil and its products, momentary gluts on the world market are more representative of temporary relaxation of segments of the world oil market rather than indicative of an overall trend, which slowly but surely increases from decade to decade. To wit, Heinberg argues, the Western world is about to enter a new era, one that will dramatically change the nature of international commerce and the increasingly unified world economy, in which a sneeze in Asia gives Canadians a cold.<br />Thus, posits the author, even if the Western democracies are willing and able to initiate conservation programs and develop strategies for switching to alternative energy sources such as solar and wind power, the overall effect of the declining availability of crude oil over the coming decade or so will be to force a de-facto decline in the total availability of energy for overall consumption. Such a set of circumstances could prove to be a serious challenge to the attempts to grow the global economy, and may also seriously damage overall standards of living, especially in modern post-industrial societies like our own that are so intensively energy dependent. According to Heinberg, we may well be on the cusp of a new era as different from our current culture of extravagance and plenty as the times after the industrial revolution were from the feudal era. Yet this time the progress may be in the opposite direction.<br />What all this represents is a massive transition placed in its proper historical context, illustrating the several ways in which our long dependence on fossil fuels and its corollary development of corporate forces with immense geo-political influence may face a fractious and much more difficult future in the face of such dwindling sources of overall supply, including the possible of resource wars in the Middle east and elsewhere as well. Given our seemingly obsession with SUVs and all the other petroleum intensive products of modern life, the impact may be one that is especially difficult and troublesome for affluent societies such as our own. This is a troubling yet quite informative book, and one I highly recommend. Enjoy! .ct of the declining availability of crude oil over the coming decade or so will be to force a de-facto decline in the total availability of energy for overall consumption. Such a set of circumstances could prove to be a serious challenge to the attempts to grow the global economy, and may also seriously damage overall standards of living, especially in modern post-industrial societies like our own that are so intensively energy dependent. According to Heinberg, we may well be on the cusp of a new era as different from our current culture of extravagance and plenty as the times after the industrial revolution were from the feudal era. Yet this time the progress may be in the opposite direction.    <br />What all this represents is a massive transition placed in its proper historical context, illustrating the several ways in which our long dependence on fossil fuels and its corollary development of corporate forces with immense geo-political influence may face a fractious and much more difficult future in the face of such dwindling sources of overall supply, including the possible of resource wars in the Middle east and elsewhere as well. Given our seemingly obsession with SUVs and all the other petroleum intensive products of modern life, the impact may be one that is especially difficult and troublesome for affluent societies such as our own. This is a troubling yet quite informative book, and one I highly recommend. Enjoy! .	2003-07-23
1037797:US	52447634	R3LMK2CHU90ZUH	038533348X	222797251	Cat's Cradle: A Novel	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A Magical Mystery Tour!	I once heard Kurt Vonnegut speak at a commencement ceremony at a Bennington College in Vermont in 1970, when his daughter was graduating with a bachelor's degree. He spoke quite eloquently about what graduates should do with their lives, and I remember parts of that wonderful speech as if it were yesterday. Indeed, Kurt Vonnegut is a writer of prodigious talents, a visionary seer disguised as an ordinary man, a contemporary wise man who speaks to us in amusing yet frightening allegories about the nature of contemporary man and the absurd technological culture he lives in today. This book, \\"Cat's Cradle\\", is among his finest novels, like most of his others, a work combining a wry sensibility with an amusing ability to confect sweet sounding yet bitter-tasting tales of mayhem and woe.<br />The plot of Cats Cradle is pure science fiction, and revolves around work to create a way to help American tanks more mobile in rain soaked and muddy circumstances, when such an ability to transverse the impossible terrain would give our guys in their tanks an overwhelming advantage over their evil foes. Our protagonist is a scientist working on isotope of water (called Ice -9) that has the ability to crystallize water into a unique form of ice that does not need freezing temperatures to crystallize. With such a capability, the Army could solidify the water in the mud, making it firm and allowing our tanks to roll over it with impunity. The problem is that once introduced into the ground, the compound has untoward effects no one had considered. And the basis for the cautionary tale is spun.<br />All of this is just the premise that allows Vonnegut to explore the far reaches of human behavior and the insane ways in which our culture is operating. It is a brilliant work, one that delves into the deep recesses of what we are, why we are that way, and where we seem to be going. It is at once a satire, a running commentary on the nature of our institutions, and the way in which we lie, cheat, and pretend to be people we are not, and as in his wild and wacky novel \\"Mother Night\\", shows why you should be afraid of who it is you are pretending to be, for it may come back to haunt you. This book literally explodes with a plethora of stinging insights into contemporary society, and constitutes a brilliant, albeit ironic, diagnosis of what a contradiction it is to be a human being trying to live a sane life in an insane world. This really is magical mystery tour, and one that will take your breath away. Enjoy!cheat, and pretend to be people we are not, and as in his wild and wacky novel \\"Mother Night\\", shows why you should be afraid of who it is you are pretending to be, for it may come back to haunt you. This book literally explodes with a plethora of stinging insights into contemporary society, and constitutes a brilliant, albeit ironic, diagnosis of what a contradiction it is to be a human being trying to live a sane life in an insane world. This really is magical mystery tour, and one that will take your breath away. Enjoy!	2003-07-23
1038043:US	52447634	R2H300M3GAKF94	039914711X	121745400	No End Save Victory: Perspectives on World War II	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Illuminating Collection Of Essays On World War Two!	What a wonderful gift editor Robert Crowley has given us with this treasure trove of individual essays from individual contributors in this spellbinding book covering a number of different aspects and experiences during World War Two! As one of the authors, the late popular historian Stephan Ambrose has shown us with many of his own works, the history of the Second World War was such a massive and variegated plethora of anecdotes, campaigns and experiences that it is nearly impossible to exhaust the steady stream of captivating stories that spring from its loins like bouncing babies, fully formed, into the waiting reader's lap. This is a particularly attractive package of essays, perfect for people who want something relatively short, as each individual offering within is, something one can read on a plane flight in its entirety and then pick up later without trying to remember the context or story thread where he had left off. And each of the stories makes for fascinating reading indeed.<br />The list of authors included is both impressive and eclectic, ranging from Ambrose, who weighs in with the taut and stirring tale of a platoon of paratroopers attempting to take and control a bridge key to the initial thrust of the first few hours of the Normandy landing, to Caleb Carr, better known for his success as a novelist (\\"The Alienist\\") but quite an eminent historian as well, to William Manchester to John Keegan to Antony Beever to Stanley Weintraub to David M. Glantz. And this is only some of the luminary historically prominent authors gathered together in what can only be described as a bravura collection of stories and perspectives on the total war effort, ranging in topics from the island hopping effort in the South Pacific to the desperate hours of the first few hours leading up to the Battle of the Bulge in the French Ardennes in December of 1944.<br />Despite my own wide reading of similar historical sources over the last thirty years, I found several of the articles quite illuminating and educational, as with Caleb Car's treatment of life on the ground as the invasion of Poland proceeds in September, 1939 in the precipitating event that quickly served to trigger the advent of the Second World War as such. Similarly, articles by Charles Berges, Sir David Fraser, and Carlo D'Este proved both fascinating and edifying in illuminating aspects of the war only poorly understood and studied in the existing literature.<br />This monograph especailly serves the interested private scholars like me who wants to know more about various different aspects and perspectives of the war that are not adequately or fully treated elsewhere, and used in conjunction with marvelous other resources such as Gerhard Weinberg's masterful \\"A World At Arms\\", Richard Spector's terrific \\"\\"Eagle Against The Sun\\", and William Shirer's eye-witness testimony in \\"The Rise And Fall Of The Third Reich\\", gives us a much richer and more comprehensive understanding of the signal historical event of the 20th century. Enjoy!articles quite illuminating and educational, as with Caleb Car's treatment of life on the ground as the invasion of Poland proceeds in September, 1939 in the precipitating event that quickly served to trigger the advent of the Second World War as such. Similarly, articles by Charles Berges, Sir David Fraser, and Carlo D'Este proved both fascinating and edifying in illuminating aspects of the war only poorly understood and studied in the existing literature. <br />This monograph especailly serves the interested private scholars like me who wants to know more about various different aspects and perspectives of the war that are not adequately or fully treated elsewhere, and used in conjunction with marvelous other resources such as Gerhard Weinberg's masterful \\"A World At Arms\\", Richard Spector's terrific \\"\\"Eagle Against The Sun\\", and William Shirer's eye-witness testimony in \\"The Rise And Fall Of The Third Reich\\", gives us a much richer and more comprehensive understanding of the signal historical event of the 20th century. Enjoy!	2003-07-23
1038323:US	52447634	R2PNG9MMOCED1V	006019524X	822074804	Stalin's Last Crime: The Plot Against the Jewish Doctors, 1948-1953	Books	4	15	18	N	N	Mind-Boggling Examination Of Stalin's Final Terror!	Some very interesting books are emerging concerning the former Soviet Union now that their archives are open for scholarly investigation. This book is certainly one of them, a well-written and carefully documented investigation of one of the darkest aspects of the Stalin era. No one, with the possible exception of Adolph Hitler's Nazi Germany, was directly responsible for the deaths of more human beings during the 20th century than was Joseph Stalin, the Soviet Union's first comrade, a brilliant psychopath so deluded in his paranoid fantasies that he suspected everyone, always, of continuous conspiracy and perfidy against him. His resulting excesses included the campaign of terror, first instituted in the 1930s, and the systematic purges that became an integral aspect of the terror campaign. During the 1930s alone, he is estimated to have worked millions to death in enforced labor camps, creating what is now described as a \\"Gulag\\" in recent books such as Anne Applebaum's recent book of the same name.<br />Yet although the Gulag and the terror campaign that supplied the bodies for its proliferation was most pronounced both before and during the Second World War, it was after the war that the extent of his murder and mayhem reached it horrific peak. Indeed, on the eve of his death in 1953, Stalin was actively planning to execute a bizarre and insane plan to kill hundreds of thousands of additional Russian citizens in what Jonathan Brent and Vladimir Naumov describe in their book, \\"Stalin's Last Crime: The Plot Against The Jewish Doctors, 1948-1953\\" as constituting what they refer to as the \\"Doctor's Plot\\". The authors trace the evidence linking Stalin and the development by his staff produced false documentation of such a plot by doctors within the Soviet Union of intending to purge the Soviet Ministry of Security as well as the elite elements of government in a bizarre alleged conspiracy between Jewish M.D.s living in Russia and the American government to foist a coup d'etat of the Soviet regime.<br />Stalin had concocted the idea based on the fact that he knew the lingering anti-Semitism within the Soviet Union would help convince the people that such a plot was both feasible and logical, which of course, it was not. What it really was a clever Machiavellian ruse to give Stalin the excuse he needed to purge the very institutions he was about to accuse the Jewish doctors of attempting to damage.  In their stirring narration of the events and their consequences, the authors offer both provocative and damaging evidence of the standard Stalin course of action; by first obtaining a series of forced confessions, he would develop asset of anecdotal information files that he would then twist into a substantial set of circumstantial evidence supporting his theory.<br />One of the more interesting of the findings was he evidence that late in life he seemed to develop a more cautious and deliberate approach to his domestic terror program, as though he sensed the overall mood of the country to have changed in the direction of wanting and supporting legitimacy, and he wanted to continue to ensure his power base both by working within the framework of what he believed to be the public consciousness on the one hand, and undermining his imagined foes by creating the docile of false evidence he could use to disarm and defeat them on the other. Most fascinating of the authors' theories is the idea that in attempting to foist yet one more purge on the feckless party hierarchy, Stalin set the stage for his own demise, which the authors argue may well have been a disguised assassination and not the natural death the rest of the outside world was led to believe it was. This is a wonderful book, and I am sure it is only the latest of what promises to be a steady stream of excellent books rewriting the history of the Soviet experiment with new information coming from the treasure trove of the Soviet archives. Enjoy!p d'etat of the Soviet regime. <br />Stalin had concocted the idea based on the fact that he knew the lingering anti-Semitism within the Soviet Union would help convince the people that such a plot was both feasible and logical, which of course, it was not. What it really was a clever Machiavellian ruse to give Stalin the excuse he needed to purge the very institutions he was about to accuse the Jewish doctors of attempting to damage.  In their stirring narration of the events and their consequences, the authors offer both provocative and damaging evidence of the standard Stalin course of action; by first obtaining a series of forced confessions, he would develop asset of anecdotal information files that he would then twist into a substantial set of circumstantial evidence supporting his theory.  <br />One of the more interesting of the findings was he evidence that late in life he seemed to develop a more cautious and deliberate approach to his domestic terror program, as though he sensed the overall mood of the country to have changed in the direction of wanting and supporting legitimacy, and he wanted to continue to ensure his power base both by working within the framework of what he believed to be the public consciousness on the one hand, and undermining his imagined foes by creating the docile of false evidence he could use to disarm and defeat them on the other. Most fascinating of the authors' theories is the idea that in attempting to foist yet one more purge on the feckless party hierarchy, Stalin set the stage for his own demise, which the authors argue may well have been a disguised assassination and not the natural death the rest of the outside world was led to believe it was. This is a wonderful book, and I am sure it is only the latest of what promises to be a steady stream of excellent books rewriting the history of the Soviet experiment with new information coming from the treasure trove of the Soviet archives. Enjoy!	2003-07-23
1039088:US	52447634	RNQ7EDK96NN7	0345317386	741733304	Loo Sanction	Books	4	33	33	N	N	Terrific Spy Thriler By A Master Of The Genre!	In the mid 1970s three back-to-back best sellers were provided by the reclusive and somewhat mysterious author who wrote under the pen name of Trevanian. The three novels were first, \\"The Eiger Sanction\\", followed quickly by a sequel, \\"The Loo Sanction\\", and finally, by a complete change of pace with \\"Shibumi\\". Of the three, While The Eiger Sanction was easily the most commercially successful, the Loo Sanction provided more of a showcase for Trevanian's considerable intellect, panache for taking pot-shots at the British culture, and sheer gift for words. Like its predecessor, this is a taut and thrilling tale of a once famous mountaineer and retired government assassin turned college art history professor named Jonathan Hemlock, who is forced back into the \\"sanction\\" business both by personal greed and crude manipulation, this time around  by the British through blackmail, setting in motion another terrific spy thriller.<br /><br />The book opens with a graphic description of a pederast being slowly impaled on a stake through the inexorable force of gravity by way of his bodyweight. An aggravating and dangerous entrepreneur named Maximillian Strange is using his own filmed trysts catching British government officials to blackmail them, and the British Intelligence was an outsider like Hemlock who cannot be traced to sanction (assassinate) him. To do so, Hemlock must infiltrate Strange's private estate/bordello called The Cloisters, and it is considered an almost impregnable fortress/resort.  Of course, Professor Hemlock gets diverted along the way by the well-turned limbs of a lovely lady, and gets consequently involved in the trendy world of the London art world, where his expertise as an appraiser of original art is both highly regarded and which also allows him some humorous diversions along the way.<br />Once we finally make it to the Cloisters, the action is literally non-stop, quite accurate technically, and absolutely riveting to read about. While this is both amusing and fanciful stuff, owing more to Bond-like super-hero stuff than real life, it is escapist work of the first magnitude. The author holds our rapt attention with a plot that unfolds in a quite plausible and inevitably tragic fashion with no one necessarily spared as the frenzy reaches its natural conclusion. This is a terrific spy thriller, on e written by someone who has a wonderful command of prose and entertainment, and who employs them both to great advantage here. This is great entertainment, and something I can heartily recommend as a great summer read. Enjoy!h amusing and fanciful stuff, owing more to Bond-like super-hero stuff than real life, it is escapist work of the first magnitude. The author holds our rapt attention with a plot that unfolds in a quite plausible and inevitably tragic fashion with no one necessarily spared as the frenzy reaches its natural conclusion. This is a terrific spy thriller, on e written by someone who has a wonderful command of prose and entertainment, and who employs them both to great advantage here. This is great entertainment, and something I can heartily recommend as a great summer read. Enjoy!	2003-07-22
1042055:US	52447634	R2TRI4DHQBB0PC	0395412854	203639789	Trust Your Heart	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	A Wonderfully Open Autobiography By Judy Collins!	The first time I heard Judy Collin's stirring voice was over the radio when her super hit \\"Both Sides Now\\" became an international crossover hit on the popular charts in 1968. Of course, at that point her career was really taking off, and by the time I was finishing my senior year the next summer, I had all of her albums and played them all into a scratchy oblivion. A good friend of mine had a super sound system, and he was so enamored of her \\"Who Knows Where The Time Goes?\\" he played it over and over again. Her voice and arrangements had such an intoxicating effect that one was drawn into the colorful dreamscapes she created with her autobiographical approach in many of the songs. <br />Magically, Ms. Collins has achieved the same sort of infectious hospitality in creating the same kind of watercolor representation of her remarkable and very purposeful personal life. This is an autobiography that not only tells all, but also does so in a way that places her actions in context, so one better understands how the aspects of her personal, professional, and civil life all merged and interacted. Judy appears to have considerable gifts as an author, which is no surprise to those of us familiar with her amazing prowess as a songwriter and lyricist. Her songs are quite literate and poetic, and the rhyme schemes and use of the language betray a native facility with expressing herself. Here too she often paints word pictures of real life situations and circumstances. I remember listening to her song \\"Martin\\" as I was about to leave the safety of graduate study for my first professional position, and recall her phrase \\"my life was moving fast by now\\" as describing not just her existential circumstances, but for most baby-boomers really grabbing life by the horns at long last. <br />Judy's career is legendary, starting off slowly as Judy hit the cafes and coffee houses in Fort Collins, Colorado while her husband finished his graduate studies at the local university. She gradually became quite adept at supporting them and their son Clark by increasingly drawing crowds and spreading her range of songs and venues for her soaring voice and intricate ability with an acoustic guitar. Yet even as she became more successful with her career, her marriage floundered. Soon, the career, which was taking wings and flying off on its own power, began to seductively call her toward distant gigs and national causes, such as civil rights and the growing protest against the war in Vietnam. <br />Once fame and success came her way, she quickly flowered into a virtual cottage industry of her own, propelled by a memorable succession of best-selling albums and sell-out tours, so that as her career began to peak in the early 1970s, Judy was looking to stretch her artistic wings and try for other ways to express herself. She appeared in several Broadway shows, and experimented with more traditional song forms and styles. Doing so gradually affected her audience, which seemed to want much more of the folk-rock style she had been so instrumental in popularizing. As a result, she was finally dropped by her label, Elektra, and has subsequently recorded on a number of independent labels. By the time of the book release, in the late 1990s, Judy had regained much of her audience base, and was both recording new work and working on the concert tour circuit once again, a kind of elder stateswoman for popular folk music who was more successful at sustaining this aspect of her career than either Joan Baez or Joni Mitchell, who had lost interest in popular music and was much more experimental I her recordings than Judy.   <br />In the last decade Judy has also written a couple of novels, and seems content to dabble in different modes of expressing herself while enjoying the touring life as well. She is indeed a one of a kind woman who has gone through both heartache (having lost her only son to suicide not so long ago) and fantastic success as a singer, a songwriter, and a novelist. This is an exceptionally interesting and well-written autobiographical effort, and one that is open enough and honest enough to give the empathetic reader a chance to get to know Judy much more personally than one would expect. Enjoy!	2003-07-20
1042599:US	52447634	R5Y76OQA60HGE	0395412854	203639789	Trust Your Heart	Books	4	16	16	N	Y	A Wonderfully Open Autobiography By Judy Collins!	The first time I heard Judy Collin's stirring voice was over the radio when her super hit \\"Both Sides Now\\" became an international crossover hit on the popular charts in 1968. Of course, at that point her career was really taking off, and by the time I was finishing my senior year the next summer, I had all of her albums and played them all into a scratchy oblivion. A good friend of mine had a super sound system, and he was so enamored of her \\"Who Knows Where The Time Goes?\\" he played it over and over again. Her voice and arrangements had such an intoxicating effect that one was drawn into the colorful dreamscapes she created with her autobiographical approach in many of the songs.<br />Magically, Ms. Collins has achieved the same sort of infectious hospitality in creating the same kind of watercolor representation of her remarkable and very purposeful personal life. This is an autobiography that not only tells all, but also does so in a way that places her actions in context, so one better understands how the aspects of her personal, professional, and civil life all merged and interacted. Judy appears to have considerable gifts as an author, which is no surprise to those of us familiar with her amazing prowess as a songwriter and lyricist. Her songs are quite literate and poetic, and the rhyme schemes and use of the language betray a native facility with expressing herself. Here too she often paints word pictures of real life situations and circumstances. I remember listening to her song \\"Martin\\" as I was about to leave the safety of graduate study for my first professional position, and recall her phrase \\"my life was moving fast by now\\" as describing not just her existential circumstances, but for most baby-boomers really grabbing life by the horns at long last.<br />Judy's career is legendary, starting off slowly as Judy hit the cafes and coffee houses in Fort Collins, Colorado while her husband finished his graduate studies at the local university. She gradually became quite adept at supporting them and their son Clark by increasingly drawing crowds and spreading her range of songs and venues for her soaring voice and intricate ability with an acoustic guitar. Yet even as she became more successful with her career, her marriage floundered. Soon, the career, which was taking wings and flying off on its own power, began to seductively call her toward distant gigs and national causes, such as civil rights and the growing protest against the war in Vietnam.<br />Once fame and success came her way, she quickly flowered into a virtual cottage industry of her own, propelled by a memorable succession of best-selling albums and sell-out tours, so that as her career began to peak in the early 1970s, Judy was looking to stretch her artistic wings and try for other ways to express herself. She appeared in several Broadway shows, and experimented with more traditional song forms and styles. Doing so gradually affected her audience, which seemed to want much more of the folk-rock style she had been so instrumental in popularizing. As a result, she was finally dropped by her label, Elektra, and has subsequently recorded on a number of independent labels. By the time of the book release, in the late 1990s, Judy had regained much of her audience base, and was both recording new work and working on the concert tour circuit once again, a kind of elder stateswoman for popular folk music who was more successful at sustaining this aspect of her career than either Joan Baez or Joni Mitchell, who had lost interest in popular music and was much more experimental I her recordings than Judy.<br />In the last decade Judy has also written a couple of novels, and seems content to dabble in different modes of expressing herself while enjoying the touring life as well. She is indeed a one of a kind woman who has gone through both heartache (having lost her only son to suicide not so long ago) and fantastic success as a singer, a songwriter, and a novelist. This is an exceptionally interesting and well-written autobiographical effort, and one that is open enough and honest enough to give the empathetic reader a chance to get to know Judy much more personally than one would expect. Enjoy!t. This is an exceptionally interesting and well-written autobiographical effort, and one that is open enough and honest enough to give the empathetic reader a chance to get to know Judy much more personally than one would expect. Enjoy!	2003-07-20
1043918:US	52447634	R3AXQ3ZUD74F22	0316774707	318063863	Many Are the Crimes: McCarthyism in America	Books	5	43	52	N	N	Authoritative Review Of Evidence Concerning McCarthyism!	Given the recent spate of controversial conservative tomes claiming Joe McCarthy had been widely vilified and misunderstood, the act of finding this terrific book by former Harvard professor Ellen Schrecker at the Toadstool Bookstore in nearby Peterborough was an incredible coincidence. I was looking for an authoritative source of objective and dispassionate history of the McCarthy era that would comprehensively review the evidence and aid me in determining the relative merit of the conservative claims that Tail Gunner Joe had been right about the &#34;commie menace&#34; all along. I was fortunate indeed, for Professor Schrecker's carefully researched and scrupulously documented work offers the interested reader with an absorbing plethora of substantiated and objective information regarding what has to be considered one of the most inflammatory and controversial periods in 20th century American history.<br /><br />Schrecker takes great pains at fairly and carefully detailing the specifics of the events transpiring in the rise of McCarthyism and its effects in the society, which it literally turned upside down. And while the author meticulously avoids becoming an apologist for the American Communist Party, carefully describing the rather sordid and troubling aspects of their political activities, she also shows how unfairly they were treated at the hands of McCarthy and the congregated conservative and liberal cabal that rose in the midst of the great Red Scare. Details regarding the degree to which individual communists were systematically persecuted are carefully documented and are far from representing mere anecdotal reports.<br /><br />Moreover, she gives the reader a consummate history of the rise of McCarthyism, finding its origins in the communist movement, as it was struggling toward its greatest success amidst the misery and despair of the 1930s Depression. She also gives us some key insights into the inner mechanics of how the House Committee on Un-American Activities, also referred to as HUAC, laid the groundwork for the later hearings in the Senate by Joe McCarthy. She draws a convincing and quite detailed road map as to how the activities by parties to the search for communists within the government, including such desperate and disconnected entities as J. Edgar Hoover and the FBI, members of HUAC, and Joe McCarthy and his staff, independently used extra-legal means to pursue and harass innocent ordinary people who they found inconveniently laying in the path of their investigations.<br /><br />Also extensively examined and criticized is the media, especially the print form by way of newspapers and magazines,  so hungry for a never-ending news story that they consistently covered it on page one, providing the &#34;legs&#34; to the continuing story about the hunt for communists, and provided HUAC, McCarthy, and others with the public support they needed to persevere in their efforts. Yet it was in the damage that McCarthyism did both to innocent victims like union activists and other liberal politicians that Schrecker provides the most damning evidence for.<br /><br />Conservatives cynically employed the Taft-Hartley Act and other suffocating political methods both to stifle opposition, on the one hand, and to effectively disarm liberal activism in general. According to Professor Schrecker, this had a devastating effect on the civil rights movement, which Hoover characterized as communist-inspired. Indeed, he continued to pursue activists like martin Luther King for decades, until King's death finally put a close to the surveillance.<br /><br />Perhaps the most chilling conclusions one derives from the book are her observations regarding how damaging the McCarthy era was in terms of its chilling effect in inhibiting free and open debate by ordinary citizens, and in the way it so aptly demonstrated the remarkable ease with which the machinery of government can subvert and repress its citizens through the employment of political propaganda and cynical emotional manipulation. This is a wonderfully written book, and one that is quite thought provoking. Enjoy!ulation. This is a wonderfully written book, and one that is quite thought provoking. Enjoy!	2003-07-18
1044424:US	52447634	R1CXMT917RJKVH	0805062882	773936746	An Army at Dawn: The War in North Africa, 1942-1943 (The Liberation Trilogy, Vol. 1)	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Superb New History Of The African Campaign In WWII!	One of the most fascinating phenomena arising from the Second World War was the amazing transformation of the American Army from its peacetime doldrums to its more formidable and irresistible status by the evening of its assault on the Nazi's Fortress Europe in the invasion of Normandy. In the first of what promises to be a three-volume trilogy covering the liberation of Europe in 1944-45, author Rick Atkinson develops a narrative that describes, in loving detail, the back-breaking, often bumpy and extremely hazardous road to the creation of that Army in the stinging heat of the African desert. Atkinson maintains the reader should appreciate the degree to which what happened in the African campaign was critical to all that followed. And indeed, he provides powerful evidence that this is so. <br />In fact, the author threads us through an argument that our successes in stopping the Afrika Corps dead in its tracks was as serious a military setback for the Axis forces as either the Soviet victory in Stalingrad or the Japanese defeat at Midway, that it was as significant a turning point in the fortunes of both the German forces and their American and British counterparts as was the Nazi imbroglio and subsequent defeat in the winter mud and snow of the Russian hinterlands.  Defeated in the field both by the Soviets and the American-British coalition, Atkinson argues that it broke them of the initiative for the balance of the war. This argument seems a bit inconsistent with the history of the rest of the war to me, especially with the winter breakout of the Germans in the battle of the Bulge in the Ardennes in late 1944. But he makes some convincing arguments supported by historical facts that add credence to much of what he is saying.<br />Atkinson also argues that as the American Army shook off its initial combat setbacks and began to develop both the techniques and experience to implement them, they gradually displaced the smaller and less well equipped British forcesinto a secondary role. Yet it also true that Montgomery and his forces played a key role both in the African campaign and in the Sicilian, Italian and Normandy efforts as well. One can argue that only after the serious grandstanding miscalculation of Operation Market Garden in the fall of 1944 did Montgomery and his army were relegated to a more marginal back role in the European campaign. Yet Atkinson writes both convincingly and well, and he certainly proves beyond any doubt that the aggravating and costly mistakes and setbacks in Africa both prepared the American Army for later efforts and also prevented a premature attempt to assault Europe in 1943, before they had either the men or the material to accomplish what they did so brilliantly a year later.  <br />This is a terrific book, one which provides the reader with a superb and magnificently detailed strategic overview and also gives us intriguing glimpses of ordinary soldiers trying to cope amid the craziness, confusion, and chaos of war. He provides us with knowing details, impeccable documentation, and a lot of interesting insights into both central personalities and their roles in the prosecution of the African campaign.  This book is well worth the read, and adds significantly to the general level of scholarship on one of the most important and yet least documented and understood events of the Second World War. Enjoy!	2003-07-18
1044664:US	52447634	R235VO98HPG6HV	0805062882	773936746	An Army at Dawn: The War in North Africa, 1942-1943 (The Liberation Trilogy, Vol. 1)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Superb New History Of The African Campaign In WWII!	One of the most fascinating phenomena arising from the Second World War was the amazing transformation of the American Army from its peacetime doldrums to its more formidable and irresistible status by the evening of its assault on the Nazi's Fortress Europe in the invasion of Normandy. In the first of what promises to be a three-volume trilogy covering the liberation of Europe in 1944-45, author Rick Atkinson develops a narrative that describes, in loving detail, the back-breaking, often bumpy and extremely hazardous road to the creation of that Army in the stinging heat of the African desert. Atkinson maintains the reader should appreciate the degree to which what happened in the African campaign was critical to all that followed. And indeed, he provides powerful evidence that this is so.<br />In fact, the author threads us through an argument that our successes in stopping the Afrika Corps dead in its tracks was as serious a military setback for the Axis forces as either the Soviet victory in Stalingrad or the Japanese defeat at Midway, that it was as significant a turning point in the fortunes of both the German forces and their American and British counterparts as was the Nazi imbroglio and subsequent defeat in the winter mud and snow of the Russian hinterlands.  Defeated in the field both by the Soviets and the American-British coalition, Atkinson argues that it broke them of the initiative for the balance of the war. This argument seems a bit inconsistent with the history of the rest of the war to me, especially with the winter breakout of the Germans in the battle of the Bulge in the Ardennes in late 1944. But he makes some convincing arguments supported by historical facts that add credence to much of what he is saying.<br />Atkinson also argues that as the American Army shook off its initial combat setbacks and began to develop both the techniques and experience to implement them, they gradually displaced the smaller and less well equipped British forces into a secondary role. Yet it also true that Montgomery and his forces played a key role both in the African campaign and in the Sicilian, Italian and Normandy efforts as well. One can argue that only after the serious grandstanding miscalculation of Operation Market Garden in the fall of 1944 did Montgomery and his army were relegated to a more marginal back role in the European campaign. Yet Atkinson writes both convincingly and well, and he certainly proves beyond any doubt that the aggravating and costly mistakes and setbacks in Africa both prepared the American Army for later efforts and also prevented a premature attempt to assault Europe in 1943, before they had either the men or the material to accomplish what they did so brilliantly a year later.<br />This is a terrific book, one which provides the reader with a superb and magnificently detailed strategic overview and also gives us intriguing glimpses of ordinary soldiers trying to cope amid the craziness, confusion, and chaos of war. He provides us with knowing details, impeccable documentation, and a lot of interesting insights into both central personalities and their roles in the prosecution of the African campaign.  This book is well worth the read, and adds significantly to the general level of scholarship on one of the most important and yet least documented and understood events of the Second World War. Enjoy!into a secondary role. Yet it also true that Montgomery and his forces played a key role both in the African campaign and in the Sicilian, Italian and Normandy efforts as well. One can argue that only after the serious grandstanding miscalculation of Operation Market Garden in the fall of 1944 did Montgomery and his army were relegated to a more marginal back role in the European campaign. Yet Atkinson writes both convincingly and well, and he certainly proves beyond any doubt that the aggravating and costly mistakes and setbacks in Africa both prepared the American Army for later efforts and also prevented a premature attempt to assault Europe in 1943, before they had either the men or the material to accomplish what they did so brilliantly a year later.  <br />This is a terrific book, one which provides the reader with a superb and magnificently detailed strategic overview and also gives us intriguing glimpses of ordinary soldiers trying to cope amid the craziness, confusion, and chaos of war. He provides us with knowing details, impeccable documentation, and a lot of interesting insights into both central personalities and their roles in the prosecution of the African campaign.  This book is well worth the read, and adds significantly to the general level of scholarship on one of the most important and yet least documented and understood events of the Second World War. Enjoy!	2003-07-18
1045238:US	52447634	R3GTULG6WRE31E	0393020029	912019107	Harvard and the Unabomber: The Education of an American Terrorist	Books	4	29	32	N	N	Absorbing &amp; Careful Analysis Of The Unabomber's Genesis!	As an academic whose students teasingly accused of being the Unabomber a couple of times in the late 1990s myself, after reading the manifesto in the fall of 1996 I realized both why they were teasing me and how many of the perspectives and ideas regarding the nature of modern society and its impact on our experience of reality we shared. And while his own particular interpretation of the effects and influences of modern technological society varied in substantial detail from my own regarding the specific mechanics by which it operated and its influence and effects, I was drawn by what I considered to be the mysterious forces that would force someone with such an obviously passionate love for the environment and the earth to commit random acts of murder in its name.<br />The media, of course, dismissed the manifesto as the irrational ramblings of a mad man, which to an untrained journalist's mind, anyone willing to murder complete strangers must surely be. Well, not necessarily. Terrorists, for example, may be immoral and horrific, but they are necessarily insane. They may just be committed to the particular cause to the degree they are willing to use any means to reach the desired end. And indeed, if the manifesto was the work of a mad man, there seemed to be some method to it. I found some answers from an interesting article written by Sales Kirkpatrick, a fellow self-confessed Neo-Luddite who feared the dehumanizing consequences of the emerging postindustrial society. He critiqued the manifesto, and in so doing helped many to better appreciate how this individual had slipped over the edge into homicide and madness.  This book, \\"Harvard And the Unabomber\\" provides us with an excellent exploration that helps to make the connections between Theodore \\"Ted\\" Kaczynski's formative years, especially those spent at Harvard as an undergraduate student, on the one hand, and his intriguing albeit dogmatic treatise on what ails modern man.<br />The author, Alston Chase, shares many common experiences and perspectives with Kaczynski; both are Harvard graduates, academics who fled the academy for the wilderness early in their careers, and both of whom retreated to the mountains of Montana for reclusive relief. Chase spins a convincing and systematic portrait of how the intellectual philosophy in vogue at Harvard in those years led Kaczynski in the specific direction of his angry philippic against the evils of the modern world. He also, quite intriguingly, details how immersion in some highly confidential and also quite controversial psychological studies at Harvard may have contributed to his deteriorating mental health and contributed mightily to his generally dyspeptic and cynical view of scientists in general and psychologists in particular. In Chase's view, Kaczynski is very much a victim of the society of the general anxieties related to the suffocating atmosphere of the Cold War and of the unusual pressures the unorthodox Us Army sponsored psychological experiments he participated in during his Harvard years.<br />Finally, Chase is highly critical of the way in Which Harvard yielded to the unseemly and unethical treatment the students were subjected to in order to give the Army the information they had contracted for. Given Kaczynski's intellect, he likely then generalized from his experience while enduring the experiments, drawing some frighteningly dangerous conclusions about the nature of modern society as a result.  This is a worthwhile and very carefully written book, one not disposed to easy answers and one that takes great pains to be both thorough and fair. It is well worth the reading. Enjoy!hares many common experiences and perspectives with Kaczynski; both are Harvard graduates, academics who fled the academy for the wilderness early in their careers, and both of whom retreated to the mountains of Montana for reclusive relief. Chase spins a convincing and systematic portrait of how the intellectual philosophy in vogue at Harvard in those years led Kaczynski in the specific direction of his angry philippic against the evils of the modern world. He also, quite intriguingly, details how immersion in some highly confidential and also quite controversial psychological studies at Harvard may have contributed to his deteriorating mental health and contributed mightily to his generally dyspeptic and cynical view of scientists in general and psychologists in particular. In Chase's view, Kaczynski is very much a victim of the society of the general anxieties related to the suffocating atmosphere of the Cold War and of the unusual pressures the unorthodox Us Army sponsored psychological experiments he participated in during his Harvard years. <br />Finally, Chase is highly critical of the way in Which Harvard yielded to the unseemly and unethical treatment the students were subjected to in order to give the Army the information they had contracted for. Given Kaczynski's intellect, he likely then generalized from his experience while enduring the experiments, drawing some frighteningly dangerous conclusions about the nature of modern society as a result.  This is a worthwhile and very carefully written book, one not disposed to easy answers and one that takes great pains to be both thorough and fair. It is well worth the reading. Enjoy!	2003-07-17
1046245:US	52447634	R159GVVE5EIZMV	081296859X	562895	The Last 100 Days: The Tumultuous and Controversial Story of the Final Days of World War II in Europe (Modern Library War)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Another Masterful Historical Work By John Toland!	Amid the literal landslide of books written to date on the single subject of the final fateful overthrow of the Third Reich by Allied forces advancing both from the east and west simultaneously, this early effort by famed author John Toland is easily the single best nugget in all that ore, a single volume effort that is a literal treasure trove of both anecdotal eye-witness testimony and exhaustive historical research. As in most of his terrific book, Toland threads an integrating narrative that plies us with a battery of both useful and entertaining information, with amusing nuggets of historical facts such as the fact that a visiting Winston Churchill halted the caravan in which he was being escorted for security reasons to very publicly urinate on the bridge, quipping that Hitler could \\"take that\\".<br />Indeed, in January of 1945, the Allied forces were poised to smash through the remnants of the Wehrmacht even as Hitler, convinced he could still win the war by dividing the two Allied armies and soliciting the western Allied phalanx to join him in an unholy war against the godless Bolsheviks. It is no exaggeration that it is unlikely that any other three-month period in modern history had the monumental impact of these three months as the evil empire of the Nazi regime was smashed into smithereens. Indeed, the ninety-day period saw historical events ranging from the conference at Yalta to the controversial and merciless bombing of Dresden, from the crucial crossing of the final bridge over the Rhine at Remagen to the brutal extermination of the German army at the hands of the Russians. And all of these, and many more, are described, discussed, and placed in historical context by an author who is a master of the trade of writing substantial popular works of history.<br />Toland's focus here is with the individuals involved, both those, who like Eisenhower, Churchill, Hitler, Stalin, and Mussolini, shaped the evens even as they transpired, and also with the soldiers, civilians, and observers who provide the human angle of what living on the ground in the midst of what sometimes was an endless cycle of carnage, murder, and devastation was like to experience. It is all here, from Hitler's suicide to Eisenhower's original plans for the Nazi war criminals (he wanted them shot without benefit of trial). Toland's narrative is tight, informative, and exciting to read. He does not so much provide an overall interpretation of what happened and why so much as he fully immerses the reader in the particulars and gives the contexts in which these specifics occur, letting the reader make his or her own decisions about what that means. This is popular history at its best, delivered by a master of the trade. Enjoy!diers, civilians, and observers who provide the human angle of what living on the ground in the midst of what sometimes was an endless cycle of carnage, murder, and devastation was like to experience. It is all here, from Hitler's suicide to Eisenhower's original plans for the Nazi war criminals (he wanted them shot without benefit of trial). Toland's narrative is tight, informative, and exciting to read. He does not so much provide an overall interpretation of what happened and why so much as he fully immerses the reader in the particulars and gives the contexts in which these specifics occur, letting the reader make his or her own decisions about what that means. This is popular history at its best, delivered by a master of the trade. Enjoy!	2003-07-17
1048486:US	52447634	RUA6EIGLJDRPR	0786868414	511065138	Leadership	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Interesting, Controversial, &amp; Entertaining Book By Himself!	This is an absorbing and fairly well written tome, which ostensibly is a guide for business, civic and other people finding themselves in leadership posts can employ to better manage the day to details of organizing, motivating, and executing policy in support of the large scale organization involved. Certainly no one can talk from a greater scale of personal experience about how to manage such an organization than Rudy Giuliani, the former Mayor of New York City who led his flock of fellow New Yorkers through one of the most difficult set of existential circumstances imaginable, the aftermath of the September 11, 2001 attack on the Twin Trade Towers.  I enjoyed a lot of what the author had to say, but came away from the book perplexed by a number of elements within it, a couple of which I will mention below.<br />Yet there is no doubt his leadership was one of the critical elements in the calculus of helping ordinary citizens to recover both their day to day ability to live and work in the city, but for the city itself to rise from the literal ashes of the bombed out area and regain its equilibrium and purpose. Having said this, I thought that much of his take on his life long experience as a leader in the various positions he has held was really a self-serving interpretation of how those agencies operate. When discussing the tour of duty he enjoyed as the U.S. Attorney in New York, he largely inherited both the staff and the organization, and during his tenure seemed to be manipulating the concentration of the kinds of cases they handled to serve his own political ambitions as much as the needs of the agency. If this is the kind of leadership he wants others to follow, I doubt it is going to serve the common weal as much as we might like.<br />Also, his recollections of his time as mayor glosses over the fact that while middle class residents of NYC were quite enamored of him and his policies, the same can hardly be said to be true for the less fortunate, less affluent, and for those of color or ethnicity. He instituted what were considered near Gestapo techniques and policies for the police force that did succeed in bringing down violent crime, but left horrific incidents like the feckless and unarmed Hispanic immigrant shot more than 21 times at close range by two officers s he huddled in a doorway. His policies were hardly uniformly approved; noir were they uniformly successful.  All of this may seem like petty carping, yet the truth is that he deliberately employed what many considered extra-legal means to accomplish what were undoubtedly appropriate and worthwhile civic goal. The last example corporate America needs today is that of a maverick for whom the rules are too confining to operate within.  This is indeed a useful, worthwhile, and entertaining read. It is a book I would recommend, but would suggest reading with more than a pinch of salt. Enjoy!fluent, and for those of color or ethnicity. He instituted what were considered near Gestapo techniques and policies for the police force that did succeed in bringing down violent crime, but left horrific incidents like the feckless and unarmed Hispanic immigrant shot more than 21 times at close range by two officers s he huddled in a doorway. His policies were hardly uniformly approved; noir were they uniformly successful.  All of this may seem like petty carping, yet the truth is that he deliberately employed what many considered extra-legal means to accomplish what were undoubtedly appropriate and worthwhile civic goal. The last example corporate America needs today is that of a maverick for whom the rules are too confining to operate within.  This is indeed a useful, worthwhile, and entertaining read. It is a book I would recommend, but would suggest reading with more than a pinch of salt. Enjoy!	2003-07-15
1049443:US	52447634	R3LQCLB0I61ZF7	0743212312	180892560	Our Vietnam: The War 1954-1975	Books	5	21	25	N	N	Masterful Exploration Of Origins &amp; Progress Of Vietnam War!	One can now add this interesting and informative book to the growing list of recent tomes adding to our understanding of how we can so inextricably drawn into the unfortunate miasma called Vietnam. Certainly, according to able historian A. J. Langguth, there is more than enough culpability in the stream of administrations stretching back as far as the Eisenhower years to add to the coals on the slowly spreading conflagration it eventually became. According to the author, there is little doubt that the Vietnam War wound up being the single most divisive war since the Civil war more than 100 years before. The reasons it split the country into two angry and warring camps were related to its very causes, namely the arrogance and hubris of the WWII generation of those believing in their un power and invulnerability, the so called \\"best and brightest\\" that David Halberstam described so beautifully in his book of the same name.<br />Langguth employs a treasure-trove of new material to examine the way sin which the various administrations made decisions leading us along the deceptive path that led to ever deeper and deeper involvement in Vietnam. And although Eisenhower had warned about the dangers of relying on the wisdom and purposes of the rising clique of the \\"military-industrial'' complex, he made decisions that facilitated the further extension of policy into Vietnam by the young and relatively unwary president who followed him. Yet it was through Kennedy's reliance on old cold warriors for advice and counsel that led him into a deepening commitment. Indeed, increasingly Kennedy fell under the charismatic influence of defense Secretary Robert McNamara charismatic appeals to escalate the conflict, using euphemistic ideas such as like statistical control and other cost-benefit analysis techniques to seemingly rationalize the process of making decisions into a business decision mentality, rather than recognizing it was men's lives and deaths they were discussing. In such a way, the movement down the path toward ever greater engagement in Vietnam can be viewed as a series of series of tragic mistakes, a series of decision points involving misinterpretations of what was happening and what it meant.<br />Of course, later in the war, a number of mistakes were made as the domestic political considerations in terms of the associated political advantage or liability of any particular military decision added further complications to the decision making process. Finally, attempts to win the war through the use of propaganda and manipulation of the facts released to the American public disregarded the evidence in favor of further distortions. This had the terrible and politically indefensible policy of leaving the American soldiers at risk in order to gain political advantage both across the negotiating table with the Hanoi regime as well as lying about the conduct and progress of the war to the American public. In essence, the political superstructure here at home became more and more concerned with the self-contained political universe they operated in, and more and more oblivious to the realities of the situation on the ground for American forces in Vietnam. Indeed, they often seemed to being engaging in a willful denial of the basic realities of the military situation and the cultural facts of life in South Vietnam.<br /><br />This is a very carefully written and quite comprehensive book, one in which the author clearly demonstrates a true appreciation for the unintended consequence and irony of the war. This is easily the best of a spate of recent books published on the subject, and ranks favorably on the same shelf as Stanley Karnow's masterful presentation of the war's overall history in \\"Vietnam: A History\\". It also shares an appreciation for the complexities of the war and the ways in which our descent into the madness was triggered by the arrogance, stupidity, and callousness of American politicians. In this sense it share s the perspective of two other fairly recent books, \\"American Tragedy\\" by David Kaiser, and \\"Choosing War\\" by Frederik Logevall.he perspective of two other fairly recent books, \\"American Tragedy\\" by David Kaiser, and \\"Choosing War\\" by Frederik Logevall.	2003-07-14
1050656:US	52447634	RDOPA4J9146IN	0316529400	725523175	The Arms of Krupp: The Rise and Fall of the Industrial Dynasty That Armed Germany at War	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Superb Biography of Europe's Premier Armaments Family!	\\"The Arms Of Krupp\\" is the incredible biography of a powerful and incredibly rich and powerful family that was central in the advent and progress of European history for the more than four hundred years they presided as an almost imperial force within the boundaries of what is present-ay Germany.  Certainly no other non-royal dynasty engenders such controversy and hotly expressed differences in opinion than does the multiple generations of this critically based family so critical to the development and technological capabilities of the German war machine. Of course, no one could do a better job at providing a definitive historical biography of the Krupp family than William Manchester. This is truly a magnificent book, a spellbinding story splendidly told by a master of English prose, rendered in a flawless, comprehensive, and objective treatment of this fascinating, often outrageous, and sometime imperious string of Krupp family member who ignited the wars raging in Europe in terms of their ability to provide the motherland with such complex, ingenious, and technically superior weapons of war.<br />This is, in fact, considered a masterwork of history, an eminently readable and elegantly stylish work by Manchester, a master of the trade. Manchester, a retired history professor at Wesleyan University in Connecticut, is widely regarded as one of this country's preeminent biographers and historian. The Krupp dynasty was extinguished in 1967, when the last surviving family member passed away. With his death the legacy of a four hundred year span of contribution to the European armaments industry came to an end, and so brought to a conclusion a tradition spanning wars and quite profoundly influencing outcomes of European history for centuries. The Krupp Arms conglomerate was technologically innovative, devising new weapons such as a superior cannon to an anti-air vehicle weapon designed to counter the reconnaissance capabilities of aerial observation balloons to exotic and much more capable submarines, which they then built for over four decades.<br />In so doing, they became fabulously rich, and rose to become extremely influential and exceedingly conservative voices within the realm of German political circles. No German leader could hope to marshal the resources or the weapons of war necessary to mount a military campaign without first gaining the trust, confidence and support of the Krupp family, which then cleverly and cynically manipulated this influence to vastly enrich themselves. During World War One, their cannons helped to flatten the French city of Verdun, and at one point succeeded in lobbing projectiles into Paris from as distant a location as some eighty miles away, an unheard-of innovation at the time. Aiding the Third Reich in its secret rearmament effort after the end of the First Word War, they provided a much advanced tank design that eventuated in the Panzer tank, used subsequently so successfully in Hitler's blitzkrieg through France in the summer of 1940.<br />They were quite influential within the German society as well, having armed the forces of Kaiser Wilhelm for battle before World War One, and then surreptitiously backed Hitler financially in the so-called terror-campaign\\" of 1933. Incredibly, the Krupps participated in the war crimes of the Third Reich, even controlling and operating more than 130 concentration camps during the war. Afterwards, they help to rebuild Europe in the eventual development of the European Common Market. This is a truly fascinating book written with all of the usual style and substance one come s to expect of William Manchester, and it is certainly a book I can highly recommend to anyone with an interest in European history. Enjoy!and much more capable submarines, which they then built for over four decades. <br />In so doing, they became fabulously rich, and rose to become extremely influential and exceedingly conservative voices within the realm of German political circles. No German leader could hope to marshal the resources or the weapons of war necessary to mount a military campaign without first gaining the trust, confidence and support of the Krupp family, which then cleverly and cynically manipulated this influence to vastly enrich themselves. During World War One, their cannons helped to flatten the French city of Verdun, and at one point succeeded in lobbing projectiles into Paris from as distant a location as some eighty miles away, an unheard-of innovation at the time. Aiding the Third Reich in its secret rearmament effort after the end of the First Word War, they provided a much advanced tank design that eventuated in the Panzer tank, used subsequently so successfully in Hitler's blitzkrieg through France in the summer of 1940. <br />They were quite influential within the German society as well, having armed the forces of Kaiser Wilhelm for battle before World War One, and then surreptitiously backed Hitler financially in the so-called terror-campaign\\" of 1933. Incredibly, the Krupps participated in the war crimes of the Third Reich, even controlling and operating more than 130 concentration camps during the war. Afterwards, they help to rebuild Europe in the eventual development of the European Common Market. This is a truly fascinating book written with all of the usual style and substance one come s to expect of William Manchester, and it is certainly a book I can highly recommend to anyone with an interest in European history. Enjoy!	2003-07-13
1052379:US	52447634	R2PTDP59G50YTQ	0130954772	956214224	World War II: A Short History (3rd Edition)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A Very Good General Text On WWII!	This interesting and very well written book is intended as a general text book for teaching purposes, and as such is geared to a more basic and general understanding of the broad sweep, causes, course, and effects of the Second World War than it is a revealing or thought-provoking examination or reinterpretation of all the evidence such as Weinberg's magisterial  \\"A World At Arms\\" or Murray and Millet's comprehensive \\"A War To Be Won\\". That being said, it is indeed an excellent text, now in its third edition.<br />Written by author Michael J. Lyons, it comprises a very readable overview of every salient aspect in the war, albeit briefly, in all the political, diplomatic, economic, military and human dimensions in which the war was played out. Not only does it quite adequately detail the significant events precipitating the conflict, but also describes very well the manifest consequences of the defeat of both Germany and Japan. Lyons gives us a reader-friendly account of both European and Pacific campaigns, and provides a lot of interesting and useful connections between the two fronts.<br />Long in use, the book is generally regarded as being quite literate and yet eminently readable, hence its wide use in college classrooms. The text not only provides the kind of comprehensive overview students need to make sense of such an overwhelming historical phenomenon as WWII, but also serves to illuminate the mechanics behind the origins, course, and consequent long-term effects of that war, providing a well reasoned and balanced overview that while uncontroversial, also pulls few punches regarding causes and effects. I would recommend its purchase for anyone wanting a nice hardbound overview that is easy to read and also relatively kind to one's limited resources. Enjoy	2003-07-11
1053572:US	52447634	ROC87UU7IEGML	0130954772	956214224	World War II: A Short History (3rd Edition)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A Very Good General Text On WWII!	This interesting and very well written book is intended as a general text book for teaching purposes, and as such is geared to a more basic and general understanding of the broad sweep, causes, course, and effects of the Second World War than it is a revealing or thought-provoking examination or reinterpretation of all the evidence such as Weinberg's magisterial  \\"A World At Arms\\" or Murray and Millet's comprehensive \\"A War To Be Won\\". That being said, it is indeed an excellent text, now in its third edition.  <br />Written by author Michael J. Lyons, it comprises a very readable overview of every salient aspect in the war, albeit briefly, in all the political, diplomatic, economic, military and human dimensions in which the war was played out. Not only does it quite adequately detail the significant events precipitating the conflict, but also describes very well the manifest consequences of the defeat of both Germany and Japan. Lyons gives us a reader-friendly account of both European and Pacific campaigns, and provides a lot of interesting and useful connections between the two fronts. <br />Long in use, the book is generally regarded as being quite literate and yet eminently readable, hence its wide use in college classrooms. The text not only provides the kind of comprehensive overview students need to make sense of such an overwhelming historical phenomenon as WWII, but also serves to illuminate the mechanics behind the origins, course, and consequent long-term effects of that war, providing a well reasoned and balanced overview that while uncontroversial, also pulls few punches regarding causes and effects. I would recommend its purchase for anyone wanting a nice hardbound overview that is easy to read and also relatively kind to one's limited resources. Enjoy	2003-07-11
1062408:US	52447634	R2OK8PFN6BRG8P	0517500345	410601606	The Eiger Sanction	Books	4	44	49	N	N	Terrific Thriller By Trevanian!	In the mid 1970s three back to back best sellers were provided by the reclusive and somewhat mysterious author who wrote under the pen name of Trevanian. The three novels were first, &quot;The Eiger Sanction&quot;, followeed quickly by a sequel, &quot;The Loo Sanction&quot;, and finally, by acomplete change of pace with &quot;Shibumi&quot;. Of the three, The Eiger Sanction was easily the best novel. It is, in fact, a taut and thrilling tale of a once famous mountaineer and retired government assassin turned college art history professor who is forced back into the \\"sanction\\" business both by personal greed and crude manipulation by the spymaster of the clandestine government agency that requires his services.<br />An American courier has been killed in Copenhagen, and he happened to an old friend of professor Jonathan Hemlock (Eastwood), who is seduced back into harms way by \\"Control\\", an albino ex-Nazi who now heads one of our most clandestine federal agencies.  Before long Hemlock is on his way to sanction one of the two assailants, and the chase is on.  By dint of coincidence, Control discovers that the other assailant is included in an international mountaineering party, which will assault Switzerland's  \\"Eiger\\" the coming summer.  Naturally, Hemlock is manipulated into preparing for the climb as a replacement climber.<br />Once we finally make it to the mountain, the action is literally non-stop, quite accurate technically, and absolutely riveting to read about. The author holds our rapt attention with a plot that unfolds in a quite plausible and inevitably tragic fashion with no one necessarily spared as the frenzy reaches its natural conclusion. This is a terrific spy thriller, This is great entertainment, and something I can heartily recommend as a great summer read. Enjoy!	2003-07-03
1062512:US	52447634	R2H5660MHDAGAH	B00006JO6C	969448338	A Grand Delusion: America's Descent Into Vietnam	Books	5	10	13	N	Y	Insightful Look Into Our Decent Into The Vietnam Quagmire!	In an interesting, provocative, and well-written addition to the growing body of thoughtful monographs about how the American imbroglio in Vietnam came to pass, Author Robert Mann has extended the circle of unindicted co-conspirators to include both houses of Congress and shows how through active participation as well as cravenly benign neglect they allowed the executive branch of the federal government to run amok. In so doing he has raised the level of intellectual discussion regarding the origins and prosecution of the war in Vietnam. Using a range of new archival materials only now available, he carefully constructs an intriguing and disturbing portrait of both individuals and governmental institutions out of control.  Not one to quibble over words, Mann early on describes the perspective of American officials leading us into the quagmire was nothing more than a fateful series of delusions.<br />In this sense this book is a worthy companion piece to both David Kaiser's wonderful \\"American Tragedy\\" as well as David Halberstam's memorable book, &quot;The Best And The Brightest&quot;, in the fact that it argues that it was a number of specific individuals with their own personal credos, private agendas, and belief systems that led to the deepening involvement in Southeast Asian affairs. Unlike previous tomes such as Halberstam's as well as Stanley Karnow's excellent book, &quot;Vietnam&quot;, that portrayed President Eisenhower's policies of global containment of communism as extremely cautious and careful, Mann uses an approach that, like Kaiser's, presents a veritable wave of documentary evidence which serves to indicate that it was precisely those decisions and policy predispositions established by Eisenhower, including a willingness to use nuclear weapons tactically, that later led to the fateful moves toward greater involvement by Lyndon Johnson.<br />Even more interesting, Mann offer credible evidence regarding a number of policy changes President Kennedy enacted which serve to illustrate his own deep concern and reticence regarding involvement in the former French Indochina. While JFK did in fact sanction escalation by way agreeing to more military advisors, he repeatedly quite specifically denied, (both verbally and in documented minutes of meetings with advisors) specific authorization to escalate through introduction of any direct combat involvement.  With Kennedy's assassination in late 1963, events moved quickly and fatefully toward a blind involvement in a situation we neither appreciated the complexity of nor had any real strategy to deal with. Instead, Mann contends, we deluded by the so-called facts that officials like Robert McNamara twisted and turned to support his policy decisions and recommendations to Lyndon Johnson. In this fashion, then Lyndon Johnson became the single worst possible foil for the efforts by McNamara and Army General William Westmoreland to massively escalate the war by introducing forty-four combat battalions to the conflict.<br />Likewise, Johnson's successor, the erstwhile Cold Warrior Richard Nixon, did no better. After shamelessly interfering in the internal political disposition of the South Vietnamese government through Madame Chennault in order to ensure his place in winning the closely contested 1968 elections, Nixon soon found himself stuck to the waist in the sucking quicksand of continuing involvement in the war and a terrifying related national debate approaching a revolutionary fervor. He waited four long and painful years before finally ending American involvement. Against all evidence to the contrary, he deluded himself and his advisors that an \\"honorable Peace\\" was achievable.<br />This is a wonderfully written book, and the author's style is both entertaining and edifying. He handily deals with a myriad of issues, complexions, and countervailing situations with aplomb, honesty and verve. He makes the otherwise inexplicable descent into national madness and the nightmare of Vietnam all too understandable and human. Personally, I am not as magnanimous; I still believe that Robert McNamara, General William Westmoreland, and a number of others should be tried as war criminals for crimes against humanity; after all, otherwise to try Serbians and Croats for their detestable deeds in the former Yugoslavia is utter hypocrisy). Books like this one can help us understand how the ritual abuse of power by officials not democratically elected can itself become an anti-democratic force profoundly affecting not only the lives of our citizens, but people everywhere in the developing world.<br />Hopefully books like this will help us to come to understand and accept the reality of what the American government did in our name to Vietnam. We need to understand how we came to export our darkest emotional suspicions and a sense of national paranoia about a monolithic communist threat into an incredibly murderous campaign that almost exterminated a whole generation of Vietnamese by way of indiscriminate carpet bombing, deliberate use of environmentally horrific defoliates, and creation of so-called &quot;free-fire&quot; zones, where everything and anything moving was assumed to be hostile, whether it be man, woman, child, or beast. All of this was visited on the world in general and the Vietnamese in particular for little or no reason other than the extremely aggressive and ultimately dangerous can-do macho world-view of the power elite. The sooner we recognize this, the better it will be for us as citizens of a democratic government, and the more likely it is we will stop the next set of so- inclined bureaucratic monsters from acting in this way again. I highly recommend this book. Enjoy!tmare of Vietnam all too understandable and human. Personally, I am not as magnanimous; I still believe that Robert McNamara, General William Westmoreland, and a number of others should be tried as war criminals for crimes against humanity; after all, otherwise to try Serbians and Croats for their detestable deeds in the former Yugoslavia is utter hypocrisy). Books like this one can help us understand how the ritual abuse of power by officials not democratically elected can itself become an anti-democratic force profoundly affecting not only the lives of our citizens, but people everywhere in the developing world. <br />Hopefully books like this will help us to come to understand and accept the reality of what the American government did in our name to Vietnam. We need to understand how we came to export our darkest emotional suspicions and a sense of national paranoia about a monolithic communist threat into an incredibly murderous campaign that almost exterminated a whole generation of Vietnamese by way of indiscriminate carpet bombing, deliberate use of environmentally horrific defoliates, and creation of so-called &quot;free-fire&quot; zones, where everything and anything moving was assumed to be hostile, whether it be man, woman, child, or beast. All of this was visited on the world in general and the Vietnamese in particular for little or no reason other than the extremely aggressive and ultimately dangerous can-do macho world-view of the power elite. The sooner we recognize this, the better it will be for us as citizens of a democratic government, and the more likely it is we will stop the next set of so- inclined bureaucratic monsters from acting in this way again. I highly recommend this book. Enjoy!	2003-07-03
1063332:US	52447634	R8UWY5B6IKEFC	0812968581	197963132	The Rising Sun: The Decline and Fall of the Japanese Empire, 1936-1945 (Modern Library War)	Books	5	119	125	N	Y	Toland Set The Standard For Readable History!	For anyone truly interested in finding and reading one of the first definitive histories of Imperial Japan, this is the book. This work is at once carefully documented and scholarly yet is also eminently readable and entertaining. Although there is no single volume that adequately explains the mysterious story of how Japan rose to threaten the eastern half of the globe,  author John Toland delivers a most informative and exhaustively researched manuscript that does help us to understand the essential elements stirred in the witches brew that poisoned most of Asia from 1933 until 1945. It has the unique and helpul tact of being written from the Japanese perspective, something Toland was able to accomplish with the help of his Japanese wife and collaborator. As with all his works, Toland spent several years researching this book with intensive interviews by surviving principals, and had access to a wide range of archival data and previously unpublished data and facts. The result is this magisterial work.<br />As mentioned above, this is a book that concentrates heavily on interviews with a literal torrent of people who had significant contact and knowledge of the circumstance and conditions that fostered and expedited the rise of the militant and imperialistic military class within Japanese society, and of the ways their rise and interests coalesced and matched the long-term desires of the Japanese power elite, who mistakenly believed they could manipulate and control the military in their actions. Like the German aristocracy that climbed into bed with Hitler thinking they could do the same, they made the fatal error of underestimating the Machiavellian aims and purposes of the Japanese military. Toland faithfully traces the rise and growth of this military cult as it falls prey to a variety of venomous and unfortunate ideas and prejudices that marks it and Japan for an inevitable rendezvous with destiny.<br />Toland makes a painful effort to be non-judgmental, and carefully presents all the facts as he can best determine them. This sometimes makes him err on the side of presenting personal and perhaps subjective opinions of others as fact, and this is typical of the Toland approach. While recognizing the dangers in presenting a lot of information into the record that might be inaccurate, twisted, or fanciful, he also wants us to hear the whole story from all of the participant's viewpoints so we can make our own informed judgment. In this sense Toland has a somewhat archaic belief in the historical reader's critical skills and to be well-enough formed as thinkers that he lets us judge for ourselves based on our interpretation of the `facts' he presents rather than pre-digesting and coming to his own conclusions for us.<br />The busman's tour he takes through pre-war Japan, observing and describing the collection of rag-tag malcontents using the military to facilitate and sanctify their own radical ideas and ambitions is quite interesting, as is his casual and matter-of-fact presentation of what is certainly a horrifying plethora of unbelievably provocative, ruthless and despicable acts on the parts of a number of elements within Japanese society. The horror later visited in Nanking, Singapore, and in the Philippines is all too predictable based on their savage conduct toward each other in years preceding the outbreak of the war. This is also history at its best, unblinking, without comment or sentiment, and in your face. Much of what you will read you can find elsewhere, but nowhere else can you find it presented in the style and grace that Toland brings to the printed page. Simply stated, this is an outstanding piece of historical biography, and is also truly the standard against which all other, more recent works on imperial Japan must be judged. Enjoy!refully presents all the facts as he can best determine them. This sometimes makes him err on the side of presenting personal and perhaps subjective opinions of others as fact, and this is typical of the Toland approach. While recognizing the dangers in presenting a lot of information into the record that might be inaccurate, twisted, or fanciful, he also wants us to hear the whole story from all of the participant's viewpoints so we can make our own informed judgment. In this sense Toland has a somewhat archaic belief in the historical reader's critical skills and to be well-enough formed as thinkers that he lets us judge for ourselves based on our interpretation of the `facts' he presents rather than pre-digesting and coming to his own conclusions for us.<br />The busman's tour he takes through pre-war Japan, observing and describing the collection of rag-tag malcontents using the military to facilitate and sanctify their own radical ideas and ambitions is quite interesting, as is his casual and matter-of-fact presentation of what is certainly a horrifying plethora of unbelievably provocative, ruthless and despicable acts on the parts of a number of elements within Japanese society. The horror later visited in Nanking, Singapore, and in the Philippines is all too predictable based on their savage conduct toward each other in years preceding the outbreak of the war. This is also history at its best, unblinking, without comment or sentiment, and in your face. Much of what you will read you can find elsewhere, but nowhere else can you find it presented in the style and grace that Toland brings to the printed page. Simply stated, this is an outstanding piece of historical biography, and is also truly the standard against which all other, more recent works on imperial Japan must be judged. Enjoy!	2003-07-03
1066203:US	52447634	R24S18EVWBZ38W	1591298040	651019118	How To Destroy A Village: What The Clintons Taught A Seventeen Year Old	Books	1	8	12	N	N	Another Neo-Conservative Hatchet Job On The Clintons!	It seems as though the publishing world has an endless appetite for scurrilous books meant to defame and discredit the many accomplishments of the Clinton presidency by once again concentrating on the most salacious and unfortunate aspects of his eight-year presidency. This time the neo-conservative trot out a youthful aspirant for the young Republican's club, and have him spill his remarkably jaded and propaganda-laden spleen all over the sidewalk complaining as to how his morals were corrupted and his poor fragile psyche was damaged by the bad example of the President. Give us all a break. Anyone who buys into the idea adolescents are so fragile or so easily influenced should spend some time around them.<br />The teens I so recently taught are quite intellectually and emotionally robust, very worldly, and characteristically hardy, and are nowhere near so easily influenced as our young author would contend. So if he is being straight with us here, it sounds more like a personal situation that anything characteristic of intelligent teens en masse.  While I would never try to defend the unfortunate moral lapses of Mr. Clinton, this book reads like a primer for inoculating young voters (and their older siblings as well) against what the far right considers to be the dangers of an insurgent Hilary Clinton candidacy. To the cynical eye of this long-time political observer, this tome looks suspiciously like the handiwork of a politically motivated and personally ambitious teenager being influenced and encouraged by the same radical fringe of the neo-conservative wing of the GOP, now bent on destroying Hilary's appeal in the very womb of its inception.<br />I would recommend the book if it were a sincere and more objective look at the ways in which politics in general tends to turn off adolescents and convince them of the dubious morality of the political process. As such it would make for a good read. But what we have here is a calculated, demeaning and patently political attack on one particular politician and his emerging politician wife, as if his (and by association her) particular misdeeds were so flagrant and so upsetting that it would upset, dismay, and horrify youthful dispositions. The far right must fear the power of a Hilary Clinton candidacy, and given the success of her book on the best-seller list, perhaps rightly so. And while I am not one of her admirers, I do not like efforts such as this that try to tar and feather her without the benefit of a trial. Give us all a break. This book is not worth the paper it is published on. By the way, the only reason I gave this a one star rating is that Amazon does not allow negative ratings.tical attack on one particular politician and his emerging politician wife, as if his (and by association her) particular misdeeds were so flagrant and so upsetting that it would upset, dismay, and horrify youthful dispositions. The far right must fear the power of a Hilary Clinton candidacy, and given the success of her book on the best-seller list, perhaps rightly so. And while I am not one of her admirers, I do not like efforts such as this that try to tar and feather her without the benefit of a trial. Give us all a break. This book is not worth the paper it is published on. By the way, the only reason I gave this a one star rating is that Amazon does not allow negative ratings.	2003-07-01
1070390:US	52447634	R29SIIXUIZI4TN	0316172383	695695888	An Unfinished Life: John F. Kennedy, 1917-1963	Books	5	124	131	N	Y	Spell-Binding Biography Of JFK's Life	So much has been written about John F. Kennedy and his family that it perhaps hard to conceive of a book that could add much to a discussion about the meaning and purpose of his life. Yet that is exactly what this erudite and well-written new biography by acclaimed biographer and historian Robert Dallek accomplishes.  For those of us steeped in the flood of Kennedy biographies that flowed after his assassination, this refreshing and revealing new look by famed historian Robert Dallek is a Godsend. It mines a lot of previously unavailable material only recently made available, and interprets this new information in a way that both questions and extends the Kennedy legend.<br />JFK has become so much a figure of legend that it is useful to see him in the way that he is masterfully portrayed here, as a much more ordinary human being than he is often pictured as being, a person more profoundly sidelined and marginalized by serious illness and physical handicaps than is generally known. Yet by revealing these aspects of John Kennedy's existential circumstances, JFK inevitably becomes a much more admirable public and private figure, as someone who was able, often through sheer force of will, to make the most of out of every single day. Kennedy was a great believer in the commonplace Zen notion of \\"being here now\\", on focusing on the immediate present and enjoying every moment by wringing it of all its intrinsic possibilities.<br />As a man in constant pain, for example, it brings new meaning to other aspects of his known personality, such as his admiration for Green Berets and active sports. As compromised as he was by his physical limitations, he did his damnedest to fully engage himself in life. It is revealing, too, in its relevance toward his admiration of Hemingway, and Hemingway's coda regarding what constitutes courage; grace under pressure. And Kennedy fits the definition of a courageous man along a number of dimensions.<br />On the other hand, new facts surrounding the way the Kennedy family hid such aspects of JFK's life from view are cause for consternation, as they show the extent to which Joe Kennedy, JFK's imperious and ambitious father, was willing to go to further his son's political ambitions en route to the White House. He twisted facts, withheld important medical reports, and paid off officials to guard against the truth regarding his son's medical condition becoming public.  Moreover, the degree to which the elder Kennedy used corrupt political practices to further JFK's efforts to become the Democratic nominee, while long suspected and much discussed previously, are even more scandalous.<br />Finally, Dallek shows the ways in which JFK was a man living on the edge, a man willing to risk it all for an infantile sexual tryst with an under-aged cheerleader while on the campaign trail in 1960, a man who evidently got a kick out of sneaking hookers into the White House for pool parties while Jackie was away with the children. In sum, this is a biography bound to become the new standard bearer for Kennedy works precisely because he is so successful in showing all the many and often-contradictory strands of Kennedy's personality and life circumstances made him such a pivotal figure in contemporary American history. This is a great book I recommend for anyone as a good choice for an entertaining and informative summer read! Enjoy!ounding the way the Kennedy family hid such aspects of JFK's life from view are cause for consternation, as they show the extent to which Joe Kennedy, JFK's imperious and ambitious father, was willing to go to further his son's political ambitions en route to the White House. He twisted facts, withheld important medical reports, and paid off officials to guard against the truth regarding his son's medical condition becoming public.  Moreover, the degree to which the elder Kennedy used corrupt political practices to further JFK's efforts to become the Democratic nominee, while long suspected and much discussed previously, are even more scandalous.  <br />Finally, Dallek shows the ways in which JFK was a man living on the edge, a man willing to risk it all for an infantile sexual tryst with an under-aged cheerleader while on the campaign trail in 1960, a man who evidently got a kick out of sneaking hookers into the White House for pool parties while Jackie was away with the children. In sum, this is a biography bound to become the new standard bearer for Kennedy works precisely because he is so successful in showing all the many and often-contradictory strands of Kennedy's personality and life circumstances made him such a pivotal figure in contemporary American history. This is a great book I recommend for anyone as a good choice for an entertaining and informative summer read! Enjoy!	2003-06-27
1100242:US	52447634	R3GKZAY9HS625E	0595261086	257636051	A SCIENTIFIC MODEL OF HISTORY: Where Is the Future Leading Us?	Books	4	9	9	N	N	An Enjoyable Read On A  Fascinating Subject!	This is an interesting and fascinating book that belabors a prosaic subject enroute to becoming an absorbing and well-written read. While I do not necessarily agree with author Juan J. Gomez-Ibarra's theory in \\"A Scientific Model Of History; Where The Future Is Leading Us \\"concerning the specifics of the tractability of the subject of history to scientific description and explanation, I did appreciate his thoughtful and relatively simple exposition as to how the evidence that exists supports the existence of such a theory.  Gomez-Ibarra's scholarship is apparent as he ranges from subjects as far-flung as Malthusian theory to the so-called limits to economic growth that such organizations as the Club of Rome first discussed in a book called \\"The Limits To Growth\\" in the early 1970s.<br />The author's theory is relatively simple and straight-forward; he posits that the complex interplay of four key variables, namely natural resources, population, level of technology, and the accompanying standard of living, combine to produce the key events that characterize what we call history. Of course, there is nothing new or novel about the application of these factors in terms of their relative influence over the course of social, economic, and political events within a culture over time, it is the scientific way in which he demonstrates their interactive force that proves novel.<br />Gomez-Ibarra writes with verve and a refreshing sort of forthright enthusiasm that is both unusual and appealing. Using this ability to engage the reader, Juan-Jose successfully conducts a campaign of evidence-gathering on behalf of this scientific model of history.  He marshals an array of factors that substantiates his scientific point of view, and argues well regarding the value and usefulness of the scientific model in approaching current social, economic, and political questions. I especially enjoyed his willingness to take a long and engaging look at the so-called big questions of history, and in his examination of the natural, human, and technological constraints on the limits to growth, his hits the mark exactly dead-on. Given the fact that he carefully constructed and supported his hypotheses and ideas with well-researched substantiation, it is hard to argue with his conclusions.<br />In short, this is an interesting and quite readable tract on what might otherwise be a dry and stuffy academic subject. It is also written by someone whose own enthusiasm for the subject literally pours from the page, which only serves to positively affect the disposition of the reader. For that reason alone this is a book well worth your time and money. Enjoy!and in his examination of the natural, human, and technological constraints on the limits to growth, his hits the mark exactly dead-on. Given the fact that he carefully constructed and supported his hypotheses and ideas with well-researched substantiation, it is hard to argue with his conclusions.<br />In short, this is an interesting and quite readable tract on what might otherwise be a dry and stuffy academic subject. It is also written by someone whose own enthusiasm for the subject literally pours from the page, which only serves to positively affect the disposition of the reader. For that reason alone this is a book well worth your time and money. Enjoy!	2003-06-04
1100364:US	52447634	R2UJKH8ZRAQ2VE	0767900561	957072334	Gulag: A History	Books	5	241	264	N	Y	This Terrific Book WIll Become The Standard Bearer!	With the publication of \\"The Gulag Archipelago\\" in the early 1970s, Alexander Solzhenitsyn shocked and dismayed the Western world by masterfully detailing the existence of a horrific shadow culture within the Soviet Union, a culture comprised of a mass society of slave laborers scratching out their bare-knuckled survival in unbelievable difficulty and squalor, and having been recruited into the Gulag for a variety of economic, social, and political reasons. Given the inherent limitations of this superb albeit shocking work, the West had to wait for the fall of the Soviet bloc for a more definitive and more complete treatise on the nature of the Gulag. This new book by scholar-turned-journalist Anne Applebaum represents such a work.<br /><br />The work is both massive and comprehensive, dealing not only with the ways in which the Gulag came into existence and then thrived under the active sponsorship of Lenin and Stalin, but also with a plethora of aspects of life within the Gulag, ranging from its laws, customs, folklore, and morality on the one hand to its slang, sexual mores, and cuisine on the other. She looks at the prisoners themselves and how they interacted with each other to the relationships between the prisoners and the many sorts of guards and jailers that kept them imprisoned. For what forced the Gulag into becoming a more or less permanent fixture within the Soviet system was its value economically in producing goods and services that were marketable both within the larger Soviet economy as well as in international trade. As it does in China today, forced labor within the Gulag for the Soviets represented a key element in expanding markets for Soviet-made goods ranging from lamps to those prototypically Russian fur hats.<br /><br />The Gulag came into being as a result of the Communist elite's burning desire for purges of remaining vestiges of bourgeoisie aspects of Soviet culture, and its consequent need for some deep dark hole to stick unlucky cultural offenders into to remove them semi-permanently from the forefront of the Soviet society. Stalin found it useful to expand the uses of the camp system to enhance industrial growth, and the camps became flooded with millions of Soviets found wanting in terms of their ultimate suitability for everyday life in the workers' paradise. Thus, the Gulag flourished throughout the 1920s and 1930s and even through the years of WWII, when slave labor provided an invaluable aid in producing enough war goods to help defeat the Axis powers. By the peak years of Gulag culture in the 1950s, the archipelago stretched into all twelve of the U.S. S. R.'s time zones, although it was largely concentrated in the northernmost and least livable aspects of the country's vast geographical areas.<br /><br />One of the most interesting and certainly more controversial aspects of the book can be found in its consideration of the relative obscurity with which both the existence and horrors associated with the Gulag has been treated to date. Compared to the much more extensively researched and discussed Holocaust of Europe's Jewish population perpetrated by the Nazi Third Reich over a twelve year period, almost nothing is known about the nearly seventy reign of the Gulag. Given the fairly recent demise of the Soviet state, and the dawning availability of data revealing the particulars of the existence of the Soviet system of political imprisonment, forced labor camps, and summary executions, one expects this massively documented, exhaustively detailed, and memorably written work will serve as the standard in the field for decades to come. This is a terrific book, and one I can heartily recommend to any serious student of 20th century history. Enjoy!l offenders into to remove them semi-permanently from the forefront of the Soviet society. Stalin found it useful to expand the uses of the camp system to enhance industrial growth, and the camps became flooded with millions of Soviets found wanting in terms of their ultimate suitability for everyday life in the workers' paradise. Thus, the Gulag flourished throughout the 1920s and 1930s and even through the years of WWII, when slave labor provided an invaluable aid in producing enough war goods to help defeat the Axis powers. By the peak years of Gulag culture in the 1950s, the archipelago stretched into all twelve of the U.S. S. R.'s time zones, although it was largely concentrated in the northernmost and least livable aspects of the country's vast geographical areas.<br /><br />One of the most interesting and certainly more controversial aspects of the book can be found in its consideration of the relative obscurity with which both the existence and horrors associated with the Gulag has been treated to date. Compared to the much more extensively researched and discussed Holocaust of Europe's Jewish population perpetrated by the Nazi Third Reich over a twelve year period, almost nothing is known about the nearly seventy reign of the Gulag. Given the fairly recent demise of the Soviet state, and the dawning availability of data revealing the particulars of the existence of the Soviet system of political imprisonment, forced labor camps, and summary executions, one expects this massively documented, exhaustively detailed, and memorably written work will serve as the standard in the field for decades to come. This is a terrific book, and one I can heartily recommend to any serious student of 20th century history. Enjoy!	2003-06-04
1110237:US	52447634	R1EENRJS98S8VS	1932133143	218628127	Too Young to Retire: An Off-The-Road Map to the Rest of Your Life	Books	4	44	50	N	N	An Enticing and Useful Guide For All Aging  Baby Boomers!	For anyone interested in how the rapid changes in our society have affected traditional ideas about retirement, this book provides a wonderful resource that not only questions a variety of traditional notions regarding aging and retirement, but also provides a plethora of thought-provoking considerations that help us to reconsider both the fact of growing older and the idea of retirement as they are currently viewed in this culture. Of course, the fact that I have already retired from one profession and am rapidly approaching the same conclusion with a brief secondary teaching career may make me the perfect candidate for such a book.<br />Yet I must admit that while I do not fully agree with many of the particulars that authors Marika and Howard Stone so enthusiastically espouse, I do find their overall message regarding the exciting possibilities for individual achievement and continuing contribution that such a life situation offers the retirement-eligible individual or couple. They embark from the substantial philosophical position carved out by former academic Theodore Roszak (\\"The Making of a Counterculture\\") in his absorbing tome, \\"America The Wise, The Longevity Revolution and the Wealth of Nations\\"(see my review), pointing out the facts associated with the new and burgeoning potential of the so-called baby boomer generation which is rapidly approaching retirement age with an incredible reserve of both financial and human resources at its disposal. Both Roszak and the Stones both argue for unleashing the human potential in a wave of creative activity, which is socially useful, and personally enriching.<br />What this book represents, then, is an eminently useful and immensely practical resource for people hoping to restructure their expectations, values, and personal experiences about what the retirement years are going to mean for them. Given the realities that traditional ideas about retirement are undergoing a revolution, the Stones provide the reader with an easy way through the maze toward a better understanding of what all the options are, as well as how to evaluate and assess these options and opportunities for a better and more fulfilling experience in the later years of life. And while the Stones find the mantra of life to be closely connected to work and expression through one's livelihood, they are wise enough to recognize other options for others, and encourage the reader to explore whatever seems valuable and worthwhile.  This is a wonderful book, a delicious treat for those of us anxiously peering over the fence into the retirement years and wondering what to make of it all. Enjoy!with an easy way through the maze toward a better understanding of what all the options are, as well as how to evaluate and assess these options and opportunities for a better and more fulfilling experience in the later years of life. And while the Stones find the mantra of life to be closely connected to work and expression through one's livelihood, they are wise enough to recognize other options for others, and encourage the reader to explore whatever seems valuable and worthwhile.  This is a wonderful book, a delicious treat for those of us anxiously peering over the fence into the retirement years and wondering what to make of it all. Enjoy!	2003-05-27
1114008:US	52447634	R2HWWTHNLHJPS5	0743202120	692090769	War in a Time of Peace: Bush, Clinton, and the Generals	Books	5	30	31	N	N	Superb Investigation Of Foreign Policy & Politics	For those of us who marveled at former journalist David Halberstam's masterful account of the ways in which the personal biographies and contemporary history fatefully intersected to produce the disastrous American incursion into Vietnam in 1970's \\"The Best And The Brightest\\", his recent (2001) tome \\"War In A Time Of Peace\\" is the long-awaited sequel and companion piece on the ways in which the ghost of our involvement in southeast Asia yet haunts America's role in foreign affairs in the late 20th century. As in the previous work, Halberstam's trademark insights into the ways in which personal ambitions and private agendas fuel and contort the political processes of which American foreign policy is a part make this book memorable and worthwhile. For example, his observation's on former Secretary of State Madeline Albright's arrogant attempt to nation-build in Somalia makes it easier to understand lapses in our policy there that led to the now-famous firefight chronicled so brilliantly in \\"Blackhawk Down\\", resulting in several dozen American causalities and hundreds if not thousands of dead and wounded Somalis.<br />His brilliance is in showing how these individual personalities interact, often clashing based on the existential circumstances they find themselves embroiled in. Thus does Army General Wes Clark find himself embroiled in a very difficult conundrum in the Balkans, facing both an intransigent enemy and an uncertain and indecisive command structure by way of both President Clinton and the Joint Chiefs. One marvels at the ways in which Halberstam entwines the details of the personal biographies of a play card of figures ranging from Clark to Colin Powell to Madeline Albright to Richard Holbrooke to Anthony Lake to James Baker to Dick Cheney with the cross-cutting issues and circumstances that eventually come to comprise contemporary history.<br />In so doing he brings history to life, making its study both more interesting and more relevant, showing how particular individuals and their own personal political, philosophical, and social baggage and predispositions animate the interactions at the government's highest levels. Sadly, it also chronicles how petty, venial, and subjective such decision-making can be, as in Albright's arrogantly misguided decision to try to force a motley collection of feudal Somali warlords into experimenting with democracy. What makes all of this even more interesting and more intriguing is how he then overlays the ways in which many of the chief players and architects of the American foreign policy decisions in the Balkans were affected by their roles in the war in Vietnam, whether it be as a calculating conscientious objector like Bill Clinton, a government official like Anthony Lake, or a then young Captain and Lt. Colonel by the name of Colin Powell.<br />In this fashion we come to see the lingering impact the war in Vietnam had in shaping and propelling the course of events in the 1990s. Indeed, the shattering affect the war had on both the Defense Department and the State Department and the kinds of men and women that came to administer and manage them can be seen in the quixotic unfolding of American foreign policy as it meandered aimlessly from position to position over the intervening decades without any seeming central focus or evident grand strategy. Thus, over the smoldering coals of the memories of the American defeat in Vietnam, the foreign policy of the American government circled cautiously around the perimeters of meaningful involvement, desperate to avoid any commitment that might draw it into another inconclusive and unpopular ground war, even when confronted with the sensational and melodramatic facts of another holocaust being systematically conducted by the Bosnian Serbs on the ground in the Balkans.  This is a wonderful book, a book superbly researched, documented, and written, and it is certainly one I can highly recommend for students of contemporary history. Enjoy!rticular individuals and their own personal political, philosophical, and social baggage and predispositions animate the interactions at the government's highest levels. Sadly, it also chronicles how petty, venial, and subjective such decision-making can be, as in Albright's arrogantly misguided decision to try to force a motley collection of feudal Somali warlords into experimenting with democracy. What makes all of this even more interesting and more intriguing is how he then overlays the ways in which many of the chief players and architects of the American foreign policy decisions in the Balkans were affected by their roles in the war in Vietnam, whether it be as a calculating conscientious objector like Bill Clinton, a government official like Anthony Lake, or a then young Captain and Lt. Colonel by the name of Colin Powell. <br />In this fashion we come to see the lingering impact the war in Vietnam had in shaping and propelling the course of events in the 1990s. Indeed, the shattering affect the war had on both the Defense Department and the State Department and the kinds of men and women that came to administer and manage them can be seen in the quixotic unfolding of American foreign policy as it meandered aimlessly from position to position over the intervening decades without any seeming central focus or evident grand strategy. Thus, over the smoldering coals of the memories of the American defeat in Vietnam, the foreign policy of the American government circled cautiously around the perimeters of meaningful involvement, desperate to avoid any commitment that might draw it into another inconclusive and unpopular ground war, even when confronted with the sensational and melodramatic facts of another holocaust being systematically conducted by the Bosnian Serbs on the ground in the Balkans.  This is a wonderful book, a book superbly researched, documented, and written, and it is certainly one I can highly recommend for students of contemporary history. Enjoy!	2003-05-23
1114216:US	52447634	RY2AZ6ZBEMTBA	0312177194	161775757	Wild Man: The Life and Times of Daniel Ellsberg	Books	4	22	28	N	N	Fascinating Biography On  A Controversial Anti-War Activist!	While I found this absorbing and thoughtfully written biography of Vietnam anti-war activist Daniel Ellsberg to be a bit overblown and pretentious at times, it is a masterfully written exploration of a complex and puzzling man, and provides the reader with a far-reaching biographical portrait that both neatly complements as well as providing a foil for Ellsberg's own recent autobiographical efforts in the best-selling work \\"Secrets\\". While \\"Secrets\\" concentrates first and foremost on the period of his life leading up to and including the debacle over the illicit release of the top-secret Pentagon papers to the press, Well's biography, \\"Wild Man\\" gives us a much more fully developed, balanced, and for the most part more objective look at the mercurial, narcissistic, and stunningly brilliant Ellsberg's life.<br />Ellsberg's direction in life was aggressively forged in the crucible of his aggressive and domineering mother's ambitions for him, such that he rose by dint of ability and hard effort to the heights of academic success early, graduating with a PhD in Economics from Harvard in the pre-Vietnam war era. Yet Ellsberg often did the unexpected, especially given his pedigree as an ambitious young Jewish-American intellectual; after college he volunteered for the Marine Corps, and served as an officer before going on to graduate school. After graduating from Harvard, he soon found himself recruited for the Rand Corporation, an elite Defense-Department funded think-tank and private preserve for intellectuals useful for the DOD bureaucracy. Sure enough, Ellsberg's controversial ideas and thoughtful repose gained him notice and a post within the government working for a highly placed Pentagon undersecretary.<br />This position placed him in the catbird seat in terms of his access to the opening sequences and related bureaucratic responses to the expanding conflict in Vietnam. Even as he lent his support to the Pentagon, Ellsberg became concerned about the use of body counts and other quantitative measures being employed as key indicators of our military situation and progress being made. Criticisms of the methodology fell on deaf ears however, and Ellsberg found himself more isolated and less influential than he had hoped he would be. Instead, he argued for a long and detailed survey \\"on the ground\\" in Vietnam, which he would volunteer to accomplish for himself, and which he felt confident would give a better, more accurate and realistic appraisal of American forces in the region. Over a eighteen month period, Ellsberg became convinced the war was being conducted all wrong, that the employment of such metrics as body counts, bomb tonnage, and areas secured were catastrophically misleading at best and profoundly delusional at worst.<br />The rest, as they say, was history, and it is useful to have both Ellsberg's recollections as well as those of an independent biographer in detailing just how and why all that cam e to transpire did so, for the devil is in the details of the historical record. At the same time, I was a bit offended by Well's recurring tale-spinning in terms of providing the reader with salacious material about Ellsberg's peripatetic and admittedly insistent womanizing. While there is no doubt that Ellsberg is no saint, I still fail to see why Wells felt it was so important to stress Ellsberg's ego excesses, his romantic escapades, or his apparent inability to stay the course on any particular intellectual path long enough to make a career of it has to do with his heart-wrenching decision to expose himself to a possible life behind bars in order to provide the American people with what he felt was critical information they had a right to know.  Still, this is fascinating material, and any self-respecting sidewalk psychoanalyst like you and I are likely to enjoy a lot of his thoughtful ruminations about Ellsberg even as we know they are largely irrelevant to what happened and why. This is a worthwhile if somewhat flawed book. Enjoy!flawed book. Enjoy!	2003-05-23
1185622:US	52447634	R38TCQHL20QU03	1887208046	965977626	When Corporations Rule the World	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Excellent Primer on Dangers of Transnational Influences!	It should come as no surprise to well-read students of the late 20th century that the goals, ethos, and practices of transnational business corporations are oblivious and often inimical to the needs of specific cultures and particular nations. But what is even more alarming is the extent to which these corporations persist in behaving as though the consequences of their activities and practices are either accidental or unavoidable. Thus, \\"When Corporations Rule the World\\" helps to inform, enlighten and prepare us as to what mischief these relatively new and potentially revolutionary forms of organizations are doing to societies, cultures, and the environment.<br />They act in their own best interests, and the way in which they perceive these interests is narrow, self-serving, and quite shortsighted. The fact is that transnational corporations have successfully trumped ordinary citizens in terms of their power, influence, and ability to determine the laws, regulations, and social conditions under which they operate in any particular polity, so that even in the so-called social democracies such organizations seem able to act with near absolute impunity. As a result, their actions are increasingly at odds with those of the society itself, and increasingly ordinary citizens are coming to recognize that the political lobbies created by such organizations have captured the strings of power for their own uses. As H. L Mencken said almost eighty years ago in reference to the U. S Congress, \\"We have the best Congress money can buy\\". Some things never seem to change.<br />Author Korten lays out a virtual panorama of ways in which such transnational corporations rule, and shows how the benefits of such practices seem to be progressively narrowing the basis of the so-called \\"good-life\\" to an ever-decreasing portion of the citizens of post-industrial society. In this sense, Korten does a handy job of deftly highlighting the ways in which the world's many environmental and social problems are interconnected and related. Moreover, he contends, the trend of this unhealthy and undemocratic combination of bad habits, narrowly focused corporate values, and profligate ideologies combine to produce the likelihood of a very negative future. Yet, as Korten is quick to point out, it is not all necessarily bleak and unchangeable. He draws out scenarios in which a more sustainable future that would be more palatable to everyone within the modern post-industrial society, including the most conservative business elements among us.<br />Yet, even as he attempts to paint a more positive possibility for the future, he is left ruminating over the many ways in which transnational corporations continue to run amok, beyond the reach of national laws or meaningful regulation, motivated more by greed and short-term profit orientations than by any meaningful ties to a broader ethos which includes elements of social responsibility or cultural appreciation. Today, as we see the ways in which the post-industrial societies have surrendered to the leitmotif of the transnational corporations, in a world run increasingly for the convenience and interest of large commercial business interests, it is difficult to see how the kinds of happier times he hopes for can come to pass. This is an excellent primer for anyone interested in learning more about the scope of transnational corporations and the many ways in which they have encroached on the rights, prerogatives, and benefits of citizens in particular societies such as our own, and the dangers they pose for our continuing liberties and well being. Enjoy!al problems are interconnected and related. Moreover, he contends, the trend of this unhealthy and undemocratic combination of bad habits, narrowly focused corporate values, and profligate ideologies combine to produce the likelihood of a very negative future. Yet, as Korten is quick to point out, it is not all necessarily bleak and unchangeable. He draws out scenarios in which a more sustainable future that would be more palatable to everyone within the modern post-industrial society, including the most conservative business elements among us. <br />Yet, even as he attempts to paint a more positive possibility for the future, he is left ruminating over the many ways in which transnational corporations continue to run amok, beyond the reach of national laws or meaningful regulation, motivated more by greed and short-term profit orientations than by any meaningful ties to a broader ethos which includes elements of social responsibility or cultural appreciation. Today, as we see the ways in which the post-industrial societies have surrendered to the leitmotif of the transnational corporations, in a world run increasingly for the convenience and interest of large commercial business interests, it is difficult to see how the kinds of happier times he hopes for can come to pass. This is an excellent primer for anyone interested in learning more about the scope of transnational corporations and the many ways in which they have encroached on the rights, prerogatives, and benefits of citizens in particular societies such as our own, and the dangers they pose for our continuing liberties and well being. Enjoy!	2003-03-21
1186177:US	52447634	R1PYCA5BWKOURX	0679768122	381866424	Albert Speer: His Battle with Truth	Books	4	28	34	N	N	Fascinating Look At Albert Speer!	The issue raging over the veracity and accuracy of Albert Speer's self-serving recollections of the infamous Third Reich and his participation therein have been going on and on for well over thirty years. yet, as anyone unfortunate enough to have experienced a bitter divorce can testify as to the degree to which two otherwise intelligent and perceptive human beings can violently disagree as to what the truth is regarding matters both witnessed and had been parties to. So it is with our continuing fascination and absolute incredulity regarding Albert Speer, an otherwise intelligent and perceptive soul, who just so happens to have been a willing participant in one of the most horrific administrations in the history of the 20th century, the Nazi Third Reich.<br />In two quite absorbing but incredibly self-serving books, Speer argued that he never understood the full extent of the Nazi war crimes nor the degree to which his own actions were complicit with those horrific aims. He first argued this at the war trials in Nuremberg, but did so in such a way as to admit his own culpability based on his rank and his actions as Chief Of Armaments Production, during which he employed slave labor in service to the German war effort. By being the only defendant at Nuremberg to show any semblance of remorse, he saved himself by admitting his own guilt, though largely guilt by association.<br />Careful readings of the trials transcripts show that he was, in fact, fairly forthcoming in his admissions, although he always contended that he lacked specifics regarding the so-called 'Final Solution' or even of the fact that the concentration camps in Poland and elsewhere were being used to systematically annihilate millions of Jews and Gypsies. In fact, he was an incredibly sophisticated human being who was expert in 'toadying up' to whomever he needed to. The fact that he was convincing enough to the Allies to escape the death sentence speaks volumes about his persuasiveness and ability to read into the possibilities any situation offered.<br />It is the author's contention that Speer must be held accountable for having allowed a tyrant like Hitler to rise. Yet Hitler was well in place before Speer ever met him. Speer is a man of stunning contradictions, someone of education, culture, and breeding who succumbed to the siren call of power, fame, and riches. While he eventually became expert at fashioning a defense both for himself and his actions both during and after the war, the truth of the matter is that most of what he argued in his own defense was (and is) preposterous. No one could have walked in the circles he did, have acted in concert with the aims and goals of the Nazi regime with such success and energy, and yet have been as totally naive and ignorant as he always claimed he was. What he recalls more than anything is the old adage Hitler was said to have coined; 'Tell a man an outrageous lie often enough for long enough and even he will come to believe it' I think Speer proved the accuracy of that adage, believing in his own lie. This is an absorbing and provocative book, and one I can heartily recommend to the student of modern history. Enjoy!to read into the possibilities any situation offered. <br />It is the author's contention that Speer must be held accountable for having allowed a tyrant like Hitler to rise. Yet Hitler was well in place before Speer ever met him. Speer is a man of stunning contradictions, someone of education, culture, and breeding who succumbed to the siren call of power, fame, and riches. While he eventually became expert at fashioning a defense both for himself and his actions both during and after the war, the truth of the matter is that most of what he argued in his own defense was (and is) preposterous. No one could have walked in the circles he did, have acted in concert with the aims and goals of the Nazi regime with such success and energy, and yet have been as totally naive and ignorant as he always claimed he was. What he recalls more than anything is the old adage Hitler was said to have coined; 'Tell a man an outrageous lie often enough for long enough and even he will come to believe it' I think Speer proved the accuracy of that adage, believing in his own lie. This is an absorbing and provocative book, and one I can heartily recommend to the student of modern history. Enjoy!	2003-03-21
1186311:US	52447634	R57EQJ166GU88	0306806614	469952310	Nuremberg Diary	Books	4	33	40	N	N	Intriguing Look At The Meaning of The Nuremberg Trials	As a person who has read a number of books relating to this subject, nothing so defines the striking differences between the nature of the Third Reich from the constitutional democracies that largely comprised the Allies as the way in which the defendants of the trials at Nuremberg were handled. With painstaking precision and at extraordinary cost in terms of international arm-twisting and back-door deals, the proponents of a judicial proceeding designed to illustrate the manifest individual guilt of the various Nazi officials forged a result that still stands today as a model of a non-retributive effort in the face of extraordinary pressure. While one can hardly describe the Nuremberg trials as unflawed or perfect, they did prove to the world that the Allies were willing to subscribe to the existing canon of law to judge the actions of the Nazis.<br /><br />Doing so was anything but easy, Indeed, achieving a fair result that would literally convince the watching world of the guilt of the participants in the war was anything but easy, and moving toward that deliberate goal is a theme providing an interesting theme punctuating the pace of the book. Churchill wanted revenge by way of summary trials and quick retribution, while the Russians just wanted to string up the whole group in a mass hanging. Yet American Supreme Court Justice Robert Jackson was able to resolve the differences well enough to proceed, although at times the reader wonders if the trials will be anything like the fair-minded judicial event he has in mind. Indeed, the back-stabbing, personal ambitions, and petty jealousies of the various factions, trial officials, and individual defendants becomes a kind of political circus that sometimes resembles nothing so much as vaudevillian showboating.<br /><br />Still, the efforts at conducting a fair and open forum for the world to watch as the prosecution and defense teams clashed before the international tribunal prevailed, and the trials concluded with mixed results in terms of the results. Most of the defendants were found guilty, and many were hanged. Yet few observers doubted that the defendants had had their day in court along with and adequate opportunity to defend their actions to a watching world. Given how little justice and liberty they collectively allowed for their tens of millions of victims, it is remarkable just how civilized and dignified a proceeding the Nuremberg trials were, with all their theatrics and subterranean undercurrents.<br /><br />One marvels at the fact that after fifty years the world still stands in awe at the deliberate, careful, and methodical way in which the Allies achieved the result of a rational and fair trial of the defendants in history's most horrific modern nightmare, the terror of the Third Reich. This is an interesting and absorbing book, and a fascinating and entertaining book to read. It was also particularly interesting to me because it explores the lives of each of the defendants in looking at their individual guilt. I recommend it to anyone interested in learning more about these singular trials and their impact on historyxed results in terms of the results. Most of the defendants were found guilty, and many were hanged. Yet few observers doubted that the defendants had had their day in court along with and adequate opportunity to defend their actions to a watching world. Given how little justice and liberty they collectively allowed for their tens of millions of victims, it is remarkable just how civilized and dignified a proceeding the Nuremberg trials were, with all their theatrics and subterranean undercurrents.<br /><br />One marvels at the fact that after fifty years the world still stands in awe at the deliberate, careful, and methodical way in which the Allies achieved the result of a rational and fair trial of the defendants in history's most horrific modern nightmare, the terror of the Third Reich. This is an interesting and absorbing book, and a fascinating and entertaining book to read. It was also particularly interesting to me because it explores the lives of each of the defendants in looking at their individual guilt. I recommend it to anyone interested in learning more about these singular trials and their impact on history	2003-03-21
1186402:US	52447634	R2RJKV8Z61A6LE	0743234782	595092652	The Silent Takeover: Global Capitalism and the Death of Democracy	Books	5	12	14	N	N	An Erudite & Fascinating Look At  Transnationals!	The thesis in this extremely well written and eminently readable tome runs along what is by now the well-worn path of a number of other neo-Luddite authors like Sales Kirkpatrick and Neil Postman. Hertz, a Cambridge scholar and an economist, posits that the neo-conservative policies first initiated by the Reagan administration in the United States and by Martha Thatcher's government in Britain were profoundly anti-democratic, having disastrously disruptive effects in terms of its social and political consequences for the citizens of those countries. Thus, she argues that although the initial effects was to bring a wave of prosperity and wealth to a narrow segment of each of the societies, the growth of the transnational corporations has increasingly served to progressively and surreptitiously disenfranchise ordinary citizens of their most basic rights by corrupting the political policies of those countries to favor the needs, prerogatives, and perspectives of the corporations over those of the citizenry at large.<br />In fact, she argues, the transformation of laws and regulations relating to the conduct of such corporations has been so profound and far-reaching that they now act in a manner that is beyond the reach and control of those polities from which they originally arose. Such corporations now act to influence the policies and laws of most social democracies that they now act to determine political policies rather than operate in deference to them. Slowly this state of affairs has acted to subvert the rights of ordinary citizens, for the state increasingly has become more an agent of the interests of the transnational now becomes an agent corporation than a bulwark of protection for the citizenry of the country as it formerly was. This, she argues, serves to nullify the basic social contract between the people on the one hand, and the state, on the other for the state to offer equal protection to all its citizens in general, and not to special interests such as the transnational corporations in particular. She cites, by way of an example, the fact that in the last twenty years income redistribution policies instituted by the state has been profoundly prejudiced in favor of the highest reaches of society, stealing from the poor to give to the rich.<br />Hertz recognizes the intrinsic difficulty associated with attempting to effect any reform or reversal of such policies. Yet, unless social democracies move quickly and decisively to realign the calculus pertaining to the equation between the countervailing political power of the state over the economic power of the transnational corporation, common citizens may lose forever their ability to participate meaningfully in the democratic process in order to positively influence their own fates in a post-industrial culture that increasingly favors the rights, prerogatives, and preferences of the rich and powerful.  This is an important and even profound book, and one that deserves to be more widely read and appreciated. I can heartily recommend it to you. Enjoy!as the transnational corporations in particular. She cites, by way of an example, the fact that in the last twenty years income redistribution policies instituted by the state has been profoundly prejudiced in favor of the highest reaches of society, stealing from the poor to give to the rich. <br />Hertz recognizes the intrinsic difficulty associated with attempting to effect any reform or reversal of such policies. Yet, unless social democracies move quickly and decisively to realign the calculus pertaining to the equation between the countervailing political power of the state over the economic power of the transnational corporation, common citizens may lose forever their ability to participate meaningfully in the democratic process in order to positively influence their own fates in a post-industrial culture that increasingly favors the rights, prerogatives, and preferences of the rich and powerful.  This is an important and even profound book, and one that deserves to be more widely read and appreciated. I can heartily recommend it to you. Enjoy!	2003-03-21
1186407:US	52447634	RI3TS6FZKGQ9K	1572230290	381159674	Just Labs	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Perfect Photo and Story Book For Labrador People!	For someone like me who has spent countless hours, days and weeks in the company of four or more Labrador Retrievers, this book is a hoot. It takes light-hearted look at Labradors, sharing a bounty of beautiful photographs of man's best friends with us, and looking at the personality traits and character qualities that make them the single most popular breed in America today. Labs are among the most social of canines, yet they are remarkably calm and pacific once they know you. Which isn't to deny the fact that they are very active and energetic, and that anyone who lives with one needs to ensure the dog and he or she spend sopme time outside in vigorous play every day. But as the author tells us, we love labradors because they seem to represent the best and most admirable qualities we happen to admire.<br />Labradors are amazingly loyal, and are quite keyed into your emotional state and sense of well-being. As a person who sometimes suffers from migraines, I can attest that the dogs seem to reconize my symptoms and key their own behavior from this perception of the way I am feeling, being much more willing to simply take a nap with me than usual, since they seem to understand from past experience that the migraine will dirve me back to bed. They show many endearing and remarkable traits, and we find ourselves amazed by just how intelligent, perceptive, and attractive they are as a species.<br />Labradors also live almost exclusively in the moment, and are ethusiastic and energetic in their pursuit of fun and frolic. Anyone living in their company can attest to the fact that you are never at a loss for entertainment when your Labrador friend is around, and he or she are happy to just be with you, and are almost oo willing and too anxious to show you just how excited they are to have you around. Coming home after a long day's work means a kidn of instant celebration, with four Labradors jumping, barking, and wall-banging, so glad are they to have me back home with them. Find a human who is that glad to see you, and you have found true love, my friend. Yet it is all here in spades with the Labradors, and this entertaining little book will seerve to amuse you, educate you, and sometimes surprise you with its nuggets of information, parcels of knowledge, and bits of wisdom about just why it is that Labradors rule the roost around my house! Enjoy!hem. Find a human who is that glad to see you, and you have found true love, my friend. Yet it is all here in spades with the Labradors, and this entertaining little book will seerve to amuse you, educate you, and sometimes surprise you with its nuggets of information, parcels of knowledge, and bits of wisdom about just why it is that Labradors rule the roost around my house! Enjoy!	2003-03-21
1187364:US	52447634	R5MBV2LIXH8A6	1893554694	345087233	The War Over Iraq: Saddams Tyranny and Americas Mission	Books	3	34	51	N	N	Informative But Limited Argument For Attacking Iraq	This, unfortunately, is a book of very few surprises and precious little fundamental gravity in terms of providing the objective reader with anything but the same old tired and limited arguments we have heard forwarded by the fulsome gaggle of Washington \\"chicken-hawks\\" (career politicians, think-tank intellectuals and businessmen who are wanna-be pseudo-macho bureaucrats, guys and gals  who have themselves never tasted life in the military nor suffered the experience of war up close and personal). The problems with their well-presented and well-documented arguments is that they are unconvincing and nowhere near substantial enough to convince an objective third party of the need to take the action the United States and the so-called \\"coalition of the willing\\" are now embarking upon.<br />The authors do provide yeoman service by way of placing the actions of Saddam hussein and his bloody regime in perspective, and are forthright in admitting, at least to a certain degree, the degree of complicity the American government had in creating and sustaining this monsteer over a spate of years in the 1970s and 1980s. Yet they are less than forthcoming in describing how the events of \\"9-11\\" make Hussein any more of a clear and present danger to the American polity or the American people than he has been for over twenty years. Given the fact that we have sporadically bombed him over the intervening years without provoking him into teroristic action should argue against the idea he is somehow out there actively plotting with fundamentalist muslim terror cells to do evil to us or our friends. Yet short shrift is paid to such considerations here.<br />Instead we have the usual litany  that the world is now somehow so much more dangerous that we cannot afford to take the chance he might harm us, and have to take preemptive action to smash him before he surrenders to his evil instincts somewhere down the line. The argument is limited, tailored more to convince rather than to educate and inform, and there are a whole raft of considerations and counter-cutting considerations never broached here. My recommendation is that you read this more to gain an understanding for the philosophical underpinnings of all these war-mongering neo-conservatives, most of whom like Dick Cheney, Paul Wolfowitz, Condoleeza Rice and Richard Pearle, never felt enough of an obligation to the country or its needs to ever volunteer for military service themselves. Why the American people trust such men enough to trust a generation of young American fighting men and women to their judgement is beyond me. Enjoy!te and inform, and there are a whole raft of considerations and counter-cutting considerations never broached here. My recommendation is that you read this more to gain an understanding for the philosophical underpinnings of all these war-mongering neo-conservatives, most of whom like Dick Cheney, Paul Wolfowitz, Condoleeza Rice and Richard Pearle, never felt enough of an obligation to the country or its needs to ever volunteer for military service themselves. Why the American people trust such men enough to trust a generation of young American fighting men and women to their judgement is beyond me. Enjoy!	2003-03-20
1187392:US	52447634	R18AWV8LCZLYV	0764552813	729972627	Labrador Retrievers For Dummies	Books	5	21	23	N	N	A Wonderful, Easy to Understand Reference Book!	As a person who has had the distinct pleasure of sharing my house and my life with as many as six Labrador retrievers at a time over the last 20 years (I now have four), I am acutely aware of the wonder and awe associated with getting such a wonderful companion can be. yet, sadly, I am also aware of the profound ignorance many would-be labrador-people are regarding how to select, introduce, and socialize this new member of the family. In that sense, this book , along with a number of others such as Richard Wolper's &quot;Family Dog&quot;, can provide the wary would-be initate with all of the essentails on how to successfully transform that cute little puppy into a happy, obdeient, and well-integrated member of the household.<br />This book does offer one the expert advice one needs regarding the care and nurture of what has now become the single most popular breed in the United States, with information ranging from an impromptu history of Labrador Retrievers to such topics  such as adoption options. The book also features a handsome 8-page color insert, and delivers to the prospective owner a wealth of facts and details regarding Labrador Retrievers. It provides essential and vital information regarding nutrition, socialization, and exercise, and offers some sage advice about how to find and select a reputable breeder. In addition, it also touches on aspects of ownerships such as common illnesses and chronic problems associated with the breed. This is a book I can heartily recommend!	2003-03-20
1187620:US	52447634	R28YDADKAHNIE5	0764563203	190332237	What Labs Love (Pets)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Funny and Diverting Book About Labrador Retrievers	For those of us who share their lives with God's most nearly perfect earthly creation, i.e., Labrador Retrievers, a book like this is sure to elicit a smile of recognition and an acute sense of recollection. For contained within these pages are a plethora of familiar dog photos, snapshots of moments cpatured forever both on film and in our hearts. I have enjoyed the company of Labradors for over two decades now, and must admit that very often it seems my life centers around my relationship to the four dogs who share my house and my life.<br />So, for someone like me, this humorous little book from Ed Camelli and Mike Singer is the perfect gift, its bevy of color photos and amusing text making it a great picture book for coffee table or kitchen counter. Herein Labs are caught in the midst of everyday activities--in mid-air with Frisbees, in pursuit of thrown balls, smooching faces, and engaging in their beloved water sports. I once heard a Labrador described (accurately) as a creature who would stray five miles out of its way just to jump with boundless enthusiasm into an overgrown mud puddle. Labs simply adore water, and I have even been surprised in the shower by Labrador puppies who could resist the call of the wet and wild!<br />Camelli's photos seem to consistently catch the Labs at key moments whether they be rolling in the grass or cuddling with a playful kitten. Likewise, Singer's text threads a consistent amsuing yet memorable message through the pages, one that amplifies and reinforces the photos. Indeed, what does one say in words to describe the heady experience portrayed in a photo of a Lab in virtual ecstasy while getting his ears, which he describes as a \\"Lab loving a Vulcan mind-meld.\\" This is a lovely little book, and one any dog lover will truly enjoy!	2003-03-20
1187637:US	52447634	R8BT6AJB8X6VK	074321532X	977007888	Ending the Vietnam War: A History of America's Involvement in and Extrication from the Vietnam War	Books	2	25	60	N	N	Fascinating, Yet Frustrating & Fundamentally Dishonest Book	Anyone familiar with Henry Kissinger's fabled rise to preeminence as a Harvard professor to National Security maven to Secretary of State to international security mogul will find this overblown and egocentric effort at reconstructive twentieth century history amusing, frustrating, and absolutely self-serving. While Kissinger's personal biography is in fact a real-life Horatio Alger tale, ripped from the conditions, circumstances, and contradictions of this uproarious span of time, his own attempts herein to steer the reader toward a selective understanding of what happened and why profoundly misuses and abuses his insider's status in an all-too apparent attempt to reconstruct the historically verifiable facts of the situation pertaining to the sixties, the war in Vietnam, and his own efforts at establishing (along with his unindicted cohort in crime, Richard M. Nixon) a contemporary American realpolitick in world affairs.<br />Yet Kissinger is hardly what he purports to be. Far from flying with the angels, Kissinger attempted to simultaneously court the liberal press and the academics into believing he was a solitary voice of reason and moderation within the Nixon White House, while at the same time pandering to the President's worst impulses, insecurities, and vulnerabilities by exploiting Nixon's paranoia about his public image and his need for pseudo-macho persona with his colleagues. As Daniel Ellsberg described so well in his recent book, Kissinger adroitly attempts to consistently play all sides against the middle in an attempt to elevate his own position and allow himself the latitude to swagger into public prominence and the political stratosphere at the same time. Thus, while the book is well written and quite entertaining to read, it suffers from the meglo-maniacal effort Kissinger has made to consistently portray himself in a positive light, and so slants the nature of the interchanges, anecdotes, and occurrences I personally found quite frustrating.<br />In so doing he ultimately squanders any opportunity he had to help illuminate the nature of the many events he actively participated in and contributed toward, such that what other's refer to as a cogently written insider's take on the process of shutting down America's involvement in the long Southeast Asia conflict I find to be a cleverly attempted effort to marshal the facts in a way that dissembles more than it illuminates. The truth is that Kissinger, like Robert McNamara and others, was a superb politician, tactician, and game player, and one who enjoyed playing multiple political games on multiple levels with contradictory simultaneous outcomes all at the same time. Thus in the morning he could whine to his liberal staffers how the Neanderthals in the White House were misbehaving, and then engage in pseudo-macho asides with the same White House staffers he had just bad-mouthed to his associates. Kissinger played everyone, from the President to the Congress to Academia to the public. In this fundamentally dishonest and dissembling reinterpretation of the public record of what happened during those years and why, he continues to play us all. My advice is not to buy books like this, unless you want to see how cleverly and brilliantly someone as intellectually gifted as Kissinger is can engage in a campaign of boldface lies. Boycott this book!r />In so doing he ultimately squanders any opportunity he had to help illuminate the nature of the many events he actively participated in and contributed toward, such that what other's refer to as a cogently written insider's take on the process of shutting down America's involvement in the long Southeast Asia conflict I find to be a cleverly attempted effort to marshal the facts in a way that dissembles more than it illuminates. The truth is that Kissinger, like Robert McNamara and others, was a superb politician, tactician, and game player, and one who enjoyed playing multiple political games on multiple levels with contradictory simultaneous outcomes all at the same time. Thus in the morning he could whine to his liberal staffers how the Neanderthals in the White House were misbehaving, and then engage in pseudo-macho asides with the same White House staffers he had just bad-mouthed to his associates. Kissinger played everyone, from the President to the Congress to Academia to the public. In this fundamentally dishonest and dissembling reinterpretation of the public record of what happened during those years and why, he continues to play us all. My advice is not to buy books like this, unless you want to see how cleverly and brilliantly someone as intellectually gifted as Kissinger is can engage in a campaign of boldface lies. Boycott this book!	2003-03-20
1188250:US	52447634	R15NOVLB59CRD6	0684849682	295161322	No Peace, No Honor: Nixon, Kissinger, and Betrayal in Vietnam	Books	5	16	24	N	N	The Hellish Truth Of What Nixon & Kissinger Did In Vietnam!	This stunning, smart, scholarly and incisive book neatly unravels the clever pseudointellectual reconstruction that many neo-conservative authors have bought into regarding the conduct of the Vietnam War by the Nixon administration. While few of us would quarrel with the idea that Nixon accomplished much on the world scene, we still must protest the idea held by many that he was so severely hampered in his prosecution of the war by a combination of internal and external constraints that he was unable to execute the compassionate, intelligent, and objective policies toward southeast Asia that he and Henry Kissinger had so painstakingly devised. Rather, we learn here that his Vietnam policies were as full of the 'sturm und drang' contradictions seen elsewhere in his administration. For Nixon, prosecution of the Vietnam War was just another case of \\"politics as usual\\", another opportunity to pit conservative against liberal, hawk against dove, for personal aggrandizement and short-term political gain.<br />Much of what he did and planned were based on domestic political considerations and the fear of being seen as weak on communism. he looked Le Duc Tho eye to eye, and Nixon blinked. For this he never forgave himself, and he was willing to do anything, lie to anyone, dissemble, connive, and betray the American people just to win in Vietnam. Far from flying with the angels, both Nixon and Kissinger bloodied their hands by instituting policies that resulted a dramatic increase in both American and Vietnamese casualties, instituting policies that continued the escalation of the war and its extension to new areas such as Laos and Cambodia. Using the conflict in Vietnam as a key element to engage both the Soviet Union and Communist China, Nixon seemed to lose sight of the need to deal with the specific factors propelling the war even as he became increasingly engaged with it, thinking he could simply \\"bomb\\" the North Vietnamese into capitulating regardless of the mounting evidence to the contrary.<br />At times his conduct of the war was not only irrational and extremely counter-productive, but also criminal and unnecessary, as with the incursions into Cambodia in 1970, which spurred an avalanche of student protest and increasing political resistance at home. indeed, much of the documentary evidence related here shows his entire strategy of seeming withdrawal while simultaneously secretly escalating the air war tells volumes about the levels of deceit and cupidity the Nixon administration had toward the war in Vietnam.<br />Nixon's presidency is a study in contrasts, a reflection of the internal contradictions propelling the President himself. Nixon is truly one of the most fascinating of our modern presidents, a remarkable amalgam of his genius, daring, and all-too human flaws, a man so haunted and tortured by his interior demons that he spent the balance of his post=presidency years attempting to reconstruct the truth about his conduct of the presidency and the war in Vietnam. Here is revealed a man so anxious to gain the presidency that he outrageously influenced the President of South Vietnam during the 1968 presidential campaign to disengage from an effort by sitting President Lyndon Johnson to end the war. How can we expect a man capable of such perverted motives to do \\"the right thing\\" to save life and treasure by bringing the war to an \\"honorable\\" conclusion?<br />Instead, we find the same irrational, pseduo-macho tendencies as led to the debacle of Watergate perpetrated onto the war in Vietnam, resulting in thousands of additional deaths and casualties. This is a wonderful book, one that lays bare the truth about the self-serving efforts by Nixon, Kissinger, and a number of over-eager neo-conservatives to reconstruct the truth about the conduct of the war in Vietnam in order to salve their structure of beliefs and also lay blame for the war at the doorsteps of sixties liberals. I found myself engaged and excited by the author's interesting approach, and was quite impressed by the interviews, documents, and research used to present the evidence included in the book. This is one I can heartily recommend, and enthusiastically give a full five star rating to. Enjoy!hor's interesting approach, and was quite impressed by the interviews, documents, and research used to present the evidence included in the book. This is one I can heartily recommend, and enthusiastically give a full five star rating to. Enjoy!	2003-03-19
1297741:US	52447634	R2W31YFGTVZWC5	1572232994	600046729	Lab Rules	Books	4	14	19	N	Y	Lovely Look At The Heart Of A Labrador Retriever!	For someone like me who has spent countless hours, days and weeks in the company of four or more Labrador Retrievers, this book is a hoot. It take s light-hearted look at Labradors, and at the personality traits and character qualities that make them the single most popular breed in America today. Labs are among the most social of canines, yet they are remarkably calm and pacific once they know you. Which isn't to deny the fact that they are very active and energetic, and that anyone who lives with one needs to ensure the dog and he or she spend sopme time outside in vigorous play every day. But as the author tells us, we love labradors because they seem to represent the best and most admirable qualities we happen to admire.<br />Labradors are amazingly loyal, and are quite keyed into your emotional state and sense of well-being. As a person who sometimes suffers from migraines, I can attest that the dogs seem to reconize my symptoms and key their own behavior from this perception of the way I am feeling, being much more willing to simply take a nap with me than usual, since they seem to understand from past experience that the migraine will dirve me back to bed. They show many endearing and reamrkable traits, and we find ourselves amazed b just how intelligent, preceptive, and attractive they are as a species.<br />Labradors also live almost exclusively in the moment, and are ethusiastic and energetic in their pursuit of fun and frolic. Anyone living in their company can attest to the fact that you are never at a loss for entertainment when your Labrador friend is around, and he or she are happy to just be with you, and are almost oo willing and too anxious to show you just how excited they are to have you around. Coming home after a long day's work means a kidn of instant celebration, with four Labradors jumping, barking, and wall-banging, so glad are they to have me back home with them. Find a human who is that glad to see you, and you have found true love, my friend. Yet it is all here in spades with the Labradors, and this entertaining little book will seerve to amuse you, educate you, and sometimes surprise you with its nuggets of information, parcels of knowledge, and bits of wisdom about just why it is that &quot;Labradors Rule&quot;. Enjoy!riend. Yet it is all here in spades with the Labradors, and this entertaining little book will seerve to amuse you, educate you, and sometimes surprise you with its nuggets of information, parcels of knowledge, and bits of wisdom about just why it is that &quot;Labradors Rule&quot;. Enjoy!	2002-12-20
1297839:US	52447634	R1H1196PYUQKKT	0743202759	183886224	To America: Personal Reflections of an Historian	Books	4	16	19	N	N	Lovely Final Effort By America's Most Prolific Historian!	For a wildly prolific academic historian who, by the end of his illustrious career, had become a kind of one-man cottage industry by pumping out a steady stream of excellent historical works on World War Two, Lewis and Clark, and a number of other important subjects, his declaration early on in this poignant memoir that he is a storyteller is a magnificent understatement by a man not known for his modesty or introversion. Stephen Ambrose may or may not have been the best American historian and biographer of the last decade, but he certainly was, hands-down, the single most prolific of his generation. His catalogue of World War Two histories and biographies alone is breath taking in its breadth and content, and he loved to tackle other important historical issues, as well, as his best-selling portrait of the Lewis and Clark expedition so wonderfully illustrates.<br />Yet, while I have often been a fan of the works he pushed out with almost monotonous regularity during the 1990s, I have to admit to having been a bit put out by the man himself, who I never found to be particularly erudite academically, and who was found sometimes notoriously ungracious to others within his profession. But the true measure of historian's contribution must be located in the welter of his works, rather than in his personal habits, character, or foibles, and therein lies what must be considered a most remarkable corpus of work that will continue to be read, studied, and appreciated for decades to come.<br />This is a short and intensely personal book. I read it over the last weekend, my swollen right ankle propped up on a pillow on the leather couch after slipping down the ice-covered stone stairway on the deck of the house. Yet the throbbing pain in my ankle seemed suddenly less important and less real as I was swept away by this fellow historian who clearly has such a wonderful gift for story telling. The vignettes and situations he describes came alive for me, and I found myself wishing he had written more of this sort of thing along the way now that he has vanished from our presence, likely striding over the battlefields of Valhalla and laughing, smoking one his omni-present cigarettes and laughing that hoarse southern cackle of his.<br />Stephen Ambrose will long be remembered for this work, and likely by the parade of memorable students he had who are now among the ranks of professional historians themselves. His body of work and his sense of dedication to telling the human stories so important (and so often neglected) in history will stand in singular relief as a testament to important academic work done in a quite distinctive and most memorable way. His own ability to recognize the importance of locating the acting individual in the context of his existential, social, and political situation while telling the single solitary person's story will offer those of us still standing a remarkable standard to hold up in order to measure our own burgeoning efforts. This, then, is a wistful, emotional, and memorable book, and one I can recommend for anyone wanting a more personal glimpse at a man who gave much and who will always remain in our collective memories. Enjoy!ishing he had written more of this sort of thing along the way now that he has vanished from our presence, likely striding over the battlefields of Valhalla and laughing, smoking one his omni-present cigarettes and laughing that hoarse southern cackle of his. <br />Stephen Ambrose will long be remembered for this work, and likely by the parade of memorable students he had who are now among the ranks of professional historians themselves. His body of work and his sense of dedication to telling the human stories so important (and so often neglected) in history will stand in singular relief as a testament to important academic work done in a quite distinctive and most memorable way. His own ability to recognize the importance of locating the acting individual in the context of his existential, social, and political situation while telling the single solitary person's story will offer those of us still standing a remarkable standard to hold up in order to measure our own burgeoning efforts. This, then, is a wistful, emotional, and memorable book, and one I can recommend for anyone wanting a more personal glimpse at a man who gave much and who will always remain in our collective memories. Enjoy!	2002-12-20
1298034:US	52447634	R35GSH4P8YAH3G	1572235276	928843411	Just Yellow Labs	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	For Anyone Who Loves Yellow Labs!	What better way to celebrate your love and appreciation for that four-legged wonder in your life than to have one of these calenders hanging in your office, so you can casually gaze at one of his or her cousins as you slog along your busy way each day? I know having such a calender hanging in my office often breaks the ice with students who otherwise might feel intimidated. My only problem is that with both yellow and black Labradors myself, I have to either alternate the calenders year by year or buy one of the versions that has all three varieties (black, yellow, and chocolate. Which ever version you prefer, the &quot;JustLabs&quot; series of calenders is a great ornament to have deocrating yoiur wall, or to give to someone who loves them as a gift. Enjoy	2002-12-20
1298073:US	52447634	R372N1B4RF2VPI	1572235268	59756260	Just Chocolate Labs	Books	5	10	11	N	N	For Anyone Who Loves Chocolate Labradors!	What better way to celebrate your love and appreciation for that four-legged wonder in your life than to have one of these calenders hanging in your office, so you can casually gaze at one of his or her cousins as you slog along your busy way each day? I know having such a calender hanging in my office often breaks the ice with students who otherwise might feel intimidated. My only problem is that with both yellow and black Labradors myself, I have to either alternate the calenders year by year or buy one of the versions that has all three varieties (black, yellow, and chocolate. Which ever version you prefer, the &quot;JustLabs&quot; series of calenders is a great ornament to have deocrating your wall, or to give to someone who loves them as a gift. Enjoy!	2002-12-20
1298215:US	52447634	R2W7K7J9OATB9B	0967043069	416123917	The Homeschooling Revolution	Books	4	26	27	N	N	Useful and Informative Guide to Home Schooling	Anyone familiar with the manifest problems and lively debate associated with the public school crisis in the United States will profit from reading this excellent primer on the home schooling revolution. The author, a former analyst with the Cato Institute, provides the reading public with an excellent overview of both the home schooling movement itself and a good discussion of the primary issues surrounding the problems and prospects confronting anyone daring to pull their kids away from the public school system to attempt to educate them at home.<br />In so doing, the author explores a number of important aspects of the home-schooling revolution, including legal issues, the mass of available materials for use as resources for the parent energetic enough to pursue them, and the downside in terms of social issues and peer pressure serving to counteract the family's determination to go it alone. The author employs a plethora of anecdotal information and incidents to help support the idea that it (home-schooling) can and often should be considered as a viable alternative approach to more effectively educate one's children. Indeed, as the author sagely opines, given the state of public education in many communities, the question is more `why not home-school?' than anything else.<br />Evidence gleaned over the last few years indicates children who are home schooled tend to perform better on standardized exams than their peers, and often seem much better adjusted and much more focused than their publicly educated cohorts. And, since their parent-teachers have a vested interest in teaching their children both salient skills as well as relevant information, such children seem to have a much better integrated perspective on the world at large than do their peers. Children who have emerged from a childhood of such private education often perform quite well at both state and private universities, and seem capable of as much intellectual stimulation as can be thrown their way. In short, home schooling seems to be a viable and practical alternative approach for families interested in pursuing such tact in today's troubled communities.<br />All in all, this appears to be an excellent home schooling resource guide, and provides the interested reader with a credible and useful tool in approaching the issue of home-schooling, both within the family itself as well as in the community at large. By providing a history, a social context, and a discussion of relevant considerations and alternatives, author Isabel Lyman provides a yeoman's service to the reading public in a book I can heartily recommend. Enjoy!. In short, home schooling seems to be a viable and practical alternative approach for families interested in pursuing such tact in today's troubled communities. <br />All in all, this appears to be an excellent home schooling resource guide, and provides the interested reader with a credible and useful tool in approaching the issue of home-schooling, both within the family itself as well as in the community at large. By providing a history, a social context, and a discussion of relevant considerations and alternatives, author Isabel Lyman provides a yeoman's service to the reading public in a book I can heartily recommend. Enjoy!	2002-12-20
1298422:US	52447634	R2LPPDCV3IR4NN	1572235233	795819379	Just Labs	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	For Anyone Who Loves Labrador Retrievers!	What better way to celebrate your love and appreciation for that four-legged wonder in your life than to have one of these calenders hanging in your office, so you can casually gaze at one of his or her cousins as you slog along your busy way each day? I know having such a calender hanging in my office often breaks the ice with students who otherwise might feel intimidated. My only problem is that with both yellow and black Labradors myself, I have to either alternate the calenders year by year or buy one of the versions that has all three varieties (black, yellow, and chocolate. Which ever version you prefer, the &quot;JustLabs&quot; series of calenders is a great ornament to have deocrating your wall, or to give to someone who loves them as a gift. Enjoy!	2002-12-20
1298555:US	52447634	R14P0EHRR71FLT	0394710355	168192134	Into That Darkness: An Examination of Conscience	Books	5	95	103	N	N	Thoughtful and Thought-Provoking Work!	The genius behind the choice for this book's title revolves around what for me, as well as for many other students of the Holocaust, is the central question the phenomenon of organized mass murder inevitably raises; how could it be true that ordinary men are capable of such unspeakable horror on such an unimaginable scale, willing to become enthusiastic participants in the ritualistic murder of millions of their fellow human beings.  If one is honest, he or she begins to raise some very disturbing questions about just what kind of a biological organism we are part of, ourselves included as un-indicted co-conspirators by way of the murder we hold somewhere in our own hearts.<br />Yet, even if you grant me the kindness of agreeing with my supposition, it still does not explain how such men as the individual profiled in this book, Herr Franz Stangl, the one-time commander of the death camp at Treblinka, could manage to swing his body out of bed every day for the decades since he was captured by the Allies and the war ended for him.  His personal testimony shows once more how the subtle political use of language and the countless attempts to justify themselves through euphemistic references to the so-called \\"Jewish problem\\" seems to aid such individuals in playing a kind of psychological hide-and seek with themselves by aligning their actions with the purposes and goals of Germany during the war. And yet, quite poignantly the interview with Stangl also illustrates how vain and hopeless such efforts to blithely paper over the past really are.  Somewhere in the darkness of one's own soul an individual knows all he is guilty of. Or so we would suppose.<br />So what we have in this thoughtful and penetrating book is a glimpse into the demon's eye, and find that perhaps Hannah Arendt was right when she said it was somehow too banal and trite to be believed or trusted. In truth, just as the author contends, the only way out of the searing heat of the conscience's cauldron is to face the truth and admit as best we can our part in it.  Indeed, in this work she bravely illustrates, through Commander Stangl, how one's personal choices change us, often in most frightening ways.  Like Stangl, we must all go bravely into the darkness to find the truth that will indeed set us free. In this sense the author's use of so many anecdotal situations is instructive, illustrating just how wide the gate to hell and damnation is, through a variety of variously disguised and decorated entrances. In this regard, I particularly enjoyed her rather erudite argument condemning the indifference and cupidity of both Pope Pius XII and the Catholic Church regarding their studied and sustained political and ethical indifference to the continuing operation of the death camps.<br />In summary, this book provides the reader with an opportunity to be transported to a wasteland where evil stands alone and unafraid in the cold light of day, where too much talk and too little compassion, too much self-serving cowardice and too few examples of individual courage co-exist side by side, and where you can have an opportunity to listen as all of a lifetime of careful rationalization and intellectual compartmentalizing come crashing down, as Stangl finally comes to terms with the monstrous aspects of his own tortured soul. This is a memorable book, one that bears careful reading and a good bit of independent thought, but one I can heartily recommend.to face the truth and admit as best we can our part in it.  Indeed, in this work she bravely illustrates, through Commander Stangl, how one's personal choices change us, often in most frightening ways.  Like Stangl, we must all go bravely into the darkness to find the truth that will indeed set us free. In this sense the author's use of so many anecdotal situations is instructive, illustrating just how wide the gate to hell and damnation is, through a variety of variously disguised and decorated entrances. In this regard, I particularly enjoyed her rather erudite argument condemning the indifference and cupidity of both Pope Pius XII and the Catholic Church regarding their studied and sustained political and ethical indifference to the continuing operation of the death camps. <br />In summary, this book provides the reader with an opportunity to be transported to a wasteland where evil stands alone and unafraid in the cold light of day, where too much talk and too little compassion, too much self-serving cowardice and too few examples of individual courage co-exist side by side, and where you can have an opportunity to listen as all of a lifetime of careful rationalization and intellectual compartmentalizing come crashing down, as Stangl finally comes to terms with the monstrous aspects of his own tortured soul. This is a memorable book, one that bears careful reading and a good bit of independent thought, but one I can heartily recommend.	2002-12-20
1299881:US	52447634	R13LCV04R8HEPR	0679450785	351215412	The Future of Life	Books	5	11	13	N	N	A Wonderful book By An Eminent Biologist!	This thought-provoking new work by prolific Harvard professor Edward O. Wilson, an outspoken and acclaimed Harvard naturalist who founded the field of sociobiology, is in effect a paean to the hopes for recovering some sense of balance and perspective between the natural world and the political, economic, and social forces now posed against it. There is much passion as well as polished prose herein, and Wilson employs his fabled ability to tell a story well to spin his thoughts and perspectives into a convincing and often compelling argument for a much more rational and intelligent approach to the issue of reconciling the goals of the so-called civilized world with the needs for radical change in how we affect the natural environment.<br />Wilson wisely poses the issue in terms any intelligent reader can understand; showing us how dangerously close we are coming to fatally wounding the natural world, and what we must now proceed to do if this natural world is to be saved from the unwieldy hands of mankind. He employs a fanciful imagined conversation with Thoreau in the woods near Walden Pond in Concord, Massachusetts, and draws out of this dialogue a perspective lovingly laced with both an appreciation for the sanctity of the natural world and our own seeming inability to recognize how badly we have interfered with its vital processes and qualities. In an argument at once both intellectual and emotional, Wilson counterpoises his concerns with aspects of the ecosystem with similar concerns about how to manage and encourage human social and economic activities less antagonistic and more beneficial to the natural environment.<br />He argues quite persuasively that the most meaningful and momentous debates of the new millennium will be to attempt to allow human economic, material and social progress while minimizing the deleterious effects of such efforts on the natural world. He also allows that issues regarding relative equity of material distribution make it difficult for western economists and politicians to suggest the rest of the world disengage from their enthusiastic quest for material plenty for themselves while we in the advanced industrial democracies of the west float in our well-cushioned laps of luxury.  Yet, the fact remains that as this economic drive for material wealth proceeds, we are losing the race for biological diversity and an integrated and healthy biosphere. Indeed, he argues, what he terms the `trajectory' of specific species loss is, when all else is said and done, a result of human choices and the human appetite for turning the biosphere in a material marketplace for human consumption.<br /> Finally, then, we have to recognize that if we are to slow or even reverse the alarming pace of biosphere degradation, we must shift to a more long-term orientation, one in which we recognize the fundamental ways in which our own long-term well being, health, and prosperity depend on our ability to walk more softly on the earth. As he says, we must come to see that conservation and active concern for the natural world is absolutely vital if we and the world itself are to long endure. Yet for all this, he ends the book on a positive note, sharing the idea that any civilization capable of envisioning God, embarking on the colonization of space, must surely have the intellectual and spiritual capital required to safeguard the natural world and the panoply of life it holds in its borders. Enjoy!cult for western economists and politicians to suggest the rest of the world disengage from their enthusiastic quest for material plenty for themselves while we in the advanced industrial democracies of the west float in our well-cushioned laps of luxury.  Yet, the fact remains that as this economic drive for material wealth proceeds, we are losing the race for biological diversity and an integrated and healthy biosphere. Indeed, he argues, what he terms the `trajectory' of specific species loss is, when all else is said and done, a result of human choices and the human appetite for turning the biosphere in a material marketplace for human consumption. <br /> Finally, then, we have to recognize that if we are to slow or even reverse the alarming pace of biosphere degradation, we must shift to a more long-term orientation, one in which we recognize the fundamental ways in which our own long-term well being, health, and prosperity depend on our ability to walk more softly on the earth. As he says, we must come to see that conservation and active concern for the natural world is absolutely vital if we and the world itself are to long endure. Yet for all this, he ends the book on a positive note, sharing the idea that any civilization capable of envisioning God, embarking on the colonization of space, must surely have the intellectual and spiritual capital required to safeguard the natural world and the panoply of life it holds in its borders. Enjoy!	2002-12-18
1367634:US	52447634	R3TUUOANK6LKND	0691086672	96072010	Neighbors: The Destruction of the Jewish Community in Jedwabne, Poland	Books	4	48	77	N	N	Illuminating Study Of Local Massacre During The Holocaust!	I first became aware of the controversy over this historically based event with a report on \\"60 Minutes\\" a number of months ago in which the author of the book and a variety of various participants, victims' relatives, and others were interviewed some fifty years after the fact about the murderous events that transpired in Jedwabne, Poland in 1941.  Of course, Polish authorities deny any such event took place, or that fellow villagers were among those who brutally and systematically murdered more than a thousand of their neighbors with savage efficiency, in some cases using clubs spiked with nails to bludgeon their victims to death. This is truly one of the signal events of the era, serving to illustrate beyond all doubt how much pent-up envy, hostility, and craven greed motivated many of the people who participated in the massacre.<br />As was common elsewhere in Europe during the years leading up to the Holocaust, the neighbors of local indigenous Jews were all too ready, willing, and able not only to help in the swift and brutal dispatch of so many innocent people who lived among them, but were also swift in redistributing all of the earthly possessions of the victims, from the houses, farms, and apartments to furniture, clothing, bank accounts, and the rare automobile. Since quite often the local Jewish victims were prominent in the local community, victimizing them usually meant a hefty payday in terms of the material dividend of the acts of wanton murder. Obviously recalling such avarice, lack of remorse, and savage disregard for others is a painful prospect, so Polish authorities are quick to either deny or attempt to explain away any evidence of a local rampage by citizens against their Jewish and Bohemian neighbors.<br />The author attempts to locate the events in a context in which a virulent form of anti-Semitism was deliberately unleashed by the Nazis, who were only too happy to let their Polish dupes do their all dirty work for them. What the local Poles didn't realize was that the Nazis had a similar fate planned for them.  Yet he also shows how the Nazis were only the precipitating factor in these massacres, and why the local population has to bear the brunt of blame for the events that transpired. He does so in the interest of accurate history, and to set the record straight so that future generations of Poles can benefit by learning the truth about what happened here and why. Only through such honest and sober appraisal of the grisly facts can we learn the lessons of how to avoid such horrific events in the future. The subject matter is controversial, yet the author manages to write a stirring, often passionate account that does credit to his powers of exposition and his humanity. I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in an important case study of the details of the Holocaust.es didn't realize was that the Nazis had a similar fate planned for them.  Yet he also shows how the Nazis were only the precipitating factor in these massacres, and why the local population has to bear the brunt of blame for the events that transpired. He does so in the interest of accurate history, and to set the record straight so that future generations of Poles can benefit by learning the truth about what happened here and why. Only through such honest and sober appraisal of the grisly facts can we learn the lessons of how to avoid such horrific events in the future. The subject matter is controversial, yet the author manages to write a stirring, often passionate account that does credit to his powers of exposition and his humanity. I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in an important case study of the details of the Holocaust.	2002-10-22
1374120:US	52447634	R35XKF0OILQAVF	0671769863	879776625	Days of Infamy: Macarthur, Roosevelt, Churchill-The Shocking Truth Revealed : How Their Secret Deals and Strategic Blunders Caused Disasters at Pear Harbor and the Philippines	Books	4	19	20	N	N	Absorbing And Well-Documented Treatment !	There are few events that prompt as much spontaneous discussions regarding the possibility of conspiracy and guilty prior knowledge as those involving the Japanese surprise attack on Pearl Harbor in December 1941. Indeed, there are a whole catalogue of titles dealing with the possibilities, the associated issues, and with the substance of arguments surrounding all of the varied possibilities, which seem to have endless permutations and countless variations. So too here in British author John Costello's excellent exposition, the fascinating world of this \\"what did the President know, and when did he know it\\" whodunit is deftly explored by a virtual master of the genre. Also the author of such notable titles as \\"The Pacific War\\" and \\"And I was There\\", Costello addresses himself to a welter of issues and conditions that paint an indelible picture of what he conceives to be the actual circumstances surrounding the Japanese attack.<br />Indeed, the author not only asks a number of interesting rhetorical questions regarding the surprise attack at Pearl Harbor itself, but also delves into the shocking related attack on the American forces in the Philippines later the same day. Why, he asks, given his being warned so far in advance, did General Douglas MacArthur allow the Japanese forces to destroy the greatest single concentration of American air power in the Pacific region some nine hours after the attack on Pearl Harbor? And, in answering the question by way of detailing the complex series of miscommunications and fumbles surrounding MacArthur's mishandling of the circumstances, the author also raises the issue of MacArthur's unlikely escape from the blame game following in the aftermath of the attacks.  Seems that those in power in Washington were so intimidated by MacArthur's positive image and reputation among the press that they dare not attack him openly by court marshalling or reprimanding him.  In essence, his political connections saved him. Instead, after ordering MacArthur off the island, ostensibly to take command of all the Pacific forces regrouping in Australia, Roosevelt rewarded the general with the Congressional Medal Of Honor.<br />Also discussed here is the half million dollar payoff that the Philippine Government gave to MacArthur as he departed the islands, as is the desire of the Philippine government to try to maintain their neutrality, an exercise in futility that may have played fatefully into the hands of the Japanese, and which the author suggests may have influenced MacArthur in his decision not to attack or save the pacific-based American planes under his command. Yet the book spends much more energy and time covering the ways in which the diplomatic and military miscalculations on the part of both Roosevelt and Churchill played almost perfectly into the hands of the Japanese. Yet it was, according to Costello, more the loss of the Pacific air power rather than the losses at Pearl Harbor that so severely limited and hampered American efforts to stem the rising tide of Japanese hegemony over the Far East in 1942.<br />The author writes with considerable skill in arguing that it was the combined blunders, bungling, and malfeasance on the part of Roosevelt, Churchill and MacArthur that left the western world in such mortal danger at the end of 1941. For one thing, Roosevelt had committed the United States to a secret agreement with the British to aid in the defense of the British empire's Far Eastern reaches, a pact that was likely both illegal and unconstitutional. For another, the decision to move the bulk of MacArthur's army forces 5,000 miles west of Hawaii to the Philippines left Hawaii weak and overexposed to a potential Japanese attack. Finally, the combined neglect of countless encrypted messages  concerning the details of the attack as well as MacArthur's failure to mount a preemptive air attack despite being directly ordered to do so doomed the American hopes for any quick resolution to the conflict once it had started.  In sum, it was the colossal lack of good leadership that led us into the disaster of December 7, 1941, and in spite of the fact that all three men are held in high regard and remembered warmly, they were largely responsible for the American failure to prevent the disaster at Pearl Harbor in a day of infamy. This is an interesting book and a worthwhile read. Enjoy!onflict once it had started.   In sum, it was the colossal lack of good leadership that led us into the disaster of December 7, 1941, and in spite of the fact that all three men are held in high regard and remembered warmly, they were largely responsible for the American failure to prevent the disaster at Pearl Harbor in a day of infamy. This is an interesting book and a worthwhile read. Enjoy!	2002-10-16
1375770:US	52447634	R12N06NGQZT8VD	0691009546	68868795	The Politics of Retribution in Europe	Books	4	15	22	N	N	Intriguing Exploration Of European Retribution After WW II!	It's an old and acknowledged saw that \\"to the victors go the spoils\\". What should be added to this splendidly commonplace bit of street lore is the similarly well-acknowledged fact that it is indeed the victors who get to write and thereby promulgate the official version of history, interpreting it to their advantage, giving it such spin, direction, and body language as needed to serve the perceived needs and political purposes of the present. In this sense the historical treatment of the past, especially the recent past, tells us volumes about what forces exist to warp into particular forms and modes today. This is especially true in this absorbing and well-edited series of essays by a number of noted historians and critics relating to the subject of the relative merits of the retribution process in Europe following the conclusion of the Second World War.<br />As is likely true for all conflicts, the punishment delivered in the aftermath of the war was by no means fair, equitable, or necessarily deserved by those it was haphazardly visited upon, and some who deserved to be punished walked away unblemished, while others who did nothing wrong were falsely accused and punished. Indeed, one of the consistent themes in these essays is the degree to which the captive people of Europe engaged in what has to be recognized as being a widespread accommodation and cooperation with the Nazi authorities and their lackeys. Yet although their were obvious many who escaped getting their just desserts, and many more who were unfairly castigated and punished, by and large the effort at social retribution after the war appears to have served a wider and more useful role in expiating the collective guilt and anxiety that literally permeated the continent in the wake of the war's end.<br />This is a fine collection of essays that seek to address the complex welter of needs, drives, and issues that had to be settled in the postwar period, and among the competing strands of thoughts and arguments one finds that the historical interpretation of the past was indeed manipulated and bastardized, often at the expense of specific groups and individuals, who had to suffer the continuing social indifference to the injuries they had suffered, or worse, the accusation and punishment for deeds they either did not commit, or that they had committed in such a strange and sordid set of constraining circumstances that to make an issue our of it was existentially absurd. It is in this sense that a kind of selective amnesia overtook many of the survivors, such that they repressed the ugly truth in favor of more palatable and pleasing fictions.<br />Of course, many of the issues discussed here are neither fully  resolved nor completely played out. Just as many of the events of the war itself found their genesis in attitudes and cultural predispositions formed long before the war, so too, do many of the issues and dilemmas of the present find their antecedents in facts and circumstances located in postwar activities, and these may never be resolved. Whether talking about ethnic differences within a specific country or cultural predispositions existing between reviving cultures, many of the complex issues and concerns threading through these essays may never be resolved. This is a fascinating and quite worthwhile book, and one I am sure you would benefit from. Enjoy!d arguments one finds that the historical interpretation of the past was indeed manipulated and bastardized, often at the expense of specific groups and individuals, who had to suffer the continuing social indifference to the injuries they had suffered, or worse, the accusation and punishment for deeds they either did not commit, or that they had committed in such a strange and sordid set of constraining circumstances that to make an issue our of it was existentially absurd. It is in this sense that a kind of selective amnesia overtook many of the survivors, such that they repressed the ugly truth in favor of more palatable and pleasing fictions.    <br />Of course, many of the issues discussed here are neither fully  resolved nor completely played out. Just as many of the events of the war itself found their genesis in attitudes and cultural predispositions formed long before the war, so too, do many of the issues and dilemmas of the present find their antecedents in facts and circumstances located in postwar activities, and these may never be resolved. Whether talking about ethnic differences within a specific country or cultural predispositions existing between reviving cultures, many of the complex issues and concerns threading through these essays may never be resolved. This is a fascinating and quite worthwhile book, and one I am sure you would benefit from. Enjoy!	2002-10-15
1381352:US	52447634	R391NZI9271SDX	0670030309	338299274	Secrets: A Memoir of Vietnam and the Pentagon Papers	Books	5	190	194	N	Y	Spellbinding Recounting Of The Pentagon Papers Story!	After finding this book quite by accident while browsing through the wonderful Concord bookstore the other day, I was astounded to find how relevant and interesting a story author Daniel Ellsberg manages to conjure up after all this time regarding his legendary experience leading up to and including the leaking, release and publication of the infamous \\"Pentagon Papers' by the New York Times. As he explains early in the long yet fascinating monologue, he fully expected to be sentenced to a long prison sentence for having secreted a copy of the highly classified Department of Defense's official history of the American Government's policy and involvement in Vietnam. The report was a damning confirmation of the worst fears of the anti-war movement, and provided overwhelming evidence of the cynical, manipulative, and deceitful character of our government and its deceit to its own people regarding its involvement.<br /><br />What surprised Ellsberg most in all of this swirling excitement and activity was his own growing celebrity, and while he spent years fearing the worst for his own admitted culpability in defying criminal statues by stealing and leaking official government secrets, eventually the charges against him were dropped based, among other things, on the revelations of the Nixon's plumber's unit's illegal break-in at Ellsberg's psychiatrist's office. Ellsberg was an unlikely hero, a graduate of the Harvard University economics doctoral program, a former marine officer turned defense issue intellectual, a frequent visitor to Vietnam who was rankled by the distinct difference between what he was seeing and experiencing during his visits, on the one hand, and what the official American government position regarding what the situation was on the ground on the other.<br /><br />Based on this growing dissatisfaction and the discovery of the so-called Pentagon papers, a treasure trove of more than 7,000 pages of carefully documented details about the U.S. Government's involvement in Vietnam and its motives, considerations, and actions, Ellsberg tried to enlist the support of a number of Senators and Congressmen in an effort to use the evidence in the Pentagon Papers to undercut the Government's position and thereby end the war itself. Failing to do so, he finally surrendered the documents to the New York Times, which agreed to publish them through a series of daily excerpts (and also later in an abridged best-selling paperback version). The Government tried to stop publication, but was denied the right to do so by the Supreme Court. Of course, with the publication came an increase in public opposition to the war and a recognition of the degree to which the Executive branch and the military had intentionally misled the public regarding the conduct of the war and the situation on the ground for the moir&eacute; than 500,000 troops then stationed in-country. Still, it took more than five more years before the American involvement in Vietnam ended.<br /><br />This is a wonderful book to experience, and in reading it one comes to recognize the formidable skills Ellsberg brings to bear in terms of his amazing recall, eye for details, and ability to successfully juggle a variety of interacting considerations at the same time. This guy is smarter than the average teddy bear, and it is easy to see how difficult a task it would have been for the Department of Defense and the nitwits over in the White House to try to outmaneuver him. I was a bit surprised at some of the personal revelations in the book, and while it is obvious that Mr. Ellsberg has a healthy ego, he manages for the most part to keep it at bay in retelling a story that could have easily have devolved in a retelling of the David against Goliath epic, but which he keeps objective and factual enough to keep the story rolling along as a recounting of the gripping events that transpired more than thirty years ago and helped to turn the tide of public opinion toward the war in Vietnam. I heartily recommend this book to anyone interested in 20th century American history. Enjoy!I heartily recommend this book to anyone interested in 20th century American history. Enjoy!	2002-10-10
1384810:US	52447634	R14XJVYO0MBDTY	1555911080	75982014	The Battle in Seattle: The Story Behind and Beyond the WTO Demonstrations	Books	5	13	14	N	N	What Was At Stake In Seattle And Beyond?	To the surprise and amazement of most Americans, the events of November 1999 in Seattle came like a lightning bolt out of nowhere. Since the electronic media had done little to inform the average TV viewer of what the World Trade Organization (WTO) was, or what they would be trying to accomplish in their convention in Seattle, no one understood or appreciated the collection of concerns, misgivings, and grievances the protestors were there to use in way of ammunition for making the WTO stand up and take notice. Within a few days, we were all holding our breath.<br />Not since the heady days of the 1960s, or on a smaller scale, the No-Nukes movement of the late 1970s had such passion, conviction, or energy been thrust into the equation of public politics than was done over that short period of time in Seattle.  And here to give us a up-close and personal description as well as a cogent interpretation of those days of confrontation is author Janet Thomas, who, by taking a participant-observer role, attempts to describe, from inside the ranks of the protestors, who they are and why they are confronting the WTO and the forces of economic globalization it represents.<br />This is a hardly an objective, dispassionate, or even look at the events that transpired over the spate of several days in and around Seattle . Yet in its urgency, passion, and position-taking the reader comes to understand, at least from the myriad of organizations participating in the demonstrations, the reasons for their activities. Given the media's proclivities to dismissing any such protest as the work of mindless anarchists or social, political, and economic trouble-makers, this more introspective approach is a breath of fresh air. Thomas describes the reasoning of the protestors in terms of their concerns for the social, economic, and political costs associated with globalism. As happened with Chicago in 1968, the forces of the organized society seem to all accrue to those in power such as the WWTO, and the citizens are left to explain their actions and their motives between the margins, since the media is seemingly uninterested in their politics or their issues. All the media wanted to concentrate on was the violence, which makes great TV, and requires little explanation.<br />Thus, by giving voice to the myriad of different organizations involved in the demonstrations, Thomas helps the reader to understand their motives in performing such acts of civil disobedience as well as the issues themselves much better. In this she performs a yeoman service to the general public, who certainly needs to understand the particulars of the issues much better if they are to ever appreciate the terrible danger organizations like the WTO potentially represent. Anyone interested in the ways in which economic globalism works, and the ways in which we each can act to constrain, block, or modify their efforts to encroach on our liberties should read this interesting and well-written book. Enjoy!WWTO, and the citizens are left to explain their actions and their motives between the margins, since the media is seemingly uninterested in their politics or their issues. All the media wanted to concentrate on was the violence, which makes great TV, and requires little explanation.  <br />Thus, by giving voice to the myriad of different organizations involved in the demonstrations, Thomas helps the reader to understand their motives in performing such acts of civil disobedience as well as the issues themselves much better. In this she performs a yeoman service to the general public, who certainly needs to understand the particulars of the issues much better if they are to ever appreciate the terrible danger organizations like the WTO potentially represent. Anyone interested in the ways in which economic globalism works, and the ways in which we each can act to constrain, block, or modify their efforts to encroach on our liberties should read this interesting and well-written book. Enjoy!	2002-10-07
1388056:US	52447634	R22QFGEG8BVROB	0871565099	6316244	In the Absence of the Sacred: The Failure of Technology and the Survival of the Indian Nations	Books	5	41	43	N	N	Critical For Understanding Where We're Going!	No one could accuse author and scholar Jerry Mander of sitting on the fence regarding his position concerning the so-called \\"Third Wave' of technological changes cascading through our society and culture. Indeed, this book has been described as a powerfully written broadside against the headlong rush into what Mander terms to be \\"Megatechnology\\", which is the combination of a number of particularly dangerous aspects of technological innovation, creating synergistic effect he believes will ultimately will be dangerous to us as individuals, consumers, and citizens. Many of the ideas he uses so effectively here were first broached in an earlier book, \\"Four Arguments For The Elimination Of Television\\".<br /><br />The author uses a variety of examples to show how the public has been deliberately manipulated and misled by a variety of boosters and cheerleaders for technological innovation, ranging from corporations, the media, academics, and even the government. This, he contends, has led to the emergence of several particularly dangerous predominant technologies such as television, genetic and molecular engineering, and computers. What is surprising is the amount of evidence Mander produces showing clearly adverse aspects of each technology, evidence which heretofore has been deliberately omitted from public scrutiny by the aggregated sponsors and cheerleaders of the technology, who obviously have a vested interest in stacking the deck in favor of their particular interest. While he sometimes strains the reader's patience with arguments that use of a technology such as computers benefits the rise of corporate globalism more than it does individuals, Mander still manages to prove why we must be more aware of the meaning of these technologies in terms of our own self-interest, and in the interest of the community at large.<br /><br />At base, what the author is really arguing for is a return to greater personal responsibility through the restoration of more traditional attitudes and values about our connection to the wider community and to an ethic of social responsibility. To the degree we allow ourselves to continue to be isolated and segregated from the community and its human-oriented interests, the more we play into the hands of forces that wish to fragment this orientation in order to better control resources, social patterns, and participation in the global economy by more forcefully orienting us toward lives as material consumers. Indeed, Mander argues, every aspect of the so-called \\"New World Order\\" is designed to acquaint and socialize us into adopting a new orientation that defines citizenship ever more exclusively as enthusiastic consumerism.<br /><br />If Mander sometimes seems a bit shrill and even romantic in his approach, urging us to return to more traditional orientations in small human communities, moving toward more sustainable lifestyles, he counters by reminding us that having the degree of faith evident in contemporary society regarding the outcome of the hell-bent thrust toward economic globalism is also quite a romantic orientation, especially given our almost medieval understanding of just what this new technologically-oriented corporate-ascendant society would look like, or what it would be like to have to live in a world where corporate economic imperatives significantly influence every aspect of our lives. Given the events of the last year with Enron, Tyko, Global Crossing, and other corporate conglomerates, who can have much faith in either their vision or their integrity?  Thousands lost their life savings due to nothing less than unbridled corporate greed! This is hardly the pedigree one wants to recommend for our collective futures. We would do well to heed his warning and to each become much better informed. This book can help! Enjoy!s about our connection to the wider community and to an ethic of social responsibility. To the degree we allow ourselves to continue to be isolated and segregated from the community and its human-oriented interests, the more we play into the hands of forces that wish to fragment this orientation in order to better control resources, social patterns, and participation in the global economy by more forcefully orienting us toward lives as material consumers. Indeed, Mander argues, every aspect of the so-called \\"New World Order\\" is designed to acquaint and socialize us into adopting a new orientation that defines citizenship ever more exclusively as enthusiastic consumerism.    If Mander sometimes seems a bit shrill and even romantic in his approach, urging us to return to more traditional orientations in small human communities, moving toward more sustainable lifestyles, he counters by reminding us that having the degree of faith evident in contemporary society regarding the outcome of the hell-bent thrust toward economic globalism is also quite a romantic orientation, especially given our almost medieval understanding of just what this new technologically-oriented corporate-ascendant society would look like, or what it would be like to have to live in a world where corporate economic imperatives significantly influence every aspect of our lives. Given the events of the last year with Enron, Tyko, Global Crossing, and other corporate conglomerates, who can have much faith in either their vision or their integrity?  Thousands lost their life savings due to nothing less than unbridled corporate greed! This is hardly the pedigree one wants to recommend for our collective futures. We would do well to heed his warning and to each become much better informed. This book can help! Enjoy!	2002-10-04
1388370:US	52447634	RQJ0Z8FV1TRGV	0871568659	810065600	The Case Against the Global Economy: And for a Turn toward the Local	Books	5	15	15	N	Y	Critical Book In Understanding Economic Globalism!	In a book one can best describe as both painstaking and muckraking, author and scholar Jerry Mander focus his considerable critical acumen by editing a series of essays on the much vaunted and constantly ballyhooed phenomenon of economic globalization. From the outset, Mander admits that the processes feeding into this process are so wide-spread, pandemic, and attractive to a variety of international corporate forces that any prospect for reversing the trend will be problematic indeed. Yet, given the potential for catastrophic consequences stemming from the movement toward the expanding influence of such global corporate enterprises, the author advises us that we would do well to try.<br />Mander was among the first critics to point out how fundamentally undemocratic the rise of the corporate entities were in terms of how they came to increasingly exert powerful influences regarding the disposition of resources, political orientations, and the public welfare. Indeed, given the fact that economic globalization may well represent the most fundamental and the most radical reorientation of the sum total of international social, economic, and political arrangements in several hundred years, it is without a doubt critical that the average citizen learn more about the nature of economic globalization, how it is being implemented, and what this phenomenon means for each of us as individuals, as consumers, and, most importantly, as citizens.<br />Thus, he and co-editor Edward Goldsmith have organized a series of 43 different essays from contributors as far ranging as Jeremy Rifkin to William Greider, from Ralph Nader to Wendell Berry, and from Jeanette Armstrong to Kirkpatrick Sale (the noted Neo-Luddite advocate), each discussing topics ranging from the nature of corporations accomplishing such change to the impact of the change for individuals in a number of important and interesting ways. Thus we have Wendell berry focusing on how corporate activities tend to attack and destroy rural opposition to facilitate the plunder of the natural resources, or William Greider discussing how a corporate giant like General Electric uses its political influence to fix the game in its favor, and this is often against the greater influence of the public at large in terms of jobs, the local economy, and the environment.<br />This is an important book, one that arms the reader with an array of facts regarding what the so-called \\"New World Order\\" really means in terms of its potential impact on each us in every aspect of our lives, as individuals, as members of the local community, as consumers of necessary (and other) products, and as citizens of a nation and of the world at large.  The scope of the change to come is immense, and it is obviously in the interest of each of us to better understand exactly what is at stake in terms of our lives, our freedoms as citizens, and our survival in a world increasingly endangered by reckless corporate activities that are destroying the biosphere. I highly recommend this book. Enjoy!nd destroy rural opposition to facilitate the plunder of the natural resources, or William Greider discussing how a corporate giant like General Electric uses its political influence to fix the game in its favor, and this is often against the greater influence of the public at large in terms of jobs, the local economy, and the environment. <br />This is an important book, one that arms the reader with an array of facts regarding what the so-called \\"New World Order\\" really means in terms of its potential impact on each us in every aspect of our lives, as individuals, as members of the local community, as consumers of necessary (and other) products, and as citizens of a nation and of the world at large.  The scope of the change to come is immense, and it is obviously in the interest of each of us to better understand exactly what is at stake in terms of our lives, our freedoms as citizens, and our survival in a world increasingly endangered by reckless corporate activities that are destroying the biosphere. I highly recommend this book. Enjoy!	2002-10-04
1389935:US	52447634	R3I2ZU1WY2CEST	0374173273	93392203	How to Be Alone: Essays	Books	5	138	153	N	N	Intriguing Look At Contemporary Society!	It is amusing and instructional when someone so far removed from the social sciences as this author obviously is makes the intriguing connection between the deadening aspects of the social surround and its effect on individual consciousness. What Franzen bemoans here is really the entire intellectual sweep of the materialistic culture we are embedded in, yet the individual characteristics he uses in the several essays included here in order to illustrate each of his well-taken points are better described as symptoms of the hollowness and lack of intellectual depth and meaning of most of our social artifacts and habits than as simply being problems in and of themselves. He hits the problem dead on when discussing the pandemic use of technology in the form of television, pop culture, and endless games and gadgetry in an attempt to stave off boredom and \\"entertain' ourselves. What we really are doing is what Aldous Huxley warned of so presciently in \\"Brave New World\\"; submerging ourselves in petty diversions and banal preoccupations, deadening ourselves to our environments and to the social world that would other act to engage us in some fashion.<br />Likewise, his discussion of how widespread use of \\"serotonin reuptake inhibitors\\" such as Prozac feeds into a general lack of awareness is quite thought-provoking. If pain, even mental anguish such as depression, can be thought of as a warning from the body that something is wrong, then the whole cultural approach now in vogue to anesthetize the pain is the functional equivalent of a denial of the pain, a quite deliberate attempt to paper it over and therefore disregard the important message it is sending to the individual that something is very wrong. By treating depression as a simple medical problem that can be medicated away as easily as athlete's foot, any hope of using the pain as a starting point for the very necessary discovery process through which one might learn what was wrong and what needed to be done to correct it is gone. In essence, doctors now simply `treat' depression by medicating the symptoms out of existence, without any regard for the very serious questions such physical and emotional manifestations of pain and discomfort may mean for the overall health and well being of the patient. Under such circumstances, the doctors are no different from a guy selling shiny new sports cars to middle aged guys like me, who want a boost out of life and are willing to pay to get it. Oops! Time to take my Zoloft and feel better.<br />Each of the essays make the reader think, and that is the single highest compliment anyone can make about anyone's writing. I may not agree with what Franzen has to say in each case, but I enjoyed his open attitude and his keen sense that something is amiss in a nation so addicted to Oprah and easy answers that he has to stand back and say \\"Enough!\\"  His criticisms of the current academic fashion of political correctness are especially interesting, as they show the absurd ways in which even the academics have \\"dumbed themselves down\\" to accept such superficial tripe as being the gospel. His notice of the fat that more and more Americans seem to becoming frightened, lonely, and isolated recalls similar observations made by social critics like Philip Slater long ago in a tome called \\"Pursuit Of Loneliness; American Culture At The Breaking Point\\" (see my review). This is an absorbing, bright, and intriguing attempt to ask some honest and penetrating questions, and while I may not agree with what he argues or with his conclusions, it is a wonderful book that raises one's intellectual curiosity and one's self-awareness in terms of how easily it is for each of us to slip into the burgeoning cultural habits he so cleverly exposes. Enjoy!rect it is gone. In essence, doctors now simply `treat' depression by medicating the symptoms out of existence, without any regard for the very serious questions such physical and emotional manifestations of pain and discomfort may mean for the overall health and well being of the patient. Under such circumstances, the doctors are no different from a guy selling shiny new sports cars to middle aged guys like me, who want a boost out of life and are willing to pay to get it. Oops! Time to take my Zoloft and feel better.<br />Each of the essays make the reader think, and that is the single highest compliment anyone can make about anyone's writing. I may not agree with what Franzen has to say in each case, but I enjoyed his open attitude and his keen sense that something is amiss in a nation so addicted to Oprah and easy answers that he has to stand back and say \\"Enough!\\"  His criticisms of the current academic fashion of political correctness are especially interesting, as they show the absurd ways in which even the academics have \\"dumbed themselves down\\" to accept such superficial tripe as being the gospel. His notice of the fat that more and more Americans seem to becoming frightened, lonely, and isolated recalls similar observations made by social critics like Philip Slater long ago in a tome called \\"Pursuit Of Loneliness; American Culture At The Breaking Point\\" (see my review). This is an absorbing, bright, and intriguing attempt to ask some honest and penetrating questions, and while I may not agree with what he argues or with his conclusions, it is a wonderful book that raises one's intellectual curiosity and one's self-awareness in terms of how easily it is for each of us to slip into the burgeoning cultural habits he so cleverly exposes. Enjoy!	2002-10-02
1390257:US	52447634	R3LH0GS3PJKJL2	0671510053	357229344	The Shipping News	Books	5	7	12	N	N	Lovely Tale About Rebirth and Redemption!	Like the wonderful recent film version culled from it, this thoughtful, subtle, and well-written novel follows the odyssey of a man so incapacitated by the skeletons in his personal closet that he is unable to deal with what is real and important in his own life. Thus, he attempts to flee to his ancestral digs to rekindle his flame and restore some hope of putting himself back together.  This Pulitzer prize winning work of fiction is a deft, uncontrived, and also not quite predictable yarn about how wrong Thomas Wolfe was in saying you can never go home again. Of course you can go home, Tom, even if going home means going someplace new, someplace where you can find your heart, your health, and your handiwork again. Even if it's someplace you've never been before. In this lovely piece, it is clear that one's home is where one's heart is lucky enough to find it, in this case along the coastal waters of Newfoundland.<br />This much said, I found this to be a thought-provoking tale of man gone back to try to find his place in the scheme of things, a man returning in search of his roots. Given the fact that doing so requires Quoyle to abandon all of his preconceptions and try to recreate himself, and in this the relationships that develop both hinder and help Quoyle in his own recreation process. In this sense the book is a carefully crafted character study of Quoyle, and it details his tortured efforts to pry himself out the long-term depression and self-recriminations and doubt he has fallen victim to, and in finding a way out of the box life has placed him in.<br />The characters and the story are both well accomplished, and the storyline proceeds with some twists and turns along the way en-route to his growth and maturation, finding both lust and love to be invigorating, dangerous, and intoxicating.  While one finds a number of nuances here that are not as prominent in the film version, what I noticed while reading it was the degree to which it aided me in understanding why Kevin Spacey played various elements of the character the way he did. I recommend this to anyone wanting what eventually turns out to be an uplifting and inspirational work about the possibility of and finding himself again, and finding redemption in his connections and commitments to others he comes to care about it in the course of the story. Enjoy!erstanding why Kevin Spacey played various elements of the character the way he did. I recommend this to anyone wanting what eventually turns out to be an uplifting and inspirational work about the possibility of and finding himself again, and finding redemption in his connections and commitments to others he comes to care about it in the course of the story. Enjoy!	2002-10-02
1390499:US	52447634	R1RYDDV4LYHQPA	0802139515	570501457	The Bureau and the Mole: The Unmasking of Robert Philip Hanssen, the Most Dangerous Double Agent in FBI History	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Well-Written But Limited Examination Of Hanssen Spy Story!	One almost comical aspect of the continuing revelations concerning the network of spies and traitors operating deep within the bowels of the CIA and FBI is the way it belies our assumptions regarding security measures in this country. As is becoming clearer with recent announcements pertaining to the degree to which various had important information that might have helped to prevent the incidences occurring on September 11th, but either buried in their own files or refused to share with other agencies for a variety of self-serving purposes. We are neither well-organized nor well-disposed in regards to civil defense preparedness to guard against such terrorist acts.<br />So too, this excellent biography of master spy Robert Philip Hanssen, a senior official within the headquarters staff of the FBI, shows how poorly we have managed and safeguarded our national secrets. Hanssen managed to hide in plain sight as a mole for the Russians, divulging sensitive and secret information gleaned from the files of the FBU, CIA, NSA, and the Executive Branch. His actions of betrayal undermined decades of work to protect such information regarding our national defense, and finally triggered one of the longest and most intense manhunts in modern history. His capture came after a long a tortuous cat and mouse game set into motion by FBI chief Louis Freeh, who quickly came to suspect a highly placed mole within the FBI soon after taking the reins of the agency.<br />So it turns out, certain aspects of a secret life seemed to appeal to this bizarre but brilliant opportunist, who rose from relative poverty and obscurity after graduating from college. Yet, so dour and serious was his demeanor that he was nicknamed \\"Dr. Death' for his strait-laced dress style, which consisted exclusively of plain black suits, wingtips, and subdued ties. He had been questioned a number of times in connection with the suspected espionage, but was never taken seriously as a suspect until he was captured red-handed with a satchel-full of data at one of the Russian drop-spots. Author David Vise does a journeyman's job of revealing aspects of Hanssen's background, personality, and social circumstances that help the reader to better understand why and how such a man, so seemingly dedicated to the country could so handily betray it literally for decades, and all for nothing more than a fistful of money.<br />To briefly summarize, this is an interesting book, and one that actively seeks to find some rationale for what Hanssen did and why he continued to do so for decades before being caught. While the author tends to fawn over Mr. Freeh and the FBI a bit much, the book is in fact well written and quite interesting and absorbing to experience. It is a quick and an enjoyable read. Enjoy!d-handed with a satchel-full of data at one of the Russian drop-spots. Author David Vise does a journeyman's job of revealing aspects of Hanssen's background, personality, and social circumstances that help the reader to better understand why and how such a man, so seemingly dedicated to the country could so handily betray it literally for decades, and all for nothing more than a fistful of money.<br />To briefly summarize, this is an interesting book, and one that actively seeks to find some rationale for what Hanssen did and why he continued to do so for decades before being caught. While the author tends to fawn over Mr. Freeh and the FBI a bit much, the book is in fact well written and quite interesting and absorbing to experience. It is a quick and an enjoyable read. Enjoy!	2002-10-02
1391084:US	52447634	R31EMYW25THCPT	0375505636	872371639	Warrior Politics: Why Leadership Demands a Pagan Ethos	Books	3	22	35	N	N	Interesting But Intellectually Dishonest!	Over the last decade or so Robert Kaplan has become a kind of neo-conservative cottage industry, churning out interesting and well-written tomes that challenged conventional wisdom by using a kind of realpolitick approach to foreign policy issues in a way that often showed the illusory nature of more ordinary thinking on the specific subject matter. Yet he has also refused to abandon such self-serving notions as the silly and patently absurd idea that international politics is somehow surrealistically above and beyond the crass and commercial influence wielded by special interest groups and corporate pressures within a nation's power elite. Yet if anything, we have all come to rrecognize just how down and dirty such powerful such upper class influences have been when applied to the United States in the last twenty years of the 20th century.<br />Other reviewers have described Mr. Kaplan as having a \\"well-deserved reputation as one of the advocates of a \\"realist foreign policy\\", and indeed, to the extent he uses his keen intellect and personal experience to offer the reader insight, he is obviously a man well worth reading and listening to. Yet one must take Mr. Kaplan's advice and observations in rather small and homeopathic doses, lest one neglect to notice his rather conventional and neo-conservative bias showing through. I fear the author is a wolf hiding in a fox's clothing. He's just another apologist for a do-nothing bunch of politicians who continue to try to play hide the flag from the public.<br />For example, he often uses the nations of the so-called Third World as examples of chaos and self-destruction, without ever mentioning the degree to which corporate fingerprints and the legacy of self-serving actions by the World bank have left these same countries trapped into a self-defeating cycle, teetering on bankruptcy and forced to export many indigenous crops rather than feed their own in order to stave off the wolves in wool-blended suits. Yet here in this new effort he finally begins to recognize and admit that mere nation states lack the power to restrain the corporate entities that operate on a world scale as virtually untouchable and unstoppable titans, beyond the ken and laws of any single nation-state. Welcome to the real world, Robert.<br />I am also a bit disappointed in his deliberate ignorance regarding placement of blame for social and political indifference in the so-called social democracies of the west. He waxes philosophically about the shocking degree of political apathy without recognizing the efforts by corporate entities (who own the mass electronic media) to dissuade, defuse, and dislocate the concerns, issues, and realities of contemporary life, making news into vehicles for entertainment, and sidelining our real and urgent concerns with exercises in tawdry entertainment, such as the sad spectacle of the Bill Clinton-and that Monica person affair, which so saturated and dominated the media for well over a year, and about which the average citizens was almost completely indifferent. Yet in that time frame that was the only subject discussed in any detail or with any regularity. The rest of the complicated world faded to some altered plain of existence for the duration, I guess. Nothing else was happening<br />Also, Mr. Kaplan's solipsistic attempt to try to blame public indifference on materialism and self-absorption is like complaining the kids we are giving Prozac to are too zonked to be intense competitors anymore. After all, in the last year George Bush has become more a salesman for boosted consumerism as a form of patriotic duty than a genuine leader of his people. Give us all a break, Bob. We're too busy trying to figure out why this mysterious bunch of nitwits within the Executive Branch of Government wants to invade Iraq to go buy any more books pandering to some new version of conventional wisdom.<br />I finally tired of Mr. Kaplan's literary and historical allusions, as when he claimsthere is nothing new in any of this. The problem is that there is something new here, something the founding fathers he quotes so often never had to consider; the capability to systematically and quite deliberately use the elements of the electronic media to so completely propagandize and convince the citizenry that the world is flat that we are beginning to believe it. As another author said in a recent book, if one subtracts all the specialized technical knowledge individuals have regarding technical and scientific aspects of the particular specialty they are professionally employed in, the truth is that most of us live in a world that we know, interpret, and experience in an almost medieval fashion, without really knowing much of anything based on our own direct and personal experience. Instead, we trust to the words and experiences of others like Mr. Kaplan to tell us what is real. In this case, that is a very dangerous presumption to make. This is a worthwhile and interesting book. Unfortunately it doesn't appear to be a very honest or forthright one.s there is nothing new in any of this. The problem is that there is something new here, something the founding fathers he quotes so often never had to consider; the capability to systematically and quite deliberately use the elements of the electronic media to so completely propagandize and convince the citizenry that the world is flat that we are beginning to believe it. As another author said in a recent book, if one subtracts all the specialized technical knowledge individuals have regarding technical and scientific aspects of the particular specialty they are professionally employed in, the truth is that most of us live in a world that we know, interpret, and experience in an almost medieval fashion, without really knowing much of anything based on our own direct and personal experience. Instead, we trust to the words and experiences of others like Mr. Kaplan to tell us what is real. In this case, that is a very dangerous presumption to make. This is a worthwhile and interesting book. Unfortunately it doesn't appear to be a very honest or forthright one.	2002-10-01
1391421:US	52447634	R1XTB3W30L3CLX	0671447971	859533335	Powers of Mind	Books	5	44	45	N	N	Wonderful Excursion into the World Of Altered Consciousness!	One of the best non-fiction books to come out of the mid-1970s was this wonderful tongue-in-cheek exploration of a whole raft of different mind-expansion techniques by the best-selling author Adam Smith. From Rolfing to EST, Smith includes us in his often  humorous attempts to gain genuine insight into how the human mind works, and how we can each individually overcome the limitations, liabilities, and lamentations associated with living with our minds. And, as Smith tells us again and again, your mind is not necessarily your friend.<br />Although he writes in a self-deprecating and quite comedic way, often he uses his wry and laser-sharp mind to show us things well worth knowing. Indeed, this book is not a throwaway effort, but is a very helpful and essential guide to a plethora of different philosophies, techniques, and modalities dealing with different ways of gaining further self-awareness.  Smith asks himself if he really could, as is claimed by some adherents, learn to control his blood pressure, stifle headaches, or learn to pop himself into an alpha state? And by the way, he asks, what is an alpha state, and why do we want to achieve it? How useful is meditation, and what can it really do for us?<br />In reality, this is aground-breaking effort to introduce the field of consciousness psychology, of the whole field surrounding questions of the mind-body connection and how to approach getting involved. What makes sense and what doesn't become more apparent as we accompany Smith through adventures in Arica, or Transcendental Meditation, or what Dr. Herbert Benson of Harvard refers to as the post-relaxation response. In an aside, Smith begins to question his own ideas about what is real and what is not, and the ways in which our own so-called reality paradigm predisposes us to seeing, interpreting, and experiencing the world around us in a particular way.<br />I found myself particularly astounded by his own experiences in a sensory deprivation tank, and how he seemed to experience out-of-body experiences associated with these excursions to the far reaches of consciousness exploration.  I lost my only copy of the book in a fire last year, and just recently re-acquired another copy through the Amazon out-of-print book service. It is an unqualified joy to be re-reading it again after all this time. Do yourself a favor a get yourself a copy too. I know you will love reading it too. Enjoy!he seemed to experience out-of-body experiences associated with these excursions to the far reaches of consciousness exploration.  I lost my only copy of the book in a fire last year, and just recently re-acquired another copy through the Amazon out-of-print book service. It is an unqualified joy to be re-reading it again after all this time. Do yourself a favor a get yourself a copy too. I know you will love reading it too. Enjoy!	2002-10-01
1391761:US	52447634	R27KBT3QCSFGAK	0679642226	502233696	Hitler and the Holocaust (Modern Library Chronicles)	Books	5	10	17	N	N	Illuminating and Useful Discussion Of The Holocaust!	This interesting book by Robert Wistrich is an attempt to concentrate on the question as to why the Nazis placed so much emphasis on the extermination of the European Jews, often when doing so meant endangering the other goals they were surging toward during the conduct of the war. The author, of course, understands that the whole of the national Socialist movement sprang from the discontent and absurd racism of the Volkist history of the Reich, much of it dating back centuries. From the time Germany was forged out of the crucible of Prussia and its environs, the collection of Germanic peoples looked for those unifying themes that would untie them as distinct people and extend to them the greatness that had so eluded them and their culture.  Given their history of cultural insecurity, it seems as no surprise that an entity like the Jews had to found and scapegoated to justify their grandiloquent dreams.<br />As the author points out (and as others such as Lucy Dawidowicz so famously in \\"The War Against The Jews'), this scapegoating effort was no only an expediency arising from the discontent and chaos of the Weimar years after World War One, but also a deep-seated cultural tradition extending back hundreds if not thousands of years. Indeed, questions regarding Jewish claims to citizenship had been hotly debated both officially and unofficially every place from the many legislative forums to the floors of the local pubs as long as anyone could recall. There was nothing new or novel about German prejudice against and antipathy for the Jews. And as he adds so succinctly, this was (and indeed is) a problem extending far beyond German borders. After all, we do well to remember that most European countries turned their backs on the problems of the Jewish &eacute;migr&eacute;s attempting by the thousands to flee the coming horror in Nazi Germany.  Indeed, many such as the Swiss and the French cooperated in handing over indigenous Jews to the German authorities during the war.<br />Moreover, the climate of blind indifference extended to the pulpits of the clergy, as well, and persistent rumors claim that the Pope himself was cognizant of the plight of the German and other European Jews and did little if anything to intercede. In fat, this book provides a yeoman's service by articulating and discussing a number of salient and competing interpretations, ranging from Daniel Goldhagen's controversial thesis enunciated in \\"Hitler's Willing Executioners: Ordinary Germans and the Holocaust\\" to Christopher Browning's thesis as expounded in several recent  books (see my reviews of both authors' works). Wistrich also recapitulates the differences between the so-called \\"intentionalist' and \\"functionalist' theories of the Holocaust, and as I have written elsewhere, I believe that while the evidence indicates a functional approach, I also believe that the same evidence is consistent with the idea that Hitler and the Nazis always intended to exterminate the Jews (along with all of the indigenous populations of the conquered territories to the east). All the functional argument really proves, as far as I can see, is that  existential circumstances played into the execution of a standing policy which was a virtual cornerstone of Nazi social policy.<br />As someone professionally educated as a sociologist, I was fascinated by the author's discussion of the meaning of the Holocaust in terms of history, and the question as to whether or not it represented the \\"antithesis of Western Civilization\\" or its realization. This treads very close to a searing indictment made by sociologist Max Weber of the eventual drift of rationalism as practiced in western societies toward a kind of non-thinking and non-substantive form of the rational impulse, a shadow which contented itself with the forms and practices of rationalism but none of its intent and rigor. To the extent he was correct that such a society would become an \\"iron cage\\" imprisoning man and endangeringeverything good that he stood for, perhaps Mr. Wistrich is onto something here. Enjoy!ng good that he stood for, perhaps Mr. Wistrich is onto something here. Enjoy!	2002-10-01
1392161:US	52447634	R2NU695F8MB96X	1568495749	636552355	To the Finland Station	Books	5	50	61	N	Y	A Signal Book About The Soviet Revolution!	It is a singularly ironic fact that one of the most important books of the 20th century, written and published in 1940 by one of its most perceptive, intellectually gifted, and universally accepted authors, Edmund Wilson, would, until very recently, find itself sadly out of print.  To my mind this is a scathing indictment of our current level of intellectual prowess. Or, perhaps it is more properly a reflection of the decreased public and academic interest in communism based on the collapse of the former Soviet Union as well as the curious transmogrification of China into some version of a politically correct socialist state practicing along the margins of capitalism. Yet in truth this book is such a marvel of intellectual achievement and writing skill that it should be read, if not devoured, by anyone with any serious interest in non-fiction writing as an avocation.<br />Edmund Wilson has suffered the same fate as the book, which is equally as curious. Of course, he was not as notorious as literary figure as one of his 20th century colleagues, H.L Mencken, who is still largely in print and in vogue, but Wilson so towers over all of his contemporaries that it is indeed mysterious that he has fallen into relative obscurity both as a writer and as a critic, as well. Yet Wilson was truly a renaissance figure, a gifted and talented poet, playwright, novelist, historian, and critical reviewer for a variety of magazines and periodicals such as the New Yorker, Vanity Fair, and The New Republic, a man able to articulate his position with regard to a plethora of social and political issues with great power and verve.<br />Yet it was in tomes such as this that he achieved his greatest powers of exposition, in this penetrating, quite detailed, and absorbing review of all the chief philosophical, political, social and economic elements of the chief architects of the Soviet revolution. Wilson had been a great student and admirer of the collected works of Karl Marx, and brought his immense intellectual and reporting skills to bear in describing the men, the ideas, and the issues of the so-called October revolution of 1918. It is the single best source of information regarding all of the various components of the massively important revolutionary process, neatly synthesizing the ways in which the various personalities, political circumstances, philosophical predispositions, and historical happenstance combined in the moist unlikely of revolutions in what Karl Marx considered one of the least likely of states, one so rural, so backward, and so vastly composed of uneducated ragged proletariat.<br />And in this stunning exploration we find new reason to understand and appreciate the power of individual personalities in the historical process, and the way that exceptional figures like Lenin, Trotsky, and Stalin, and the ways in which various aspects of Marxist theory were used and abused in promulgating what would become Soviet socialism's dogmatic approach to creating a worker's paradise. As we thread our way through the particulars of Marxian theory Wilson is so intricately familiar with, we begin to understand his fascination with both Marx's genius and the subtleties of Marx's exposition. Too many of us forget how bastardized and vulgarized the versions of Marxism promulgated by Stalin were, and how much they worked against the inexorable truths Marx found ticking away in the universal time-clock he saw operating behind history's time.<br />So, too, is Wilson's examination of Lenin a wondrous thing to read through, with his thoughtful if perhaps too sympathetic explanations of Lenin's goals, motives, and frustrations in trying to set the revolution on course and on-mark with the needs of the modern socialist state he envisioned to grow from the original seizure of power. Unfortunately, he never lived to see the radical experiment through to its fruition, nor the  fateful poisoning of the spirit of the revolution accomplished by Stalin in hisparanoid and sociopathic manipulations and purges.  This is an absolutely magnetic reading experience, one that will illustrate just how powerfully and how memorably a writer with extraordinary gifts and an incredible intellectual acumen can be. I highly recommend this book for anyone aspiring to a serious education about the events of the 20th century, of which the Soviet revolution of October 1918 is certainly an extraordinarily important part. Enjoy!his paranoid and sociopathic manipulations and purges.  This is an absolutely magnetic reading experience, one that will illustrate just how powerfully and how memorably a writer with extraordinary gifts and an incredible intellectual acumen can be. I highly recommend this book for anyone aspiring to a serious education about the events of the 20th century, of which the Soviet revolution of October 1918 is certainly an extraordinarily important part. Enjoy!	2002-10-01
1393334:US	52447634	R1QVENV7CHSSJ9	1886913137	928128139	Hope, Human and Wild: True Stories of Living Lightly on the Earth	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	Another Thoughtful Book By Bill McKibben	In a time when many people finally accept the fact of global warming and of continuing human assault on the environment, Bill McKibben has launched this wonderfully written, inspiring, and informative book, another in his continuing series of important essays on the complex relationship between humankind and the planet we inhabit. McKibben, a former writer for The Atlantic Monthly magazine, transplanted himself and his small family in the Adirondack region of upstate New York in the late 1980s, from whence he has come once more to deliver a healthy dollop of insight, whimsy, and wisdom concerning the way we continue to walk not so lightly on the earth.<br />Like most environmentalists, McKibben is deeply concerned about the continuing onslaught on the skin of the planet, and about our continuing disregard for the welfare of everything within the natural environment we most depend upon to have a continuing quality of life. Yet he is also propelled by aspects of his own experience with the ecology of his local area to set off on what he terms to be an exploration of hope, in the sense that he was searching for examples of recovery and progress in the natural landscape. One wonderful example he uses is that of the recovery of the amount of land reforested since the signal journey of one Timothy White, who in traveling in the early 1800s found very little land not cut and turned to the plow. Yet some two hundred years later, much of the Northeast forest is once again covering the landscape, and all of this in spite of the vastly increased population over the landmass in question.<br />Of course, as McKibben admits, must of the reforesting took place based on the gradual abandonment of the lands of the Northeast in the so-called western migration as we fulfilled our \\"Manifest Destiny\\", and this migration also spelled further deforestation efforts in those area under active migration. Once again, part of the genius of the natural environmental processes can be viewed in such a way, requiring not so much in the way of human intervention as in a kind of purposeful benign neglect (my own hackneyed term, not McKibben's). Left alone long enough, natural processes are underway that are restoring the Northeast forests to their primordial glory. And, like McKibben, I wonder at the good fortune some of us have to live in relatively sparsely developed and populated areas, where we can enjoy nature on amore personal level, where deer and bear and moose and all sorts of birds are free to live and roam. I sit in wonder with my friends the Labradors and watch, enraptured as  the geese soar noisily above me this time every year.....<br />Moreover, one must share his frustration and sadness at the prospect of such massive forces denuding and despoiling the ecosystems even as we read and write. While he offers some reasons for hope, the truth may be that things will have to become much worse for human beings to begin to act more responsibly in following his advice to find many more ways to walk more lightly on the earth. It is imperative for those of us who understand the magnitude of the dangers confronting us act to continue to try to inform others, while also preparing to gradually break our own bonds to this culture of waste and wanton destruction. This book is more fuel for our own sustenance as we begin the long journey back to what Joni Mitchell once called \\"the garden'. See you there! Enjoy!n such a way, requiring not so much in the way of human intervention as in a kind of purposeful benign neglect (my own hackneyed term, not McKibben's). Left alone long enough, natural processes are underway that are restoring the Northeast forests to their primordial glory. And, like McKibben, I wonder at the good fortune some of us have to live in relatively sparsely developed and populated areas, where we can enjoy nature on amore personal level, where deer and bear and moose and all sorts of birds are free to live and roam. I sit in wonder with my friends the Labradors and watch, enraptured as  the geese soar noisily above me this time every year.....<br />Moreover, one must share his frustration and sadness at the prospect of such massive forces denuding and despoiling the ecosystems even as we read and write. While he offers some reasons for hope, the truth may be that things will have to become much worse for human beings to begin to act more responsibly in following his advice to find many more ways to walk more lightly on the earth. It is imperative for those of us who understand the magnitude of the dangers confronting us act to continue to try to inform others, while also preparing to gradually break our own bonds to this culture of waste and wanton destruction. This book is more fuel for our own sustenance as we begin the long journey back to what Joni Mitchell once called \\"the garden'. See you there! Enjoy!	2002-09-30
1396266:US	52447634	R2L4PL7PUFSOUG	070061091X	470401617	Irreparable Harm: A Firsthand Account of How One Agent Took on the CIA in an Epic Battle Over Free Speech	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Absorbing Description of Life After the CIA!	One of the aspects of organizational whistle-blowing that makes it such a hazardous choice for the individual wanting to tell the explosive truth he has to share with us is the fact that too often he or she must pay a terrible personal price for the singular act of selflessness the whistleblowing represents. So here in the case of former CIA analyst Frank Snepp, who used his considerable writing skills to such advantage in the best-selling book \\"Decent Interval\\", which details the manifest ways in which the American government deliberately misled, betrayed, and deceived the government and people of South Vietnam by deciding to withdraw all American forces and then allow the North Vietnamese Army (NVA) to execute what would almost certainly be a fatal sweep southward to envelop and overwhelm the Army of the Republic Of Vietnam (ARVN).<br />In the present book Snepp describes the ways in which his former employers, the Central Intelligence Agency, used its considerable influence, powers, and resources to derail his effort to publish the book, and upon the failure of that effort (\\"Decent Interval\\" was published in 1977), to then punitively pursue confiscation of all of the monies earned by Snepp in association with the book's overwhelming sales success in order to punish Snepp for his trangression of the rules forbidding publication of any materials by former employees without express permission by the CIA. The law suit subsequently filed by the CIA went through all of the appropriate venues, finally landing in the Supreme Court and, according to Snepp, an audience that was quite sympathetic to the Agency's argument. Thus, although he was defended well by a then little-known Harvard lawyer by the name of Alan Dershowitz, Snepp lost the case to the CIA.<br />Of course, given his personal involvement and the loss of a substantial sum of money as a result, one suspects Snepp is less than objective in his analysis of the case. He admits as much by way of an extended critique of himself and his own actions, which he readily admits may have had the inadvertent and ironic effect of increasing the degree of governmental restrictions on information, acting to further bias the government's restrictions on free speech, open government, and secrecy itself.  This is a very interesting read, although it hardly for the faint of heart. I recommend it for anyone interested in the ways in which the bureaucracy works and operates. Enjoy!itique of himself and his own actions, which he readily admits may have had the inadvertent and ironic effect of increasing the degree of governmental restrictions on information, acting to further bias the government's restrictions on free speech, open government, and secrecy itself.  This is a very interesting read, although it hardly for the faint of heart. I recommend it for anyone interested in the ways in which the bureaucracy works and operates. Enjoy!	2002-09-26
1396275:US	52447634	R1IJI4TH9AMH5M	0609609874	336594272	See No Evil: The True Story of a Ground Soldier in the CIA's War on Terrorism	Books	4	12	14	N	Y	Intriguing Look At World Of CIA !	This is a sometimes-fascinating look into the world of a covert intelligence operative on the ground on what is often hostile terrain of a variety of foreign countries. Robert Baer was a field officer for the Central Intelligence Agency for more than 20 years, and shares his recollections, observations, and frustrations with us as he recounts the personal experiences of a long and fruitful career in the shadowy world of the Middle East. His personal exploits ring especially true in view of the 911 experience, and the author explains why neither the scope nor the success of the attack surprises him, given the degree to which the agency had been devastated by the accumulated years of witch hunts and the pressure to be more politically correct.<br />For example, he directly addresses the issue of how such a large scale and complex covert operation as the attack on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon could have possibly been accomplished without any significant detection or compromise, advising the reader that the growing Islamic threats that were emanating from radical Muslim fundamentalists never reached the radar screens of the much more traditionally-oriented CIA, which had few resources dedicated or even capable of attempting to adequately surveil such organizations. The CIA, increasingly bureaucratic and befuddled by the meaning of the rising tide of Islamic extremism, had few analysts capable of either reading or speaking in most of the Arabic dialects.<br />Baer was a student from the old school of covert operations, running agents in the field and running down leads on suspected terrorists throughout the very active area of the Middle East. Over time he became increasingly frustrated by drastic reductions in funding, sanctions for covert operations, and lack of either sufficient interest or appreciation for the skills and aptitudes it would take to place competent and effective agents on the ground in the Arabic countries. What he observed was individuals who were savvy political infighters rising through the bureaucracy and heading back to Washington to realize their personal ambitions within the Headquarters hierarchy. Increasingly, then, field operations were unnecessarily compromised by the inept administration of such ambitious incompetents.<br />At a more profound level, he observed the gradual poisoning of the whole intelligence field by an Executive branch that considered the interests of business and commerce more important than the duty of protecting its citizens. So defanged of its mission and its motive forces, the CIA was no longer in any position to accurately and professionally decipher the complex information available concerning the aims and objectives of a wide range of emerging terrorist organizations. The author cautions that unless we learn from the events of 911 and the manifest failures of our intelligence services to give us adequate warning of the impending threat, we can expect more attacks, more loss of property, and a much greater loss of life.<br />This is an intriguing book, and one that I recommend for serious reading. Enjoy!who were savvy political infighters rising through the bureaucracy and heading back to Washington to realize their personal ambitions within the Headquarters hierarchy. Increasingly, then, field operations were unnecessarily compromised by the inept administration of such ambitious incompetents. <br />At a more profound level, he observed the gradual poisoning of the whole intelligence field by an Executive branch that considered the interests of business and commerce more important than the duty of protecting its citizens. So defanged of its mission and its motive forces, the CIA was no longer in any position to accurately and professionally decipher the complex information available concerning the aims and objectives of a wide range of emerging terrorist organizations. The author cautions that unless we learn from the events of 911 and the manifest failures of our intelligence services to give us adequate warning of the impending threat, we can expect more attacks, more loss of property, and a much greater loss of life. <BR>This is an intriguing book, and one that I recommend for serious reading. Enjoy!	2002-09-26
1396933:US	52447634	R619BZH4HH7O2	0195079035	139376786	Hitler's Army: Soldiers, Nazis, and War in the Third Reich (Oxford Paperbacks)	Books	4	18	24	N	Y	Absorbing and Thoughtful Book On Eastern Front!	One of the most troubling and horrific aspects of the four-year long Eastern campaign begun in June 1941 by the Germans is the effect it had on their soldiers, who were pounded mercilessly by the evolving circumstances of the battle month after month along a thousand mile front. When that front gradually turned into a quicksilver panorama of different conflicts in quick succession over a variety of terrain, against an ever-changing cast of millions of Russian soldiers, the war became a living hell for the foot soldier of the Wehrmacht.<br /><br />In this excellent exposition by Harvard fellow Bartov, the focus remains on the nature of the blood-thirsty struggle between the forces of the Wehrmacht on the one hand, and their seemingly indefatiguable Soviet opponents on the other. From the beginning the Germans were horrified by the fighting ferocity of their foes, who would fight literally until they were  dead, who seldom surrendered, and who seemed propelled by an energy and life-force quite unlike anything the Germans had witnessed up to that point. They would fight until the ammunition was exhausted, and then fight on with fixed bayonets, with swords, and with knives, hand to hand, until they were all dead.<br />Of course, the Germans were no strangers to savage warfare, and had been forged in the crucible of prior conflicts into a rugged hardiness that made them formidable foes indeed. Yet they were singularly unprepared for the energy and determination the Russians showed them at every turn. The experience was quite educational, and made the Germans even more savage in their own execution of the war. Given the long chain for logistics support and the elusive nature of the much-hoped for collapse of the Soviet Army and a subsequent capitulation by the communist regime, the average German foot soldier found himself forced to commit his own series of personal day to day atrocities just to survive in the harsh and unforgiving winter conditions of rural, agrarian Russia.<br />This tome is an explorations of the depths of depravity and savage circumstances the German soldier found himself subjected to, and how this experience molded him more and more into the shape of the Hitlerian conception of the Eastern war as a war for the survival of the Aryan race against the sub-human Slavic hordes. Seen in this way, the German soldier fought for the survival not of himself and his comrades, but for the survival of the German race as well. Given the extraordinary set of existential circumstances present, it is not hard to understand how Hitler's world view and his racist ideas eventually became so widespread and so fervently believed among the German troops along the Eastern front. Stripped of their original comrades, and thrown together into a constantly changing set of organizations with an ever-changing cast of individual players, 0ne found oneself more and more hypnotized by the facile rhetoric and actions of the Third Reich. This is an absorbing and thought-provoking book, and one I am sure you will take pleasure in reading. Enjoy!. <br />This tome is an explorations of the depths of depravity and savage circumstances the German soldier found himself subjected to, and how this experience molded him more and more into the shape of the Hitlerian conception of the Eastern war as a war for the survival of the Aryan race against the sub-human Slavic hordes. Seen in this way, the German soldier fought for the survival not of himself and his comrades, but for the survival of the German race as well. Given the extraordinary set of existential circumstances present, it is not hard to understand how Hitler's world view and his racist ideas eventually became so widespread and so fervently believed among the German troops along the Eastern front. Stripped of their original comrades, and thrown together into a constantly changing set of organizations with an ever-changing cast of individual players, 0ne found oneself more and more hypnotized by the facile rhetoric and actions of the Third Reich. This is an absorbing and thought-provoking book, and one I am sure you will take pleasure in reading. Enjoy!	2002-09-26
1399620:US	52447634	R3R9HA022IAJMV	0805048987	309725095	Media Unlimited: How the Torrent of Images and Sounds Overwhelms Our Lives	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Intriguing Look At How Media Affects Our Perceptions!	In this wry and perceptive tome, sociologist and social critic Todd Gitlin takes aim at the plethora of ways in which the modern electronic media has become such an integral part of our cultural environment that it acts to influence us in a number of important and substantive ways. In an argument reminiscent of both Karl Marx and c. Wright Mills, he writes convincingly of the insidious influence such media influence acts to rearrange our social, economic, and even psychic awareness of everything around us. Therefore, he argues, our very feelings and ideas are saturated by and therefore encumbered with, a dose of supersaturated information-rich data, and it is difficult to understand where the influence ends and we as substantive human beings begin. For what is coming at us is a revolutionary force, a virtual torrent of information hurtling down on us with increasing speed.<br />This onslaught of media-propelled information has become a flood of images, data, and symbols we are scarcely aware of in terms of its ability to influence and guide us in our daily lives and the degree to which we carry it around with us as perceptive baggage. In this sense we are manipulated to an unknown extent by this baggage and by the predisposition to seeing the world in a certain way. Seen in this way, it threatens our individuality and our ability to participate meaningfully in a democratic setting.<br />So, while it is commonplace to observe that the media surrounds us in all we say and do, it is less well understood how profoundly this media presence affects us in almost every aspect of our lives. Few critics point out the degree to which this immersion in a world flooded by media manipulation of every element of social, economic, and political phenomena, or what this immersion does to us individually in terms of our own ability to perceive the truth, or to our own critical thinking or cognitive functioning.<br />Just as C. Wright Mills warned of the potential for political evil rising from the domination of the mass society stemming from the media's ability to slant social perceptions, Gitlin points out the degree to which our habitual reliance on the media for most of the information we need and use to conduct every aspect of our lives also makes us a prisoner of the quality of the information we are given in viewing the outside world or even ourselves. This is a terrific book, one that takes an intriguing look at certain elements of out media and how it affects as citizens, companions, and individuals. Enjoy!rising from the domination of the mass society stemming from the media's ability to slant social perceptions, Gitlin points out the degree to which our habitual reliance on the media for most of the information we need and use to conduct every aspect of our lives also makes us a prisoner of the quality of the information we are given in viewing the outside world or even ourselves. This is a terrific book, one that takes an intriguing look at certain elements of out media and how it affects as citizens, companions, and individuals. Enjoy!	2002-09-24
1400736:US	52447634	R31TCQ9I0WVPVG	0805056866	410651536	Eisenhower: A Soldier's Life	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Well-Written Biography Of Ike's Military Career	There is certainly no shortage of biographies of Dwight David Eisenhower, but this particular effort written by Carlo D'Este concentrates brilliantly on a comprehensive coverage of Ike's military career as an officer, focusing much more than any of the other treatments of Ike's life on the amazing transformation Eisenhower made from being a staff officer to becoming the Supreme Allied Commander for the European Campaign. Indeed, Eisenhower was literally transformed from the doldrums of being a career Lt. Colonel to being a five star General in just over three years, based on his unusual organizational abilities and the occasion of the outbreak of WWII.  This was done based on his long apprenticeship as a career officer, with a multitude of trying and difficult assignments, including one long-term tour as General Douglas MacArthur's aide and later his executive officer.<br />Eisenhower's forte was his ability to organize and oversee a variety of complex assignments simultaneously, and his keen sense of bureaucratic gamesmanship. It was this set of capabilities that General of the Army George Marshall keyed in on and recognized as crucially important to whoever would command the prosecution of the war with the Allies in Europe, which both Marshall and Churchill understood would be a titanic effort, and one so complicated that no one short of a brilliant bureaucrat certainly would not be able to execute. In the midst of all this Sturm und Drang, Eisenhower had to learn the lessons of modern warfare, for he was neither a solid tactician nor a logistician. Through the crucible of both the African and Mediterranean campaigns Ike gained a better understanding of how to carry through the planning and the execution of the different phases of a campaign successfully.<br />Still, this was no easy task. He was personally stretched to the limits of endurance, and was unable to sleep for weeks prior to the Normandy invasion. He suffered the hardships of long absences from his wife and family, and the rumors of an affair with his English jeep driver Kay Summersby ran rampant. Still, he held the coalition of quite different egos and often clashing personalities together extraordinarily well, forging uneasy alliances with Field Marshall Montgomery and with a host of other difficult people to smooth out the incredibly difficulty task of getting all of the aspects of the mammoth D-Day invasion plan working together. Yet beneath the calm and driven exterior was a literal volcano of emotion, for he was a mercurial type who demanded much of his subordinated, and who also drove himself quite as mercilessly.<br />D'Este is highly critical of Eisenhower's performance in many ways, and shows how various blunders by Eisenhower both lengthened and extended the war. Yet no one can deny the titanic triumph Ike was largely responsible for in terms of making D-Day a success and for then determinedly stamping out the stubborn remnants of resistance in the long and difficult drive toward Berlin. We are treated to glimpses of Ike's sense of frustration in his refusal to sit down with the defeated German Generals due to their barbarous conduct during the war, and he (along with Winston Churchill) once advocated for the summary execution of all such captured senior officers before being outvoted by Roosevelt, who wanted a trial to showcase how civilized and judicious we would be in extending the rule of law even to those who had been deliberately lawless themselves. This is a wonderful book, and one I am sure you would benefit from reading. Enjoy!ife and family, and the rumors of an affair with his English jeep driver Kay Summersby ran rampant. Still, he held the coalition of quite different egos and often clashing personalities together extraordinarily well, forging uneasy alliances with Field Marshall Montgomery and with a host of other difficult people to smooth out the incredibly difficulty task of getting all of the aspects of the mammoth D-Day invasion plan working together. Yet beneath the calm and driven exterior was a literal volcano of emotion, for he was a mercurial type who demanded much of his subordinated, and who also drove himself quite as mercilessly. <br />D'Este is highly critical of Eisenhower's performance in many ways, and shows how various blunders by Eisenhower both lengthened and extended the war. Yet no one can deny the titanic triumph Ike was largely responsible for in terms of making D-Day a success and for then determinedly stamping out the stubborn remnants of resistance in the long and difficult drive toward Berlin. We are treated to glimpses of Ike's sense of frustration in his refusal to sit down with the defeated German Generals due to their barbarous conduct during the war, and he (along with Winston Churchill) once advocated for the summary execution of all such captured senior officers before being outvoted by Roosevelt, who wanted a trial to showcase how civilized and judicious we would be in extending the rule of law even to those who had been deliberately lawless themselves. This is a wonderful book, and one I am sure you would benefit from reading. Enjoy!	2002-09-23
1402788:US	52447634	R2F0777TPP0E4X	0394407431	711507139	Decent Interval	Books	5	44	45	N	N	Superb Insider's View Of The Fall Of  Vietnam!	When this book was originally published in the late 1970s, it caused a firestorm of controversy due to its savage critique of the conduct of both the CIA and military advisory units within Vietnam. Written by a career CIA officer who resigned in disgust over the ways in which American policy both undermined and betrayed the very purposes we were supposed to be in Vietnam to promote, the book quickly became an international best-seller. Frank Snepp was the chief strategy analyst for the Central Intelligence Agency in Saigon, and from his unique vantage point was able to discern most of policy discussions regarding the American approach to the ongoing conduct of the war assistance being provided to the South Vietnamese. What he discovered alarmed and surprised him, for the authorities were making plans to allow the fall of the Saigon regime even while reassuring their Vietnamese clients they would support them to the very end.<br />As the title of the book indicates, the most salient characteristic of the American policy was to withdraw our forces in such a way as to allow a sufficient amount of time to go by before the North Vietnamese forces made a final fatal thrust into the south to take over, so that America would save face by not directly involved in the action resulting in the losing of the decade-long war. Instead, according to this strategy, there was to be a so-called \\"decent interval\\" of time separating the associated events of American withdrawal on the one hand, and the final campaign by the NVA (North Vietnamese Army) forces, on the other.  Snepp was outraged by the treachery involved in such a strategy, and argued strenuously against thus, which would leave hundreds if not thousand of ardent and loyal South Vietnamese operatives at extreme risk, for they would be caught unaware when the final critical days came that the American forces would not come to their rescue.<br />Snepp was even more surprised when he discovered that this strategy was not either the result of a local CIA operative such as the station chief, nor that of the CIA itself at the Langley, Virginia headquarters, but rather that it appeared to emanate from the highest levels of the executive branch of the government, from the office of Henry Kissinger and the office of the National Security Advisor to the President. This meant, of course, that it was a deliberate betrayal of the South Vietnamese by the American Government with full knowledge of the savage consequences this action would have for most of those who had worked so closely with the Americans for so long. For Snepp, this was treachery of the lowest and most unforgivable sort, a policy that served to punish our friends and reward our enemies, all done in the name of political expediency.<br />Of course, in order to be effective, this strategy must remain secret, for having such information made public would expose both the Executive branch and the CIA for the craven treachery they were conspiring to commit. Thus, the press releases associated with the rapidly accomplished American withdrawal of troop, material and advisors were spun to give the public the impression that all of this was part of the so-called successful \\"Vietnamization\\" of the war, under which the ARVN (Army of the Republic of Vietnam) was increasingly shouldering the exclusive burden for conduct of the war against the NVA. What both the CIA and the U.S. Army command authority hoped for was a campaign in which the ARVN performed well enough to make the eventual NVA victory appear to be more gradual than it was feared it might be.<br />Of course, after the hasty American withdrawal, the NVA rapidly pressed their advantage and the ARVN collapsed so rapidly that no such \\"decent interval\\" was realized. Instead, the campaign took a disastrous turn, and the final result was a panic for the American loyalists now trapped in Saigon with little hope of rescue. The rest, as they say, is the stuff of history. Yet the facts laid out by Snepp in this book show just how treacherous, cynical, and self-concerned the actions of the American authorities were toward their South Vietnamese clients. In the end, we failed the loyal citizens of South Vietnam by largely abandoning them in the time of their greatest need. Left to choose between doing the honorable thing and doing what was expedient, we chose to beat feet. This is a wonderful book and a mind-boggling reading experienceout by Snepp in this book show just how treacherous, cynical, and self-concerned the actions of the American authorities were toward their South Vietnamese clients. In the end, we failed the loyal citizens of South Vietnam by largely abandoning them in the time of their greatest need. Left to choose between doing the honorable thing and doing what was expedient, we chose to beat feet. This is a wonderful book and a mind-boggling reading experience	2002-09-20
1404373:US	52447634	R1DPLVY7151USE	0060506989	502570587	We Were Soldiers Once... and Young: Ia Drang--The Battle That Changed the War in Vietnam	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Wonderful History Of Vietnam Battle !	This is a carefully written and professionally crafted tome jointly written by two eyewitnesses and participants in the events described therein. The two authors, Harold Moore (a retired Army Lt. Col) and Joe Galloway, then a UPI reporter, met on the battlefield of Ia Drang and became lifelong friends and associates. Moore actually commanded the U. S. Army force dropped into a remote rural area of South Vietnam controlled by the North Vietnamese Army (NVA) in November of 1965 in what became the first recorded engagement between the U.S. Army and the NVA.<br />Firstly, the field tactics employed by Moore's men were experimental in nature, since the was the first time Air Cavalry had attempted to systematically employ attack helicopters to quickly deploy men to and from combat. Since this tactic meant consecutive serial moves of portions of the attacking force to the forward area, it meant those dropped first were, by the very nature of the tactical strategy, left in an extremely vulnerable position in terms of their openness to enemy attack during the initial period of time, before their numbers and strength were reinforced. Of course, the NVA understood this weakness and sought to exploit it to the maximum extent possible, attempting to quickly overrun and overwhelm the sixty some soldiers already on the ground.<br />Thus the battle was joined, and the Air Cavalry troops were quickly surrounded and portions of the force cut off from the others. Moore painstakingly describes the escalating set of circumstances that brought the force to a crisis point, and details how both they and the NVA systematically attempted to deal body blows to the opposing forces. From the beginning the casualties on both sides were considerable; in the several weeks of its duration, almost half the U.S. Army forces were either killed or seriously wounded, while on the other side, there were as many as 1,800 NVA casualties.  There were literally bodies of dead enemy soldiers stacked like kindling at various points of the campaign. In the end, the superior firepower and sole control of the skies by the U. S. Forces served to balance the otherwise overwhelming numerical superiority of the NVA units in the area. Once the smoke cleared, the NVA forces had (at least temporarily) already evaporated, while the U.S. forces returned to the main staging base, leaving the battlefield deserted.<br />This is an absorbing and interesting book to read, both because of the subject matter and because of the personal beliefs and values of the men who authored it. One comes way from the reading experience convinced these men honestly cared about the men they fought beside, and that they tried to do the best they could to win the engagement and bring everyone home safely. Of course, in war this is something no one can succeed at, yet one appreciated the sentiment and the kind of honest values and degree of integrity such sentiments represent. This is a book I can heartily recommend, as I know you will find it as intriguing and provocative ad I did. Enjoy!ndling at various points of the campaign. In the end, the superior firepower and sole control of the skies by the U. S. Forces served to balance the otherwise overwhelming numerical superiority of the NVA units in the area. Once the smoke cleared, the NVA forces had (at least temporarily) already evaporated, while the U.S. forces returned to the main staging base, leaving the battlefield deserted.     <br />This is an absorbing and interesting book to read, both because of the subject matter and because of the personal beliefs and values of the men who authored it. One comes way from the reading experience convinced these men honestly cared about the men they fought beside, and that they tried to do the best they could to win the engagement and bring everyone home safely. Of course, in war this is something no one can succeed at, yet one appreciated the sentiment and the kind of honest values and degree of integrity such sentiments represent. This is a book I can heartily recommend, as I know you will find it as intriguing and provocative ad I did. Enjoy!	2002-09-19
1404803:US	52447634	R3AK5NX6SWBB10	1842120514	975254288	Spandau: The Secret Diaries	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Spellbinding Recollections From Hitler's Architect!	No figure emerged from the Second World War with greater controversy and attention than did Nazi architect and Hitler confidant Albert Speer. Sentenced to twenty years in the military prison in Spandau for war crimes, Speer was the only one of the principals tried at Nuremberg to admit his culpability in the horror that was the Third Reich. Many questioned his sincerity, for although he said all the right things, it was extremely self-serving to do so at the moment of final judgment, for his capitulation surely saved his life. Yet Speer served his twenty years and then was released to live out his life amidst even greater controversy, for Speer had compiled an amazing 25,000 page secret diary during his long confinement.<br />This treasure trove of personal anecdotes, reminiscences, and observations was eventually serialized into two distinctive books. When the first was published in 1969 in Germany, the diary, entitled \\"Recollections\\", caused a literal firestorm of controversy based on a range of observations and positions taken by Speer. Yet the book, released a year later in a translated version for the English-speaking world as \\"Inside The Third Reich\\" was a runaway best seller based primarily on the detailed and absolutely spellbinding descriptions Speer offered regarding the principals of the Nazi regime. Shortly thereafter, Speer released the present volume, entitled \\"Spandau; The Secret Diaries\\". His observations, tidbits, and anecdotes about Hitler himself were endlessly fascinating and occasioned a lot of dinner conversation all over the world. Likewise, his portrayal of the day to day life within the so-called Nazi elite gave reader s a graphic and telling account of what these people were like, and how it was possible that they could do so much of what they did.<br />It also establishes a consistent pattern of personal denial of any real responsibility for what had happened on Speer's part. He claimed to have been only tangentially involved in what happened to the Jews, and that he never understood that the policy of deportation and relocation to 'work camps' was part of a conspiracy to systematically murder all of Europe's Jews. Yet careful readers find that his role as Chief Administrator Of Armament Production, which employed slave labor by both Jews and other subjugated prisoners of war certainly had a systematic policy of working these slave laborers to death.<br />In later works he claimed to be less involved in the politics of the Third Reich than in the day to oversight of functional management of its policies.  This is a fascinating book, and one cannot help but to come to admire this man and his struggles to maintain his balance and his sanity during the two decades he was held at Spandau. It provides a penetrating look both at his own mental processes as well as sharing his ruminations about various details and aspects of life within the whirlwind of excitement, agony, and horror that the years of Nazi reign in Germany represent. This is a book I can highly recommend. Enjoy!pened to the Jews, and that he never understood that the policy of deportation and relocation to 'work camps' was part of a conspiracy to systematically murder all of Europe's Jews. Yet careful readers find that his role as Chief Administrator Of Armament Production, which employed slave labor by both Jews and other subjugated prisoners of war certainly had a systematic policy of working these slave laborers to death.<br />In later works he claimed to be less involved in the politics of the Third Reich than in the day to oversight of functional management of its policies.  This is a fascinating book, and one cannot help but to come to admire this man and his struggles to maintain his balance and his sanity during the two decades he was held at Spandau. It provides a penetrating look both at his own mental processes as well as sharing his ruminations about various details and aspects of life within the whirlwind of excitement, agony, and horror that the years of Nazi reign in Germany represent. This is a book I can highly recommend. Enjoy!	2002-09-18
1406071:US	52447634	R2ID0K7SO3MD5Q	0151005567	629061995	Speer: The Final Verdict	Books	4	29	36	N	N	Intriguing Revisitation Of  The "Speer" Issue!	Anyone unfortunate enough to have experienced a bitter divorce can testify as to the degree to which two otherwise intelligent and perceptive human beings can violently disagree as to what the truth is regarding matters both witnessed and had been parties to. So it is with our continuing fascination and absolute incredulity regarding Albert Speer, an otherwise intelligent and perceptive soul, who just so happens to have been a willing participant in one of the most horrific administrations in the history of the 20th century, the Nazi Third Reich.<br /><br />In two quite absorbing but incredibly self-serving books, Speer argued that he never understood the full extent of the Nazi war crimes nor the degree to which his own actions were complicit with those horrific aims.  He first argued this at the war trials in Nuremberg, but did so in such a way as to admit his own culpability based on his rank and his actions as Chief Of Armaments Production, during which he employed slave labor in service to the German war effort. By being the only defendant at Nuremberg to show any semblance of remorse, he saved himself by admitting his own guilt, though largely guilt by association.<br /><br />Careful readings of the trials transcripts show that he was, in fact, fairly forthcoming in his admissions, although he always contended that he lacked specifics regarding the so-called Final Solution or even of the fact that the concentration camps in Poland and elsewhere were being used to systematically annihilate millions of Jews and Gypsies. In fact, he was an incredibly sophisticated human being who was expert in toadying up to whomever he needed to. The fact that he was convincing enough to the Allies to escape the death sentence speaks volumes about his persuasiveness and ability to read into the possibilities any situation offered.<br /><br />It is the authors contention that Speer must be held accountable for having allowed a tyrant like Hitler to rise. Yet Hitler was well in place before Speer ever met him. Speer is a man of stunning contradictions, someone of education, culture, and breeding who succumbed to the siren call of power, fame, and riches. While he eventually became expert at fashioning a defense both for himself and his actions both during and after the war, the truth of the matter is that most of what he argued in his own defense was  (and is) preposterous. No one could have walked in the circles he did, have acted in concert with the aims and goals of the Nazi regime with such success and energy, and yet have been as totally nave and ignorant as he always claimed he was. What he recalls more than anything is the old adage Hitler was said to have coined.; Tell a man an outrageous  lie often enough for long enough and even he will come to believe it I think Speer proved the accuracy of that adage, believing in his own lie. This is an absorbing and provocative book, and one I can heartily recommend to the student of modern history. Enjoy!was well in place before Speer ever met him. Speer is a man of stunning contradictions, someone of education, culture, and breeding who succumbed to the siren call of power, fame, and riches. While he eventually became expert at fashioning a defense both for himself and his actions both during and after the war, the truth of the matter is that most of what he argued in his own defense was  (and is) preposterous. No one could have walked in the circles he did, have acted in concert with the aims and goals of the Nazi regime with such success and energy, and yet have been as totally nave and ignorant as he always claimed he was. What he recalls more than anything is the old adage Hitler was said to have coined.; Tell a man an outrageous  lie often enough for long enough and even he will come to believe it I think Speer proved the accuracy of that adage, believing in his own lie. This is an absorbing and provocative book, and one I can heartily recommend to the student of modern history. Enjoy!	2002-09-17
1406160:US	52447634	R2NV0GT0RIE6TZ	1841764086	811900133	Poland 1939: The birth of Blitzkrieg (Campaign)	Books	4	33	33	N	N	Absorbing New Text On Polish Campaign!	In the heart-breaking days and weeks that the world watched as the Wehrmacht smashed mercilessly into the belly of Poland in September of 1939, the Polish armed forces fought back with largely unrecognized ferocity and courage against overwhelming odds. As author Stephen Zaloga describes so forcefully in this wonderful new book, Polish forces had been chastised and prevented through continuing European pressure into delaying any meaningful army mobilization that might have been considered provocative to the Germans, so they were unable to answer the blitzkrieg tactics with sufficient forces early enough to really stem the tide. Moreover, while it had been widely recognized that based on topography and lack of badly needed fortifications the frontiers were virtually indefensible, the political reality dictated against abandoning the frontiers in favor husbanding their limited forces into a more meaningful defense of the realm closer to centers of population, thus, the Polish forces attempted to defend an area too large, too wide, and too flat to do so effectively.<br />This work continues the excellent exposition begun by the same author in  \\"The Polish Campaign 1939\\", extending and completing his controversial account which effectively debunks many common misconceptions regarding the nature of the Polish actions against the Germans in the all-too brief campaign.  The author once more contends that many of the commonplaces regarding Polish conduct during the war are inaccurate and slanderous, including the idea that Polish cavalry actually attacked German tanks with swords drawn, or that the entire Polish Air Force was demolished on the first day of the war. According to Zaloga, neither supposition is true. And, while cavalry was used during the campaign, its application was much more clever and much more ingenious than previously believed.<br />This is a quite comprehensive book, with extensive coverage of every element of the campaign as seen from both sides of the conflict. Several fascinating aspects of the war emerge for further consideration, such as the fact that in the Battle of  Bzura , the Poles caught the Wehrmacht with its pants down, with the Germans badly over-extended. The capability of the Polish forces to hold their own against their foe was demonstrated with the initial attack, in which the Poles slammed two German divisions backwards into retreat, capturing over 1,500 prisoners in the process. I was also surprised to discover that the Poles had deployed  the advanced techniques using tungsten-core anti-tank shells, which they then used on a limited basis in the conflict. The author also shows how the cowardice and malice of the French misled the Poles into believing their allies might intervene, when historians have clearly proven the French actually never had any such action in mind. This is an intriguing book, and a wonderful addition to the growing library covering the German-Polish exchange in the fall of 1939. Enjoy!e conflict. Several fascinating aspects of the war emerge for further consideration, such as the fact that in the Battle of  Bzura , the Poles caught the Wehrmacht with its pants down, with the Germans badly over-extended. The capability of the Polish forces to hold their own against their foe was demonstrated with the initial attack, in which the Poles slammed two German divisions backwards into retreat, capturing over 1,500 prisoners in the process. I was also surprised to discover that the Poles had deployed  the advanced techniques using tungsten-core anti-tank shells, which they then used on a limited basis in the conflict. The author also shows how the cowardice and malice of the French misled the Poles into believing their allies might intervene, when historians have clearly proven the French actually never had any such action in mind. This is an intriguing book, and a wonderful addition to the growing library covering the German-Polish exchange in the fall of 1939. Enjoy!	2002-09-17
1406800:US	52447634	R2438J9FI7P6ZE	0805003487	46276964	The Holocaust: A History of the Jews of Europe During the Second World War	Books	5	75	79	N	N	Compelling And Comprehensive History Of The Holocaust!	When one of the world's most eminent historians takes on one of most amazing phenomena of the century, the Holocaust, it gives one pause for thought. So here we have Sir Martin Gilbert, a noted Holocaust authority, writing masterfully about the events leading up to and including the systematic persecution, deportation and murder of the Jews of Europe. His stirring and singular narrative is regularly punctuated by a number of poignant and shocking eyewitness accounts of many who lived through those numbing events. The test is extremely approachable and easy to read, so that the non-historian can appreciate the breadth and scope of his recounting of the events during the 12-year reign of terror levied by the National Socialists in Nazi Germany.<br /><br />His approach is chronological, much like that employed in his best-selling three volume series on the 20th century. While he relies heavily on established secondary sources for his documentation, the power of his prose and his well-organized approach makes this an provocative and educational tome to venture into. Although nowhere near as comprehensive as some other tomes such as Klaus Fischer's &#34;History Of An Obsession&#34;, he does trace the centuries' long tradition of anti-Semitism culminating in the official state sanctioned approach codified in the institutionalized Nuremberg laws. In all this, Gilbert brilliantly employs survivor's recollections to paint the atrocities in the hues and colors of real human beings, ordinary and identifiable individuals caught in the insanity of the Third Reich. Furthermore, he pursues their individual identities and humanity by giving the reader information on the postwar futures of these people.<br /><br />So much has been written about the Holocaust that it is difficult to imagine much new or novel to arise some fifty years after the end of the war. Yet the stage always remains open for the unusual display of finely crafted historical perspectives and brilliantly executed prose. The brilliance in this dazzling book is, as Oscar Schindler would have said, in the presentation. Although I have read a number of other books about these times and events that were more detailed, more graphic, or more comprehensive, this is without a doubt the single most impressive, cohesive, and authoritative volume I have read to date regarding the Holocaust in its enormity, and placed in an understandable and comprehensible context. I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in owning the single best one-volume book summarizing and explaining the realities of the Holocaust.in this dazzling book is, as Oscar Schindler would have said, in the presentation. Although I have read a number of other books about these times and events that were more detailed, more graphic, or more comprehensive, this is without a doubt the single most impressive, cohesive, and authoritative volume I have read to date regarding the Holocaust in its enormity, and placed in an understandable and comprehensible context. I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in owning the single best one-volume book summarizing and explaining the realities of the Holocaust.	2002-09-17
1410782:US	52447634	R1V06XUGRPX3QR	0786867086	836440681	In Search of America	Books	5	41	45	N	N	Captivating and Entertaining Look At Ourselves!	This book, like its best selling predecessor also written by Jennings and Todd Brewster about the over-riding nature of the events of the 20h century, is a very well researched and immensely entertaining look at America and its inhabitants. Although obviously designed for popular culture and prominent display on coffee tables across the land, it is indeed a compelling collection of disparate elements weaving a patchwork quilt glimpse at the pluralistic nature of our society and our people.<br />This book also capitalizes on the impressive range of data collected by ABC-TV in preparation for their superb \\"In Search Of America\\" series of televised documentaries, and the book therefore has a virtual cornucopia of offering for the reader to use in coming to appreciate the dynamic diversity that is such a celebrated aspect of American life. Whether investigating civic arguments about the separation of church and state or existential concerns of Latinos in the land of the Mormons, the reader can find an almost endless variety of facts, anecdotes, and examples of all that we have cause to find pride in as American citizens.<br />In essence, the book represents an absorbing attempt by Jennings and Brewster to explore the stated national ideals they believe are the defining and driving forces for our culture. And the work they have accomplished in delivering this vision of contemporary America is an impressive display of how to usefully employ eyewitness anecdotes with elements of contemporary history in service to a lavishly produced and excellently articulated narrative about the current state of the polity and the society at large.<br />In times of such turmoil and emotional distress, it is wonderful to have such a glowing look at our collective enterprise as is offered here. It is indeed a splendidly executed effort that travels the breadth and length of the land to illustrate to us just how durable, adaptable, and pragmatic a people we are, and how well our social fabric and our cultural values serve us in times like those we live in. I can highly recommend this book. Enjoy!bric and our cultural values serve us in times like those we live in. I can highly recommend this book. Enjoy!	2002-09-12
1411002:US	52447634	R3NJ7Y60MVQTZ6	1401300057	930186214	Firehouse	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Superb Analysis Of Firefighter's World!	As a veteran reader of 20th century history books, I've long considered David Halberstam to be one of the best and brightest of the contemporary historians publishing today. He is also, not so coincidentally, one of the most prolific, as well, having produced a steady stream of works covering such myriad historical and cultural subjects as a study of how both the Kennedy and Johnson administrations stumbled and blundered their way into the quagmire of Vietnam to more whimsical studies of pop-cultural aspects of American life such as major league baseball and the effects of the seasons on residents of the island of Nantucket off the Massachusetts coast. In this book, \\"Firehouse\\", Halberstam focuses on a subject more timely and more local than ever before, describing  the lives and death of the men and women of the local fire station a few blocks from his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, people who figured so fatefully in the events of last September eleventh.<br />As Halberstam so powerfully describes, only one of the thirteen men answering the first response for assistance at the World trade center survived the events of the day. This book deals with the specific nature of that response, the natural history of that day as events unfolded, and the fate of the men as well as the aftermath of their deaths for their families, friends, fellow workers, and the community at large. One of the most admirable qualities of this superb book stems from the fact that Halberstam is a \\"local\\", someone involved and participating in the day to life of the community. Consequently, he can authoritatively describe the rich and momentous history of the firehouse itself, and the centuries of tradition and community support that made it and the community of firemen and women so important in the life of the local area.<br />For Halberstam, the Firehouse represents a kind of large and amorphous type of informal second family both for the firefighters as well as for the more general population at large. He writes convincingly of the ways in which the inner workings of a firehouse, with its own unique and interesting traditions, routines, and complex social structure provides support and succor for the whole community, becoming a vibrant, inviting, and warm environment for all involved. At the same time, he details the ways in which all those tensions that the job itself makes unavoidable spills out and adds an edgy dynamic to the social atmosphere. He also helps us to understand just why it is that men and women with other choice and other opportunities prefer to opt for this kind of life, despite the obvious risks and dangers, despite the relatively low wages and the stress and physical demands associated with the profession.<br />This book is somewhat of a departure for Halberstam in the sense that it one more fraught with emotional overtones than his usual subject matter. Yet when dealing with the provocatively intense subject of these thirteen souls who answered the call last September, in describing their immediate fate, the exhausting search for their bodies, and the efforts on the part of their families, both individually and collectively, to come to terms with their loss and their grief, it is hard to avoid such intensity. He also deals thoughtfully with the issue of survivor's guilty on the part of the surviving firefighters in the firehouse, and the complex ways in which their conflicting feelings of guilt and relief are being handled and discussed.<br />Indeed, this is a riveting book, one that well deserves the wide reading it will certainly enjoy. Halberstam's treatment is so personal, so well documented, and so meticulously narrated that one finds himself swept along with the tide of events of that day last year when the world seemed to stand still, when all of us watched in horror as the massive evil manifested on that day came to full fruit.  The book carries the signature trademark qualities of all of Halberstam's work, being meticulously researched, powerfully narrated and beautifully described. It focuses on an aspect of one of the most profoundly memorable days in contemporary history, and gives powerful testimony to the power of care, compassion, and sacrifice and why we must continue to honor and appreciate those who fell in the line of duty both on that fateful day, and in the days that followed and will continue to do so as we continue to prosecute the war against terrorism. I highly recommend this book!ng meticulously researched, powerfully narrated and beautifully described. It focuses on an aspect of one of the most profoundly memorable days in contemporary history, and gives powerful testimony to the power of care, compassion, and sacrifice and why we must continue to honor and appreciate those who fell in the line of duty both on that fateful day, and in the days that followed and will continue to do so as we continue to prosecute the war against terrorism. I highly recommend this book!	2002-09-12
1411229:US	52447634	R2PB9C0SZM4RAX	0521558786	734007821	The Path to Genocide: Essays on Launching the Final Solution (Canto original series)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Superb Summation Of Natural History Of The Holocaust!	In an eight-essay series originally devised as lectures, the author takes the reader deep into the hearts and minds of the men who engineered and perpetrated  the Holocaust. As in his earlier work, he argues persuasively and with an army of facts and figures that the decision to eradicate all of Europe's Jews from the face of the planet was an incrementally derived decision. This argument is very much like that made by Gerhard Weinberg in his massively documented history of WWII, \\"A World At Arms\\", although Browning's argument involves a much more detailed and substantiated thread of evidence and circumstance.  Weinberg posited that it wasn't until the Wehrmacht began to have horrendous logistics problems early in the occupation of Poland, Latvia, and Estonia during Operation Barbarossa that they began to think in terms of a systematic and deliberate program of extermination of the Jews.<br />Until that point the Nazi command had been more favorably disposed toward using indigenous populations as slave labor and working and/or starving them to death, rather than killing them outright. Here too Browning argues about three key issues surrounding the decision to proceed with the Holocaust; first, that the Nazi hierarchy itself was divided in terms of strategy and objectives about the resolution of the \\"Jewish Question\\"; second, that it was seen as highly advantageous to the national socialist cause to employ their skills and labor as long as possible in support of the war effort, and finally, that the actual implementation of the fragmented policy was further fragmented and \\"ad-libbed\\" at the field level by local commanders or police authorities.<br />Browning uses a virtual flood of documentation and data to substantiate his various positions, and marshals a convincing argument on behalf of the notion that indeed the resulting mass murders of the Holocaust were more likely the production of a series of small but fateful conclusions made incrementally to solve immediate and pressing logistical and tactical situations the Nazi hierarchy faced at particular moments than it was the result of some long-standing grand and evil scheme to systematically annihilate the Jews. Of course, it is in one very real sense an academic issue, since all of the indigenous Jews (as well as everyone else in the areas of interest to the Nazis along the eastern front in Poland and the Ukraine already pre-designated as new settlement areas for Germans would die at the hands of the Nazi regime. The question at hand is whether the actual extermination of those individuals would be accomplished through slave labor, starvation, and exposure to the elements, or through more active and murderous intervention by way of the death camps.<br />One must also remember that there were also large numbers of German Jews being transported both within and without the country to concentration camps. The same issues of intent apply to them, as well. Certainly Browning's efforts here will not end the long-standing debate. It is, however, a critical contribution to informing the direction and future tenor of that argument. This is an important, provocative, and worthwhile book, and one anyone interested in understanding the details of the \\"natural history' of how the Holocaust actually came to transpire must read to understand the complexities, contradictions, and confusions abounding in both the record and in individual recollections about the time. I recommend this book, and hope it is much more widely read and appreciated.ate and pressing logistical and tactical situations the Nazi hierarchy faced at particular moments than it was the result of some long-standing grand and evil scheme to systematically annihilate the Jews. Of course, it is in one very real sense an academic issue, since all of the indigenous Jews (as well as everyone else in the areas of interest to the Nazis along the eastern front in Poland and the Ukraine already pre-designated as new settlement areas for Germans would die at the hands of the Nazi regime. The question at hand is whether the actual extermination of those individuals would be accomplished through slave labor, starvation, and exposure to the elements, or through more active and murderous intervention by way of the death camps. <br />One must also remember that there were also large numbers of German Jews being transported both within and without the country to concentration camps. The same issues of intent apply to them, as well. Certainly Browning's efforts here will not end the long-standing debate. It is, however, a critical contribution to informing the direction and future tenor of that argument. This is an important, provocative, and worthwhile book, and one anyone interested in understanding the details of the \\"natural history' of how the Holocaust actually came to transpire must read to understand the complexities, contradictions, and confusions abounding in both the record and in individual recollections about the time. I recommend this book, and hope it is much more widely read and appreciated.	2002-09-12
1411372:US	52447634	RSBJDXM9PUTQF	0151004455	428604373	The Best of Times: America in the Clinton Years	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Thoughtful look At Contemporary America!	One of the best of the gaggle of electronic journalists who has successfully made the transition to writing full-time as a contemporary historian is former television correspondent Haynes Johnson, who has penned a wonderful series of books on American politics and social issues like \\"Sleepwalking Through History\\", a savvy and fascinating best-selling study of the Reagan's presidency and its aftermath.  In this book, In \\"The Best of Times\\", Johnson adds to his series of fascinating narratives on contemporary American culture that now focuses on the intriguing developments of the 1990s.  As in his previous book, \\"Divided We Fall; Gambling With History In The Nineties\\", Johnson explores the social, economic and politics realities of the times in a work that largely acts as a snapshot of the country and the polity at a particular moment in time, i.e., in the late 1990s, in the fullness of Bill Clinton's fateful Presidency.<br />One of the things making this book special is the author's unusual ability to draw those that he interviews out of themselves. As a result he mines some fascinating data from the wide range of people he contacted while making a kind of sentimental journey across America.  He found that people quite consistently voiced concerns and reservations about the same kinds of issues; employment, race, education, public schools, and also about traditional values and what their place in contemporary America should be. Johnson divides the snapshot into four different views or perspectives; taken together they comprise his view of the state of the polity, and taken individually, each lends a critical element to the otherwise bewildering polyphony that is our contemporary culture.<br />The first of the snapshots is of the so-called short life of \\"Technotimes\\", which nimbly traces the daunting list of scientific particulars dotting the numbing technological advances and accompanying changes in corporate culture it imbues. The second theme, that of \\"Teletimes,\\" is a distressingly accurate portrayal of the developing cult of celebrity, the contributing influence of electronic media, and its rampant manifestations throughout the social, political, and economic landscape.  The third aspect investigated is what he refers to as \\"Scandal Times\\", which focuses on the sordid particulars of the Monica Lewinsky affair and the ay in which it was allowed to corrupt every aspect of the Clinton administration. Finally, he describes \\"Millennial Times,\\" showing the degree of diversity and pluralism that still remains and flourishes in contemporary America.<br />Faced with unpleasant choices about how to deal with the development of terrorism, our new economic woes, and a rapidly evolving technology, the use of this point/counterpoint perspective has some interesting points to make about the state of the country and the culture. Thus, this is a book that paints an indelible and unforgettable portrait of today's modern America, a country characterized by the common people feeling both frightened by the brave new world we now face and yet at the same time embracing this new world with care, compassion, and courage.  As always, Johnson finds ample reasons for hope and optimism, and some of the individual narratives provide ample proof that idealism isn't dead, that there are people who passionately care about their country and their values, and who are actively involved in trying to make this a better country and a better world.is a distressingly accurate portrayal of the developing cult of celebrity, the contributing influence of electronic media, and its rampant manifestations throughout the social, political, and economic landscape.  The third aspect investigated is what he refers to as \\"Scandal Times\\", which focuses on the sordid particulars of the Monica Lewinsky affair and the ay in which it was allowed to corrupt every aspect of the Clinton administration. Finally, he describes \\"Millennial Times,\\" showing the degree of diversity and pluralism that still remains and flourishes in contemporary America. <br />Faced with unpleasant choices about how to deal with the development of terrorism, our new economic woes, and a rapidly evolving technology, the use of this point/counterpoint perspective has some interesting points to make about the state of the country and the culture. Thus, this is a book that paints an indelible and unforgettable portrait of today's modern America, a country characterized by the common people feeling both frightened by the brave new world we now face and yet at the same time embracing this new world with care, compassion, and courage.  As always, Johnson finds ample reasons for hope and optimism, and some of the individual narratives provide ample proof that idealism isn't dead, that there are people who passionately care about their country and their values, and who are actively involved in trying to make this a better country and a better world.	2002-09-12
1411682:US	52447634	R3A75HAW6I9FF7	0684829495	339554706	Inside the Third Reich	Books	5	18	19	N	N	An Intriguing Look At One Of The Nazi Elite!	No figure emerged from the Second World War with greater controversy and attention than did Nazi architect and Hitler confidant Albert Speer. Sentenced to twenty years in the military prison in Spandau for war crimes, Speer was the only one of the principals tried at Nuremberg to admit his culpability in the horror that was the Third Reich. Many questioned his sincerity, for although he said all the right things, it was extremely self-serving to do so at the moment of final judgment, for his capitulation surely saved his life. Yet Speer served his twenty years and then was released to live out his life amidst even greater controversy, for Speer had kept a secret diary during his long confinement.<br />When published in 1969 in Germany, the diary, entitled \\"Recollections\\", caused a literal firestorm of controversy based on a range of observations and positions taken by Speer. Yet the book, released a year later in a translated version for the English-speaking world as \\"Inside The Third Reich\\" was a runaway best seller based primarily on the detailed and absolutely spellbinding descriptions Speer offered regarding the principals of the Nazi regime. His observations, tidbits, and anecdotes about Hitler himself were endlessly fascinating and occasioned a lot of dinner conversation all over the world. Likewise, his portrayal of the day to day life within the so-called Nazi elite gave reader s a graphic and telling account of what these people were like, and how it was possible that they could do so much of what they did.<br />It also established a pattern of denial of any real responsibility for what had happened on Speer's part. He claimed to have been only tangentially involved in what happened to the Jews, and that he never understood that the policy of deportation and relocation to `work camps' was part of a conspiracy to systematically murder all of Europe's Jews. Yet careful readers find that his role as Chief Administrator Of Armament Production, which employed slave labor by both Jews and other subjugated prisoners of war certainly had a systematic policy of working these slave laborers to death.  As in later works such as \\"Spandau\\", a continuation of the diaries from that prison, he claimed to be less involved in the politics of the Third Reich than in the day to oversight of functional management of its policies.<br />This is a fascinating book, and one cannot help but to come to admire this man and his struggles to maintain his balance and his sanity during the two decades he was held at Spandau. It provides a penetrating look both at his own mental processes as well as sharing his ruminations about various details and aspects of life within the whirlwind of excitement, agony, and horror that the years of Nazi reign in Germany represent. This is a book I can highly recommend. Enjoy!slave labor by both Jews and other subjugated prisoners of war certainly had a systematic policy of working these slave laborers to death.  As in later works such as \\"Spandau\\", a continuation of the diaries from that prison, he claimed to be less involved in the politics of the Third Reich than in the day to oversight of functional management of its policies.<br />This is a fascinating book, and one cannot help but to come to admire this man and his struggles to maintain his balance and his sanity during the two decades he was held at Spandau. It provides a penetrating look both at his own mental processes as well as sharing his ruminations about various details and aspects of life within the whirlwind of excitement, agony, and horror that the years of Nazi reign in Germany represent. This is a book I can highly recommend. Enjoy!	2002-09-12
1424823:US	52447634	RDB8QRSW2D8W0	0805059849	700514375	The Terrible Secret: Suppression of the Truth About Hitler's "Final Solution"	Books	5	30	32	N	N	Provocative And Interesting Look At Holocaust!	This is a quite provocative and immensely fascinating investigation into the long-standing controversy over the degree to which the Polish people were complicit in the holocaust. This an issue that has been hotly debated for decades, in fact since it was first raised as a possibility ion the late 1940s. Given the degree to which millions of otherwise persecuted Jews had fled to the more tolerant attitudes of the Poles during the decades before the war, it was somewhat surprising that the accusations arose in the first place. Yet the way in which the Holocaust first began to flourish and spread throughout the small villages and hamlets of rural Poland made many observers suspicious of the degree of involvement by local peasants, who did in fact benefit from the dislocation of Jewish farmers by taking over their property and possessions.<br />The investigation described in this new and updated version of this book is hardly a dispassionate or disinterested effort; the author is a Polish patriot who has long denied such accusations, and who turned his considerable investigative efforts toward disproving this claim. What he discovered substantiates his argument that far from being the active participants in the Holocaust others have claimed, many Poles were among the first to raise alarm over the suspicious activities of the Wehrmacht and the Special Forces to begin preparations for what became the \\"Final Solution\\" to the so-called `Jewish Question\\". In fact, Laqueur argues, many Germans, as well as international Jewish organizations, and top government officials in the western democracies first learned of the atrocities being perpetrated on the indigenous Polish Jews from other concerned Poles. What he reveals in doing so paints a devastating picture of apathy, disregard, and callousness on the part of the watching world.<br />In what has since been described as a conspiracy of silence, much of the so-called civilized world stood by passively as the Holocaust gathered momentum and became a widespread and well organized mechanism for murdering millions of Jews, communists, gypsies, and other malcontents by the Nazi forces of occupation. This murderous campaign was conducted under the veil of a screen of lies, euphemisms, and political evasions, one in which the political expediencies for the western democracies became more important than dealing with the systematic annihilation of millions of human beings. The author's point is well taken. Responsibility for what happened in the death camps must be widely shared, and by a cast that includes not only the Nazi perpetrators but also the relatively disinterested and dispassionate indifference with which the rest of the political world dealt with the evolving situation.<br />This deals quite passionately with what has become almost a cottage industry in the realm of books dealing with the social, economic, and political background that allowed the holocaust to be possible, to be probable, and then to occur. It is, along with a number of other and much more recent books on the subject, and interesting excursion into a shadowy world in which no hands are left clean of guilt or culpability in this monstrous historical event. It is by no means easy reading, or even pleasant reading, but it is a riveting and convincing look at one of this century's most unbelievable phenomena, the systematic murder of the European Jews. I highly recommend it for World War Two and Holocaust scholars.momentum and became a widespread and well organized mechanism for murdering millions of Jews, communists, gypsies, and other malcontents by the Nazi forces of occupation. This murderous campaign was conducted under the veil of a screen of lies, euphemisms, and political evasions, one in which the political expediencies for the western democracies became more important than dealing with the systematic annihilation of millions of human beings. The author's point is well taken. Responsibility for what happened in the death camps must be widely shared, and by a cast that includes not only the Nazi perpetrators but also the relatively disinterested and dispassionate indifference with which the rest of the political world dealt with the evolving situation. <br />This deals quite passionately with what has become almost a cottage industry in the realm of books dealing with the social, economic, and political background that allowed the holocaust to be possible, to be probable, and then to occur. It is, along with a number of other and much more recent books on the subject, and interesting excursion into a shadowy world in which no hands are left clean of guilt or culpability in this monstrous historical event. It is by no means easy reading, or even pleasant reading, but it is a riveting and convincing look at one of this century's most unbelievable phenomena, the systematic murder of the European Jews. I highly recommend it for World War Two and Holocaust scholars.	2002-08-30
1425871:US	52447634	R1W9ZKJWSQNUQ5	0812991036	335786632	Home to War: A History of the Vietnam Veterans Movement	Books	5	11	15	N	N	Terrific Description Of The Vietnam Veteran's Movement!	For those of us who came of age during the Vietnam era, this book vividly recalls the heady temper of the times, as well as the manifest ways in which the gruesome everyday reality of the war in Vietnam affected everyone in the society. It is difficult today to try to explain to younger readers how deeply the issue of the war divided the country internally, or how it acted to continually tighten the vise of political differences around the neck of the majority of our citizens. In this sense, it is hard to overestimate the impact the war had on everyone living in the United States during the sixties and early seventies, and the narrative in this book emphasizes just how profound the action of a number of Vietnam veterans was in framing that impact.<br />Unlike those of us ex-servicemen who were already involved in the anti-war movement in our new identity as college undergraduate students, the organized Vietnam veteran movement against the war didn't really gain impetus until the very late sixties, and then only as a result of the frustration the vets experienced regarding the senseless continuation of obvious failed policies even after anyone with an intact brain could see it was leading us nowhere. The veterans only became involved as it became obvious something new had to be injected into the ongoing national debate regarding the progress of the war. Of course, once they did become seriously involved, the whole tenor of the debate changed profoundly. No one could counter the reality they alone had experienced, and the degree of authenticity they brought to the national forefront was undeniable.<br />Still, it took a number of years and ceaseless efforts and endless head-bashes at the hands of police, national guardsmen, and reactionary hardhats to accomplish the final result of ending the war, and even then the war it was executed by the Nixon administration left agonizing doubts regarding the fate of hundreds of POWS and MIAs rumored to have been left behind. Moreover, the national government has never fully addressed the bevy of important related issues raised with such urgency by the Vietnam veterans groups. It took more than a decade to get any concessions regarding the consequences of Agent Orange and the government's responsibility for them, or to get any action at all to improve care even minimally in the warren of rat-holes otherwise referred to as the Veteran's Administration (VA) hospitals. Even today, some thirty years later, the medical care proffered in the VA hospitals is often substandard and inadequate, and in no ways meets the demonstrated needs of the vets. In this sense, it continues, in my opinion, to be a national disgrace.<br />This book represents a brilliant attempt to re-acquaint the reader with the events and personalities of the times, and does a wonderful job in detailing the specifics of the ways ion which the issues rose, of how the strategies and techniques of effectively demonstrating the evidence of what was happening in Vietnam as well as what the social, economic, and political consequences of our involvement were. The author has opened up a virtual can of worms that illustrate how vulnerable and insubstantial the neo-conservative interpretations of the Vietnam war and the events of the sixties are, by offering a plethora of proof that flatly contradicts all these neat, tidy, and sanitized versions depicting our wretched involvement in Vietnam as some trumped-up moral crusade for democracy, with some authors like Michael Lind going so far as to refer to as it being the \\"necessary war\\". Unlike that sad solipsistic effort, this is a terrific book, and one I can highly recommend. Enjoy!reover, the national government has never fully addressed the bevy of important related issues raised with such urgency by the Vietnam veterans groups. It took more than a decade to get any concessions regarding the consequences of Agent Orange and the government's responsibility for them, or to get any action at all to improve care even minimally in the warren of rat-holes otherwise referred to as the Veteran's Administration (VA) hospitals. Even today, some thirty years later, the medical care proffered in the VA hospitals is often substandard and inadequate, and in no ways meets the demonstrated needs of the vets. In this sense, it continues, in my opinion, to be a national disgrace. <br />This book represents a brilliant attempt to re-acquaint the reader with the events and personalities of the times, and does a wonderful job in detailing the specifics of the ways ion which the issues rose, of how the strategies and techniques of effectively demonstrating the evidence of what was happening in Vietnam as well as what the social, economic, and political consequences of our involvement were. The author has opened up a virtual can of worms that illustrate how vulnerable and insubstantial the neo-conservative interpretations of the Vietnam war and the events of the sixties are, by offering a plethora of proof that flatly contradicts all these neat, tidy, and sanitized versions depicting our wretched involvement in Vietnam as some trumped-up moral crusade for democracy, with some authors like Michael Lind going so far as to refer to as it being the \\"necessary war\\". Unlike that sad solipsistic effort, this is a terrific book, and one I can highly recommend. Enjoy!	2002-08-29
1431771:US	52447634	RFQ72M8TE6KWX	0060935502	897653726	Modern Times  Revised Edition: The World from the Twenties to the Nineties (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Riviting Account of 20th Century History!	This is a revised version of a wonderful historical study accomplished by a noted conservative journalist and would-be amateur historian whose political observations, while not always true to the temper of the times, are always fascinating and well-thought through in terms of the logic and reason propelling and informing them. Opening the book by looking through the disparate prisms offered by the Bolshevik revolution in the Soviet Union on the one hand and the Einsteinian scientific revolution in the academies of the western world on the other, Johnson shows how these two forces have savaged the nature of the traditional world of the nineteenth century in the wake of their momentous changes. Johnson argues forcefully for the idea that much of what follows, from the Great Depression to World War Two to the new world order following the war can be traced to the effects of these two revolutions.<br />Taken to this point, few would argue with the author's supposition. Yet he seems bound to follow this thread of thought to the point of absurdity, as when he argues that the student revolts of the 1960s were puerile and degenerative exercises in futile protest, or that the events surrounding Watergate in the 1970s were in essence a witch hunt conducted by liberals against a wrongly vilified and much misunderstood President Richard M. Nixon. For those of us who were there, such a take is hard to square with our own recollection of both the events and the context in which the historical events in question occurred. Too often his brilliance is compromised by his seeming need to revise the ostensible truth in favor of a more political consistent version of what happened, and this ends up undercutting his argument by showing us its vulnerable underbelly.<br />This underbelly is his need to try to recast the history of the 20the century into a omnipresent thread of rationality, steadily moving forward as the motive engine of proggggress by defeating the reactionary and emotional forces of tradition, in effect counterposing them with the forces of science and reason, always equating these forces of science and reason with modern conservatisim. Yet this is a razor's edged argument, for too often science and reason have failed us, and Johnson seems either unwilling or unable to see this, and to therefore temper his argument and his narrative to allow those elements to surface and congeal so we can fairly judge their relative merit by fully understanding their limits and risks along with their merits and benefits.<br />Yet, in spite of its tendency to sermonize and propound conservative political interpretations of the events under study, this is a book well worth the reading, for there is no doubt that it is a well documented, well detailed, and very well written tome. It is still in print, albeit in a revised version, well more than a decade after its original publication. It is accessible and provocative, and the author shows a sense of humor in delivering what is obviously a very conservative take on the events of the 20th century. Understanding this single limitation, I would still argue it is a very informative and worthwhile read! In fact, this is a book that I can highly recommend. Enjoy!al forces of tradition, in effect counterposing them with the forces of science and reason, always equating these forces of science and reason with modern conservatisim. Yet this is a razor's edged argument, for too often science and reason have failed us, and Johnson seems either unwilling or unable to see this, and to therefore temper his argument and his narrative to allow those elements to surface and congeal so we can fairly judge their relative merit by fully understanding their limits and risks along with their merits and benefits.   <br />Yet, in spite of its tendency to sermonize and propound conservative political interpretations of the events under study, this is a book well worth the reading, for there is no doubt that it is a well documented, well detailed, and very well written tome. It is still in print, albeit in a revised version, well more than a decade after its original publication. It is accessible and provocative, and the author shows a sense of humor in delivering what is obviously a very conservative take on the events of the 20th century. Understanding this single limitation, I would still argue it is a very informative and worthwhile read! In fact, this is a book that I can highly recommend. Enjoy!	2002-08-23
1439172:US	52447634	R172QYCBY50N4X	0671797484	917361006	Arnold: The Education of a Bodybuilder	Books	5	31	37	N	N	Revealing Autobiography Of Big Arnie!	When this book was first released in the late 1970s, Arnold had yet to embark on a serious movie career, with only the starring role in \\"Pumping Iron\\" under his belt, and that being a limited success at that, playing only in art cinema houses and in limited distribution. It was long before his actual starring role in \\"Conan\\" (which had been rumored for years in bodybuilding circles before it finally came to fruition in the early 1980s. So it is interesting to read of the specificity of his plans and his supreme confidence in himself and his ability to succeed at anything he chooses in this well-scribed ghostwritten autobiography published long before.<br />Those of us who had become familiar with Arnold and his progress in the public domain knew the world was hardy prepared for this steamroller of a human being, a man for whom the normal rules simply do not seem to apply.  Other famous bodybuilders had tried to use their muscles and brawn to jump-start a Hollywood career, and although several such as Steve Reeves and Gordon Scott had been major stars in action films during the 1960s, neither was able to translate what was in actuality a brief spurt of public interest in men with superior physiques into a sustaining career.<br />Yet from the beginning there was something about Arnie that defied the rules other mortals belabored under. Using the modest investment cash gained from the sale of his small gym in Munich to start himself, Schwarzenegger bought an apartment building and soon bought more property, growing up into the booming California real estate market in a way that propelled him into the ranks of the wealthy long before he ever read a movie script. Similarly, he and bodybuilding buddy Franco Columbo started a masonry business in Santa Monica, putting their brains and brawn to active work, and raking in the resulting financial dividends, reinvesting them to make the money work as hard as they did.  This was no ordinary muscleman, and indeed, no ordinary young man. As George Butler reveals in his book \\"Arnold Schwarzenegger:  A Portrait\\", Arnold was more focused and driven than anyone he had ever been introduced to.<br />Instead, what we are treated to here is the real man behind all of the miscalculations and misrepresentations of the media, a man extremely driven to succeed in America, and willing to make the sacrifices to do it. Many people have underestimated him, only to find out later that there is much more to the man than an Austrian accent and a  huge bicep. If a guy with a last name like Schwarzenegger can so beguile the public to become one of the biggest movie stars of the 1980s and 1990s, than perhaps we do have to recognize that America is still the land of opportunity.  The latest rumblings have him interested once more in running for political office, most likely for the Governorship in California. Yet it is perhaps too soon to assume he is finished as a movie star. He is currently filming \\"T-3', the third of the Terminator movies, and has plans to also make a third Conan epic. If either of those is a big a success as is possible, than perhaps he will stick around for a while. And for those of you that think he is to old to look like Conan in his mid fifties, just remember, those who underestimate this guy are usually wrong. Enjoy!ung man. As George Butler reveals in his book \\"Arnold Schwarzenegger:  A Portrait\\", Arnold was more focused and driven than anyone he had ever been introduced to.<br />Instead, what we are treated to here is the real man behind all of the miscalculations and misrepresentations of the media, a man extremely driven to succeed in America, and willing to make the sacrifices to do it. Many people have underestimated him, only to find out later that there is much more to the man than an Austrian accent and a  huge bicep. If a guy with a last name like Schwarzenegger can so beguile the public to become one of the biggest movie stars of the 1980s and 1990s, than perhaps we do have to recognize that America is still the land of opportunity.  The latest rumblings have him interested once more in running for political office, most likely for the Governorship in California. Yet it is perhaps too soon to assume he is finished as a movie star. He is currently filming \\"T-3', the third of the Terminator movies, and has plans to also make a third Conan epic. If either of those is a big a success as is possible, than perhaps he will stick around for a while. And for those of you that think he is to old to look like Conan in his mid fifties, just remember, those who underestimate this guy are usually wrong. Enjoy!	2002-08-16
1447100:US	52447634	R5RDS08ZD09AF	0671219227	428434793	Pumping Iron: The Art and Sport of Bodybuilding	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	Intriguing Look At Subculture Of Competitive Bodybuilding!	It is no overstatement to attribute to the publication of this book much of the fitness revolution that first began in the 1970s. It lionized the then relatively obscure sport of bodybuilding, and in particular made much notice of the then only marginally known figure of a relatively young Austrian muscle freak with the unlikely name of Arnold Schwarzenegger. The book proved such a trenchant and penetrating look into the shadowy subculture of fitness freaks and muscle-heads that it created a boom in the gym business, which previously existed only in a few locations where the numbers of bodybuilders reached enough of a critical mass to allow such a commercial venture. In fact, as Gaines points out in the narrative, most of the gyms were owned by guys like Joe Gold, who weren't in the gym business to make a profit, and who merely managed to eke out a living, and who rarely made much of a return on their original investment.<br />Of course, this affectionate and knowing look at the life and lifestyles of several serious competitive bodybuilders was so successful that it encouraged the photographer, George Butler, to try to find backing for a film version of the book. And it was a difficult sell, for the movie mavens had little appreciation for the degree of public interest in muscles and muscle men then. Indeed, the movie was never released for wide commercial viewing, but was rather relegated to showings at art cinemas and other venues. Yet the book was a resounding success, and was on the best-selling trade books for months and months.<br />The book can still be found in used bookstores, and is a wonderful resource for anyone interested in the history of bodybuilding or the lifestyles of the most famous musclemen of the late 1960s and 1970s. I have several copies, although I lost one in a fire last year. It is a shame it is now out of print, for the book (and the subsequent movie) capture the essence of the exotic little world of competitive bodybuilding as it existed in the days when the sport was marginalized, before it became big business, and before eager young men who want fame and riches got involved for that reason rather than because they just wanted to be bodybuilders. Ah, the good old days!  Enjoy!ted in the days when the sport was marginalized, before it became big business, and before eager young men who want fame and riches got involved for that reason rather than because they just wanted to be bodybuilders. Ah, the good old days!  Enjoy!	2002-08-09
1454001:US	52447634	RYE7BO3TNJUSR	0684857219	387508716	The New Encyclopedia of Modern Bodybuilding : The Bible of Bodybuilding, Fully Updated and Revised	Books	5	15	20	N	N	Terrific Resource For bodybuilding Enthusiasts!	This is, as one would expect, an excellent resource for anyone interested in pursuing progressive weight training as a pastime. Given the fact that Arnie has decades of personal experience and a wealth of knowledge on most aspects of the sport, who is better situated to write a comprehensive treatise of the sort offered here than Mr. Schwarzenegger? Included here is everything either a neophyte or even more experienced bodybuilder might need to engage himself fruitfully in the science of the sport.<br /><br />I might also mention that for those of us who have spent the better part of our lifetimes working out, it is quite interesting when non-bodybuilders sometimes make commentary in passing regarding aspects of the sport they either poorly understand or about which they are totally clueless. So imagine my surprise when the editor for this item remarks that some of what Schwarzenegger says regarding bodybuilding advice is \\"lore\\" rather than science, such as expanding the ribcage or developing the inner or outer chest.<br />Were he more knowledgeable about the sport, he would recognize that one can in fact successfully stretch the ligament, cartilage, and connective tissue to allow the klings to expand, and thereby expand the area through progressive exercise. Also, references made to the inner and outer aspects of the chest area actually refer to that area or aspect of the pectoralis major  muscle group, which have several aspects, and to the surrounding muscle tissue and fascia.  And these certainly can be improved and made much larger through progressive weight training. One look at someone like Mike Katz in his prime can show how well both the ribcage and the pectoral muscles can be encouraged to enlarge. So, contrary to what literary types might believe, it is not impossible to expand one's rib cage, especially for younger enthusiasts who are still in their adolescence, And while it may be difficult for older bodybuilders to do so, gains in chest expansion can be gained with persistence.<br />At any rate, this is a terrific resource for anyone looking for good, solid advice regarding the essentials of progressive weight training.  Schwarzenegger has updated and improved this book from the original, and has included a number of additional exercise, nutritional, and physiological aspects so that it is even more comprehensive than before. I can highly recommend the book, and know that anyone using it will have good, solid advice to follow in his or her physical training pursuits. Enjoy!gained with persistence.   <br />At any rate, this is a terrific resource for anyone looking for good, solid advice regarding the essentials of progressive weight training.  Schwarzenegger has updated and improved this book from the original, and has included a number of additional exercise, nutritional, and physiological aspects so that it is even more comprehensive than before. I can highly recommend the book, and know that anyone using it will have good, solid advice to follow in his or her physical training pursuits. Enjoy!	2002-08-02
1454162:US	52447634	RWCK8ZTUMDI3K	0521010683	572523055	The Skeptical Environmentalist: Measuring the Real State of the World	Books	3	44	88	N	N	Interesting, Provocative, But Scientifically Questionable!	It is always interesting when personal politics becomes the primary motivation for writing an article or a book. And to anyone who is reasonably well read in environmental affairs, it is obvious that the author is so burdened. So too are some of the reviewers, such as the fellow who so over-simplifies and reduces his arc of thought as to actually believe that free market interests and personal property rights somehow automatically trump wider environmental concerns. I hope the gentleman in question will remember that if and when he has no potable water to drink because the local industries have contaminated the local reservoir, or when there is no electricity to power his comfortable lifestyle because the corporations providing power are more interested in profits than public service, or when his stock portfolio goes into the dumpster because the minions of free-wheeling capitalists, unchecked by any meaningful governmental regulations, choose to exercise their personal prerogatives by putting their own financial interests before those of the other stockholders. Can we all spell Depression? Or is that simply a \\"Bush\\"-league shot in the dark?<br />More seriously, the problem with what the author has to say is not that some of what he may have to say has some truth in it, but rather that he has a hidden agenda in concocting this threadbare argument regarding the environment. He is a third-rate scholar who doesn't specialize in the specific subject area he has written the treatise on, and much of what he contends simply does not square with what is scientifically established and proven through much more rigorous studies. Other reviewers argue on his behalf based on the fact that Lomborg can quote statistics to bolster his claims. Yet anyone familiar with statistical analyses will tell you that numbers can be manipulated or pencil-whipped in almost any direction. Figures don't lie, the old adage goes, but liars often figure.<br />Secondly, Lomborg seems to have some problem with following an argument to a logical conclusion. Thus he seems to arrive at conclusions that do not necessarily follow from the data he uses to substantiate his case. As another reviewer comments, to equate a temperate forest with a boreal forest is not only bad science involving poor understanding of the data, it is also recklessly ignorant. As this same reviewer also points out, Lomborg is very selective in his choice of data to use to substantiate his argument. This is usually indicative of someone who is much more interested in forwarding a particular political point of view than with someone honestly trying to reveal the truth.<br />All this said, I did find the book fascinating, and I would be the first to admit that some of the environmental groups have been less than honest and forthright in their presentation of environmental data. Yet the information flowing from the various centers of scientific study all seem to agree, to use just one example of one problem that Lomborg laughingly dismisses as being overblown as a crisis, that global warming is in fact occurring, that it appears to be both more rapid and more serious a phenomenon than was previously believed, and that its political, social, and economic consequences will be far-reaching indeed.<br />Moreover, while I understand that personal experience is not always a reliable guide for making judgments regarding the world around us, most of us can certainly testify that something systematic seems to be happening with the weather. And speaking of the weather, I want to conclude by agreeing that this book has created a firestorm of controversy, and I am sure you will find it as thought-provoking and challenging as I did. So while I do not necessarily agree with all of his conclusions, or even with some of his scientific approaches and methodologies, I do agree with what some of the other reviewers said regarding admiring the singularity of purpose and personal courage he seems to have exhibited both in publishing this work and in facing the controversy since. Poor scientists aren't necessarily bad people, rather just people who may be tragically misinformed. Enjoy!d both in publishing this work and in facing the controversy since. Poor scientists aren't necessarily bad people, rather just people who may be tragically misinformed. Enjoy!	2002-08-02
1454396:US	52447634	R3GGQT3OKQBCMJ	0195151747	846543535	Six Days of War: June 1967 and the Making of the Modern Middle East	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Absorbing, Entertaining, And Well-Documented Study!	As someone who was already a fascinated university student majoring in history when the Six Day War began in the summer of 1967, I was stunned to find myself an eyewitness to yet another chapter of contemporary 20th century history. In fact, at the time I had only recently returned to civilian life after military duty myself.  Moreover, at the time the war broke out I was visiting Montreal to tour the wonderful international Expo 67 event. Subsequently I found myself surrounded by others in a very cosmopolitan venue in which many other nationalities were also raptly watching the events unfold, and the levels of apprehension and excitement were palpable.  Indeed, the atmosphere was electric, and the news reports detailing the rapidly evolving battle circumstances astounded everyone watching. For those of us who now experience history on a more casual basis by reading about it, and who so experience the events at a much slower, more methodical, and much more manageable rate, reading this book proved to be an exercise in instant transport back to that momentous week when the world was turned on its ear.<br /><br />Although the author makes extensive use of Israeli archives recently made available, it is obvious that the book suffers slightly from the lack of Arab input. It is obvious that the author is a proponent of the Israeli perspective on the Six Day War, and while one can understand this natural tendency toward viewing the events of 1967 in this fashion, it is not as illuminating a history as it might have been with a more balanced presentation of the underlying issues, motivating factors, and enduring differences between the Israelis on the one hand and all of their Arab neighbors on the other. Of course, the Arab nations involved still have little motivation to voluntarily share their stores of documentation, so it may indeed be a long time before a more balanced, complete, and comprehensive history of this conflict can be written.<br />With this qualification made, I must say that this work is not only informative, but also quite entertaining to read. The pace of the book is as breathless as the event in the sense that it keeps you on the edge of your chair even though you already understand what the eventual outcome is preordained to be. The brinksmanship and omnipresent &#34;fog of war' well-known to military history buffs shows its twisted face here, with the Israeli forces beating the Egyptian strike to the punch by scant hours, catching the opposition totally unexpectedly and with their literal pants down. Thus, the scale, scope, and speed of the defeat were both unprecedented and unexpected. And, as the world watched, the Arab forces were literally massacred in a lightning series of concurrent strikes across the borders in almost every direction at once.<br /><br />Out-manned, outgunned, and outflanked, the Israelis used every element on their side of the military equation to considerable advantage, and key here was the &#34;blitzkrieg' speed as well as the element of surprise. This is an interesting, informative, and entertaining book an one of the most surprising military engagements in 20th century military history. Given the Arabs' previous defeats at the hands of the Israelis following the partitioning of Palestine in 1947, it is indeed puzzling as to why they still had such misplaced disdain for the capability of the army of the Israeli state. Reading this book, one wonders if they will ever dare to make such a colossal mistake again. Enjoy!y that this work is not only informative, but also quite entertaining to read. The pace of the book is as breathless as the event in the sense that it keeps you on the edge of your chair even though you already understand what the eventual outcome is preordained to be. The brinksmanship and omnipresent &#34;fog of war' well-known to military history buffs shows its twisted face here, with the Israeli forces beating the Egyptian strike to the punch by scant hours, catching the opposition totally unexpectedly and with their literal pants down. Thus, the scale, scope, and speed of the defeat were both unprecedented and unexpected. And, as the world watched, the Arab forces were literally massacred in a lightning series of concurrent strikes across the borders in almost every direction at once.  Out-manned, outgunned, and outflanked, the Israelis used every element on their side of the military equation to considerable advantage, and key here was the &#34;blitzkrieg' speed as well as the element of surprise. This is an interesting, informative, and entertaining book an one of the most surprising military engagements in 20th century military history. Given the Arabs' previous defeats at the hands of the Israelis following the partitioning of Palestine in 1947, it is indeed puzzling as to why they still had such misplaced disdain for the capability of the army of the Israeli state. Reading this book, one wonders if they will ever dare to make such a colossal mistake again. Enjoy!	2002-08-02
1456599:US	52447634	R3JQ56QIVUBH1H	0679427724	555570204	Shakey: Neil Young's Biography	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Absorbing Biography of An Enigmatic Rock Figure!	As revealed in this new biography, Neil Young is a twentieth century original, a man who rose from obscurity based on nothing less than serendipitous happenstance, a remarkable talent as a musician, singer, and songwriter, and his enduring will to be true to his own inner voice. His story is nothing less than remarkable, given the quicksilver nature of fame and fortune in the rock and roll music business, for Young has truly done it all his way. He has a fabled lack of concern for consequences, for example, and has changed course in the midst of tours, recording sessions, and life a number of times, and allowed terrific carnage to concur in the wake of his leaving. As fellow Crosby, Stills, Nash and Young group member commented, \\"Neil is not what one would call a `team player'\\". No, indeed he isn't. And the wreckage he sometimes leaves behind him has been the stuff of legend.<br />Yet in the midst of all of this carnage and destruction, he has been fabulously successful, and in this penetrating and somewhat discursive biography written by a veteran rock and roll journalist allowed unique access to Young, the artist is revealed to be an iconoclastic, idealistic, and impetuous soul, one in constant search for unique opportunities for his own personal artistic expression.  He tends to deal in extremes, not only in his music, but in his wider personal life as well, and has, for example, bought old wrecked 1950 something Cadillacs for $400, only to spend tens of thousands of dollars to have them scrupulously, painfully, and quite expensively restored to pristine condition. And he brings this aspect of doing things to the ultimate degree to almost every aspect of his life. Yet where it shows most clearly and most fatefully is in his recording output, which is both prodigious and varied.  He has jettisoned friends and colleagues in search of something creatively different, has dared to off on obscure tangents, and has returned to writing, playing and singing that is artistically fresh, honest, and approachable.<br />Young's life reflects this devotion to introspective aloofness, and although he is happily married with children, he has left a lot of emotional detritus on the floor in the area of his life as well. Colleagues and peers such as Paul Simon and James Taylor speak of him in glowing and affectionate terms, and even Bob Dylan is an outspoken admirer of Neil's creative abilities.  Yet all of his friends, band members, and associates recognize that the singular degree to which Neil Young has lived his life is in many ways cruelly and unnecessarily selfish, as though all that mattered to Young was his pursuit of his artistic expression and his idiosyncratic interests. In fact, Young admits as much, and yet is unapologetic. So while one can easily admire the singular creative force he embodies, one is leery of anyone so inner-directed and so single-mindedly devoted to his pursuit of art that he sometimes seems to carelessly disregard all those humans who so meaningfully contribute to his ability to do what he does. Yet he is also sometimes described as  generous, thoughtful, and exteremely loyal to friends and aquaintenances.<br />Thus, there is no question but that Neil Young is an enigmatic, complicated, and often tortured individual, and he certainly is a uniquely talented and gifted artist, musician, and singer.  His life has been neither easy nor uncomplicated, and one has to admire the energy and determination he brings to his craft, his continued work, and to his life. He is a searcher, someone who, after all this success and recognition, seems still devoted to the pursuit of what Mark Twain referred to as `the territory ahead', out where few other humans have tread, and where Neil may get to breathe in the intoxicating aromas of original art. This is a fascinating, absorbing, and very informative book written with Young's cooperation and blessing, and one that incorporates interviews with hundreds of Young's friends, family, and colleagues as well as centering on many hours of interviews with Young himself. Long may he run! Enjoy.amily, and colleagues as well as centering on many hours of interviews with Young himself. Long may he run! Enjoy.	2002-07-31
1457061:US	52447634	R2UF75WLUUT4KT	0375409009	105731385	Masters of Death: The SS-Einsatzgruppen and the Invention of the Holocaust	Books	5	23	25	N	N	Superb Look At  A Horrifying Historical Phenomenon!	This new book by Richard Rhodes is, in my opinion, a quite interesting attempt to exhaustively explore the terrible brutality of the S.S. Einsatzgruppen (Special Group) created under Heinrich Himmler's specific direction to carry out an loosely organized mass extermination of Eastern captive populations as the Wehrmacht pressed into Poland and the Soviet Union during the successive Eastern campaigns. I purposely have used the term \\"captive populations\\" to connote that it was a population much more inclusive of local residents, including communist collaborators, dissidents, gypsies, and other \\"undesirables\\", targeted for extinction rather than being limited strictly to Jews. It is, I believe, a demonstrable mistake to try to argue that the Third Reich was primarily interested in ridding itself of its Jewish population. Remember, the initial population of Jews so murdered were not deported German Jews, but rather indigenous Jews living in Poland, Estonia, and Lithuania, part of the captive populations. We do well to remember that the Nazis' stated purpose for conducting the entire Eastern campaign was to gain what Hitler often referred to as \\"Liebenstraum\\", or \\"living room\\" for future German expansion and colonization. Thus, the Third Reich intended from the onset of hostilities in one fashion or another to forcibly displace the native population through a combination of techniques, including extermination, sustained slave labor, and starvation.<br />Historical questions regarding the etiology of the resulting Nazi policy of extermination of European Jews revolve around a single question: was it Hitler's intent from the beginning to do so, or did the policy evolve from pragmatic and existential circumstance? The first line of argument, what is often called the \\"intentionalist\\"premise, is that as he stated in \\"Mien Kampf\\", the Fuhrer always intended to wipe out the Jewish peoples of Europe, and that his campaign proceeded, cautiously and tentatively at first, more due to political and logistical considerations than with anything else. The opposing argument, regarded to the \\"functional' premise, finds the genesis of the policy of systematic genocide of the Jews in the welter of events and circumstances that arose from the onset of the Eastern campaign as early in the fall of 1939 when the Wehrmacht invaded Poland. This line of thought finds evidence in the Nazi's evolving efforts to employ ever more efficient and effective methodologies to deal with the captive populations of the East. Obviously, for either perspective to continue to have passionate adherants fifty years later indicates that both perspectives have considerable merit.<br />Having said this, I find the so-called \\"functional\\" argument more persuasive and more consistent with the bulk of historical record. This perspective is not an fact attempt to attempt to  argue that Hitler had no premeditation or predisposition regarding the eventual fate of European Jews and other targeted populations. Rather, it is more an argument as to how the Third Reich planned to capitalize best on the evolving existential circumstances to furhter its own immediate goals and objectives; as to whether it is more useful for the regime to temporarily enslave the subject population and work them to death, or to simply kill them quickly and dispose of them. What the historical record seems to show is that Hitler had given local area political subordinates considerable leeway in managing the dislocation process, especially in the first few months of occupation of Poland. It was the circumstances that arose and the difficulties associated with marshalling sufficient resources to feed, house, and surveil the indigenous captive populations that led to many of the initial efforts at systematic extermination. Otherwise, situations like those that led to the establishment, management, and horrors associated with the Warsaw Ghetto would never have come to pass.<br />All that said, the book does indeedshed considerable light and detail at the devil that was the SS Einsatzgruppen. Sparing no grisly detail, Rhodes takes the reader on a horrifying busman's tour of what Hannah Arendt once described as the banality of evil. For those of us who have read widely regarding the details of the Holocaust, it is precisely this question of how seemingly civilized, educated, and humane individuals could have possibly participated in such activities. It is mind-boggling to imagine the murderous disregard many who did indeed actively engage in such crimes had toward the victims, both while they were perpetrating the murders as well as in retrospect. Many interviewed later voiced no serious qualms about having done so, and seemed to show little collective sense of shame or guilt over such brutal and wanton serial acts of mass murder. In fact, even the SS was taken aback by how little ill effect was demonstrated by the members of Einsatzgruppen, having expected many more psychiatric casualties than were noted.<br />This is an absorbing book, one that very carefully details and describes the horror that was put in place in order to \\"vacate\\" the conquered territories for German colonization. One reels at the revelations of how members of the group, as well as the Wehrmacht in general, was systematically conditioned to generally view all Eastern Europeans as less than human, as a subspecies deserving no humane treatment. And the savage treatment dealt out was exactly what was intended, no consideration, no quarter, and no mercy. Eventually, for this they received the whirlwind, for the invading Soviet army was equally as brutal in their treatment of Germans as they eventually swept like a nightmare unleashed all the way into Berlin. This is a book I can highly recommend, but one so serious and so frank in its details that you will likely not \\"enjoy\\" reading it.ed shed considerable light and detail at the devil that was the SS Einsatzgruppen. Sparing no grisly detail, Rhodes takes the reader on a horrifying busman's tour of what Hannah Arendt once described as the banality of evil. For those of us who have read widely regarding the details of the Holocaust, it is precisely this question of how seemingly civilized, educated, and humane individuals could have possibly participated in such activities. It is mind-boggling to imagine the murderous disregard many who did indeed actively engage in such crimes had toward the victims, both while they were perpetrating the murders as well as in retrospect. Many interviewed later voiced no serious qualms about having done so, and seemed to show little collective sense of shame or guilt over such brutal and wanton serial acts of mass murder. In fact, even the SS was taken aback by how little ill effect was demonstrated by the members of Einsatzgruppen, having expected many more psychiatric casualties than were noted. <br />This is an absorbing book, one that very carefully details and describes the horror that was put in place in order to \\"vacate\\" the conquered territories for German colonization. One reels at the revelations of how members of the group, as well as the Wehrmacht in general, was systematically conditioned to generally view all Eastern Europeans as less than human, as a subspecies deserving no humane treatment. And the savage treatment dealt out was exactly what was intended, no consideration, no quarter, and no mercy. Eventually, for this they received the whirlwind, for the invading Soviet army was equally as brutal in their treatment of Germans as they eventually swept like a nightmare unleashed all the way into Berlin. This is a book I can highly recommend, but one so serious and so frank in its details that you will likely not \\"enjoy\\" reading it.	2002-07-31
1457778:US	52447634	R23AHEJYKLQFW4	0773760091	106842519	Earth Time: Essays	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Interesting Book On An Important Topic!	David Suzuki is a well-known Canadian intellectual who is playing a vital role in the ongoing debate regarding the natural environment and the future of the human (as well as all the other) species. Educated as a natural scientist, he is a former educator now working for the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, is also the author of such books as \\"God's Final Offer\\" (see my review). He is considered, both within Canada and without, to be one of the most credible and reputable critics of corporate and government policies concerning the natural environment. In this series of essays entitled \\"Earth Time: Essays\\" he takes thoughtful aim at the myriad of problems associated with the changes in the natural environment as we now enter the new millennium.<br />These essays cover such provocative issues as corporate globalization and its manifest effects on the environment as well as the associated changes to the climate, the deadening effect of political shortsightedness, the baleful legacy being created by both individual and organized greed, and the curiously willful blindness of those who should know better but choose to cast a blind eye to all that is happening around them. Yet this is not a simple desultory philippic on the evils of humankind; instead it is also a stirring call to arms for those of us who are looking for practical methods and devices to use to stem the negative tide swirling around us.<br />Suzuki gives us hope by showing us the sources for strength and hope, ranging from nature itself to ingenuous local political initiatives as well as educating our children beyond the consumption modality our generations seem so fatefully caught within.  I recommend this book along with the previously mentioned title, both of which will measurably enhance any reader's grasp on the total range of effects of the current environmental crisis. I highly recommend it. Enjoy!	2002-07-30
1466373:US	52447634	R1VHI6LR8LSK5S	0888669569	41572612	Petrotyranny	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Intriguing Exploration of the Petrochemical Conglomerates!	For those of us who have been watching the unfolding drama involving the petrochemical industry in which giant conglomerates like Enron have shown their cupidity and lack of public concern, the revelations contained in Petrotyranny come as no great surprise. If anything, one finds the arguments made in the book too conservative, given the events of the past several months. Yet this wonderful primer on the nature of the oil and gas beast was written without the kinds of educational experience we have all been subjected to in the last year, and so was operating based on intensive research and a deep scholarly curiosity on the part of author John Bacher. Funded in part by a Canadian organization called Science For Peace, this book represents the collective concerns of a wide range of scientists, scholars and concerned citizens who want a greater degree of public equity, honor, and honesty about the worlds natural resources, the way they are distributed, and aiming for a more viable and environmentally sustainable future.<br />In Petrotyranny the author lays bare the facts surrounding the current state of the world oil industry, revealing for the first time the degree to which ownership and access to the worlds known oil reserves are correlated to unrepresentative forms of government, and the degree to which transnational oil corporations have aided, abetted, and succored such political oligarchies. Indeed, the degree to which the two seem to co-exist and thrive seems to indicate that the oil corporations have had an active hand in perpetuating the situation. In fact, Bacher claims, the amount of oil reserves found in such countries ruled through non-democratic and unrepresentative means is more than six times the reserves found in more democratically aligned countries.<br />The discussion includes a frank and intriguing consideration of what this state of affairs means for all of us, both those of us living in relatively privileged societies as well as the denizens of those countries in which there is much oil related wealth yet little positive economic benefit for the citizenry at large. He also thoughtfully explores the increasing likelihood for more frequent occurrences of regional conflict based on the nature of oil ownership, as both demand for the products increases and the known levels of extractable oil reserves continues to diminish.  Indeed, the current set of geo-political circumstances both within the Middle East and elsewhere bear credence to this line of argument, as we ready ourselves for yet another potential oil-related conflict against Iraq.  Given all this, anyone believing this saber-rattling among the members of the Bush administration strictly about Iraqs potential threat to the region as a terrorist country is incredibly nave, especially given the extensive connections among present members of that administration and the oil industry.<br />Bachers approach is cautiously academic, and he seems to have great faith in the ability of the worlds western democracies to do the right thing. While readers may not share his optimistic twist on the facts that now confront us, this is an interesting and well-researched effort that illustrates handily the degree to which the worlds oil supply has fallen into dangerous hands. Enjoy!as well as the denizens of those countries in which there is much oil related wealth yet little positive economic benefit for the citizenry at large. He also thoughtfully explores the increasing likelihood for more frequent occurrences of regional conflict based on the nature of oil ownership, as both demand for the products increases and the known levels of extractable oil reserves continues to diminish.  Indeed, the current set of geo-political circumstances both within the Middle East and elsewhere bear credence to this line of argument, as we ready ourselves for yet another potential oil-related conflict against Iraq.  Given all this, anyone believing this saber-rattling among the members of the Bush administration strictly about Iraqs potential threat to the region as a terrorist country is incredibly nave, especially given the extensive connections among present members of that administration and the oil industry.     <br />Bachers approach is cautiously academic, and he seems to have great faith in the ability of the worlds western democracies to do the right thing. While readers may not share his optimistic twist on the facts that now confront us, this is an interesting and well-researched effort that illustrates handily the degree to which the worlds oil supply has fallen into dangerous hands. Enjoy!	2002-07-22
1479399:US	52447634	R12IIYJ40FHHTD	1583224890	746847725	9-11	Books	4	18	23	N	N	Unfocused, Episodic, But Provocative And Intriguing!	More and more postmodernist icon Noam Chomsky is coming to resemble no one more than that feckless dand compulsive do-gooder Ralph Nader. Anyway, I saw a portion of this monologue somewhere on public television, and was as rankled and yet also as intrigued by the contradictions that Chomsky represents whenever he speaks or writew, for he is certainly not an easy or uncomplicated scholar or thinker to classify. So too this offering is a mixed bag of observations, threading together a number of points made for other reasons in other works, and so at times can be a little frustrating to work your way through. But bear with it, folks, for Noam, as always, has some interesting things to say.<br />First, he understands very well the degree to which the foreign policy of the United States is an extension of craven corporate business interests, so he always speaks with authority and vision regarding the real motives underlying the reaction of the current administration to the attack on the World Trade Towers and the Pentagon. He also appreciates that the acts by the terrorists were despicable and horrific, and that there can be no exuse for such murderous behavior. So far, so good. One can agree with the logic and examples he cites. He is best when he argues against conventional logic that always seems to result in patently absurd and meaningless acts, like our attacks on peasants in the Afghan countryside.<br />Unfortunately, he sometimes lapses into a style that is neither clear nor coherent by assuming the reader has read things not in the present argument, such this glued-together set of essays does him and his ideas a serious disservice by making them appear less logical and less feasible than one might otherwise conclude. Which is not to say that I necessarily agree with all his precepts or conclusions. Yet I find his attempt to clear the air and present ideas not pre-packaged by some media maven into a neat little sound-bite quite refreshing. As he intimates, the reason the radical muslims hate us so fervently has little to do with our beliefs or our democratic principles, regardless of what the President may claim over and over again. Rather, they hate us because we have sponsored despots to rule over them, enriching the few at the expense of the legions, and we have done so to enrich ourselves at the same time. They don't hate us because we're democrats; they hate us because, in their minds,  we are pigs!<br />This is not a book for someone looking for easy answers or a comfortable philosophy or worldview to view current events with. But it is an interesting and provocative little book one can easily devour in an afternoon to get an entertaining ans foten fascinating glimpse of someone who is ready, willing, and able to think , out loud and in public, for himself. Enjoy!ason the radical muslims hate us so fervently has little to do with our beliefs or our democratic principles, regardless of what the President may claim over and over again. Rather, they hate us because we have sponsored despots to rule over them, enriching the few at the expense of the legions, and we have done so to enrich ourselves at the same time. They don't hate us because we're democrats; they hate us because, in their minds,  we are pigs!  <br />This is not a book for someone looking for easy answers or a comfortable philosophy or worldview to view current events with. But it is an interesting and provocative little book one can easily devour in an afternoon to get an entertaining ans foten fascinating glimpse of someone who is ready, willing, and able to think , out loud and in public, for himself. Enjoy!	2002-07-11
1479718:US	52447634	RXV3IYPTKSQ50	0030429900	682429389	We're Right Behind You, Charlie Brown	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Great Compilation Of Early Peanuts Classics!	This newly re-released version of classic Peanuts fare is entitled \\"We're Right Behind You, Charlie Brown\\", and it does indeed deliver all it advertises. This is great stuff, culled from a time when all of us growing up in the sixties were slavishly devoted to what Linus, Snoopy, Charlie Brown, Lucy and Schroeder did and said from stripo to strip.  Schulz showboats his best baseball segments, leaving one wondering as to how gullible good old Charlie Brown can be. Yet, at the same time it is not a book devoted to one set of segments at all. Instead, it sulls the very best oand most classic of the strips, and gives them the full articulation they deserve.<br />I spent some time on this book reading it to my friend's grand daughter, and she really loves Snoopy. Of course, we happened to have my daughter's bassett hound laying down next to us on the couch as we read! Now she looks at him with greater respect and devotion.Hahaha. At any rate, all your favorite Peanuts characters are here, unresolved existential doubts and all, and their manifest insecurities are showing. It is great fun, and greatly nostalgic for those of us who remember when these comic strips originally ran. Enjoy!	2002-07-11
1480674:US	52447634	R29L8J5LMFUB29	055334532X	962655503	The War Against the Jews: 1933-1945	Books	4	84	93	N	Y	Terrific History Of The Evolution Of The Holocaust	This seminal classic historical work by scholar and teacher Lucy Dawidowicz is a stunning book that both graphically and systematically spells out the details of the horrifying war of annihilation forged against the European Jews by the Third Reich. In a world that seen so much published regarding this subject, this work stands as benchmark. Ms. Dawidowicz addresses herself to the most fundamental of questions regarding this unspeakable policy of ritual race murder; how could a modern, sophisticated and industrial country such as Germany have perpetrated such a deliberate reign of horror against a whole people simply because they were Jewish? And, although we have seen recent books such as \\"Problem From Hell\\" that deal more systematically with the issue of modern examples of state sponsored genocide, the simple fact is that the Holocaust seems to have occurred because, for the first time in modern history, it was both politically and logistically possible. In other words, the Nazis had both the method and the impetus to do the unspeakable.<br />Seen in this fashion, the equation becomes at once political, social, and technological; given the irrational impulse to do so, the modern Nazi regime was able to harness all of its energies, spiritual, political and material, into such a devastating and sustained campaign against the Jews, and was therefore uniquely able to forge the most bloody of final results. The author's approach winds the reader through several phases of the Holocaust phenomenon with a careful, meticulous and methodical consideration of the social, economic, and political influences swirling through this witches' brew of evil. In the first part of the book, entitled  \\"The Final Solution\\", she traces the origins and growth of anti-Semitism, a form of patent racism so virulent it threatened to exterminate the Jews from all of continental Europe.  In so tracing the roots and origins of the Nazis and their fellow travelers, she shows how the rise of National Socialism revolved around the scapegoating of the Jews.<br />The execution of this plan was enacted in the ghettos and small towns of Poland and Germany as well as in a network of forced labor camps and concentration camps throughout Eastern Europe. In the second part of the book, \\"\\"The Holocaust\\", the author dramatically describes how the plight of the Jews was gradually worsened and how the violence and deprivation grew systematically more and more horrible with each passing month. Inhabitants of camps or ghettos led lives of incredible hardship and deprivation, struggling helplessly against hunger, disease, exposure to extremes of temperature and weather, and of course, to the wanton cruelties of the Nazi regime. This is indeed interesting material, detailing the ways in which Jewish groups both within the ghettos and the death camps worked together to make the best out of an impossible situation.<br />This is a heart-rending book, one that accurately portrays the ways in which Jews were deceived and betrayed by the authorities, convinced they were being resettled rather than being slated for extermination. Ms. Dawidowicz  writes with compassion and authority covering this intrinsically difficult issues, as one reads of lives torn asunder, families ripped apart, and wholesale rape, mutilation, and murder. This book, published more than thirty years ago, is one of the most comprehensive, best documented, and well-written book to have appeared on the subject of the Holocaust. I recommend it for anyone with an interest in the subject.al Socialism revolved around the scapegoating of the Jews.<br />The execution of this plan was enacted in the ghettos and small towns of Poland and Germany as well as in a network of forced labor camps and concentration camps throughout Eastern Europe. In the second part of the book, \\"\\"The Holocaust\\", the author dramatically describes how the plight of the Jews was gradually worsened and how the violence and deprivation grew systematically more and more horrible with each passing month. Inhabitants of camps or ghettos led lives of incredible hardship and deprivation, struggling helplessly against hunger, disease, exposure to extremes of temperature and weather, and of course, to the wanton cruelties of the Nazi regime. This is indeed interesting material, detailing the ways in which Jewish groups both within the ghettos and the death camps worked together to make the best out of an impossible situation.<br />This is a heart-rending book, one that accurately portrays the ways in which Jews were deceived and betrayed by the authorities, convinced they were being resettled rather than being slated for extermination. Ms. Dawidowicz  writes with compassion and authority covering this intrinsically difficult issues, as one reads of lives torn asunder, families ripped apart, and wholesale rape, mutilation, and murder. This book, published more than thirty years ago, is one of the most comprehensive, best documented, and well-written book to have appeared on the subject of the Holocaust. I recommend it for anyone with an interest in the subject.	2002-07-10
1507333:US	52447634	RBE0WD8RK4SZ9	0688077935	133297927	Dunkirk: The Complete Story of the First Step in the Defeat of Hitler	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Superb Coverage of The Events At Dunkirk in 1940!	This is a book that entertainingly presents the events surrounding the stunning German victory and the surprisingly facile defeat of the French army in a few short weeks in late Spring 1940, and the equally spectacular evacuation of the remnants of the British Expeditionary Force (BEF) from the shores of Dunkirk in a desperate and decisive effort to save what was left of the British forces to fight another day. This book by Norman Gelb provides a comprehensive overview of those horrific events, and also illustrates the manifest effect the battle on the long sandy beaches was having on the balance of world transfixed by these monumental events.<br />After all, the Wehrmacht had by this point nearly completed its masterful conquest of the French, Belgian, and British forces, outflanking, outfighting, and out-maneuvering their opponents to the point of exhaustion and capitulation. In less than three full weeks, the Nazis had accomplished what appeared to be the most extraordinary military campaign of in modern history, and had overrun most of France, Holland, Luxembourg, and Belgium. The coup de grace would have seemed to have been the ultimate destruction of what remained of the formidable BEF on the beaches of Dunkirk and in its surrounding surf, where the disorganized and demoralized Brits waded toward the most outrageously pitiful armada of small boats and other vessels ever assembled. Meanwhile, the Nazis chose to dither, to engage themselves otherwise, and to ultimately squander their chance to make an eventual victory over England much more probable.<br />Yet the true contribution of the book is not simply to be found in its wonderfully readable description of the evacuation of the BEF at Dunkirk and the reasons the Germans let it happen. Instead, it is his skillful ability to place these events in the context of a wildly overconfident Nazi hierarchy who appears to have been so over-impressed by their easy victory that they made the same kind of careless assumption about the British fighting spirit and their own invincibility that they made about the Russians the next summer. In essence, they forgot the lessons of history, and, believing their own press releases, were content to watch the desperate comedy of the BEF evacuation as if it made no difference. This was, of course, a very costly mistake, for which they paid quite dearly later.<br />This is a wonderful book, one that shows the strategic import of the Dunkirk rescue along a startling variety of avenues. Therefore, while in essence this is the detailed description of one of the most celebrated escapes in history, it is also the story of how this particular defeat and the moment of uncertainty facing the Wehrmacht found them lacking in imagination and proper regard for their enemies. By underestimating the ability of the British to regroup and rearm, by misunderstanding just how willful and indefatigable they would become, the Nazis, at the moment of their greatest victory, began sowing the seeds of their eventual defeat. This is a terrific book, and one I can heartily recommend to anyone interested in the history of World War Two. Enjoy!ion about the British fighting spirit and their own invincibility that they made about the Russians the next summer. In essence, they forgot the lessons of history, and, believing their own press releases, were content to watch the desperate comedy of the BEF evacuation as if it made no difference. This was, of course, a very costly mistake, for which they paid quite dearly later.<br />This is a wonderful book, one that shows the strategic import of the Dunkirk rescue along a startling variety of avenues. Therefore, while in essence this is the detailed description of one of the most celebrated escapes in history, it is also the story of how this particular defeat and the moment of uncertainty facing the Wehrmacht found them lacking in imagination and proper regard for their enemies. By underestimating the ability of the British to regroup and rearm, by misunderstanding just how willful and indefatigable they would become, the Nazis, at the moment of their greatest victory, began sowing the seeds of their eventual defeat. This is a terrific book, and one I can heartily recommend to anyone interested in the history of World War Two. Enjoy!	2002-06-17
1511699:US	52447634	R1UPDVMHD0G21T	0061099821	518902531	Nazi Gold: The Full Story of the Fifty-Year Swiss-Nazi Conspiracy to Steal Billions from Europe's Jews and Holocaust Survivors	Books	4	14	17	N	N	Surprising, Well-Written Expose Of Swiss Complicity In WWII	Over the last decade much has been written regarding the wanton theft of money, precious stones and metals, and other treasures and loot during the Second World War by both the Nazis and the Swiss bankers who helped finance the German war effort. This interesting and fact-filled book by author Tom Bower details the horrifying facts surrounding the multitude of ways in which Jews and other victims of the Nazi regime were fleeced, both by the Nazi authorities in the first place, and then by a plethora of other villains after the fact. Particularly distasteful are the ways in which victims of the Holocaust were manipulated, tricked, or forced into giving all they had in an attempt to save themselves and their families, only to find they were both swindled of the valuables in the first place, and then betrayed and sent to the death camps after so doing.  On many levels then, this is a shocking account of the plethora of ways in which those lost in the Holocaust were victimized.<br />The primary story here is the well-documented system developed and employed by the Swiss banking systems to garner the money deposited by Jews and other potential victims attempting to flee fascism, and to then safeguard it against any and all attempts to withdraw the money by the legitimate survivors of those victims.  At base, this is the story of the craven and deliberate theft of what is most likely many billions of dollars by the Swiss, who have stonewalled attempts to give some kind of accounting for the money and other valuables left behind by the Holocaust victims. It is, by the way, also the story of a small group of dedicated lawyers, accountants, and other professionals to force the Swiss into accounting for the money and compensating the families of the victims, even though it is clear that there is no way all of the money can ever be accounted for, or, for that matter, ever returned.<br />Given this situation, then, what his book represents is the last grisly chapter in the history of the Holocaust, a chapter in which memories and dignities are shattered and held up to ridicule by bankers more interested in their own financial gains than in a fair accounting of the facts.  Bower provides a stunning description of the truly despicable behavior displayed by the Swiss, and their nefarious role in denying victims' families knowledge about or access to any of the funds left in their care. He also describes a wide variety of ways in which the Swiss betrayed their pose of studied neutrality during the war by actively providing goods, materials, and money to the Germans, all of which aided and abetted the German war effort against the Allies. This book is scrupulously researched, meticulously documented, and carefully described, and as a result gives the reader a much better appreciation for the true nature of Swiss involvement was both during the war and thereafter. This is an interesting and worthwhile book, and one that I recommend to students of 20th century history. Enjoy!istory of the Holocaust, a chapter in which memories and dignities are shattered and held up to ridicule by bankers more interested in their own financial gains than in a fair accounting of the facts.  Bower provides a stunning description of the truly despicable behavior displayed by the Swiss, and their nefarious role in denying victims' families knowledge about or access to any of the funds left in their care. He also describes a wide variety of ways in which the Swiss betrayed their pose of studied neutrality during the war by actively providing goods, materials, and money to the Germans, all of which aided and abetted the German war effort against the Allies. This book is scrupulously researched, meticulously documented, and carefully described, and as a result gives the reader a much better appreciation for the true nature of Swiss involvement was both during the war and thereafter. This is an interesting and worthwhile book, and one that I recommend to students of 20th century history. Enjoy!	2002-06-12
1512177:US	52447634	R9AR00C4CDYFB	0965203611	896807257	Homesteading Adventures: A Guide for Doers & Dreamers	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Wonderful Introduction To &quot;The Road Less Traveled&quot;!	Adherents of the `60s counterculture back-to-the-land philosophy will find much to enjoy and savor in this humorous but fact-filled book on homesteading self-sufficiency.  I am lucky enough to have had a personally autographed copy of author Sue Robishaw's wonderful book \\"Homesteading Adventures\\" sitting comfortably on one of my bookshelves for years.  I recently re-read it, and found it as refreshing and as practical a guide to exploring the possibilities of walking on the self-sufficient side of the dirt road as one might find out there in the Ethernet.  Miss Robishaw uses the device of two fictional neophytes to pose the important questions regarding how one begins the process of shifting gears and thought processes toward increasing levels of personal responsibility for living \\"off the grid\\".  And, by the time one is through casually rummaging through the pages, you find that she has cracked more than a single smile or two onto your face while also relating to you a lot of important and useful data about the possibilities for living a less materialistic and more user-friendly alternative lifestyle.<br />In these days of ever greater complexity and ever more complete dependence on others for the woof and warp of our daily existence, for food, water, shelter, sewage, electricity, entertainment, transportation, and clothing, one is perhaps a bit startled to discover that we can each be much more actively and \\"proactively\\" involved in this process, that each of us can garner much of what we need to survive and prosper as human beings on the surface of the planet.  It often comes as a surprise because many of us are so deeply embedded in the ethos of the material culture that surrounds us that we rarely are able to independently determine or recognize how many other alternative ways to live exist, and which are there for us to employ if we have the vision, nerve, and energy to do so.  In her own way, the author helps us to come to this conclusion very quietly, gently, and with more than a little humor. She is well grounded, and along the way shows us how we can do everything from build our own cabin or earth home to how to make a small but eficient greenhouse to how to design, build, and erect a functioning windmill.<br />While Sue Robishaw is certainly not a self-sufficiency visionary like Scott and Helen Nearing (\\"The Good Life\\"), she does provide a vital and valuable service to the reader by offering a lot of practical lessons regarding how to begin and sustain one's journey toward greater personal responsibility for one's own way of living.  It is said that many millions of Americans continue to examine the basis of their own lives with an inchoate and poorly articulated dissatisfaction with the materialistic way of life they are currently embroiled in.  To the extent a single book can make a practical difference in helping such folk recognize, understand, and act on this alternative vision regarding the manner in which one lives his or her life, this book is a terrific aid and a practical how-to manual rolled into one paperback volume. I highly recommend it. Enjoy!, and with more than a little humor. She is well grounded, and along the way shows us how we can do everything from build our own cabin or earth home to how to make a small but eficient greenhouse to how to design, build, and erect a functioning windmill. <br />While Sue Robishaw is certainly not a self-sufficiency visionary like Scott and Helen Nearing (\\"The Good Life\\"), she does provide a vital and valuable service to the reader by offering a lot of practical lessons regarding how to begin and sustain one's journey toward greater personal responsibility for one's own way of living.  It is said that many millions of Americans continue to examine the basis of their own lives with an inchoate and poorly articulated dissatisfaction with the materialistic way of life they are currently embroiled in.  To the extent a single book can make a practical difference in helping such folk recognize, understand, and act on this alternative vision regarding the manner in which one lives his or her life, this book is a terrific aid and a practical how-to manual rolled into one paperback volume. I highly recommend it. Enjoy!	2002-06-12
1514360:US	52447634	R18S2DRKDJHVBU	0306802538	791708144	The 900 Days: The Siege Of Leningrad (A Da Capo Paperback)	Books	5	131	134	N	N	The Classic Tome On The Seige Of Leningrad	Few events in the annals of modern history compare to the saga of the terrifying siege of Leningrad for almost three years by the German Wehrmacht during World War Two. In this classic historical work, \\"The 900 Days\\" written by long-time New York Times correspondent and editor Harrison Salisbury, the incredible toll in terms of blood, sweat and tears of the millions of Russian protagonists trapped by the Nazis in the city is told. The story is told in such a graphic and moving fashion that the individuals involved are portrayed from a common sense, human perspective, in terms of describing breathing, struggling individuals locked into a living nightmare, each of them having to make a titanic effort day after day just to endure the hardships and survive.<br />The scale of the siege itself boggles the mind; some three million residents and soldiers were encircled and entrapped at the beginning of the Nazi incursion into Russia in Operation Barbarossa, intensifying with a ruthless German offensive in early October of 1941 that literally strangled the lifeline for food and critical supplies from the embattled urban area. Of those trapped, almost half succumbed, and most of these fatalities were in a relatively brief period of time, commencing with the events of October 1941 and climaxing in early April of 1942.  People starved, froze, drowned, were run over by tanks, walked into mine fields, succumbed to a wide range of diseases, were murdered by German soldiers, and sometimes were caught in artillery fire. In all, almost one and one half million people were lost during the siege.<br />Yet in the midst of all this immense suffering and the degraded conditions that forced many to the brink of extinction, the people of Leningrad consistently fought back, fighting environmental conditions, temperatures that dipped below 30 degrees below zero, with no heat, no light, little or no food or water. Yet the fighting on the front went on, supported by the inhabitants, who did everything from digging ditches to helping to care for the wounded in the midst of their own daily struggles to survive.  In this instance, they didn't merely endure; in fact they prevailed against incredible odds. In the final analysis, it was the German army that was destroyed.<br />The scope of this achievement seems to be little appreciated today. And while Salisbury traces the causes in the tragedy of Leningrad in Stalin's sectarian governmental policies that ultimately played into Hitler's plans for capturing the city, he also describes the incredible contributions of a cross-section of the citizenry of the city, including artists, factory workers, soldiers, teachers, housewives, children, writers, and others engaged in the common daily struggle to survive without ever ceding the ground or the war to the foe. Even more impressive is his unflinching attention to detail, and his retelling of the final coup-de-grace delivered by Stalin, jealous and politically fearful of the genuine heroes made by the siege, who then arranged to charge, convict and execute all the principals of the city's campaign against the Germans based on trumped up charges of treason. This was one of the first books to deal with the levels of Soviet suffering and contribution to the war effort, and it has been praised quite consistently by readers and critics alike.  I can recommend this book without reservation.<br />Enjoy!verything from digging ditches to helping to care for the wounded in the midst of their own daily struggles to survive.  In this instance, they didn't merely endure; in fact they prevailed against incredible odds. In the final analysis, it was the German army that was destroyed.  <br />The scope of this achievement seems to be little appreciated today. And while Salisbury traces the causes in the tragedy of Leningrad in Stalin's sectarian governmental policies that ultimately played into Hitler's plans for capturing the city, he also describes the incredible contributions of a cross-section of the citizenry of the city, including artists, factory workers, soldiers, teachers, housewives, children, writers, and others engaged in the common daily struggle to survive without ever ceding the ground or the war to the foe. Even more impressive is his unflinching attention to detail, and his retelling of the final coup-de-grace delivered by Stalin, jealous and politically fearful of the genuine heroes made by the siege, who then arranged to charge, convict and execute all the principals of the city's campaign against the Germans based on trumped up charges of treason. This was one of the first books to deal with the levels of Soviet suffering and contribution to the war effort, and it has been praised quite consistently by readers and critics alike.  I can recommend this book without reservation.<BR>Enjoy!	2002-06-10
1515985:US	52447634	R1I2KQB8A0YBO9	1931046352	230283185	Your Body Revival: Weight Loss Straight Talk	Books	5	28	31	N	N	Terrific Book For Jump-Starting A Return To Training!	For those of us sadly discovering middle age seems to also mean extra inches and unwanted pounds, this new book, \\"Your Body Revival\\" by famed bodybuilder and fitness expert Dave Draper is a godsend. Anyone familiar with either Draper himself, a consummate sixties bodybuilder who quickly ran through the pantheon of available titles by winning Mr. America, Mr. Universe and Mr. World to become famed as the blond bombshell, or with his unusual gifts as a writer as displayed in previous books such as \\"Brother Iron, Sister Steel\\" ... , this new offering of \\"Your Body Revival\\" is no great surprise. Indeed, for the mature fitness enthusiast unable to find adequate relevant personal guidance in mass circulation magazines that are more exclusively geared to the needs of younger athletes, this latest book is a unique and valuable offering that presents a plethora of suggestions that help both a more mature fitness enthusiast as well as a younger neophyte to manage his or her way toward specific physical goals.<br />Draper is one of those rare souls who is more interested in making a contribution to the sport by helping the everyday guy with his or her training issues than he is than with training potential bodybuilding stars for the posing platform. Not that Draper does not coach bodybuilders, for he surely does, but to date his main focus in his books has been more directed with helping \\"everyman\\" to strive for personal excellence. And it is this strain of thought that runs so memorably and helpfully through the chapters of this tome, as well. Draper clearly points the reader in the right direction, motivating and stimulating him or her with the voice of experience, probing at old fallacies and false promises, and summarizing, in concise and clear language, what the sound, basic nutritional facts are for the more mature athlete.<br />In doing so, he also provides a simple recipe or regimen for the athlete, one that will provide a maximum of lean muscle mass and which will also capitalize on fat loss at the same time.  In this short book, big Dave emphasizes the \\"vital importance of muscle and bodybuilding\\", and even provides sample workout routines designed to reach these goals.  And the book contains nuggets of useful information for all readers, regardless of their own circumstances or fitness level. In fact, in reading the book, you will quickly become amazed by the breadth of knowledge Draper applies to the subjects under discussion. It is obvious to even a casual reader that the book is carefully researched and meticulously written. Then again, one would hardly expect any less from the original blond bombshell, and a guy who brushed shoulders with everyone from George Eiferman to Steve Reeves to Larry Scott to Arnold Schwarzenegger to Tony Curtis to the late Sharon Tate.<br />In his introduction, Draper describes the sixties bodybuilding experience as being a time of relative innocence, before it became a mainstream fitness activity, and before it became corrupted by big power and big money, and it is that kind of personal ethos of seeing physical culture as a meaningful way of life and as a natural set of activities for someone interested in living a natural and healthy lifestyle that comes through here and makes this book so worthwhile. Like \\"Brother Iron, Sister Steel\\" before it, and like the many more books that we readers hope will follow, this is a book to be read and savored as words of carefully gathered experience, as words of training wisdom from the most gracefully aging bodybuilder of the 20th century.  Dave Draper has become a quiet legend for those of us who matured in the shadow of his many accomplishments, for he is a guy who always managed to walk with a singular dignity and purpose, someone who never sold out to the more crass and commercial forms of strength sports \\"entertainments\\" we so often see in today's publications. This book gives us the honest information we need to strive more successfully toward our ownrealistic physical fitness goals. I highly recommend it. Enjoy!own realistic physical fitness goals. I highly recommend it. Enjoy!	2002-06-08
1517317:US	52447634	R3BDZ1LY2ZQFRI	0395924944	16197237	The Good Nazi: The Life and Lies of Albert Speer	Books	4	20	23	N	N	Insightful, Shocking Examination of Nazi Albert Speer	Like many contemporary works of non-fiction, \\"The Good Nazi\\" provides support for the axiom that truth is often stranger than fiction. Albert Speer remains in many ways one of the most enigmatic figures of the 20th century, admired for his singular and seemingly forthright admission of guilt and culpability for crimes committed by the Third Reich during the Nuremberg War Trials, but reviled by many later for conducting a campaign of disingenuous prevarication to justify his actions and stances before during and after the war. Speer spent two decades years in the allied prison at Spandau as one of the few members of the Nazi hierarchy to escape the death sentence, and wrote a best-selling book that he secretly smuggled out over the course of the twenty years with the cooperation of his wife and family. With its publication in the early 1970s, he became internationally famous, and he shamelessly used the bully pulpit of his own notoriety to forward his own revisionist notions about what really happened during the 12-year reign of the Third Reich.<br />The present book revolves around the complex nature of the issues raised during this post-prison campaign. On the one hand, Speer was the only of the accused former Nazis to admit his own guilt and complicity in the crimes and misdeeds of the Third Reich, yet on the other hand he always denied any direct knowledge of the Holocaust. This terrific biography by Dan vander Vat, subtitled `The Life and Lies of Albert Speer'. represents a well-documented and penetrating investigation into the admittedly contradictory aspects to Speer's explanations, justifications, and rationalizations of his own role and conduct during and after the Second World War. The author lays an exhaustive groundwork for his claims that Speer was in actuality the ultimate opportunist, one who used his charm, position, and influence both to rise shamelessly through the Nazi ranks to become the second in command and who subsequently ployed these obfuscating skills to further ingratiate himself with the world at large.<br />The essence of the author's argument is that Speer was basically an amoral and extremely ambitious opportunist who did whatever was necessary to further his own life situation, whether it be that of a rising Nazi official or as a prevaricating apologist for a shameless German past. Thus, at one point Speer is depicted as the ultimate company man, a dedicated Nazi zealously and shamelessly pursuing the maximization of forced and slave labor in service to the Reich's war objective, deliberately and systematically exploiting the millions of captive peoples, most usually to the point of physical exhaustion and death.  Try though he might, Speer could never adequately explain away his own behavior and actions during the war, and it seem quite evident that he did indeed conduct a campaign of deliberate obfuscation and prevarication regarding his own role in the Nazi murder machine. This is a book that sometimes makes one uneasy because of the nature of the facts it is investigating, yet which also does so with great care and endless levels of scrupulous detail. I heartily recommend it for anyone who cares to peer into what Hannah Arendt so memorably described as being the utter `banality of evil'. Enjoy!cating skills to further ingratiate himself with the world at large.    <br />The essence of the author's argument is that Speer was basically an amoral and extremely ambitious opportunist who did whatever was necessary to further his own life situation, whether it be that of a rising Nazi official or as a prevaricating apologist for a shameless German past. Thus, at one point Speer is depicted as the ultimate company man, a dedicated Nazi zealously and shamelessly pursuing the maximization of forced and slave labor in service to the Reich's war objective, deliberately and systematically exploiting the millions of captive peoples, most usually to the point of physical exhaustion and death.  Try though he might, Speer could never adequately explain away his own behavior and actions during the war, and it seem quite evident that he did indeed conduct a campaign of deliberate obfuscation and prevarication regarding his own role in the Nazi murder machine. This is a book that sometimes makes one uneasy because of the nature of the facts it is investigating, yet which also does so with great care and endless levels of scrupulous detail. I heartily recommend it for anyone who cares to peer into what Hannah Arendt so memorably described as being the utter `banality of evil'. Enjoy!	2002-06-07
1527565:US	52447634	RJOYZZVPIWX9W	0375405445	406271874	Founding Brothers: The Revolutionary Generation	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Wonderful Look At Our Revolutionary Geniuses!	This wonderful work relating the critical importance of the collective works of genius accomplished by this unlikely collection of kindred souls during the late eighteenth century is, for me, at least, an astonishing eye-opener. Author Joseph P. Ellis, the National Book Award winner for his book, \\"American Sphinx\\", focuses on several separate historical anecdotes that, to his mind, best illustrate the brilliance, scholarship and manifested tension surrounding what just may be the most astounding work of American history, that is, the successful initiation and completion of its collective body of public works ranging originally from the \\"Declaration of Independence\\" to the \\"Bill of Rights\\" to the \\"Constitution\\" by this remarkable collection of gifted individuals, each of whom made a stunning and sustained set of contributions to the collective enterprise we refer to as the American Revolution.<br />As the author quickly convinces us, the state of the hoped for American polity in the decade following the end of the American Revolution was anything but stable and fully realized. On the contrary, there was a panoply of dangers, ranging from the strictly economic to subtly social to the manifestly political, any of which could threaten the continued success of the so-called American experiment. What these men accomplished, then, was to turn this quicksilver and rapidly changing set of economic, social and political properties into a more solid, enduring, and stable enterprise, one that could and did survive the death or political eclipse of its original creators.  What the author examines so memorably here is a very thorny set of social and political issues and problems that each of these several protagonists, in a unique and creative fashion, sought to wrestle with and to eventually overcome. And so we are invited to view each of the protagonists, warts and all, as the very human actors they were, albeit on stages of national and even international proportions.<br />Thus, through an examination of six different political and personal episodes, ranging from the famous Burr-Hamilton duel on a foggy morning in New York City to the famous Jefferson-Adams correspondence, demonstrate the extraordinary minds and hearts that were ultimately responsible for guaranteeing the fabulously unlikely success of the collective enterprise, often against what seemed like insuperable odds. In short, \\"Founding Brothers\\" gives the reader an immensely entertaining and most edifying reading experience. Rich in detail, it offers us a fascinating look at those men delivered up to us not as carved stone images, but as breathing, feeling, and very human individuals, men who fought their emotions, their pride, and their own prejudices to make a greater whole.  I found this book to be a wonderful reading experience, and heartily recommend it. Enjoy!Thus, through an examination of six different political and personal episodes, ranging from the famous Burr-Hamilton duel on a foggy morning in New York City to the famous Jefferson-Adams correspondence, demonstrate the extraordinary minds and hearts that were ultimately responsible for guaranteeing the fabulously unlikely success of the collective enterprise, often against what seemed like insuperable odds. In short, \\"Founding Brothers\\" gives the reader an immensely entertaining and most edifying reading experience. Rich in detail, it offers us a fascinating look at those men delivered up to us not as carved stone images, but as breathing, feeling, and very human individuals, men who fought their emotions, their pride, and their own prejudices to make a greater whole.  I found this book to be a wonderful reading experience, and heartily recommend it. Enjoy!	2002-05-29
1528111:US	52447634	R1V3E5ZMBCPRJN	0375413383	836557265	Political Fictions	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Shrewd and Absorbing Look At The Political Elite!	More than seventy years ago H.L. Mencken satirized the politicians of his day by counseling the American people that we had the best Congress money could buy. Even then many observers seemed to understand that power politics served the needs of the elite, not the man in the street. Yet gradually this trend toward a polity more and more exclusively organized and perpetuated for the sole purpose of benefiting a small upper class has become noticeably more decadent and extreme, and it is this trend toward extremism that noted social commentator Joan Didion takes issues with in this absorbing series of essays centering on the dangerous drift toward an elitist polity. Miss Didion is an author with an incredibly diverse background, and while she is primarily known for her works of fiction, she has also delivered some provocative and thoughtful best-selling non-fiction works such as \\"Slouching Toward Bethlehem\\". Here, with her set of essays, \\"Political Fictions\\", she demonstrates her wry and sardonic insight into the political machinations and creative politics that characterize the American polity. While the reading is enjoyable and edifying, her protestations sometimes get to be a bit much.<br />For Didion literally nothing is holy or sacrosanct, and she savagely lambastes the cynical manipulations she attributes to the political elite in this country, who she pictures as  systematically and ruthlessly engaging and using their power in the act of exploiting current events in inventing what they then characterize as the political drama of democracy in action. And, to Didion's credit, she understands that nothing is really quite as simple as it seems on the surface. Thus she describes a cynical manipulation of a national yearning for a nostalgic view of America in what is a mind-boggling juggling of the truth. What she discovers in this search through the highs and lows of the political landscape is a solipsistic political view, engendered by an almost comically vapid attempt to pander to the public in an attempt to perpetuate their vulnerabilities in order to maintain power and control. It is difficult not to empathize with her observations, and to subscribe to most of what she says, especially her pointed observations of how much worse, i.e. how much more extreme and more vicious the political process seems to have become. Yet I have to admit to a bit of surprise at the level of shock she professes at finding the political process, especially as represented by the two political parties, to be a patently self-serving enterprise that both individuals and groups engage in to serve their own selfish interests.<br />Thus, in tracing the plethora of ways in which such themes as a imagined American past are manipulated in order to further the aims of the political powers that be, she expresses horror to find that the two major parties, in concert with the electronic media, have consciously worked to deliberately narrow the forces within the electorate to a small but manageable cadre. Finally, in disgust she explore the ways in which this state of affairs winds up spawning a ruling class that is oblivious to, and unconscious of, the needs and wants of the general electorate.  This leaves the reader to wonder whether her expressed rage is a creative tool, or if, on the other hand, she really was so nave that all of this genuinely surprises her. Perhaps she was on Holiday from Smith the semester they taught about H.L Mencken and his celebrated works regarding the American political system. Yet this truly is a worthwhile book and one I recommend, because it is entertaining and very well written.  Ms. Didion has a unique way with turning a phrase on its ear and making the thought she is making most unforgettable in the process. Just be sure you understand before doing so that much of what she says seems a bit disingenuous given her reputation for considerable street smarts and basic common sense. Enjoympt to pander to the public in an attempt to perpetuate their vulnerabilities in order to maintain power and control. It is difficult not to empathize with her observations, and to subscribe to most of what she says, especially her pointed observations of how much worse, i.e. how much more extreme and more vicious the political process seems to have become. Yet I have to admit to a bit of surprise at the level of shock she professes at finding the political process, especially as represented by the two political parties, to be a patently self-serving enterprise that both individuals and groups engage in to serve their own selfish interests. <br />Thus, in tracing the plethora of ways in which such themes as a imagined American past are manipulated in order to further the aims of the political powers that be, she expresses horror to find that the two major parties, in concert with the electronic media, have consciously worked to deliberately narrow the forces within the electorate to a small but manageable cadre. Finally, in disgust she explore the ways in which this state of affairs winds up spawning a ruling class that is oblivious to, and unconscious of, the needs and wants of the general electorate.  This leaves the reader to wonder whether her expressed rage is a creative tool, or if, on the other hand, she really was so nave that all of this genuinely surprises her. Perhaps she was on Holiday from Smith the semester they taught about H.L Mencken and his celebrated works regarding the American political system. Yet this truly is a worthwhile book and one I recommend, because it is entertaining and very well written.  Ms. Didion has a unique way with turning a phrase on its ear and making the thought she is making most unforgettable in the process. Just be sure you understand before doing so that much of what she says seems a bit disingenuous given her reputation for considerable street smarts and basic common sense. Enjoy	2002-05-29
1536303:US	52447634	R3ID5IVKAZJQ7G	0671728687	679377355	The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich: A History of Nazi Germany	Books	5	124	140	N	Y	The Best Single Overview Of The Nazi Regime!	I grew up near Lenox, Massachusetts, where author William Shirer spent his last twenty years, and we often drove by the old Victorian where he lived, set back from the road as it was, with a large, lovely lawn hiding the rather reclusive author from public view. I picked up this book again to reread it once more, for I find that it is a wonderful treasure trove of personal observations and actual eye-witness history, written on the run by a man married to an Austrian woman and living in the shadow of the Nazis as they climbed into power.<br /><br />William Shirer's comprehensive treatment of the curious rise and horrific fall of the Nazis in post-Weimar Germany is the benchmark volume to measure all other treatments of the era by. There are so many monographs on Nazi Germany that one reels before the list looming in a relevant bibliography. Save yourself the trouble; this book gives one exactly the kind of complete immersion in and coverage of the realities of the era that too many of the other books lack. Shirer, an American journalist stationed in Berlin as a newspaper (and later radio) correspondant during the rise of the National Socialists, was there, on the ground and at the scene witnessing many of the events he describes in such detail.<br /><br />He has, of course, written extensively on these experiences, both herein and elsewhere in books like 'The Nightmare Years' and 'Berlin Diary'. But this book has to be considered his masterpiece, and is worth the time, trouble and price for this hefty best-selling volume. After all, it has never been out of print in the forty years since its original publication in the early 1960s. I promise that if you read this, you'll never think of World War Two in the same way. It is indeed a long and difficult read, but one that is well worth the effort. Enjoy!	2002-05-21
1536319:US	52447634	RV3TONNI3CAI3	1590710029	46928538	Steel My Soldiers' Hearts: The Hopeless to Hardcore Transformation of the U.S. Army, 4th Battalion, 39th Infantry, Vietnam	Books	4	43	47	N	Y	A terrific Look At Life On The Ground In Vietnam!	I've been a fan of Colonel David Hackworth's writing since reading his hilarious putdown of hapless, happy warrior Oliver North in a Playboy article entitled \\"Drugstore Marine\\". This book handily illustrates why he is held with such regard by his peers, and demonstrates once again that Hackworth is a guy that calls them as he sees them.  In \\"Steel My Soldiers' Hearts\\", Hackworth recalls his own combat experiences in the darkest days of Vietnam, taking over command of one of the worst units then \\"in-country\\". Sent there in an effort by the brass to either prove his newfangled theories of insurgent warfare or shut up, Hackworth attempts to give his theories a fair chance of proving themselves.<br />However, the job would not be an easy one to accomplish. The troops, demoralized, undisciplined, and literally out of control, were experiencing some of the highest casualty rates in the conflict, and needed drastic intervention to turn them around. Their ability to seek out and successfully engage the enemy was dismal, and they foundered when circumstance suddenly changed, requiring a change in tactics.  In the space of a few months, Hackworth wrought a radical transformation, and the statistics of the unit proved it. But to reach his objective of turning the troops around, Hackworth had to take some drastic action, such as firing most of the senior officers and tightening the screws on the troops until they finally heeled.<br />The results were impressive, and the casualty rates and most other statistics became much more positive. Hackworth had made his point and illustrated the utility of his rather unconventional ideas regarding small unit tactics in Vietnam. This is an entertaining and informative book, and, as usual, Hackworth, who never misses an opportunity to take potshots at conventional military wisdom and the political posturing of the upper echelons of the military, holds forth on his own views here.  He also gives us a lot of the gritty details of life out in the bush, from firefights to helicopter landings, from clearing mine fields to avoiding sniper fire from the VC. One finishes the book feeling as though he had trooped along with the unit through the swamps and wetlands of the Mekong Delta, where, twenty clicks out, an enemy patrol is sifting through the brush. This is an entertaining and worthwhile book. Enjoy!n the bush, from firefights to helicopter landings, from clearing mine fields to avoiding sniper fire from the VC. One finishes the book feeling as though he had trooped along with the unit through the swamps and wetlands of the Mekong Delta, where, twenty clicks out, an enemy patrol is sifting through the brush. This is an entertaining and worthwhile book. Enjoy!	2002-05-21
1536716:US	52447634	R2NHSBPP64NLU3	0670030414	435949952	The Fall of Berlin 1945	Books	5	81	98	N	Y	A Superb Look At The Last Days Of The War In Europe!	Like Cornelius Ryan's \\"The Last Battle\\" and John Toland's \\"The last Hundred Days\\", this terrific new book by acclaimed British historian Antony Beevor (\\"Stalingrad\\") is both an entertaining thought piece and an incredibly well researched and infinitely detailed description of the fall of Berlin at the end of World War Two. Plagued by food and heating fuel shortages, endangered by increasingly devastating bombardment from a sky full of Allied planes, and badgered by the frantic desperation of the Nazi leadership, the people of Berlin awaited the denouement of the long raging conflict and the terrible retribution they felt certain would rage from the Russians, who had been savaged themselves at the hands of the Wehrmacht during the blitzkrieg of 1941-42. When their moment came, the Soviets ruthlessly pursued it to ensure taking the last full measure of terror.<br />With strict (but secret) orders from Hitler to quickly annihilate what he and the Nazi leadership considered to be the \\"subhuman Slavs\\" in order to make \\"liebenstraum\\" (living room) for future German colonization, the Germans had conducted a campaign of such staggering and unparalleled brutality, of such senseless slaughter during their sweep east toward Stalingrad and Moscow that afterward the Russians literally seethed with a profound bloodlust, aching for a chance at revenge. Now that the tide had turned and the Soviet army was flooding over the eastern borders of the fatherland, their chance had arrived, and the day of reckoning was fast approaching.<br />Beevor's treatment of the story of the fall of Berlin in 1945 is rich with detail and anecdotal information, which helps bring the story to life, putting a human face on the horrific specifics of life in a city under siege. While Hitler cowered deep beneath the city in his bunker, fantasizing about his imminent rescue, Zhukov's Russian shock troops were encircling the city. Yet, it never deteriorated into a situation of \\"every man for himself'. The author's narrative is filled with examples of individual bravery and personal sacrifice for the benefit of others.  Amid the savagery and carnage that surrounded them, ordinary men and women went about their ruined lives, just trying as best they could to survive.  Yet hundreds of thousands perished, succumbing to the numbing effect of shelling, bombs, fires, gun-battles and random rape, victims of a half-starved and hate-filled foe hell-bent on bloody revenge.<br />The author masterfully employs previously unavailable Soviet and German archives to thread a storyline very well told. In so doing, Beevor delivers a very compelling vision of the people and events that shaped the progressive collapse of Berlin under the constant bombardment and attacks of the Russian army, and the horror that awaited ordinary Berliners in the line of fire. What he gives us is an indelibly colored portrait of a time of great pitch and moment in the history of the modern world, a snapshot of two titans, the Germans and Russians, locked in mortal combat in one of the great cities of Europe. The aftermath of that struggle was felt for decades afterward. This is a well-written and very carefully researched book, one that added to my personal knowledge of the history of the Second World War. I heartily recommend it. Enjoy!uthor's narrative is filled with examples of individual bravery and personal sacrifice for the benefit of others.  Amid the savagery and carnage that surrounded them, ordinary men and women went about their ruined lives, just trying as best they could to survive.  Yet hundreds of thousands perished, succumbing to the numbing effect of shelling, bombs, fires, gun-battles and random rape, victims of a half-starved and hate-filled foe hell-bent on bloody revenge.    <br />The author masterfully employs previously unavailable Soviet and German archives to thread a storyline very well told. In so doing, Beevor delivers a very compelling vision of the people and events that shaped the progressive collapse of Berlin under the constant bombardment and attacks of the Russian army, and the horror that awaited ordinary Berliners in the line of fire. What he gives us is an indelibly colored portrait of a time of great pitch and moment in the history of the modern world, a snapshot of two titans, the Germans and Russians, locked in mortal combat in one of the great cities of Europe. The aftermath of that struggle was felt for decades afterward. This is a well-written and very carefully researched book, one that added to my personal knowledge of the history of the Second World War. I heartily recommend it. Enjoy!	2002-05-21
1537367:US	52447634	R2KZ2E1K5LCHNT	0393086925	436820455	Six Days of the Condor	Books	5	73	75	N	N	Superb Spy Thriller!	I first read this suspense and spy novel sometime in the mid-1970s, while living in Utah and working for the federal government. The picture it paints of a murderous renegade network operating within the Central Intelligence Agency is both frightening and plausible, and is delivered by author James Grady in a tight, well-developed thread of events that spins way out of control as the protagonist tries to figure out who is at the center of the bloody plot and why he and his cohorts at a special studies institute sponsored by the Agency are targets. This book is extremely well written!<br />The level of paranoia as well as the multiple levels of deceit and deception described in the book seemed outlandish at the time, but given the temper of the times, it somehow seemed much more plausible in the backwash of Watergate and all that was revealed about the machinations of the so-called \\"invisible government\\" then. The hero's ability to parse together the facts and learn and adapt as he progresses makes the novel work especially well, and one can relate to his growing frustration as he realizes there just may not be any way out alive. And between the margins of the paragraphs are some intriguing questions regarding the role of secrecy in an open and supposedly democratic society that add a measure of intellectual acumen and \\"gravitas\\" to the tale.<br />So popular was this novel in the bookstores that very quickly after it was turned into a screenplay and filmed as a revised story under the title \\"Three Days Of The Condor\\" starring Robert Redford, Fay Dunaway, and Cliff Robertson. This novel makes an absorbing way to escape the humdrum of everyday life with a stunning tale of murder, mayhem, and betrayal. I highly recommend this book. Enjoy!	2002-05-20
1538501:US	52447634	RBI4L66ADS8I2	0771083270	453746512	Kiss the Boys Goodbye: How the United States Betrayed its Own POWs in Vietnam	Books	5	54	59	N	N	Stunning Expose Of Government DesertionOf  Its Vietnam Vets!	This is a book that should make ordinary American citizens exceedingly sad and angry. Although some may argue that its message is old news, and certainly very dated information, the horror and outrage it should occasion is neither old nor dated. For what the authors contend, and go on to impressively prove, is that our national government deliberately and maliciously betrayed its own soldiers trapped as Prisoners Of War (POWs) in Vietnam, abandoning them in favor of a quick and otherwise painless exit from the war in Southeast Asia. This, as the authors argue, is a truly devastating indictment of the Nixon administration, and one for which they cannot be forgiven.<br />However, it is more than that. It is also a bizarre story of men left behind for the sake of political expedience and due to a number of highly classified clandestine operations, which were purposely kept from the American people. The story line begins with the sad saga of a young ex-marine who escaped from Vietnam on the late 1970s and claimed to have seen a large number of fellow American servicemen still being held by the Vietnamese.  However, he was quickly charged with desertion and collaboration with the enemy, in what seemed to be a desperate effort on the part of governmental officials to bury both him and his story of American prisoners as deeply as possible from public view. From here the plot takes a number of bizzare twists and turns.<br />As the authors began to investigate the young marine's story, layers of deception, half-truths, and active censorship began to emerge. What they finally uncovered was an amazing tale of official deception from the highest levels in government, and also a very well organized and relentless abuse of official governmental power. This book reveals convincing evidence of American soldiers and sailors deliberately abandoned for political expedience, and of families torn apart by these acts. It also raises quite provocative questions concerning the very nature of democracy, and the corruptibility of ordinary men given such power. Similarly, they show how the use of claims of national security were used to derail efforts to learn the truth, and of an active conspiracy to keep the public from discovering the truth.<br />There are many of us who have long believed that Nixon and Kissinger made a pact with the devil himself in order to to extricate the United States fro the ongoing horror of Vietnam. What is truly mind-boggling is to discover just how right we were to suspect that they, and many others in the government since that time, would take such drastic action as they have to conceal these facts and to evade the truth. This is a worthwhile book, and one that demands to be read. I hope you can approach it with an open mind. Its arguments and the evidence associated with it are, in my opinion, very convincing.  Enjoy!of democracy, and the corruptibility of ordinary men given such power. Similarly, they show how the use of claims of national security were used to derail efforts to learn the truth, and of an active conspiracy to keep the public from discovering the truth. <br />There are many of us who have long believed that Nixon and Kissinger made a pact with the devil himself in order to to extricate the United States fro the ongoing horror of Vietnam. What is truly mind-boggling is to discover just how right we were to suspect that they, and many others in the government since that time, would take such drastic action as they have to conceal these facts and to evade the truth. This is a worthwhile book, and one that demands to be read. I hope you can approach it with an open mind. Its arguments and the evidence associated with it are, in my opinion, very convincing.  Enjoy!	2002-05-20
1539031:US	52447634	R2V9JK7ISG421O	0465061508	59964273	A Problem from Hell: America and the Age of Genocide	Books	5	145	174	N	N	Wonderful, Scholarly Look At Problem of Genocide!	In reading the introduction to this terrific book by Harvard professor Samantha Powers, I was reminded of a comment made by one of my own professors in graduate school eons ago to the effect that public morality provides for disastrous foreign policy. What he meant, of course, was that trying to conduct the political affairs of a sovereign state based on one's perceptions of what we believe to be right and wrong is most ussually a terrible idea. In fact, he said, one must eschew the temptation to do so in favor of a more \\"enlightened' understanding of one's strategic national interest. In other words, realpolitik in the real world is based on gaining and keeping advantage, not on doing what is morally right.<br />While we may not agree with such a cynical and throwaway attitude toward foreign policy, it is consistent with the historical documentation the author so aptly demonstrates in this well documented and well written exploration of the most vexing and curious phenomenon of the 20th century; state sponsored genocide. And while I would quarrel slightly with her voiced notion that it is a peculiarly modern phenomenon (witness our handy slaughter of the American Indian in a very methodical and painstaking fashion over a hundred year period), it can not be denied that the scope and depths of the commission of such mass murder has reached epidemic proportions since the turn of the century. This indeed is a issue of satanic dimensions, a so-called \\"Problem From Hell\\".<br /><br />Those of us who are systematically engaged in the examination of modern warfare have often marveled at the uncanny ability of statesmen like Wilson, Roosevelt, and Churchill to deny any personal knowledge or complicity in the events surrounding the Armenian debacle in the early years of World War One or the Holocaust visited on the Jews, Gypsies, and others during the Nazi epoch. And, as time has gone by, more and more evidence indicating such leaders were indeed quite aware of the circumstances and yquite deliberately chose not to act is even more damning. The, too, when one starts to consider the more recent train of events in Bosnia, we too have become eye-witnesses to a consistent policy of inaction, to what can only be described as the colossal reluctance of either the American government or the European allies to act decisively to stem or stop the wanton genocidal behavior of the Bosnian Serbs. Less clear was the role of the American government in the genocides in Cambodia, Rwanda, and in East Timor. Finally, it was painfully evident that William Jefferson Clinton was extremely reluctant to act to force the Serbian government from its bloody incursion into Kosovo.<br />Thus, in each case-study that the author provides, the same lack of national resolve is indicated, and the consistencies from administration to administration seems to indicate it is a pattern shared by both Democrat and Republicans while in power. It is instructive at this point to remember that most often our military actions are usually confined to extending the national government's foreign policy through extraordinary means, i.e., forcing a situation in which our perceived national interest is threatened by a change in the status quo. Genocide rarely so affects our interests. In fact, it is often our friends in power who are more likely to be the perpetrators in a genocidal situation. Proof of this is our lack of concern over Saddam's massacre of Kurds when he was considered our \\"bulwark' against Iran in the late 1980s.  Then he made the fatal mistake of putting our oil supply at risk by invading Kuwait. At that point, we acted. Wow, what a surprise!<br />In summary, we should not be intellectually surprised by the lack of morality involved in public decision-making when it comes to the conduct of foreign affairs. We rarely do the \\"right\\" thing, but rather do the \\"smart\\" thing in terms of what we perceive will best serve our global economic and political goals. In such a world,public morality plays no significant part, and it is only when the media turns on the bright lights of public exposure that authorities will finally act. This is a terrific book, one that deserves a careful and meticulous read. But don't realistically expect to find any solutions for our baleful \\"realpolitik\\"  lapses in public morality, or that things are likely to change in the future. The powers that be couldn't care less about murder and mayhem, as long as it doesn't affect their perceived national interests. It isn't even on their radar screens. Enjoy., public morality plays no significant part, and it is only when the media turns on the bright lights of public exposure that authorities will finally act. This is a terrific book, one that deserves a careful and meticulous read. But don't realistically expect to find any solutions for our baleful \\"realpolitik\\"  lapses in public morality, or that things are likely to change in the future. The powers that be couldn't care less about murder and mayhem, as long as it doesn't affect their perceived national interests. It isn't even on their radar screens. Enjoy.	2002-05-19
1540892:US	52447634	R3GY1JORET3T5O	0374123543	928235722	Churchill: A Biography	Books	3	21	25	N	N	Interesting But Flawed Biography Of Churchill!	Few figures so capture the public imagination as does Winston Churchill. In many ways he is remembered as being larger than life, a man of great scope, wit, and imagination, and a very complicated human being indeed. I may be in the minority here, but I didn't find this biographical work by English historian and sometime politician Roy Jenkins particularly compelling. Jenkins' writing style is at times more than a bit stuffy, and he has an unfortunate tendency to lapse into very formal English, as one might expect someone with the author's impeccable academic pedigree would be prone to do. This stylistic approach hampers the exposition of a very long, convoluted, and often tediously selective set of recollections about Churchill, as often as not based on incidents witnessed by the author. While having the capability to recall such personal experiences with one of the most famous figures of the 20th century sometimes makes for fascinating reading (and sometimes not), it does not necessarily make for a comprehensive or balanced biographical picture of the subject at hand. Therein lies my problem with the book.<br />Yet it would be unfair and inaccurate to dismiss this massive, well-researched, and occasionally quite brilliant treatment of Mr. Churchill as a personal memoir. Had I not already read a number of other authors' efforts (most notably Sir Martin Gilbert) regarding Churchill, I might not be so critical of the present effort by Mr. Jenkins. Of course, Sir Gilbert is the single most acknowledged Churchill scholar, and his output in this regard borders on the unbelievable. However, he is an incredibly prolific writer, and the list of his books boggles the mind of the average reader (including yours truly). And there have been others who have offered the reader a much more comprehensive, balanced, and coherent portrait of Winston Churchill. Moreover, one can always turn to the mammoth works penned by Churchill himself, which while of questionable objectivity, certainly represent an authoritative interpretation of his experiences, especially during the conduct of the Second World War.<br />In the interest of full disclosure, I must admit that this is the first book that I have read by Mr. Jenkins. If it is indeed representative of his style and approach, it will likely also be the last. Once again, This is not to say that there is not a lot of substantive work here, but rather to caution the reader that this is more often a set of personal recollections about his personal experiences in the vicinity of Churchill, or during the times of Churchill, than it is a balanced, comprehensive, and objective biography of Churchill or an accurate history of his times. Taken for what it is, it is a good, if long and tiring, read. I can recommend it with these qualifications. But if you are looking for a more conventional, approachable, and readable biography of Churchill, look for my review of Sir Martin Gilbert's biography of Winston Churchill. Enjoy!tainly represent an authoritative interpretation of his experiences, especially during the conduct of the Second World War. <br />In the interest of full disclosure, I must admit that this is the first book that I have read by Mr. Jenkins. If it is indeed representative of his style and approach, it will likely also be the last. Once again, This is not to say that there is not a lot of substantive work here, but rather to caution the reader that this is more often a set of personal recollections about his personal experiences in the vicinity of Churchill, or during the times of Churchill, than it is a balanced, comprehensive, and objective biography of Churchill or an accurate history of his times. Taken for what it is, it is a good, if long and tiring, read. I can recommend it with these qualifications. But if you are looking for a more conventional, approachable, and readable biography of Churchill, look for my review of Sir Martin Gilbert's biography of Winston Churchill. Enjoy!	2002-05-17
1543426:US	52447634	R2C9BHRT5X0PQH	0786864265	235660413	The Rolling Stone Book of the Beats: The Beat Generation and the American Culture	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Wonderful Look At The "Beats" Incredible Cultural Influence	For me, this book represented both a challenge and a labor of love, for it was a real culture shock for someone who has enough life experience (and is therefore old enough) to look back some forty years to recall and appreciate, in all its too-predictable homogeneity, the suffocating conformity of America in the 1950s, and how the growth and flowering of the so-called \\"beat\\" consciousness rose to challenge the politics, economics, and social life of the contemporary society. This is indeed a definitive collection of writings, photographs, and etchings that faithfully recalls the nature of beat society. The first impressions we had were silly stereotypes offered in TV series like Dragnet, where the beats were pictured as psychopathic con men trying to fleece the general public with their esoteric jargon.  But then again, how would one expect someone as conventional and strait-laced as Jack Webb to \\"grok\\" onto the nature of the beats or what they were trying to say?<br />Everyone who was someone in the beat movement is represented here, from poet and Citylights bookstore owner Lawrence Ferlinghetti to Allen Ginsberg, from William Burroughs to Graham Parker, from Annie Leibovitz to Hunter Thompson. And what they have to say is most revealing, both about themselves as individuals as well as for the beat movement as a whole. For this was a movement that cried out for a new and more human-oriented perspective in the midst of the dawn of the technocratic society. In many ways the writings are more meaningful and better understood in that sense, as being representative of a profoundly reactive voice howling out against the pities of modern life. And in many things, the beat movement and the accompanying humanistic-oriented ethos it developed was the nurturing force that allowed the flowering of the sixties counterculture. However, as even a cursory reading of these materials will attest, the beat movement was much more than that.<br />The book traces the movement through four essential stages; first, the birth and growth of the movement with the rise of poets like Allen Ginsberg and the fabled Poetry Renaissance in San Francisco as well as the emergence of beat forms of Jazz music. Then, the three major icons of the beat culture are introduced and surveyed: Jack Kerouac, William Burroughs, and Allen Ginsberg, whose combined legacy to the beat culture and to modern popular culture are each in turn examined. This is a wonderful book, one full of singular prose and absolutely historic literary pieces. This is one you will want to own, to browse and prowl through, and to read in spurts and starts. There are a myriad of great bits contained here, all of which are cobbled together beautifully by the editors of Rolling Stone.  I heartily recommend this book, one that offers the reader a delightfully real and vibrant glimpse into a brief shining moment in popular American culture, once upon a time when ordinary men and women thought and wrote and played with extraordinary thoughts and observations about the nature of life in contemporary America. Enjoy!four essential stages; first, the birth and growth of the movement with the rise of poets like Allen Ginsberg and the fabled Poetry Renaissance in San Francisco as well as the emergence of beat forms of Jazz music. Then, the three major icons of the beat culture are introduced and surveyed: Jack Kerouac, William Burroughs, and Allen Ginsberg, whose combined legacy to the beat culture and to modern popular culture are each in turn examined. This is a wonderful book, one full of singular prose and absolutely historic literary pieces. This is one you will want to own, to browse and prowl through, and to read in spurts and starts. There are a myriad of great bits contained here, all of which are cobbled together beautifully by the editors of Rolling Stone.  I heartily recommend this book, one that offers the reader a delightfully real and vibrant glimpse into a brief shining moment in popular American culture, once upon a time when ordinary men and women thought and wrote and played with extraordinary thoughts and observations about the nature of life in contemporary America. Enjoy!	2002-05-15
1564257:US	52447634	R1Z858QGW0WJWY	0871135604	59646954	A Family Place: A Man Returns to the Center of His Life	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	A Wonderful Look At The Maturation Of A Family	I have been a fan of Charles Gaines since reading both \\"Pumping Iron\\" (which he did in colloboration with famed photographer George Butler) and his novel \\"Stay Hungry\\", which was turned into a movie in which Arnold Schwarzenegger had one of his first serious roles. Yet this book is so far afield from anything like his previous work that it stands alone. It is at once a confessional and a tribute, for in this book Gaines articulates what it means to finally recognize how superficial and fruitless his endeavours over a several year period had been, and ho whe and his wife decided to make a last stab at saving their faltering marriage by retreating, en famille, with the rest of their extended family of kids and selected friends, to spend a summer building a summer cottage on the rugged coast of Nova Scotia.<br />The trek proves worthwhile, as does the reading experience, for we find ourselves paging through this day-by day account of how they made it happen, and how they all grew together in a renewed bonding of individuals through the common experience. Of course, not all of us have the resources or time to engage in such a quixotic adventure, yet reading the book made me yearn for the opportunity to engage my loved one and friends in some common enterprise not so much for the acomplishment of the task, but for the opportunity to grow and experence each other and the mutual growth that would occur in such an engagement. That is perhaps a solipsistic method of decribing and endorsing a book for one's fellow readers, but there it is. Like Jack Nicholson's famous line in \\"As Good As It Gets\\", it makes me want to be a better man. Enjoy!	2002-04-27
1564593:US	52447634	RN6DZOSGWMBL6	0782140874	794399235	Server+ Study Guide	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Well Written And Concise Guide!	This is a product that has only recently been introduced, and consequently it is a bit surprising that the study guide are already on the market. This is typical of the kind of quality product the publisher has a reputation for, and appears to be extremely accurate, comprehensive, and quite concise. The guide is segregated in five separate parts. AS one opens the book an  objective map is rendered for the reader's convenience and understanding.<br />The book is broken down in the 5 parts ranging from installation to networking and RIAD. It appears quite thorough and comprehensive. The entire volume is well organized and one can pick up any particular chapter as a stand-alone volume for the subject therein. It also has practice questions in the book, and a CD included has Edge Test practice exams. All in all, this is an excellent package for the money, and it will certainly do the job! Enjoy!	2002-04-27
1564997:US	52447634	R1DJF5D6F2THQG	0516220055	502781098	The Battle of Midway (Cornerstones of Freedom Second Series)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Terrific Synopsis Of A Most Critical WWII Battle!	Given the commonplace that the series of naval encounters between the remnants of the American Pacific fleet surviving Pearl Harbor and the recent battle of the Corol Sea were central to all that followed thereafter, this is an interesting, factually accurate, and well illustrated description of those encounters, which led to the rout of the Japanese and the first signs that the initiative thereafter would pass to the American Navy. Midway is really an excuse of an atoll that harbored several runways critical to American goals of maintaining air capability early in the war.<br />In essence, our ability to read Japanese codes gave us some quite illuminating clues several months before the battle as to what they were about to attempt, including their proposed ship deployments and relative battle tactics to be used. The decision was made to literally go for broke, by risking the balance of our Pacific fleet to foil the Japanese plan and cripple their ability to conduct blue-water naval engagements for the balance of the war. Most critical in all this was maintaining the element of surprise, which we managed to do almost perfectly. Thus, our presence there, including an additional aircraft carrier that the Japanese thought they had successfully sunk at the Corol Sea engagement, caught them at precisely the right moment, with their decks full of returning aircraft, and helpless to respond to our air attack.<br />While the goal of the Japanese was to neutralize Midway by capturing it and to destroy whatever they could of the U.S. Pacific Fleet, they never suspected we could launch the kind of surprise attack we used to hammer them into defeat. The author carefully describes the progress of the war in the Pacific from  December 1941 through the Battle of the Coral Sea to this series of encounters between the forces. Of course, a series of fatal mistakes by the Americans early on were almost disastrous, but eventuated in an American triumph. Thus, the mists and fog of war, through a series of complex interactions between skill and happenstance, the whole history of the war was changed in a single decisive battle. McGowen does a credible job in describing and clarifying these complex events for the reading audience.through a series of complex interactions between skill and happenstance, the whole history of the war was changed in a single decisive battle. McGowen does a credible job in describing and clarifying these complex events for the reading audience.	2002-04-26
1565232:US	52447634	R399FP2I88WNX2	0691096112	590581149	Suburban Warriors: The Origins of the New American Right (Politics and Society in Twentieth-Century America)	Books	4	16	21	N	Y	Absorbing,Thorough Analysis Of Neoconservative Ascent !	This book represents both a fascinating study of the evolution of `60s politics as well as a historical attempt to document and explain the perplexing fact that a country flirting with the danger of a social and political revolution from the left suddenly veered so much farther to the right toward a broad-based popular conservatism. Herein Lisa McGirr, a gifted author and Harvard professor comes closer to making her prose swing than one would expect of a book of this type. Meanwhile, she also spins a convincing argument regarding the origins of the American neo-conservative revival in the late `60s and early `70s. At the time, domestic conservatism had been badly eclipsed by the burgeoning youth culture and their radical leftist notions.  To her credit, the account rendered here is not only academically spirited, but is written in a way that makes this serious work of scholarship accessible to the general public.<br />She focuses meaningfully on the activities within a specific congressional district, in Orange County California, where, she argues quite persuasively, the seeds of the neo-conservative revival were most fruitfully planted and sown. Within this district, literally thousands of affluent and educated suburban \\"warriors\\" combined to launch a powerful movement destined less than a decade later to propel Ronald Reagan into the White House. In the process they also helped to chisel a new agenda into the granite pillars of the American pantheon, one that helped to define the very nature of domestic political battles for decades to come.<br />This book gives us a graphic and detail introduction to these hearty, healthy and enthusiastic warriors; housewives arguing political strategy over coffee and Danish, young and well-educated defense engineers arriving to live out the American dream, impressionable young religious workers convinced that the only way to save the country and themselves from Hellfire and brimstone was to work fervently against the designs of the \\"godless democrats\\". From this well-detailed work we begin to see how the movement came into being, how it organized itself, what motivated the individuals as well as what their evolving political agenda became and why.<br />McGirr demonstrates that this was far from being a movement of marginalized or isolated extremists; on the contrary, from the beginning it was more accurately characterized as an intensely enthusiastic enterprise, one formed and energized by the social, economic, and political elite, people with both means and motive for becoming involved to better control their own futures as well as those of the country at large. In what is perhaps her best set of insights, she demonstrates how these young and innovative neo-conservatives established a new set of political philosophies and precepts, forged in a alloy of Christian fundamentalism, misguided nationalism, and more traditional true conservatism (i.e. an old-style libertine attitude).<br />This is a seminal work, an effort at true scholarship which dares to look at Rosemary's baby in the face by searching through the afterbirth of the not so immaculate birthing of modern neo-conservatism. What she discovers and demonstrates along the way may often upset our traditional notions of what happened and why, but it never fails to inform or edify us as to what transpired or why. This is an interesting and worthwhile book, and one that I can heartily recommend.  Enjoy!the \\"godless democrats\\". From this well-detailed work we begin to see how the movement came into being, how it organized itself, what motivated the individuals as well as what their evolving political agenda became and why.<br />McGirr demonstrates that this was far from being a movement of marginalized or isolated extremists; on the contrary, from the beginning it was more accurately characterized as an intensely enthusiastic enterprise, one formed and energized by the social, economic, and political elite, people with both means and motive for becoming involved to better control their own futures as well as those of the country at large. In what is perhaps her best set of insights, she demonstrates how these young and innovative neo-conservatives established a new set of political philosophies and precepts, forged in a alloy of Christian fundamentalism, misguided nationalism, and more traditional true conservatism (i.e. an old-style libertine attitude). <br />This is a seminal work, an effort at true scholarship which dares to look at Rosemary's baby in the face by searching through the afterbirth of the not so immaculate birthing of modern neo-conservatism. What she discovers and demonstrates along the way may often upset our traditional notions of what happened and why, but it never fails to inform or edify us as to what transpired or why. This is an interesting and worthwhile book, and one that I can heartily recommend.  Enjoy!	2002-04-26
1565859:US	52447634	R30MEQPLBJJPBL	067003116X	215020323	Report from Ground Zero: The Story of the Rescue Efforts at the World Trade Center	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	An Absorbing and Honest Look At A Day Of Infamy	By now it would be easy to expect a book with such a title to be an exploitative effort to mine our sentimental attachments to the events of last September, yet this slim volume is hardly that. Written by a career fireman who walked among those who fought the fire and who were lost, it really is a marvelous testament ot those who risked their lives for others. Far from being a rip-off, it is written as a tribute to those who walked among the ruins and either lived or died.<br />It is full of anecdotal information about many of those who perished, but is also filled with descriptions of survivors who were ordinary people illustrating uncommon courage and compassion. Go get it and read it, but find a quiet private corner first. And bring the kleenex. Tears will flow, and you will still be glad that you read it. Enjoy!	2002-04-26
1566015:US	52447634	R31XVVJ42SEU64	067978117X	922854694	The Living and the Dead: Robert McNamara and Five Lives of a Lost War	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Scathing Indictment Of McNamara for Cowardice!	This book falls squarely into the category of a wonderfully developed \\"best of class\\", for it faces the issue of Robert McNamara complicity and lasting culpability for the debacle and aftermath associated with Vietnam. Of course, in the interest of full disclosure, it is only fair to mention my own antipathy for McNamara, and my own belief he (as well as Henry Kissinger and a number of notable others) should have been indicted for crimes against humanity in association with the war in Vietnam. Nonetheless, this book is truly amazing at a number of levels, but most certainly because it puts the lie to the lingering neo-conservative notion that Vietnam was a necessary and winnable war that the nattering nabobs of negativity (read liberals here) and anti-war protestors inadvertently lost for America. Of course, such nonsense has more to do with wishful thinking then it does the reality of the times, as author Paul Hendrickson quickly illustrates.<br />This is a fascinating character study, one that poses McNamara as an isolated, antisocial figure more at home with the comfortable fictions of number crunching than with the quicksilver facts of everyday reality. His rise from Harvard to the Air Force to Ford won him wide acclaim as a \\"no-nonsense can-do\\" kind of guy, and this reputation for being the best and the brightest resulted in him being named Secretary of Defense by Jack Kennedy in what was likely the most disastrous public appointments of the last half of the 20th century.  He force-fit his own conceptual perceptions onto the way the Department of Defense assessed itself and its engagements, so that quantitative measures came to supplant local experience and field judgment in the conduct of day-to-day operations in Vietnam. Thus, the most venial sorts of bean-counting by way of number of sorties, bomb tonnage dropped, and enemy body counts became the \\"meaningful measures of merit\\" (an actual term, not one I am concocting) the \\"whiz-kids\\" at the Pentagon used to determine where they stood in terms of the ultimate victory.<br />Meanwhile, thousands of American boys, as well as countless Vietnamese of every age, sex and description were lost in so-called \\"collateral damage\\".  Engaged in the circular reasoning only a true believer in quantitative reasoning could marshal, McNamara fought to maintain the perception the war was being won, even when his raging intellect knew otherwise. Yet even after he recognized the reality of the situation, this self-described man of conscience could not bring himself to do the right and honorable thing. Rather than tell the truth and expose the outrageous situation in Vietnam, he remained silent, allowing many more thousand of young Americans and Vietnamese to die. It is this failure of conscience for which he should have been prosecuted, for his willing complicity in the continuing bloodbath long after he knew the war could not be won and that our efforts there would result only in further loss of life.<br />The book is also singular in its counter position of McNamara's evolution throughout the sixties and early seventies with five others so dramatically linked with the progress of the war in Vietnam; four Americans and a young Vietnamese citizen, all of whom were fatefully affected by McNamara's moral cowardice and abject failure to act or speak out.  Most poignant for me was the story of one former Vietnam veteran turned artist who actually went berserk on a ferry when he discovered McNamara to be a fellow passenger. Finally, the author deals quite convincingly with the self-serving arguments McNamara himself has used to deflect criticism from himself, showing how one-sided and inconsistent they are with the public record. This is a terrific book, and one that provocatively revisits the painful and mind-numbing consequences that the terrible events of the sixties had for so many ordinary Americans. I recommend this book, although I must caution that reading it is hardly for the squeamish or faint of heart. It cuts deep into the heart of darkness that was so central to our venture in Vietnam, and faithfully recalls the depths of heartache and tragedy that piteous, misadventured action caused.h or faint of heart. It cuts deep into the heart of darkness that was so central to our venture in Vietnam, and faithfully recalls the depths of heartache and tragedy that piteous, misadventured action caused.	2002-04-25
1568050:US	52447634	R150HXXCOCSU8P	0393036294	641337253	Divided We Fall: Gambling With History in the Nineties	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	Thoughtful, Penetrating Look At Contemporary America	One of the best of the tribe of journalists who has successfully made the transition to writing full-time as a contemporary historian is former television correspondent Haynes Johnson, who has penned a wonderful series of books on American politics and social issues like \\"Sleepwalking Through History\\", a savvy and fascinating best-selling study of the Reagan's presidency and its aftermath.  In this book, \\"Divided We Fall; Gambling With History In The Nineties\\", Johnson continues his exploration of the social, economic and politics realities of the times in a work that largely acts as a snapshot of the country and the polity at a particular moment in time, i.e., in the early 1990s, just after Bill Clinton ascended to the Presidency.<br /> One of the things making this book special is the author's ability to draw those that he interviews out of themselves, and as a result he mines some fascinating data from the wide range of people he contacted while making a kind of sentimental journey across America.  He found that people quite consistently voiced concerns and reservations about the same kinds of issues; employment, race, education, public schools, and also about traditional values and what their place in contemporary America should be. At the same time, Johnson counterposes against this series of vignettes and interviews details of the inner workings of the early Clinton presidency in all its hoary  (or perhaps gory) complications. Faced with unpleasant choices about where we are, where we want to go, and how to get there, this point/counterpoint perspective has some interesting points to make about the state of the country and the culture.<br />  Thus, this is a book that paints an indelible and unforgettable portrait of today's modern America, a country characterized by the common people feeling estranged and disconnected from the government and from what it seems to be about based on what the people seem to hear about it every day. This results in a kind of free-floating anxiety and disappointment about our seeming inability to make the necessary changes needed to face a turbulent and complicated future.  As always, however, Johnson finds reasons for hope and optimism, and some of the individual narratives provide ample proof that idealism isn't dead, that there are people who passionately care about their country and their values, and who are actively involved in trying to make this a better country and a better world.<br /> In summary, this is a worthwhile book that squarely faces those problems and issues central to our growth and vibrancy, and which also explores the contemporary scene with uncommon verve and understanding. Johnson is an uncommonly good writer, just as he was always such a terrifically uncommon old-school journalist. I suspect he is also a quite substantial human being! I highly recommend this book. Enjoy!-floating anxiety and disappointment about our seeming inability to make the necessary changes needed to face a turbulent and complicated future.  As always, however, Johnson finds reasons for hope and optimism, and some of the individual narratives provide ample proof that idealism isn't dead, that there are people who passionately care about their country and their values, and who are actively involved in trying to make this a better country and a better world. <br /> In summary, this is a worthwhile book that squarely faces those problems and issues central to our growth and vibrancy, and which also explores the contemporary scene with uncommon verve and understanding. Johnson is an uncommonly good writer, just as he was always such a terrifically uncommon old-school journalist. I suspect he is also a quite substantial human being! I highly recommend this book. Enjoy!	2002-04-24
1569048:US	52447634	R19213WLJMMGCO	0071359249	851009726	Timebomb:The Global Epidemic of Multi-Drug Resistant Tuberculosis	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Riveting and Absorbing Book!	This shocking book focuses on the emerging public health threat associated with the rise of multiple drug resistant (MDR) strains of tuberculosis, especially in the former Soviet bloc of countries. In an age when worldwide travel can be accomplished in days if not hours, the connectivity between what is transpiring in the underdeveloped world and within our own borders is more striking than ever before. Therefore, we must recognize the threat posed by the emergence of such strains, and prepare to deal with the almost inevitable outbreaks of such strains of TB as they begin to occur in modern western societies.<br /> This is not an easy read, but it is a quite fascinating and eye-opening one. The spread of MDR tuberculosis with the populations of Russia and the former satellite countries is shocking, and the total number of individuals latently infected now number some two billion people, or over one third of the total world population! Given the inability of modern medicine to counteract the course of the disease or to easily cure people infected with these new strains, the threat posed by them for people in all countries cannot be over-dramatized. Tuberculosis is indeed highly contagious, spreading freely through the air from infected individuals when they speak, cough, or sneeze. The authors refer to it as the \\"Ebola with wings\\", making a tacit reference to this most deadly form of hemorrhagic fever which is quite lethal when contracted, but which is thankfully more difficult to spread since (unlike tuberculosis) it is not airborne.<br /> The predictions of its consequences are dire indeed; MDR tuberculosis is anticipated to kill 30,000,000 in the next decade alone. It festers in the more humid and warmer reaches of the earth, from Brazil to India, from Russia to China, and it is especially dangerous in those area of the world that have the poorest existing public health infrastructures. The economic collapse of the former USSR condemned millions to conditions of enforced cohabitation with infected individuals in the most congested, least sanitary, and most poorly equipped social structures in the world. Given such an alarming rise ion incidence and prevalence of the disease entity, the risk for cross-cultural contamination is only a short air-flight away from a looming public health disaster in the small towns and mega-cities of Europe and North America. Indeed, it is hard to engage in hyperbole here to overestimate the threat.<br />This book is indeed a call to arms, a plea for enlightened action on the part of governments, public health agencies, pharmaceutical research conglomerates, and the general public in order to avoid the terrors that await us if we sit by without doing all we can do to ensure better safeguards and better screening find, isolate, and treat infected individuals before they can lay the groundwork for a tragic and unstoppable epidemic. This is an important and worthwhile book, and one that I heartily recommend.enforced cohabitation with infected individuals in the most congested, least sanitary, and most poorly equipped social structures in the world. Given such an alarming rise ion incidence and prevalence of the disease entity, the risk for cross-cultural contamination is only a short air-flight away from a looming public health disaster in the small towns and mega-cities of Europe and North America. Indeed, it is hard to engage in hyperbole here to overestimate the threat.<br />This book is indeed a call to arms, a plea for enlightened action on the part of governments, public health agencies, pharmaceutical research conglomerates, and the general public in order to avoid the terrors that await us if we sit by without doing all we can do to ensure better safeguards and better screening find, isolate, and treat infected individuals before they can lay the groundwork for a tragic and unstoppable epidemic. This is an important and worthwhile book, and one that I heartily recommend.	2002-04-23
1571300:US	52447634	R26C5UGRPKFNW5	0449004392	262130304	The Children	Books	5	51	51	N	Y	A Superb, Masterful  Retelling Of A Most Remarkable Story!	As a veteran reader of 20th century history books, I've long considered David Halberstam to be one of the best and brightest of the contemporary historians publishing today. He is also, not so coincidentally, one of the most prolific, as well, having produced a steady stream of works covering such myriad historical and cultural subjects as a study of how the Kennedy and Johnson administrations stumbled and blundered their way into the quagmire of Vietnam to more whimsical studies of pop-cultural aspects of American life such as major league baseball and the effects of the seasons on residents of the island of Nantucket off the Massachusetts coast. In this book, \\"The Children\\", Halberstam focuses on the fascinating subject of the American civil rights movement from its genesis in thee black colleges and churches of the American south to its development as a pan-American movement during the early 1960s.<br /> One of the most admirable qualities of this superb book stems from the fact that Halberstam was in fact an eye-witness to many of the events described here, being a recent Harvard graduate who soon finds himself getting a heaping helping of ordinary racist reality in the 1950s-early 1960s American south. His interest in becoming a journalist draws him to a local city desk at an iconoclastically liberal southern paper that tolerates his naivety and cashes in on his energy and natural ability to write. Yet this is not a story in any manner about Halberstam. Rather, it is the fact that he waited so long to write about this era of his own career that makes it so mind-boggling, for he brings all of his mature powers of observation and description to bear on this story in a way that breathes fire and life into the oft-told tale, and makes each of the protagonists both more ordinary and more real.<br />This is an important aspect of the story itself, for now, some forty years later, it is easy to forget how young and unworldly many of these youngsters were. In facing the challenges of the times as well as their own well-founded fears, each of them gradually becomes an extraordinary person.  Here we have a master of prose describing these extraordinary events with a breathtaking narrative, focusing on each of the several individuals in turn in showing how the welter of events, circumstances, and individual personalities combine to create a social revolution by daring to oppose the most hoary of racial taboos through the practice of public non-violent opposition.  This is a story that describes the epic beginnings and dramatic evolution of a veritable social revolution in America, one that changed the face of our society forever.<br />This is a riveting book, one that well deserves the wide reading it has enjoyed to date. While the ground covered here has been canvassed before, most notably by Taylor Branch in his terrific two-volume history if the black struggle for equal rights in the United States during the 1950s-1970s, Halberstam's treatment is so personal, so well documented, and so meticulously narrated that one finds himself swept along with the tide of events and changes as the flood crests into a social revolution, drowning the vestiges and roots of the old culture in its path. There's a chorus of amazing and erstwhile protagonists here, from a young and nave John L. Lewis to a crafty and devious Marion Berry, from an impressionable and impassioned Diane Nash to a determined and dedicated Rev. James Lawson, from an inspirational young Martin Luther King to a daring James Berel.  This is truly a story that needs to be told and retold, for it comprises the quintessential American epic, something that could have happened nowhere but here.<br />This book carries the signature trademark qualities of all of Halberstam's work; it is a meticulously researched, powerfully narrated and beautifully described work of history, one that focuses on one of the most remarkable events of the 20th century, the rise and growth of the indigenous black civil rights movement in the American South. It a testimony to the power of non-violent protest, and a paean to the wisdom and understanding a generation of unworldly black youngsters brought to bear on their times. I highly recommend this book! Enjoy!genous black civil rights movement in the American South. It a testimony to the power of non-violent protest, and a paean to the wisdom and understanding a generation of unworldly black youngsters brought to bear on their times. I highly recommend this book! Enjoy!	2002-04-22
1572349:US	52447634	RQYAKUH85VW8F	0786867647	913320116	Lucky Man: A Memoir	Books	5	2	4	N	Y	Stirring Revelations From A Life Lived On The Edge	Those of us who watched Michael J. Fox grow up literally in front of us in our living rooms have much to be thankful for, just as does he, for we have witnessed the transformation of this celebrity from a cute and somewhat oversweet  pretty face to a person driven by the desire to be of substance and gravity. Like another striken celebrity, superman Christopher Reeve Fox chooses to use his fame to promote the urgent health care needs of a serious malady, both by coming out of the closet as to the nature of his own affliction and the doubts, denials, and demands it has put him thorugh, and by ardently campagning for action to learn more about it.<br />In so doing Fox pulls no punches, and makes a number of interesting and controversial points, ranging from his questioning of the budget priorities of the federal government for medical research to the need for greater acceptance of Parkinson's sufferers as human beings, who want our support and aceptance but not our pity. In the case of funding prioiritiews in particualr, his point is poignant and pitched; funds allocated should reflect the degree to which the sufferer is an innocent as in Parkinsons or cancer as opposed to other priorities like smoking-related or sexual behavior influenced disease entities like lung cancer or AIDs. While we may not neceassarily agree with his stated conclusion, it is indeed an interesting and though-provoking notion, especially in a time like this when so many choose to define themselves as blameless victims in situations in which they were often willing and enthusiastic participants.<br />In summary, I believe that our young Mr. Fox has succeeded in penning a most memorable, readable, and worthwhile tome that deserves the wide circultaion I am sure it will enjoy. In particular, his intimate insights and personal anecdotes are telling and often moving, and his candor in revealing just how momentously the disease affected him, and also how his reaction to it almost cost him his marriaige is especially laudable. All of this makes one rather hope for the best not only for young Mr. Fox and his family, but for all of his fellow sufferers as well. Long may you run! Enjoy!riaige is especially laudable. All of this makes one rather hope for the best not only for young Mr. Fox and his family, but for all of his fellow sufferers as well. Long may you run! Enjoy!	2002-04-21
1590369:US	52447634	R23AV04TTVJTOV	0671020870	470252966	Staying Tuned: A Life in Journalism	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Fascinating Look at An Incredible Journalist's Career	I have to admit to a certain fascination with news personalities. After all, as a confirmed news junkie, I have faithfully watched all the major netweorks and tune into NPR on my way home from work daily. Therefore, I was pleased to discover this literary gem by long-time TV and radio commentator Daniel Schorr, the seemingly omni-present conscience of the electronic media. Like many of his generation, his is a voice of reason and objectivity in a sea of faces otherwise clamouring for fame and notoriety.<br />Yet, while I genuinely like the book and heartily recommend it, I must also admit to feeling a bit disappointed by what he has to say, for he seems determined throughout the book to confine his comments more to the stories at hand than I would have liked, and although he discusses personalities and the way some of his stories were affected by them, the insider's look is compromised to some extent by the very virtues he brings to the subject in the first place. Perhaps after fifty years in the business he simply cannot bring himself down to the level of a confessional tone in this self-described tour of a life within journalism.<br /><br />Schorr has been everywhere and seen everything, from the infamous McCarthy Hearing in the early fifties to the erection of the Berlin Wall in the early sixties; from the events surrounding the Kennedy assassination to the tumult in Chicago at the 1968 Democratic convention; from the coverage of Watergate to the break-up of the Soviet Union. Throughout all this he has rubbed shoulders with all of the titans of media news, from Edward R. Murrow to Dan Rather, from Douglas Kiker to Sam Donaldson, and from Ted Turner to Walter Cronkite.<br />He has also been a witness to much of the history of the 20th century, having rubbed shoulders with everyone from Nikita Krushchev to President Eisenhower, from Charles DeGaulle to Marshall Tito, from Lyndon Johnson to John F. Kennedy, from George Bush to Bill Clinton. This is a wonderful book, and one I am sure you will enjoy as much as I did. It serves to remind us that a man of purpose, principle, and conscience can still act in accord with his ethics and values and succeed in the world of electronic journalism. Enjoy!nd one I am sure you will enjoy as much as I did. It serves to remind us that a man of purpose, principle, and conscience can still act in accord with his ethics and values and succeed in the world of electronic journalism. Enjoy!	2002-04-06
1590689:US	52447634	R1HC8JQYDHZ0N	0275917819	718853706	The Sixties Papers: Documents of a Rebellious Decade	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	Rousing Collection of 1960's Social Literature!	For those of us who were actively involved in the events of the 1960s, this collection of relevant works is a virtual treasure trove, containing everything one would need in order to gain a better informed and more balanced perspective as to what was said and thought about a range of important social issues so hotly debated in those fabled times of Vietnam, civil unrest, and social experimentation.<br />Since so much of the documentation from that time is now sadly out of print, this collection serves as an active antidote to what has become a predominating character asssassination foisted by the new right to the effect that the sixties was all about sex, drugs and rock and roll, which tends to trivialize what actually was said, done, thought, and debated during those turbulent years. If one approaches those times in the proper historical framework, objectively searching for the evidence as to what it was that happened then and how it changed everything, then a book like this can serve a yeoman's purpose by presenting much of the original material for a person's reading pleasure and ultimate edificiation.<br />To my mind, the sixties represented a time when the younger generation simply refused to accept the world as presented, to uncritically accept the tired old platitudes, hypocrisies, and self-serving myths of the main-stream older generation. Seen in such a light, a lot of the social quesioning, cultural experimentation, and terrifying 'sturm und drang' elements of the times can be better understood.<br />In the trenches of all the major events, from civil unrest to Vietnam to the counterculture, were people who were actively questionaing conventional wisdom and the tried and true ways of the established society. Many of the selections from this book can help a curious reader to better grasp what the issues were and what the debate on the issues centered around. This is a supremely useful tool in helping to whittle away at the myths being perpetrated by the conservative revisionists about the events of the 1960s. Enjoy, amigo, and keep on trucking!conservative revisionists about the events of the 1960s. Enjoy, amigo, and keep on trucking!	2002-04-06
1650062:US	52447634	R2SLCBV6YG9TBH	1931046654	303396590	Brother Iron, Sister Steel: A Bodybuilder's Book	Books	5	30	33	N	N	THE Book To Read Concerning Weight Training & Fitness!	For those of us who spent our misbegotten adolescences in the dusky YMCAs and Boys' Club gyms chasing the elusive muscles of Steve \\"Hercules\\" Reeves and Gordon \\"Tarzan\\" Scott, the name of Dave Draper (the blond bomber) strikes a mental chord synonymous with California, alluring sexpots, and gigantic muscles. After all, he gazed out at us from endless Muscle magazine covers, the original beach Adonis, the daunting and awe-inspiring realization of our fondest daydreams. Yet, as our ideal Draper also reminded us all that with progressive weight-training, or working out, we could, with enough time and effort, vastly improve our physical beings and in the process transform our own idea of who we are. Now, thirty-five years later we stumble on this book only to discover what a wonderful writer he happens to be!<br />Here he reminds us of just how good a role model we would-be muscleheads chose so long ago, as he demonstrates his wisdom, good humor, and keen intelligence in explicating with class, verve and thorny personal experiences what it really means to live a life of physical culture, and how attractive that can be in a time of such uncertainty and superficial culture. And he knows of from where he speaks, for Draper, like Reeves and Scott, also appeared in a number of films, most notably with Tony Curtis and the late Sharon Tate in a offbeat Southern California beach comedy called \\"Don't Make Waves\\". His huge presence stole the film away from his co-stars.<br />Indeed, his own presence and personality shine through the typical '60s Hollywood treatment of any given bodybuilder as a nave, self-absorbed, and narcissistic nonentity. Yet, the viewer finds himself gradually coming to empathize with the natural kindness and thoughtfulness of the character, and in this way Draper showed he had the stuff to do much more cinematically. Alas, it was not to, for it was long before the days of Arnold, and Draper eventually fled back into relative obscurity to work-out, build classic driftwood furniture, which incidentally Schwarzenegger used to furnish his own digs, and eventually became a kind of elder spokesman for the life of physical culture.<br />Therefore, no one speaks with more authority of such a life and its benefits, characteristics, and pitfalls than does big Dave. One is surprised by just how well he expounds on various ideas and subjects, and one wishes for a dialogue with the big guy on subjects other than those covered here. This is a book or anyone involved in the now almost universally available lifestyle, waiting for one at the local World or Gold's Gym, and hopes that all those X-generation kids could have a glimpse at what it was like thirty or forty years ago, when such emporiums were the stuff of youthful California dreaming, and all we had to lure into the dingy sweatshops of the local YMCA was the image of the blond bomber staring back at us from the latest issue of Muscle Magazine. Enjoy!classic driftwood furniture, which incidentally Schwarzenegger used to furnish his own digs, and eventually became a kind of elder spokesman for the life of physical culture. <br />Therefore, no one speaks with more authority of such a life and its benefits, characteristics, and pitfalls than does big Dave. One is surprised by just how well he expounds on various ideas and subjects, and one wishes for a dialogue with the big guy on subjects other than those covered here. This is a book or anyone involved in the now almost universally available lifestyle, waiting for one at the local World or Gold's Gym, and hopes that all those X-generation kids could have a glimpse at what it was like thirty or forty years ago, when such emporiums were the stuff of youthful California dreaming, and all we had to lure into the dingy sweatshops of the local YMCA was the image of the blond bomber staring back at us from the latest issue of Muscle Magazine. Enjoy!	2002-02-18
1677584:US	52447634	RFMVKS8BZHJFR	0823218821	43226600	Murrow: His Life and Times (Communications and Media Studies)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	An Icon For The Advent Of Electronic Media Journalism	Few figures stand so prominantly in 20th century folklore as does Edward R. Murrow, who spoke with such force and gravity over the radio and televison airwaves as did his colleague Walter Lippmann in the medium of print. His is a singular and absorbing story, cutting such a swath through the annals of the last century's history as to guarantee himself a place in the patheon of journalistic greats. That said, this is a wonderful biography of a man so uniquely gifted as to stand alone as an icon. This is indeed a work of prodigious scope and historical proportions, one covering the rise of this man in the streets and towers of London during the dark days of the war in Europe, who with his colleague William Shirer (later author of the best selling book, \\"The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich\\"), pioneered the use of trans-Atlantic radio broadcasts as a method of communicating real-time coverage of current events. In so doing, he brought home the poignant message of how close the war was drawing to Americans. In this sense, then, his biography closely parallels the historical epoch of both war-time and post-war America.<br />He was the virtual prototype of the international newsman, urbane, well-spoken, and yet brutally honest and beyond reproach. He conveyed a sense of integrity that became a model for eeryone who followed, from the early days of colleagues like Eric Sevareid, Harry Reasoner, David Brinkley, and Walter Cronkite to the well-polished and quite cosmopolitan Peter Jennings. He beacame a power unto himself, gaining unrivaled credibility and relevance with the American people, with a somewhat dour and hyper-serious demeanor, almost a paradoy of himself as he related the latest in the world news. This work concentrates on his incredible gifts as well as on his initial work during the second world war exposing the truth and horrors underlying fascism. In the process, he gained widespread credibility not only for himself, but also for the so-called fourth estate and privilege for journalists at large. later he founded a team incorporating the best of the wartime correspondents , including Willaim Shirer, Charles Collingwood, Howard K. Smith, as well as many others.<br />Yet after the war he received both greater fame as well as a kind of denouement, in the sense that in order to rise and maintain his poosition at the top of the new world of  television-based journalism, he had to deal with moral cretins and the contamination of corporate money politics. Eventually this led to a break between Murrow and CBS, although in the process he forged bonds with such new notables as Fred Friendly that led to the famous series \\"See It Now\\". Even in the midst of all this very public history, Murrow was at the same time a very private, shy, and melancholy man, who was given a very rich personal life he managed to keep far from the foibles of the cameras. This work by Ms. Sperber is a seminal work, one that takes a loving and fascinating look at a complex, memorable, and highly moral man who managed to make his way through the temptations of the 20th century while keeping his dignity and integrity along his rather remarkable way. Enjoy!ate and privilege for journalists at large. later he founded a team incorporating the best of the wartime correspondents , including Willaim Shirer, Charles Collingwood, Howard K. Smith, as well as many others.<br />Yet after the war he received both greater fame as well as a kind of denouement, in the sense that in order to rise and maintain his poosition at the top of the new world of  television-based journalism, he had to deal with moral cretins and the contamination of corporate money politics. Eventually this led to a break between Murrow and CBS, although in the process he forged bonds with such new notables as Fred Friendly that led to the famous series \\"See It Now\\". Even in the midst of all this very public history, Murrow was at the same time a very private, shy, and melancholy man, who was given a very rich personal life he managed to keep far from the foibles of the cameras. This work by Ms. Sperber is a seminal work, one that takes a loving and fascinating look at a complex, memorable, and highly moral man who managed to make his way through the temptations of the 20th century while keeping his dignity and integrity along his rather remarkable way. Enjoy!	2002-01-27
1726339:US	52447634	RC5UNWS0K6FMO	0809093251	478948214	The Third Reich: A New History	Books	5	67	75	N	Y	Terrific Revisionist Exploration of Nature Of Nazism!	After carefully re-reading this book I came to the inescapeable conclusion that if ever there was a book whose theme revolves brilliantly around the single question of individual complicity with, participation in, and responsibility for the manifestations of evil, it is this one. In a work of amazing breadth and depth, historian Michael Burleigh masterfully weaves together a magisterial and complex theory regarding the nature of economic, social, and cultural life in Nazi Germany, and in so doing provides a convincing and seductive notion as to why the Germans succumbed as a people to the mind-numbing evil of the National Socialist regime. He contends that like communism, National Socialism provided a seductive political alternative to traditional religion, and by doing so seduced the German people into a pact with the devil.<br />The book spins along with a breathless narrative that shows how the prevailing conditions in post WWI Germany, the history of prejudice, envy and fear of the Jewish people, and the lack of integration in various aspects of German life contributed to the existence of a unique cultural vulnerability, which the Nazis subsequently masterfully orchestrated and gradually integrated into what he contends was a secular religion, replacing the existing welter of beliefs with the singular faith and belief in the sacredness of the &quot;Fatherland&quot; as personified in Adolph Hitler. There is much evidence presented which supports such an interpretation.<br />Yet, while all of this is brilliantly developed and related by Burleigh, in truth there is also much here that is not new or novel. Like William Shirer's masterful portrayal of the evils of the thugs, slugs, and gutter people who rose to power with the Nazi regime in &quot;The Rise And Fall Of The Third Reich&quot;, Burleigh painstakingly traces the ways in which life as a citizen in the new world of national socialism became more and more oriented around the precepts of fascism. Of course, the Nazis interfered massively with every aspect of society, in ways ranging from encouragement of so-called Aryan art and literature to applied eugenics (Josef Mengele was once a highly admired and respected medical scientist with an international reputation) to the establishment of Hitler Youth Core. In all this Burleigh reveals a people so starved for meaning and identity that they grasped at the straws of greatness that the Nazis dangled before them. Caught in a devil's bargain, of course, they gradually abandoned their traditional values and beliefs in the hopes of participating in the glory and dreams of the Fatherland.<br />Of course, one does not sense anywhere in this narrative that there is any one critical moment in which they consciously decide to abandon the past in favor of the promise of the Nazi future; instead one gets the impression of a quite gradual, almost glacial drift toward identification with the existing regime and its blueprints for the future. Certainly, however, by the moment in which the terror of events such as the Kristallnacht pogrom, they had begun to realize what they had bought into. By then, of course, it was far too late, for the Nazis had a very firm grip on power and were not afraid to use whatever methods necessary to maintain control. From that point on, there was no turning back.<br />What seems most unique and convincing here, however, is what historian Richard Overy refers to as &quot;the vast panorama on which it is set&quot;. Burleigh writes with convincing authority about the ways in which the secular religion of fascism is sold to the German people, wrapped in the cloak of tradition, folklore, and mysticism. It is no mistake that the Nazi regime seemed Wagnerian; their alignment with such glorious interpretations of German destiny was quite intentional. Seen in this way, the German people were gradually led into subscribing to a whole new culture, one based on the substitution of the Fatherland and its personification in Adolph Hitler for all that had preceded it. Of course, so wrapped in tradition and folklore, the beatification of evil was hardly recognizable at first. It was only with the initial successes of 1939 and 1940 that the truth about the aims and goals and culture of the Nazi regime began to emerge.<br />It is a truism that Hitler could not have come to power without the tacit consent of a majority of the German people. In this book Michael Burleigh provides a fascinating thesis regarding how that consent was engineered, and the ways in which the German people became involved and embroiled in the most disastrous series of international conflicts in the history of the modern world. While one suspects this is hardly the final word on the subject of the nature of the German state or the people who populated and supported it, this thoughtful and provocative book adds fuel to the fire ignited by Daniel Goldhagen in his book &quot;Hitler's Willing Executioners&quot;, and sets the stage for an even more engaged discussion of the nature of human evil. I highly recommend this book, along with Ian Kershaw's recent two-volume study of Hitler (see my reviews), which also uses the new treasure trove of information newly released by the Russians and others. Together the two authors provide a fascinating and fresh look at the nature of the Nazi regime and the murder and mayhem it spawned.on in Adolph Hitler for all that had preceded it. Of course, so wrapped in tradition and folklore, the beatification of evil was hardly recognizable at first. It was only with the initial successes of 1939 and 1940 that the truth about the aims and goals and culture of the Nazi regime began to emerge. <br />It is a truism that Hitler could not have come to power without the tacit consent of a majority of the German people. In this book Michael Burleigh provides a fascinating thesis regarding how that consent was engineered, and the ways in which the German people became involved and embroiled in the most disastrous series of international conflicts in the history of the modern world. While one suspects this is hardly the final word on the subject of the nature of the German state or the people who populated and supported it, this thoughtful and provocative book adds fuel to the fire ignited by Daniel Goldhagen in his book &quot;Hitler's Willing Executioners&quot;, and sets the stage for an even more engaged discussion of the nature of human evil. I highly recommend this book, along with Ian Kershaw's recent two-volume study of Hitler (see my reviews), which also uses the new treasure trove of information newly released by the Russians and others. Together the two authors provide a fascinating and fresh look at the nature of the Nazi regime and the murder and mayhem it spawned.	2001-12-19
1726962:US	52447634	R27CIQBGKGW547	0393322521	762531115	Hitler: 1936-1945 Nemesis	Books	5	37	38	N	Y	Brilliant Biography Of Hitler At His Zenith Of Power!	Most simply put, this, the second of two superb books by British historian Ian Kershaw on Hitler's life and times, quite successfully draws the reader closer to an understanding of this historically enigmatic and often bizarre human being who so changed the world of the 20th century. Although there are a myriad of such books that have appeared in the half-century since Hitler's demise in the dust and rubble of Berlin, this particular effort, which draws from hundreds of secondary sources, many of which have never before been cited, paints an authentic and masterful portrait of Hitler as an individual. This is an absolutely singular historical work; and it will almost come to occupy a central place on the shelves of serious World War Two historians. Most fascinating for me is the way in which Kershaw grows an incredibly fertile appreciation for Hitler's personal characteristics into a sophisticated appreciation for what unfolded historically. A good example is his fetish for secrecy, which left both Hitler himself and those around him incredibly poorly informed of many of the details of what their policies were doing to the society around them.<br />Author Ian Kershaw takes a quite different and novel approach, and it is one I enjoyed. Here, by carefully locating and fixing the individual in the context and welter of his times, it yields a much more enlightening approach toward painting a meaningful comprehensive picture of how this criminally twisted psychopath became such a fatefully placed politician and leader of post-World War One Germany. Thus, in Volume One we saw the boy grow and change in whatever fashion into a man, tracing the rise of this troubled malcontent from the anonymity of Viennese shelters to a fiery and meteoric rise into politics, culminating in his ascent to rule Germany. Kershaw memorably recreates the social, economic, and political circumstances that bent and twisted Hitler so fatefully for the history of the world. In this volume, Kershaw concentrates masterfully on how this single human being then fatefully pushes Nazi Germany, Europe, and the rest of the world into the most horrific bloodbath in modern history.<br />Hitler was, in Kershaw's estimation, a man most representative of his times, reflecting a widespread disaffection with democratic politics, steeped in the virulent anti-Semitism of his Viennese environment, twisted and experienced in the cruelties and absurdities of the First World War, thrust by circumstance and disposition into the sectarian, dyspeptic, and rough &amp; tumble politics of the 1920s, and rising by finding himself the most unlikely of politicians with an unusual ability to orate and emote. It is also interesting to discover that Hitler had an unusually acute (though uneven) intellect, is rumored to have possessed a 'photographic memory', and was said to have an amazing ability to discuss and quote facts and figures and then subsequently casually weave them into a conversation that witnesses found spellbinding and convincing. He was also unquestionably quite charismatic and charming. Kershaw argues masterfully that it is impossible to understand 'why' Hitler without understanding this extremely toxic and strange combination of social, economic, and cultural factors that characterized Germany.<br />Thus, as Hitler begins his ineluctable rise to power, we better appreciate how and why such a seemingly unlikely cast of characters as the Nazis succeeded so wildly beyond what one would expect to be possible in a sane and sophisticated modern industrial state. This is fascinating stuff, as is his treatment of the concomitant rise of the slugs, thugs, and under-life accompanying him into the corridors of power and influence. Here is the world's greatest single collection of otherwise underachieving bullies, fanatics, pseudo-intellectuals, and fellow travelers, who clashed into an uneasy coalescence that formed the nucleus of the single greatest force for collective evil seen in the modern world. Finally, one's mind reels at the scene at the book's conclusion, as the fabulous evil empire created by the Nazis had been reduced by Soviet artillery and Allied bombing into dust and rubble, and Hitler becomes an almost comically eccentric figure, reduced by his own devices to settling for a self-inflicted gunshot to the brain rather than the worldwide domination he had struggled toward.the modern world. Finally, one's mind reels at the scene at the book's conclusion, as the fabulous evil empire created by the Nazis had been reduced by Soviet artillery and Allied bombing into dust and rubble, and Hitler becomes an almost comically eccentric figure, reduced by his own devices to settling for a self-inflicted gunshot to the brain rather than the worldwide domination he had struggled toward.	2001-12-19
1776632:US	52447634	R2WYY0BLCUWN2M	0553277472	340684550	Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance: An Inquiry into Values	Books	5	13	16	N	Y	One Of The Most Thoughtful Books I've Ever Read	After all these years as an active reader, I still consider Robert Pirsig's incredible tour-de-force in this book to be the intellectual adventure of a lifetime, one that still makes me  shake my head in wonder after a number of readings of it. I was introduced to &quot;Zen&quot; by my brother in law, who promised me that I would enjoy it. Wow, what an understatement! By now I must admit to now having several short quotes from it framed under glass at various spots in the house, because I was so taken by the gravity of what he has to say, and the disarmingly simple way he usually chooses to say it. Pirsig is a man with a lot to say, and a lot of wisdom in what he has to offer.<br />Although I must admit that I do not agree with certain key aspects of his argument regarding the way the ancient bifurcation between what he calls romantic and classic perceptive orientations can at last be repaired and restored to cognitive and intellectual unity, I stand in utter awe at the quality of mind any human being must have to marshal such a breath-taking effort as this, at the accomplishment of conceiving and articulating the philosophical treatise described in such loving and painstaking detail here. His grasp of such eclectic, obscure and philosophically central notions truly is a feat quite the equal of the ascent of Everest in terms of the levels of concentration, mental endurance, and simple cognitive acumen necessary to muster this kind of argument.<br />The book works on two levels that both assist and complement each other. First, the story narrative, which he uses both to illustrate ideas he is talking about and to introduce ideas he wants to discuss, also acts to bring us back to &quot;normal everyday reality' after spinning high in the thin cold air of his theorizing. Second, the philosophical story becomes a kind of sophisticated detective story for curious intellectuals, as Pirsig's alter ego, Phaedrus, searches deeper and deeper into the mysteries that once led him into insanity because of the sheer intensity of his efforts to solve the riddle of the difference between the two seemingly irreconcilable aspects of reality (the romantic and the classic).<br />The book is an awe-inspiring trip into a discovery of the nature of reality, contemporary society, and yourself. It has led to study groups, study guides, and a whole cult of Pirsig watchers who consider him the functional equivalent of the wise seer. The wildly best-selling book also led Pirsig deeper into a life of isolation, eschewing publicity and seeking greater introspection. There is a sequel, called &quot;Lila&quot;, which also enjoyed a best-selling run on the charts in the early 1990s. This is a book that is quite unlike anything else you have ever read, and is something you have to experience to understand in its full impact. It is also a book I can recommend with a smile, knowing with confidence you will be glad you finally decided to buy it and read it. Enjoy!him into insanity because of the sheer intensity of his efforts to solve the riddle of the difference between the two seemingly irreconcilable aspects of reality (the romantic and the classic). <br />The book is an awe-inspiring trip into a discovery of the nature of reality, contemporary society, and yourself. It has led to study groups, study guides, and a whole cult of Pirsig watchers who consider him the functional equivalent of the wise seer. The wildly best-selling book also led Pirsig deeper into a life of isolation, eschewing publicity and seeking greater introspection. There is a sequel, called &quot;Lila&quot;, which also enjoyed a best-selling run on the charts in the early 1990s. This is a book that is quite unlike anything else you have ever read, and is something you have to experience to understand in its full impact. It is also a book I can recommend with a smile, knowing with confidence you will be glad you finally decided to buy it and read it. Enjoy!	2001-11-10
1777097:US	52447634	R3O4601KV7S9OX	0786865229	680218819	Betrayal of Trust: The Collapse of Global Public Health	Books	5	14	15	N	Y	Prophetic Warning About Current State Of Public Health!	This is a truly prophetic warning from the acclaimed author of &quot;The Coming Plague&quot;, which itself was an eloquent best-seller warning of the approaching debacle of increasing microbial threat based on human arrogance, rapid increases in virulence, multiple drug resistance (MDR), and the appearance of entirely new viral entities, comes this articulate, literate, and extremely well researched investigation into the woeful state of the world's public health organizations. Earlier she had warned of the disrepair and dangerous lack of preparedness of public health agencies, and here she writes with cutting clarity as to just how irretrievably damaged they now are. Many international authorities are now openly worried because these national and international public health organizations constitute the only potentially effective line of defense for quick public health countermeasures to intervene and combat both the initial appearance of microbial threats (through inoculation, maintenance of public sanitation systems, and rapid response to perceived threats) as well as continuing support for stemming the effects of such outbreaks once they occur. Without such agencies the public is left literally to the mercies of fate.<br />This new work is an informative and fascinating decent into a terrifying world in crisis, and Ms. Garret quickly exposes the dark side of the highly vaunted globalization process. For even while Asian economies prosper under the new prosperity, dangerous new breakout of old microbial enemies such as pneumonic plague threaten the population with devastating new pandemics. Meanwhile, multiple drug resistant (MDR) forms of Tuberculosis have appeared in epidemic proportions in Russia, combining with the ravaging effects of drug addiction, alcoholism, and malnutrition (as well as the regional exposure to radiation poisoning connected to Chernobyl in the Ukraine) to exact a treble toll on life expectancy and quality of life in the struggling provinces. And this is just the most obvious tip of the iceberg.<br />Domestically we face new emerging threats from MDR Tuberculosis, West Nile virus, and other new &quot;superstrains&quot; of microbial entities we were arrogant enough to believe we had permanently vanquished. This phenomenon, when combined with the rapid and increasingly popular modes of international travel now threaten us with a Pandora's box of so-called &quot;Third world diseases&quot; for which we have little of no natural immunity. As Garret reveals the results of her detailed investigation into the nature of the threat, the reader must take pause. We have, she suggests quite eloquently, suffered from a betrayal of trust from both our national leaders and the various local, state, and national public health agencies, which have deteriorated to such an alarming degree that they are now virtually unable to stem the tide now confronting us.<br />This is serious albeit absorbing reading, and is not recommended for squeamish or immature readers. It is a quite accurate and absolutely devastating look at the nature of a monumental public health threat that is emerging throughout the world even as we speak, one poised to cause catastrophic and tragic losses of life and irreparable social, political, and economic harm to the various nations in which it strikes, and one for which we have done amazingly little to prepare for. We now have the global village Marshall McLuhan warned about, and in such a community there is increasingly no place to hide from the frightening prospects of a wide range of microbial threats all too-naturally rising to confront us. This is a terrific book, a cogent, entertaining, and superbly documented foray into the horrifying realities of our looming public health disaster. I highly recommend ites. And this is just the most obvious tip of the iceberg.<br />Domestically we face new emerging threats from MDR Tuberculosis, West Nile virus, and other new &quot;superstrains&quot; of microbial entities we were arrogant enough to believe we had permanently vanquished. This phenomenon, when combined with the rapid and increasingly popular modes of international travel now threaten us with a Pandora's box of so-called &quot;Third world diseases&quot; for which we have little of no natural immunity. As Garret reveals the results of her detailed investigation into the nature of the threat, the reader must take pause. We have, she suggests quite eloquently, suffered from a betrayal of trust from both our national leaders and the various local, state, and national public health agencies, which have deteriorated to such an alarming degree that they are now virtually unable to stem the tide now confronting us. <br />This is serious albeit absorbing reading, and is not recommended for squeamish or immature readers. It is a quite accurate and absolutely devastating look at the nature of a monumental public health threat that is emerging throughout the world even as we speak, one poised to cause catastrophic and tragic losses of life and irreparable social, political, and economic harm to the various nations in which it strikes, and one for which we have done amazingly little to prepare for. We now have the global village Marshall McLuhan warned about, and in such a community there is increasingly no place to hide from the frightening prospects of a wide range of microbial threats all too-naturally rising to confront us. This is a terrific book, a cogent, entertaining, and superbly documented foray into the horrifying realities of our looming public health disaster. I highly recommend it	2001-11-10
2023443:US	52447634	R1UF2J03WW7OM5	189013287X	380666576	Living Well in the Age of Global Warming : 10 Strategies for Boomers, Bobos, and Cultural Creatives	Books	4	28	29	N	Y	Fascinating Eyeopener On Manifest Effects Of Global Warming!	This is a book that will be welcomed by millions of environmentally conscious readers concerned with the range of potential social, economic and political issues stemming from the profound effects of global warming. Many of us are already concerned with the ways in which we may potentially be affected both individually and as members of a society that will literally be forced to deal with the truly massive related dislocations and changes posed by the so-called &quot;Greenhouse Effect&quot; in the coming decades. The authors of this book have addressed themselves to a myriad of potential issues and a range of appropriate strategies for such factors as changes in weather patterns, economics, retirement possibilities, and other such phenomena related to the massive changes in climate that are associated with the Greenhouse Effect.<br />Thus, Paul and Hazel Delcourt, both paleo-ecologists teaching at the University of Tennessee, present the results of a massive three-year national study, The National Climate Assessment, by thousands of scientists to project the potential environmental changes in this country over the next hundred years. The authors then match the results of this massive work with a range of demographic studies that lead them to conclude that wide-ranging economic, political, and social change will result. Therefore, \\"Living Well In The Age Of Global Warming\\" provides the reader with a fascinating look at the range of possibilities that exist for one to \\"live well and prosper' in the radically changed ecological, social, and personal circumstances of a world undergoing radical and unavoidable change.<br />Indeed, while the serious reader may find fault with the authors' particulars in dealing with the range of alternatives available, one can hardly fault their central point, which is that the world will be radically changed both in terms of its climate and our potential cultural responses to those changes.  Thus, whether discussing changing weather patterns (and the associated changes in storm tracks now predicted by many meteorologists) or exploring changes in temperature zones to the degree that millions may be forced to vacate areas like Georgia as they turn positively tropical, this is fascinating reading. They also discuss potential changes in forest cover, livable habitats, and many other related subjects. According to the authors, each of these factors will become increasingly important in determining the overall quality of life possibilities as global warming proceeds.<br />In essence, the authors have created an entertaining and informative book that openly discusses what the consequences of global warming may portend for each of us in practical and understandable terms, and in so doing they have rendered an important service to us all. While I admit that I did not like the \\"self-help to financial success\\" tone the prose sometimes degenerates into, I found myself so fascinated by other aspects of their careful thought that helped me to overcome any minor trepidation I had regarding the book. One can hardly argue with their central thesis; that the comfortable world we know is vanishing before our eyes, and that the shape of the one to come will be largely determined by the effects that global warming has on our society and our environment.<br />The book deals with a variety of different issue and a whole range of potential individual responses that the intelligent and savvy person can use to negotiate his or her way through the coming hardships. While I do not feel that this book is anything like the comprehensive \\"bible\\" activists need to carry on in the difficult days and years to come, it is certainly a provocative and thoughtful excursion into a subject matter few have dared to broach to date. Hopefully it provides us with just the opening salvo of what one prays will become both a national and international debate on what each of us needs to do to live more responsibally on the delicate skin of this,our living planet. I recommend it without hesitation; enjoy!our living planet. I recommend it without hesitation; enjoy!	2001-04-23
2035884:US	52447634	R3CC8JGJ1AESNM	0393020088	561667173	The Battle of Britain: The Myth and the Reality	Books	5	64	65	N	Y	Terrific Exploration of The History of TheBattle Of Britain	One of the most controversial and yet simply disarming facts about the short-lived but furiously fought air battle over the skies of England in the summer and early fall of 1940 , according to famed British historian  Richard Overy in this diverting and captivating study of the now-fabled Battle Of Britain is that it was in reality not so much the marvelous and unequivocal victory as it is now regarded much as it was a stalemate.  A wondrous, unlikely and fateful stalemate, to be sure, one on which the future of the so-called free world hung in the balance, but in reality it was also much more a war of perceptions and brinksmanship than has been commonly acknowledged or understood.<br />In matter of fact, according to Overy, the air battle over Britain was never likely to have been followed by a Nazi invasion force, for the German forces lacked all the necessary marine transportation and logistics support to prosecute such an attempt to invade Britain. As William Shirer pointed out long ago in \\"The Rise And Fall Of The Third Reich\\", Hitler never had much stomach for a cross-channel invasion, and the German General Staff never ordered all the necessary shipbuilding needed to mount a serious invasion attempt.  In addition, the forces of the British realm were never so badly outnumbered as was previously believed, and the Royal Air Force (RAF) in fact had superior fighters and better logistics support that did their German opponents, not to mention the limited battle time for German pilots who had to ferry themselves back over the channel after doing battle, which provided the RAF with a key tactical advantage.<br />Yet Overy's purpose here is clearly not intended to denigrate or downplay the outright heroism, courage, and sacrifice of the RAF in its service to the English people over the skies of Britain that fateful year, but rather to celebrate the actual, fact-based history of those fateful events.  Here in the Battle of Britain we find the first signs that the famed \\"unstoppable\\" Nazi juggernaut was not infallible, that it could be met on its own terms and defeated, plane by plane, raid by raid, and campaign by campaign, and denied its aggressive objectives by a determined and resourceful opponent. Also, by denying the Nazis the complete victory over its western European rivals it desired, the British forced Hitler into making a fatal blunder by opening up a two-front war with the invasion of the Soviet Union the next spring, forcing him to leave millions of troops along the western wall he could have otherwise used against the Russians in Operation Barbarossa.<br />Also, as Overy illustrates so convincingly, the British actions in the skies over their homeland convinced many in the American Government to take up Britain's cause, and this too had fateful consequences for the eventual outcome of the war. Finally, he argues that the consequences of turning back the attempts by the Nazis to gain air superiority over the skies of Britain galvanized and energized the British people with a new sense of vigor and purpose, and this was tremendously important in helping them to stay the course during a very difficult and trying period of time following the end of the battle of Britain itself. This is a great addition to the volumes of material already available on the Battle Of Britain, and presents the facts in a new and interesting way that makes it an important work which acts to clarify and modify what we already know about the events of 1940. I recommend this book, and hope you enjoy it as much as I did.med \\"unstoppable\\" Nazi juggernaut was not infallible, that it could be met on its own terms and defeated, plane by plane, raid by raid, and campaign by campaign, and denied its aggressive objectives by a determined and resourceful opponent. Also, by denying the Nazis the complete victory over its western European rivals it desired, the British forced Hitler into making a fatal blunder by opening up a two-front war with the invasion of the Soviet Union the next spring, forcing him to leave millions of troops along the western wall he could have otherwise used against the Russians in Operation Barbarossa. <br />Also, as Overy illustrates so convincingly, the British actions in the skies over their homeland convinced many in the American Government to take up Britain's cause, and this too had fateful consequences for the eventual outcome of the war. Finally, he argues that the consequences of turning back the attempts by the Nazis to gain air superiority over the skies of Britain galvanized and energized the British people with a new sense of vigor and purpose, and this was tremendously important in helping them to stay the course during a very difficult and trying period of time following the end of the battle of Britain itself. This is a great addition to the volumes of material already available on the Battle Of Britain, and presents the facts in a new and interesting way that makes it an important work which acts to clarify and modify what we already know about the events of 1940. I recommend this book, and hope you enjoy it as much as I did.	2001-04-13
2049656:US	52447634	R2L6PRULDQVOJM	0312269439	710414142	Stalingrad: The Infernal Cauldron, 1942-1943	Books	4	22	30	N	Y	Informative And Captivating Book On Battle Of Stalingrad!	Serious students of World War Two will find this wonderful short but quite informative book on the Battle for Stalingrad a great addition to the great volume of literature already existing. It contains a number of new and intriguing photographs as well as a number of graphs, appendices, and lists helpful to anyone researching the events that unfolded so dramatically in 1942-43 along the Eastern Front. Indeed, herein lay the storm that turned the tide of the European theater of the war, for the epic battle that ran there for so long ultimately smashed Hitler's planned empire (which was to be comprised of the heartland of the Ukraine)to smithereens. It also demonstrated how fatefully Hitler had underestimated the capabilities &amp; indomitable spirit of the Soviet army.<br />While other books such as Antony Beevor&quot;s epic &quot;Stalingrad&quot; covers the battle much more comprehensively, the use of multiple media here aids the reader in picturing the battle much more definitively than is otherwise possible, short of s trip to the battlefield itself. In fact, even though Operation Barbarossa was fatally flawed from the outset because of its underestimation of the capability, size, and resolve of the Russian forces massed against Germany, it wasn't until the Soviets had gained the experience and battle savvy they demonstrated at Stalingrad that events began to swing in their favor. Still, in defense of historical accuracy, one must admit that based on all the information Hitler had at hand, and considering his handy defeat of everything anyone else had thrown at him, he had every reasonable expectation that the Russian campaign would be yet another blitzkrieg success.<br />Indeed, the events of the initial attack in the summer of 1941 seemed to confirm that assessment. And even though the Soviets were woefully unprepared to face the German onslaught, both because of ineptitude and due to the wide-ranging military purges Stalin had perpetrated on the officer corps of the Russian army, they had the massive reserves needed to absorb a painfully inflicted first blow and still survive to counterattack again and again. Based on the initial success of the operation, many German soldiers believed the fight for Russia had been won by late autumn, until the tide began to show signs that there was still too much active resistance to hold with that idea. Yet the Germans continued to drive ever deeper into the Soviet heartland, murdering, raping, and destroying everything in their path as they went. When winter settled in, the calculus of the situation began to change, however, and as it did, more changed abut the campaign than just the brutally cold and snowy weather condition they now had to contend with. Soviet forces began to take more offensive action, and nowhere was this change more noticeable than in the key southern area around Stalingrad, where German forces were dangerously over-extended and under-supplied.<br />The battle for Stalingrad was long and drawn out, lasting almost two years. Hitler's mistake was in allowing himself and his forces to be drawn into a devastating war of attrition, one that had murderous numbers of casualties on both sides. General Paulus foolishly allowed his troops to be slowly drawn into what would become one of the biggest and most costly traps in modern battle. By deciding to stay and fight at Stalingrad, Hitler made critical mistakes that would directly lead to his defeat all along the Eastern front, and therefore eventually lose the war. This, then, is a wonderful addition to the existing literature regarding one of history's most fateful and momentous battles of modern warfare, using a variety of new data, maps, and photographs to add new perspective on a fascinating subject. Enjoy!of the Russian army, they had the massive reserves needed to absorb a painfully inflicted first blow and still survive to counterattack again and again. Based on the initial success of the operation, many German soldiers believed the fight for Russia had been won by late autumn, until the tide began to show signs that there was still too much active resistance to hold with that idea. Yet the Germans continued to drive ever deeper into the Soviet heartland, murdering, raping, and destroying everything in their path as they went. When winter settled in, the calculus of the situation began to change, however, and as it did, more changed abut the campaign than just the brutally cold and snowy weather condition they now had to contend with. Soviet forces began to take more offensive action, and nowhere was this change more noticeable than in the key southern area around Stalingrad, where German forces were dangerously over-extended and under-supplied. <br />The battle for Stalingrad was long and drawn out, lasting almost two years. Hitler's mistake was in allowing himself and his forces to be drawn into a devastating war of attrition, one that had murderous numbers of casualties on both sides. General Paulus foolishly allowed his troops to be slowly drawn into what would become one of the biggest and most costly traps in modern battle. By deciding to stay and fight at Stalingrad, Hitler made critical mistakes that would directly lead to his defeat all along the Eastern front, and therefore eventually lose the war. This, then, is a wonderful addition to the existing literature regarding one of history's most fateful and momentous battles of modern warfare, using a variety of new data, maps, and photographs to add new perspective on a fascinating subject. Enjoy!	2001-03-31
2049989:US	52447634	R2MPZDTX18VM8F	1586480367	544670642	The Other American : The Life of Michael Harrington	Books	4	21	21	N	Y	Thoughtful Look At Socialist Activist Michael Harrington	Anyone familiar with the tortured history of American socialism can appreciate this fine and pensive biography of one of its leading 20th century luminaries, fabled socialist and humanist author Michael Harrington. Noted historian Maurice Isserman (\\"America Divided\\"-see my review) delivers a wonderful account that passionately and comprehensively covers the long and eventful arc of Harrington's amazingly productive and prolific writing and academic careers as well as his exhaustive involvements in socialist politics and social activism. A stream of notables ranging from folksingers Peter, Paul and Mary, SDS's Tom Hayden, intellectuals like Irving Howe, and political figures like George Meany rub shoulders with Harrington, and we come to see his personal intellectual and political journey toward a better and fairer America as one with which we can each take common cause.<br />Educated in Massachusetts at Holy Cross, Harrington adopted the Jesuit perspective of enlightened social engagement early, and soon found himself rejecting his own comfortable middle class background to work among the urban poor. According to Isserman, it was inevitable for Harrington to act on his own antipathy to the gross materialism that surrounded him, and to extend this distaste for those living in luxury amid the squalor that surrounded them to his own philosophy and politics. Indeed, his own intellectual and philosophical journey provides the reader with a splendid portrait of the nature of American socialism in the middle of this century, and we find ourselves delving into remote nooks and crannies of the movement as Harrington makes his philosophical odyssey toward his own mature view of an open and democratically based  contemporary socialism.<br />Along the way we learn a lot of important details about socialism as well as about how politics works in America. One at times becomes a bit winded at Harrington's sheer level of energy and capacity for work, for he sometimes seems to be everywhere doing everything at once. And it is this frenetic pace and sheer level of productive energy that one comes to admire in Harrington. In this day of self-satisfied torpor and delirium tremors from over-consumption, it is interesting to read about a man whose life was centered so energetically and so passionately around moral imperatives and ideas. Whether discussing his failure to successfully meld his old-style moral socialism with the new-left politics of young mavericks like Tom Hayden or his failure to actively engage the American Socialist Party in the debate over the war in Vietnam, Isserman brings Harrington and his times to vibrant life in these pages.<br />Of course, it was the publication of his overwhelmingly successful and influential book, \\"The Other America\\" that made Harrington a permanent fixture on the American scene, and everyone from John F. Kennedy to Bill Clinton have made reference to the importance of the book in forming their own perspectives regarding poverty in America. My recommendation is to first read \\"The Other America\\", because it is such a historical book both in terms of its content as well as in its effect on social policy for the last half of the 20th century. Then read this wonderful biography to understand the complex and troubling life of its author, one of the 20th century's most misunderstood and yet ultimately influential intellectuals. Enjoy!everywhere doing everything at once. And it is this frenetic pace and sheer level of productive energy that one comes to admire in Harrington. In this day of self-satisfied torpor and delirium tremors from over-consumption, it is interesting to read about a man whose life was centered so energetically and so passionately around moral imperatives and ideas. Whether discussing his failure to successfully meld his old-style moral socialism with the new-left politics of young mavericks like Tom Hayden or his failure to actively engage the American Socialist Party in the debate over the war in Vietnam, Isserman brings Harrington and his times to vibrant life in these pages. <br />Of course, it was the publication of his overwhelmingly successful and influential book, \\"The Other America\\" that made Harrington a permanent fixture on the American scene, and everyone from John F. Kennedy to Bill Clinton have made reference to the importance of the book in forming their own perspectives regarding poverty in America. My recommendation is to first read \\"The Other America\\", because it is such a historical book both in terms of its content as well as in its effect on social policy for the last half of the 20th century. Then read this wonderful biography to understand the complex and troubling life of its author, one of the 20th century's most misunderstood and yet ultimately influential intellectuals. Enjoy!	2001-03-31
2053018:US	52447634	R22VOX3NG4F1P7	0684801469	11530247	A Farewell To Arms	Books	5	90	106	N	Y	Wonderful Anti-War Novel By Hemingway In His Prime!	This wonderful story by a young early Hemingway is perhaps, along with \\"For Whom The Bell Tolls\\", one of the finest anti-war novels ever written. In it we are introduced to a young and idealistic man, Frederick Henry, who, through love, experience and existential circumstance, comes to see the folly, waste, and irony of war, and attempts to make his own peace outside the confines of traditional conformity. For all of his obvious excesses, Hemingway was an artist compelled to delve deliberately into painful truths, and he attempted to do so with a style of writing that cut away all of the frills and artifice, so that at its heart this novel is meant as a exploration into what it means to confront the world of convention and deliberately decide to choose for what one feels in his heart as opposed to what one is expected to do. Of course, in so doing, the young ambulance driver becomes a full-grown adult, facing his trials with grace and courage. Still, what we are left with is a modern tragedy, one in which the characters must somehow attempt to resolve the irresolvable.<br />Yet in all this emotional turmoil and existential 'sturm-und-drang' of two star-crossed lovers caught in the contradictions, deceptions, and brutality of the First World War, we are also treated to Hemingway's amazing powers of exposition at the peak of his prowess. Indeed, as with other Hemingway novels, it is Hemingway's imaginative and spare use of the language itself that wins the reader over. Unlike his predecessors, he sought a lean narrative style that cut away at all the flowery description and endless adjectives. In the process of parsing away the excesses, Hemingway created a clear, simple and quite declarative prose style that was truly both modern and revolutionary.<br />In what may be one of the most quoted passages in modern fiction, in \\"A Farewell to Arms\\" Hemingway gives us his personal view of the world's inevitable negative impact on all of us: \\"If a person brings so much courage into the world that the world must kill him to break him, so of course it kills him. The world breaks everyone and afterward many are strong at the broken places. But those it cannot break it will kill. It kills the very good, the very gentle, and the very brave impartially. If you are none of these things the world will kill you too but there will be no special hurry.\\" Here the human beings are caught in the murderous crossfire of brutal forces fighting to death, and they must flee to save themselves and their hopes for a better future away from the madness. Their journey towards safety is full of the poignancy of all such fragile ventures, and someone must pay the cost of their bravery, gentleness, and love.<br /> What one encounters as a result is a story seemingly stripped to its barest essentials, superficially more like the newspaper man's pantheon of who, what, where, when, and why, and yet somehow transformed into a much more accurate and imaginative effort, one leaving the reader with a much more artful account of what is going on. One reads Hemingway quickly, at least at first, when one learns to slow down and drink in every word and every detail as it is related. For me and for millions of others, the true genius of Hemingway is to be found in his artful use of language. This book was one of Hemingway's finest  successful forays into the world of letters, and the result of his collected works truly changed the face of modern fiction. Enjoy!e into the world that the world must kill him to break him, so of course it kills him. The world breaks everyone and afterward many are strong at the broken places. But those it cannot break it will kill. It kills the very good, the very gentle, and the very brave impartially. If you are none of these things the world will kill you too but there will be no special hurry.\\" Here the human beings are caught in the murderous crossfire of brutal forces fighting to death, and they must flee to save themselves and their hopes for a better future away from the madness. Their journey towards safety is full of the poignancy of all such fragile ventures, and someone must pay the cost of their bravery, gentleness, and love.<br /> What one encounters as a result is a story seemingly stripped to its barest essentials, superficially more like the newspaper man's pantheon of who, what, where, when, and why, and yet somehow transformed into a much more accurate and imaginative effort, one leaving the reader with a much more artful account of what is going on. One reads Hemingway quickly, at least at first, when one learns to slow down and drink in every word and every detail as it is related. For me and for millions of others, the true genius of Hemingway is to be found in his artful use of language. This book was one of Hemingway's finest  successful forays into the world of letters, and the result of his collected works truly changed the face of modern fiction. Enjoy!	2001-03-28
2057095:US	52447634	R2HXSXT2LWKCFF	0700609245	548797698	Nixon's Vietnam War	Books	5	22	28	N	N	Intriguing Examination Of Nixon's Conduct Of War In Vietnam!	This smart, incisive, and telling book neatly unzips the clever reconstruction that many neo-conservative authors have bought into regarding the conduct of the Vietnam War by the Nixon administration.  While few of us would quarrel with the idea that Nixon accomplished much on the world scene, we still must protest the idea held by many that he was so severely hampered in his prosecution of the war by a combination of internal and external constraints that he was unable to execute the compassionate, intelligent, and objective policies toward southeast Asia that he and Henry Kissinger had so painstakingly devised. Rather, we learn here that his Vietnam policies were as full of the `sturm und drang' contradictions seen elsewhere in his administration.  For Nixon, prosecution of the Vietnam War was just another case of \\"politics as usual\\", another opportunity to pit conservative against liberal, hawk against dove, for personal aggrandizement and short-term political gain.<br />Far from flying with the angels, both Nixon and Kissinger bloodied their hands by instituting policies that resulted a dramatic increase in both American and Vietnamese casualties, instituting policies that continued the escalation of the war and its extension to new areas such as Laos and Cambodia.  Using the conflict in Vietnam as a key element to engage both the Soviet Union and Communist China, Nixon seemed to lose sight of the need to deal with the specific factors propelling the war even as he became increasingly engaged with it, thinking he could simply \\"bomb\\" the North Vietnamese into capitulating regardless of the mounting evidence to the contrary. At times his conduct of the war was not only irrational and extremely counter-productive, but also criminal and unnecessary, as with the incursions into Cambodia in 1970, which spurred an avalanche of student protest and increasing political resistance at home.<br />Nixon's presidency is a study in contrasts, a reflection of the internal contradictions propelling the President himself. Nixon is truly one of the most fascinating of our modern presidents, a remarkable amalgam of his genius, daring, and all-too human flaws, a man so haunted and tortured by his interior demons that he spent the balance of his post=presidency years attempting to reconstruct the truth about his conduct of the presidency and the war in Vietnam.  Here is revealed a man so anxious to gain the presidency that he outrageously influenced the President of South Vietnam during the 1968 presidential campaign to disengage from an effort by sitting President Lyndon Johnson to end the war. How can we expect a man capable of such perverted motives to do \\"the right thing\\" to save life and treasure by bringing the war to an \\"honorable\\" conclusion?<br />Instead, we find the same irrational, pseduo-macho tendencies as led to the debacle of Watergate perpetrated onto the war in Vietnam, resulting in thousands of additional deaths and casualties. This is a wonderful book, one that lays bare the truth about the self-serving efforts by Nixon, Kissinger, and a number of over-eager neo-conservatives to reconstruct the truth about the conduct of the war in Vietnam in order to salve their structure of beliefs and also lay blame for the war at the doorsteps of sixties liberals. I found myself engaged and excited by the author's interesting approach, and was quite impressed by the interviews, documents, and research used to present the evidence included in the book. This is one I can heartily recommend, and enthusiastically give a full five star rating to. Enjoy!adictions propelling the President himself. Nixon is truly one of the most fascinating of our modern presidents, a remarkable amalgam of his genius, daring, and all-too human flaws, a man so haunted and tortured by his interior demons that he spent the balance of his post=presidency years attempting to reconstruct the truth about his conduct of the presidency and the war in Vietnam.  Here is revealed a man so anxious to gain the presidency that he outrageously influenced the President of South Vietnam during the 1968 presidential campaign to disengage from an effort by sitting President Lyndon Johnson to end the war. How can we expect a man capable of such perverted motives to do \\"the right thing\\" to save life and treasure by bringing the war to an \\"honorable\\" conclusion? <br />Instead, we find the same irrational, pseduo-macho tendencies as led to the debacle of Watergate perpetrated onto the war in Vietnam, resulting in thousands of additional deaths and casualties. This is a wonderful book, one that lays bare the truth about the self-serving efforts by Nixon, Kissinger, and a number of over-eager neo-conservatives to reconstruct the truth about the conduct of the war in Vietnam in order to salve their structure of beliefs and also lay blame for the war at the doorsteps of sixties liberals. I found myself engaged and excited by the author's interesting approach, and was quite impressed by the interviews, documents, and research used to present the evidence included in the book. This is one I can heartily recommend, and enthusiastically give a full five star rating to. Enjoy!	2001-03-24
2067293:US	52447634	R1AST18113HDF8	1566632528	803769722	1939: The Alliance That Never Was and the Coming of World War II	Books	4	13	17	N	N	Excellent Study Of The Year Leading To WWII!	This excellent recent work by author Michael Jabara Carley adds more fuel to the continuing fire of controversy regarding relative responsibility for the outbreak of general war in the fall of 1939. Indeed, in this well-written and well-documented work, the author's main argument contends that it was the collective failure of the so-called allies to overcome their own fears about communism and the perceived threats associated with the rise of international socialism that were responsible for the failure to bring the Soviet Union into the Allied orbit in time to stave off Hitler's rush into Poland.  Given the well-documented facts and figures marshaled in defense of this argument, it is difficult to fault this view.<br />For example, Carley illustrates how the Soviet Union made attempt after attempt to solicit the support and agreement of the western allies to form an alliance against Germany, only to be slow-rolled and virtually ignored time after time. In this fashion, the Soviets were finally left with few obvious options other than to turn into the direction fo their greatest fear and accept terms with the Nazis, hoping that by cooperating them and acting as their key supplier in the face of growing intransigence on the part of the Allies, the Germans would leave them alone. The author masterfully shows how this consistent series of rebuffs of the Russians by the western Allies was related to a western phobia of the communism and its associated threats,  and illustrates how these fears of all things socialistic blinded the Allies to the obvious dangers presented by the acts of the Nazi regime.<br />Thus, despite the fact that the Russians regularly tested the waters for a broad alliance against the Nazis during the late thirties, it was the western Allies who spurned such efforts to create a united front that did so much to engender the conditions allowing it to break out in the fall of 1939.  In fact, as the author so well illustrates, a particularly virulent form of anti-socialist fervor seemed to affect both the British ruling class as well as many in the higher reaches within the French political community during this period of time, and this attitude did much to limit the discussion of the possibilities for compromise and joint action with the Russians.  Of course, there were a few hardy souls with the vision and perspective to understand how important an early alliance with the Soviet Union, including Winston Churchill in Britain and Robert Vansittart in France. But few others listened to their emotional pleas for action and union with the Russians or their reasoning for taking such common cause with the dreaded socialists.<br />This is a carefully documented and painstakingly well-researched work that serves a much wider readership and appreciation for it as the work of careful scholarship that it is. I was especially impressed by the degree of information revealed from the archives of the former Soviet Union, which acts to shed a lot of light on the efforts made by Stalin and the Soviet cabinet during the time in question. This is an excellent book, and a worthy companion to a number of other excellent works such as \\"Grand Illusion\\" and \\"Dark Valley\\", each of which explores the nature of international politics in the years leading up to the outbreak of World War Two. Enjoy!orm of anti-socialist fervor seemed to affect both the British ruling class as well as many in the higher reaches within the French political community during this period of time, and this attitude did much to limit the discussion of the possibilities for compromise and joint action with the Russians.  Of course, there were a few hardy souls with the vision and perspective to understand how important an early alliance with the Soviet Union, including Winston Churchill in Britain and Robert Vansittart in France. But few others listened to their emotional pleas for action and union with the Russians or their reasoning for taking such common cause with the dreaded socialists.<br />This is a carefully documented and painstakingly well-researched work that serves a much wider readership and appreciation for it as the work of careful scholarship that it is. I was especially impressed by the degree of information revealed from the archives of the former Soviet Union, which acts to shed a lot of light on the efforts made by Stalin and the Soviet cabinet during the time in question. This is an excellent book, and a worthy companion to a number of other excellent works such as \\"Grand Illusion\\" and \\"Dark Valley\\", each of which explores the nature of international politics in the years leading up to the outbreak of World War Two. Enjoy!	2001-03-16
2079375:US	52447634	R1IZ827H39HPIR	0684800713	781452863	The Sun Also Rises	Books	5	356	386	N	N	Hemingway's First  Masterpiece!	This, friends, was the single book that so fatefully launched Ernest Hemingway's amazing and long-lived literary career. As such it is as close to being a legendary book as they come, yet some seventy five years after its initial publication, it still offers a story that is also surprisingly fresh, personal, and memorable. For all of his obvious excesses, Hemingway was an artist compelled to delve deliberately into painful truths, and he attempted to do so with a style of writing that cut away all of the frills and artifice, so that at it s heart this novel is meant as a exploration into what it means to be adult and alive. Thus we are introduced to Jake Barnes, a veteran of World War One, now forced by his wounds to live as a man without the ability to act like one, forced by impotence to forgo all of life's usual intimacies, and all of its associated life connections for which he so yearns. At the same time, Jake attempts to live a life of meaning and purpose, one crammed full with activity, work, and friendships. Yet it is within this network of friendships and connections that he must confront his painful circumstances.<br /><br />Enter his true love, the feckless Lady Ashley, and indeed the plot thickens, for we soon see how Jake's physical affliction has painfully affected several others. Ashley loves him, but needs a virile man who can give her the physical love she needs. While Ashley is a woman of uncommon beauty, she is also virtuous enough in her won way to want the one man she truly loves to be her lover. Like all of us, she wants most that which she can never have, and so she returns to the source of her own dilemma time after time to Jake, her emotional match, the one man who cannot give her the mature emotional love she craves. So they are condemned to circle around each other, even while some of their friends and other members of the in-crowd interfere, compete, and seek Ashley's affections around the edges of the continuing affair.<br />What we are left with is a modern tragedy, one in which the characters must somehow resolve the irresolvable.<br /><br />Yet for all this emotional turmoil and existential `sturm-und-drang' of the so-called &#34;lost generation&#34;, people drowning in the moral anomie and circumstantial wasteland created in the gutters of their own endless wants and needs, it is most often Hemingway's imaginative and spare use of the language itself that wins the reader over. Unlike his predecessors, he sought a lean narrative style that cut away at all the flowery description and endless adjectives. In the process of parsing away the excesses, Hemingway created a clear, simple and quite declarative prose style that was truly both modern and revolutionary. What one encounters as a result is a story seemingly stripped to its barest essentials, superficially more like the newspaper man's pantheon of who, what, where, when, and why, and yet somehow transformed into a much more accurate and imaginative effort, one leaving the reader with a much more artful account of what is going on. One reads Hemingway quickly, at least at first, when one learns to slow down and drink in every word and every detail as it is related. For me and for millions of others, the true genius of Hemingway is to be found in his artful use of language. This book was Hemingway's first truly successful foray into the world of letters, and the result changed the face of modern fiction.  Enjoy!modern tragedy, one in which the characters must somehow resolve the irresolvable.  Yet for all this emotional turmoil and existential `sturm-und-drang' of the so-called &#34;lost generation&#34;, people drowning in the moral anomie and circumstantial wasteland created in the gutters of their own endless wants and needs, it is most often Hemingway's imaginative and spare use of the language itself that wins the reader over. Unlike his predecessors, he sought a lean narrative style that cut away at all the flowery description and endless adjectives. In the process of parsing away the excesses, Hemingway created a clear, simple and quite declarative prose style that was truly both modern and revolutionary. What one encounters as a result is a story seemingly stripped to its barest essentials, superficially more like the newspaper man's pantheon of who, what, where, when, and why, and yet somehow transformed into a much more accurate and imaginative effort, one leaving the reader with a much more artful account of what is going on. One reads Hemingway quickly, at least at first, when one learns to slow down and drink in every word and every detail as it is related. For me and for millions of others, the true genius of Hemingway is to be found in his artful use of language. This book was Hemingway's first truly successful foray into the world of letters, and the result changed the face of modern fiction.  Enjoy!	2001-03-06
2083268:US	52447634	RVPUT6CC2Y0IE	0375408819	992222068	The Dark Valley: A Panorama of the 1930s	Books	5	16	18	N	Y	Terrific Overview Of Fateful Decade Before WWII!	This is a wonderfully executed study of the many ways in which the social, economic, and political events of the Depression era fostered the world's disastrous descent into the horrors of what became World War Two. Famed British historian Piers Brendon does great credit to this complex and widely varying terrain in his exhaustive and thoughtful coverage of the whole panorama of human suffering and social folly that was the 1930s.  As he aptly points out early on in the book, the nations of the world shared much more in the way of common problems and perceived dangers than they recognized, and all too often their individual efforts to extricate themselves meant friction and conflict with their neighbors or/and competitors. Lacking any real appreciation for the ways in which their efforts to rearm themselves in order to demand more of the world's \\"largesse\\" for themselves would ultimately doom them all to a war far worse than the horrors so recently visited in World War One, they ambled recklessly toward the cliff of the abyss with no real appreciation for the crushing fall they are about to take.<br />In this sense Brandon reemphasizes one of the oldest lessons of history; that we need to more fully comprehend the past and what it was like to properly understand the present. In this way, the events of the late 1920s and early 1930s doomed the various nations into a scenario from which all the most likely scenarios ended in international conflict. Of course, the fact that the conflict that eventuates from these internal machinations reached a level of intensity never before witnessed in the modern world hardly occurred to most of the protagonists. Indeed, all of this ground has been covered brilliantly before, and Brendon's considerable contribution in this book lay not in this description, but rather in the painstaking way he so carefully describes the social, economic, and political particulars in each individual nation, and then weaves these accumulated and collated observations into a masterful tale that often is so well-written it seems more like fiction than fact.<br />The reader is quickly ensnared by his wonderful powers of exposition, and the endless collage of names, places, and events spin by in spell-binding fashion as he masterfully describes a virtual panorama of places, a wide cast of characters, and an era full of fateful events. This was a decade in so many ways spinning ineluctably out of control in terms of the social and economic forces unleashed that may seem hard from our own perspective to understand how it was that no one could either stop it or blunt its impact. Yet it was the very nature of the cultural despair and the dangerous search for political and cultural scapegoats, whether in Berlin, Tokyo, or Moscow, that lent an air of irresistible momentum to the process. Thus, whether referring to Hitler's early popularity based on a program to employ the masses of unemployed Germans, or Stalin's deliberate victimization of millions of Ukrainians, or the unbridled Japanese militarism evidenced in places like Manchuria and China, in each case the popular support and political overtones were cloaked in attempts to gain national resurgence over the absolutely devastating effects of both the terms of the political settlement of the First World War and the Great Depression.<br />In this sense, this book offers fresh proof of the ways in which the events of the past frame and channel the possibilities for the present and the future. Reading this book leaves little doubt in this reader's mind regarding the lessons history has to teach us all. This is one reason we Americans should be especially aggrieved by the ways in which public school education has slighted the conventional teaching of history in favor of cross-cultural studies. While I am empathetic to the reasons for this change in teaching philosophy, I am even more convinced that so doing represents a critical mistake that leaves our youngsters ignorant ofthe past, and thus more vulnerable to its painful lessons. As George Santayana said, \\"those who do not learn from the lessons of history are condemned to repeat them\\". This is an important and valuable book, and is one I highly recommend. Enjoy!ant of the past, and thus more vulnerable to its painful lessons. As George Santayana said, \\"those who do not learn from the lessons of history are condemned to repeat them\\". This is an important and valuable book, and is one I highly recommend. Enjoy!	2001-03-02
2085526:US	52447634	RB7IZDUEJY8RP	0385416040	626664402	The End of Nature: Tenth Anniversary Edition	Books	5	99	106	N	Y	Terrific Explanantion Of Forces Leading to Global Warming!	Anyone familiar with the author's other books on man and his fateful connection to the natural environment owe it to themselves to read this seminal offering first published over a decade ago when the phenomenon of global warming was a hotly argued and angrily debated issue. The publication of this new 10th anniversary edition arrives in a world in which most of the author's frightful prognostications regarding the negative consequences of the hotly-debated \\"Greenhouse Effect\\" issue of a decade ago have been proven to be accurate and true. If anything, McKibben's warnings were, in retrospect, conservative. For example, five of the ten warmest years on record have been in the last decade. Thus,  \\"The End Of Nature &quot; must be regarded as an intriguing book that comprehensively covers a critically important phenomenon; the massive intrusion of man, technology, and civilization into the natural order of the world's ecosystems to the point that we have ripped them asunder. While the Bushes and Gores fiddle away in their Washington offices, the forces of man are still engaged in such a maddening and suicidal plundering of the world's biological treasure house.<br />The author's basic thesis, now well validated by over a decade of dramatically documented data regarding the globe's climate changes, is that though our massive intrusion into the delicate balance of gases, fluids, and temperature gradients so important in determining the world's weather patterns, we have altered and fragmented the earth's natural balance in an order of magnitude so large and so overwhelming that it has now permanently negated nature's capacity to operate autonomously, independently, and naturally. We have in essence replaced natural forces with our own efforts, and have now become the single most important and decisive element in climatic calculus that determines the weather.<br />As a result, it is no longer possible to pretend that nature is something that just happens out there, and that we are merely subject to its forces and its whims. Instead, the author argues, it is human actions and human interference that now fatefully orients and influences the forces determining the weather.  Yet, we live in a culture so embedded in patterns of denial about the effects of scientific and technological intrusion into the natural world that we seem to now regard the natural wilderness as mere grist for amusement parks. We seem so disconnected to nature or to its delicate balancing acts that we have no regard for the consequence of our continuing intrusions into its innermost workings. We seem to have forgotten our dependence on the elements of the natural world in order to survive, and consequently do not comprehend the disastrous consequences our massively ignorance, interference, and corruption of the natural world around us will likely bring.<br />Instead, we worry about our stocks and mutual funds, ignoring the facts that the world's potable water is disappearing as the world's population increases geometrically.  We worry about our property values and our next promotions, never recognizing the degree to which our materialistic culture and our over-consumptive way of life is condemning us and the rest of the world to oblivion.  So we fiddle as Rome burns. In any event, this is a terrific book, one that anyone interested in where we stand and where we are heading both culturally and globally needs to read. This, along with other books such as Lew Ayre's \\"God's Last Offer\\" and David Suzuki's \\"The Sacred Balance\\", can give the interested reader a better idea of what kinds of possibilities await us in the new millennium. Enjoy!hat we are merely subject to its forces and its whims. Instead, the author argues, it is human actions and human interference that now fatefully orients and influences the forces determining the weather.  Yet, we live in a culture so embedded in patterns of denial about the effects of scientific and technological intrusion into the natural world that we seem to now regard the natural wilderness as mere grist for amusement parks. We seem so disconnected to nature or to its delicate balancing acts that we have no regard for the consequence of our continuing intrusions into its innermost workings. We seem to have forgotten our dependence on the elements of the natural world in order to survive, and consequently do not comprehend the disastrous consequences our massively ignorance, interference, and corruption of the natural world around us will likely bring. <br />Instead, we worry about our stocks and mutual funds, ignoring the facts that the world's potable water is disappearing as the world's population increases geometrically.  We worry about our property values and our next promotions, never recognizing the degree to which our materialistic culture and our over-consumptive way of life is condemning us and the rest of the world to oblivion.  So we fiddle as Rome burns. In any event, this is a terrific book, one that anyone interested in where we stand and where we are heading both culturally and globally needs to read. This, along with other books such as Lew Ayre's \\"God's Last Offer\\" and David Suzuki's \\"The Sacred Balance\\", can give the interested reader a better idea of what kinds of possibilities await us in the new millennium. Enjoy!	2001-03-01
2100074:US	52447634	R2XGN8RR1FKTQM	1568581742	19856567	God's Last Offer: Negotiating for a Sustainable Future	Books	5	20	21	N	Y	Terrific Summation Of Where We Stand Environmentally!	For those of us who are vitally interested in the details surrounding the global assault on the biosphere caused by humankind and the massive environmental changes wreaked on the earth by technological innovation and mass consumerism, this is a critically important book to read. In clear, unemotional, and incontrovertible terms, author Ed Ayres lays out the nature of each of the four major environmental threats, and traces each of them to their manifesting sources. Using the data collected as the editorial director of the environmental group Worldwatch, the author mounts a sometimes passionate, and always convincing argument against the wall of negative environmental change being unleashed on the earth by science and technology gone absolutely wild.<br />After briefly summarizing the ways in which the overall environmental threats are interconnected with our overall problems and our unnecessarily wasteful materialistic lifestyles, he identifies the four most dangerous master processes (or mega-phenomena) that are quickly altering the basis for biological life on earth. First among these is the rise on carbon gas emissions, which he links to the overuse of private automobile transportation and the rapidly dwindling degree of forestation in the world, especially in the Amazon area of the new hemisphere. Among other things, this is quickly changing the nature of the world's weather, and this single fact is extremely worrying to Ayres. Next he describes the ways in which the various technological implementations have expedited the rate of species extinction, rapidly depleted and profoundly weakening the primordial basis for life on the planet itself.<br />Likewise, this profound intrusion into the nature of the biosphere threatens the foundations of biological life itself, and we must recognize how threatening this is to us as a species. Third, he points out the number of ways in which the ever-accelerating degree of human over-consumption of the world's limited resources, and has the unfortunate side effect of also despoiling and polluting the world's potable water (and food) supplies. Finally, he shows how the explosion in world population combined with the other three master processes will soon stress the third world countries toward a catastrophic collision with their own degrading environmental conditions.<br />Ayres also extends his argument to mount a stinging indictment of the relatively sophisticated and dangerously disingenuous efforts on the part of money-grubbing global corporations, international institutions, and various governmental bodies to mislead and misguide public perceptions and awareness of the increasingly dangerous situation. Their callous manipulation of the instruments of the media have lulled the masses of the so-called advanced countries into a frightening degree of apathy and complacency regarding the environment. In a world that revolves around making money and corporate profits, the last thing anyone in a position of authority and responsibility wants to have to publicly confront and recognize is the almost herculean effort (and the corresponding drastic alteration in our lifestyles and level of individual consumption) necessary in order to effectively change the practices and approaches of an economy so organized and so perpetuated.<br />In concluding, the author recommends a number of practical approaches that would be instrumental in turning the tide into amore positive direction. While admitting the social, political, and economic difficulties associated with so doing, he argues that what is necessary in order to avoid the environmental catastrophes otherwise directly confronting us, we must rapidly shift our perspectives, values, and practices and learn very quickly to relate to each other and to the world around us in a much more responsible and comprehensive fashion. This is a wonderful book and is one I highly recommend for anyone concerned about learning more about the massive ways in whichthe human assault on the ecosystem is threatening our continuing survival as a society and as a species.hich the human assault on the ecosystem is threatening our continuing survival as a society and as a species.	2001-02-17
2106740:US	52447634	R7G190BMQUWEC	0226066274	905258447	Crossing the Postmodern Divide	Books	5	25	26	N	Y	Mind-Boggling Intellectual Tour De Force!	This is a fascinatingly interesting, endlessly provocative, and eminently worthwhile read penned by a thoughtful philosopher who seems to have one foot in the heavens and the other planted firmly in every-day life. Borgmann serves up a busman's tour of history, ranging from observations on icons such as Bacon, Descartes, and Locke, yet at the same time coldly,cautiously, and carefully illustrating how we have lost so much more than we have gained in our earnest struggle to free ourselves from tradition and its hold on us, as we have increasingly become the mindlessly individualistic souls so boldly detached from any meaningful connection to one another that we have now become both socially and spiritually bereft, strangers in a strange land indeed.<br />Borgmann's view of contemporary society offers us nothing that others have not written even more eloquently about elsewhere; his gift to us is rather to illustrate with uncommon verve and precision exactly how the our dance in the history of ideas as well as our enthusiastic embrace of materialism has acted to gradually bankrupt us in terms of having any real meaningful sense of who we really are and why it is we are alive. According to the author, we are now living in circumstances so far estranged from any kind of natural connection to or relationship with the environment that we seem to believe that whatever artificially created surroundings we may have are mere furniture, incidental and unconnected to us or how we experience our lives, and therefore we cannot understand the ways in which this \\"mere furniture\\" fatefully influences and determines our own possibilities, both in terms of our material well being, and for Borgmann, at least, also in terms of our waning recognition of the possibility of any substantial spiritual existence.<br />  This is indeed a rather breath-taking vision, one that both encapsulates prior history, and also places that history in context as the meaningful prologue to what now exists.  We have confidently left behind any belief in meaningful central authority, are ardently enthusiastic believers in the unalloyed superiority of the rational mode of thought, and are bravely rational progressives in the sense we take mere \\"material progress\\" to be the greatest possible good. Now at long last we awake from five centuries of striving to be free to find ourselves locked into a wide-open world of someone else's design, suddenly left in the lap of material luxury to try to cope with forces we neither understand nor fully appreciate in terms of their magnitude or consequence. Instead, we tune into the shallow commonweal of the media, where all things are hyped, and where nothing is scared, other than the stock market and the supposed spread of individual wealth.  Is it any wonder we have collectively lost faith in the power of the present to satisfy us, or become suspicious that the future holds little but more of the same vacuous fare?<br />As another reviewer states, it seems the more we grasp for meaning, the more ghostly our existences become. Borgmann, true to his beliefs, underscores the desperate need each of us has to find meaningful connection in the community of our peers. We must strive to overcome our addiction to living lives of material inconsequentiality by devoting ore energy and resources to exploring our common humanity with others in our own habitat. For in the end, according to Borgmann, it is as simple (and as problematic) as having the good sense to establish more human connections to our colleagues, neighbors, and friends. We need a life, according to Borgmann, richer in social interaction and shared community as opposed to continue to seek material ends. This is a book I highly recommend. Enjoy!ts.  We have confidently left behind any belief in meaningful central authority, are ardently enthusiastic believers in the unalloyed superiority of the rational mode of thought, and are bravely rational progressives in the sense we take mere \\"material progress\\" to be the greatest possible good. Now at long last we awake from five centuries of striving to be free to find ourselves locked into a wide-open world of someone else's design, suddenly left in the lap of material luxury to try to cope with forces we neither understand nor fully appreciate in terms of their magnitude or consequence. Instead, we tune into the shallow commonweal of the media, where all things are hyped, and where nothing is scared, other than the stock market and the supposed spread of individual wealth.  Is it any wonder we have collectively lost faith in the power of the present to satisfy us, or become suspicious that the future holds little but more of the same vacuous fare? <br />As another reviewer states, it seems the more we grasp for meaning, the more ghostly our existences become. Borgmann, true to his beliefs, underscores the desperate need each of us has to find meaningful connection in the community of our peers. We must strive to overcome our addiction to living lives of material inconsequentiality by devoting ore energy and resources to exploring our common humanity with others in our own habitat. For in the end, according to Borgmann, it is as simple (and as problematic) as having the good sense to establish more human connections to our colleagues, neighbors, and friends. We need a life, according to Borgmann, richer in social interaction and shared community as opposed to continue to seek material ends. This is a book I highly recommend. Enjoy!	2001-02-11
2108058:US	52447634	R2LIWM497E0VUK	0465019919	518287987	The War Against The Poor: The Underclass And Antipoverty Policy	Books	5	21	24	N	Y	Terrific Book Connecting The Underclass With Public Policy!	Professor Herbert Gans is an esteemed and reputable sociologist who first gained prominence with his absorbing study of the effect of urban renewal in the metropolitan Boston area for ethnic Americans in &quot;The Urban Villagers&quot; in the early 1960s, and also for his interesting description of the rise of suburbia in \\"The Levittowners\\". In the decades since Gans, now a professor at Columbia University, has gained a reputation as a careful, deliberate and thorough sociological investigator in a number of other notable studies and articles. With this recent book he now explores the nature of the connections between the rise of the permanent underclass as an entity in late 20th century American society and the kinds of federal, state, and local public policy that have facilitated the rise of the underclass and led to its establishment as a permanent feature of contemporary society.<br />Thus, although this book is fairly brief, it is extremely well written and contain a virtual cornucopia of vital facts related to the nature of the human beings that comprise the underclass as well as how public policy feeds into the nature of the social, economic and political dilemma the members of the impoverished lower reaches of our society are afflicted with. Regardless of the professional tone to the language Professor Gans so skillfully employs, the reader can immediately sense the degree of empathy and compassion this bespectacled and now elderly academic holds for the human beings he is writing about. While tracing the history of the poor in this country, he illustrates how they have come to be stigmatized and blamed for their situation, a clear case of what fellow academic William Ryan described in detail in the now classic book, \\"Blaming The Victim\\". Indeed, many more affluent Americans find such labels convincing, and by not recognizing that such ignorance makes for public policy that turns such self-serving nonsense into a self-fulfilling reality, have contributed to the staggering dimensions of the social problem.<br /> In what is easily the most frightening portion of the book, Gans shows how the existence of the underclass serves the more affluent sectors of the society, in a multitude of ways not only facilitating the passing on of social myths that continue to afflict the poor but also passing on the degree to which the rest of us seem to be collectively deaf, dumb, and blind to the consequences of such a labeling process. Poor people have their social functions, and many of these serve the interests of the more affluent while at the same time exacerbating the problems of the poor. In this respect, more enlightened public policy can serve to ameliorate these wrongs and aid individual human beings caught in the grinding grip of ignorance and poverty.<br />Not surprisingly, Gans focuses on the critical importance of providing jobs to help such individuals rise to more full participation in the society, and warns that without such active governmental intervention, the problems now afflicting the lower reaches of society may find their way into a much wider sector of society, and that many middle Americans may find themselves slipping as they strive to maintain their place in a rapidly changing social, economic, and political environment. What we now bravely call a technological revolution was once referred to in less glowing terms as 'automation', and at that time it was better understood by the average working person to have many more negative connotations for them in terms of their ability to gain and keep themselves employed than seems to be true in today's hyped-up world of media bally-hoo. Gans is warning us of more stressful times to come, and asks us to reconsider our priorities to become more fully human. As John Kennedy once said, if we cannot save the millions who are less fortunate, then surely there is little hope for the few who are rich. Perhaps it is in our own interests as citizens and as human beings to beginto behave more responsibly.ings to begin to behave more responsibly.	2001-02-10
2115453:US	52447634	R1E8S8BEKIR385	068482678X	571312355	The Other America:  Poverty in the United States	Books	5	80	86	N	Y	America's Primer on the Existence of the Underclass!	Few works of contemporary non-fiction have had more lasting impact on the social consciousness of the overall society from which it arose than \\"The Other America\\", Michael Harrington's now classic tome on the egregious conditions under which what we would now call the \\"underclass\\" lived in mid-20th century American society. With an uncommon verve and uncanny precision, Harrington painstakingly detailed the disgusting and shocking realities of life for those many millions of Americans of both color and ethnicity living lives of desperate poverty in the midst of the affluent society. Millions of readers, myself included, were shocked to discover the extent to which this world coexisted with our own, and many of the social action programs that arose in the 1960s and thereafter used this book as a kind of reference guide to the realities of poverty in contemporary society. Indeed, what is most disturbing about anyone re-reading the book is the discovery of how little conditions have changed for those who through the accident of birth, color, and ethnic origin, find themselves inexorably trapped in the vicious cycle of poverty.<br />Sadly, for all the glad-handing of politicians and the proclamations by global corporations of the new and more widespread prosperity of the 1990s, the sobering truth is that very little progress has been made. Indeed, in more recent books such as William Finnegan's excellent \\"Cold New World\\", Harrington's basic thesis of the co-existence of a starker, poorer, and powerless populace left stranded to live lives of quiet desperation is reconfirmed, putting the lie to the many proclamations of universal opportunity and promise that politicians now ballyhoo.  The book, which was first published in the early 1960s, was required reading for most introductory sociology and contemporary history courses, and millions of young academics first learned of the extent of the national problem through a reading of this book. It is, in that sense at least, a modern classic.  Harrington's basic thesis is incontrovertible; poverty is extensive and endemic, and is usually hidden from the view of most affluent Americans due to the ways in which the two subcultures coexist in modern society. Through the de-facto residential segregation of the two elements of the society, there is little meaningful contact, and the media tends to ignore the facts of the existence of the underclass, portraying arch-types which conform more to the sensibilities of the more affluent segments of the society that regularly view its programming and enforcing unrealistic images of what exists. As a previous reviewer commented, we no longer habituate the same environments, and we tend to avoid all unnecessary contact with anything to do with this other world of poverty and want. What Harrington originally described in such anguished and inflammatory terms, hoping to purposefully ignite America's slumbering conscience, has instead become a permanent feature of our conscienceless socio-cultural landscape.<br />It is a sad truth that Harrington's book is as timely and as shocking today as it was some forty years ago. His account of the fate of millions of impoverished people of color and ethnicity remains as cogent and as relevant as it was then. Despite the long and tortured history of the social legislation that attempted to rework this problem in the decades since, the reality of the situation seems to be that nothing much has changed in terms of the life-chances and hopes of the members of the underclass. It remains a mainstay of introductory courses in social stratification, providing an excellent overview of the myriad of the sociological, political, and economic issues surrounding the underclass, and is a wonderful example of just how important one man's vision of the truth can be in orienting others meaningfully toward rectifying a social problem. Poverty may remain, as they say, always with us, but the shocking truths found in this book still sheds the light of day into an unappetizing aspect of contemporary society we all should be aware of.k still sheds the light of day into an unappetizing aspect of contemporary society we all should be aware of.	2001-02-04
2123002:US	52447634	R3SY4968LRECNT	0805052496	720482496	Paul McCartney: Many Years From Now	Books	5	54	59	N	Y	Terrific Look Over The Wall Into McCartney's Private World!	Those of us who grew up watching the evolution of the Beatles and Paul McCartney will find this authoritative biography written by longtime friend Barry Miles a thought-provoking and interesting glimpse into many aspects of McCartney's otherwise quite private and personal life story. The view is startling, given the fact that so many in the media have forwarded the view that Paul was the lesser of the two main creative forces within the group. The account delivered here via a long-running series of interviews with Paul puts the lie to that notion, showing just how influential and fateful were Paul's contribution to the Lennon and McCartney writing genius. It also gives the fascinated reader a mind-boggling glimpse into the creative forces behind the individual songs, and travels knowingly along the historic path leading each of the \\"Fab Four\\" from poverty and obscurity to fabled fame and fortune. The result is a marvelous biography and an immensely entertaining reading experience.<br />The book is full of insider information about the genesis and sources of each of the songs and albums along the way, ranging from the creation of \\"I Saw Her Standing There\\" all the way to the \\"Long And Winding Road\\", at a time when the members of the group could barely stand to inhabit the same space for any period of time. We come to understand how the arrival of fame and fortune changed each of them forever, and although Paul's perspective is the only one aired here, one marvels at just how fair-minded and self-effacing he seems to be in assessing the values, contribution, and failings of each of the Beatles, himself included. It also shows just how instrumental the guidance of the so-called fifth Beatle, George Martin, was to both their initial breakthrough as well as to their successful riding of the wave-crest of fame that swept over them with such an enormous impact.<br />It also illustrates just how versatile and intelligent Paul has been, masterfully managing and orchestrating both his music and his fortune to become one of the wealthiest and most successful of the rock luminaries emerging from the sixties. And while his later music may have been disappointing in more critical terms, there is no doubting that he has been a continuing critical influence in the continuing evolution of popular music in the thirty years since the Beatles disbanded. Paul has had a rich and rewarding life, and has become a well-known benefactor of worthy causes and sometimes-reclusive widower of his long-time love and wife Linda, who died several years ago, succumbing to cancer. Still, the McCartney magic seems to shine, and this biography of him is both an interesting read and a privileged look behind the tall walls that he has built around himself in the last several decades. Given the crazed attack that fellow Beatle George Harrison suffered from a deluded fan, perhaps his concern about privacy and protection are all too well advised. Enjoy!ng both his music and his fortune to become one of the wealthiest and most successful of the rock luminaries emerging from the sixties. And while his later music may have been disappointing in more critical terms, there is no doubting that he has been a continuing critical influence in the continuing evolution of popular music in the thirty years since the Beatles disbanded. Paul has had a rich and rewarding life, and has become a well-known benefactor of worthy causes and sometimes-reclusive widower of his long-time love and wife Linda, who died several years ago, succumbing to cancer. Still, the McCartney magic seems to shine, and this biography of him is both an interesting read and a privileged look behind the tall walls that he has built around himself in the last several decades. Given the crazed attack that fellow Beatle George Harrison suffered from a deluded fan, perhaps his concern about privacy and protection are all too well advised. Enjoy!	2001-01-29
2123401:US	52447634	R1FAU8IF9X20AS	0743215052	769417678	The Constant Gardener: A Novel	Books	5	21	22	N	Y	Another Terrific Page-Turner From LeCarre!	Lovers of quality fiction will find much to admire in this new, thoughtful thriller by John LeCarre. Set initially in Kenya, it quickly turns from a gruesome murder mystery into a quirky yet fascinating personal odyssey to discover the truth about both the protagonist's murdered wife and about the state of the post-modern capitalist world in general. Indeed, like most of the best-selling works that came before this one from the unchallenged master of the intelligent spy thriller John LeCarre, this is a penetrating treatise on the hidden and conflicted corners of the human heart. For LeCarre, who made his reputation chronicling the particulars of the internecine aspects of the cold war and the spy trade, the ending of the post-war period and the coming of the new world order provides a whole new set of circumstances with which to peer meaningfully at the human beings inhabiting the so-called civilized areas of the planet as well as the darker side of humanity itself.  In so doing, he mines new tunnels of cunning, deceit, and betrayal, all the while weaving a quite memorable story in the spaces parsed brilliantly into the plotline.<br />British career diplomat Justin `s beautiful and much younger wife Tessa is brutally and mysteriously murdered, and her rumored black lover, a doctor with an aid organization, is nowhere to be found. Unsatisfied with the quick and dirty investigation conducted by both local authorities and an unsettling discomfort exuding from his fellow diplomats, Justin decides to take things into his own hands, beginning a fateful journey of discovery and at the same time setting many other wheels into motion with this action.  Of course, all of this is merely the opening salvo of in the tirade of events, characters, and places that whirl into centrifugal force in this wonderful examination of the underside of human nature and the complexities of the human heart. LeCarre is a master at detailing the deceptions, betrayals, and complexities people bring to bear in their conduct, and the layers of complexity peel like skins from an onion as he delves deeper and deeper into what is going on.<br />With his usual style, suspenseful prose, and intellectual gamesmanship, LeCarre stirs the reader's interest and dismay as we see quite dreadful games set into motion with deadly earnest by everyone involved; his fellow Brits, the local profiteers, and even darker forces that come to bear as the plot spins into overdrive later in the book.  This is a stunning, suspenseful, and somewhat rueful tale of what unfolds when the protagonist begins to discover the motives lurking behind what seemed to be a simple homicide, and he gets sucked deeper into the geopolitical politics swirling around the affair like a evil whirlwind, predictable, evil, and quite possibly totally out of control.  As one can expect from such a well-described albeit shadowy and complex geopolitical world of espionage and power that LeCarre writes so brilliantly and unforgettably about, there are no simple answers or easy foregone conclusions. Instead, the reader is spun along the twist and turns of both the plot and the wonderful characterizations; fascinated by the power of observation and description LeCarre brings to bear.  This is a wonderful read and a marvelous book, and has the ring of more real-life veracity and worldly wisdom than one can easily find on the non-fiction side of the bookstore aisle. Enjoy!ng to bear in their conduct, and the layers of complexity peel like skins from an onion as he delves deeper and deeper into what is going on.<br />With his usual style, suspenseful prose, and intellectual gamesmanship, LeCarre stirs the reader's interest and dismay as we see quite dreadful games set into motion with deadly earnest by everyone involved; his fellow Brits, the local profiteers, and even darker forces that come to bear as the plot spins into overdrive later in the book.  This is a stunning, suspenseful, and somewhat rueful tale of what unfolds when the protagonist begins to discover the motives lurking behind what seemed to be a simple homicide, and he gets sucked deeper into the geopolitical politics swirling around the affair like a evil whirlwind, predictable, evil, and quite possibly totally out of control.  As one can expect from such a well-described albeit shadowy and complex geopolitical world of espionage and power that LeCarre writes so brilliantly and unforgettably about, there are no simple answers or easy foregone conclusions. Instead, the reader is spun along the twist and turns of both the plot and the wonderful characterizations; fascinated by the power of observation and description LeCarre brings to bear.  This is a wonderful read and a marvelous book, and has the ring of more real-life veracity and worldly wisdom than one can easily find on the non-fiction side of the bookstore aisle. Enjoy!	2001-01-29
2123951:US	52447634	R38AYLANH9J6OF	0700610154	361615757	Inside Hitler's High Command	Books	5	30	33	N	N	Excellent Academic Look At Hitler's General Staff!	Conventional wisdom regarding the fate of the Wehrmacht in World War Two has always been that it was Adolph Hitler's maniacal meddling in the day to day affairs of the armed forces that created the catastrophic defeats along the eastern front that lost the war. Indeed, many of the first hand post-war memoirs of those German generals and other staff officials supported this point of view, giving one the idea that if only the generals had had their way, Germany would have been victorious. There is much to commend such a view; certainly Hitler's decisions were often counter-intuitive and counter-productive, and he often seemed to change his mind and the tactics associated with a campaign in mid-stream. The results of these actions were indeed often disastrous. Yet, as the author of this scholarly investigation into the machinations of the General Staff and its decision making process brilliantly argues in this fascinating and informative book, the evidence supporting such a theory that Hitler single-handedly lost the war through his incompetence simply does not exist.<br />In fact, this book is quite well written; it is authoritative, informative, and extremely well documented. The author has managed to turn what could have been a historical curiosity for the amusement of other academic historians into a terrific reading experience for a more general audience. He approaches the subject with verve and a plethora of telling examples of how the general staff were involved and complicit in the day to day decisions that were so disastrous for the Wehrmacht; far from being helpless factotums who merely carried out Hitler's demands, they initiated debates and discussions in which Hitler often played the provocateur, attempting to gain a better idea of what each of the participants in the discussions really thought regarding a particular course of action.  Also, in employing the kinds of primary evidence used here, he illustrates how involved and enthusiastic many of the generals were in making fateful decisions. As the author maintains, there is no credible evidence that they did in fact take any serious issue with Operation Barbarossa or with its conduct until things began to go awry.<br />The simple truth of the matter seems to be that they shared Hitler's myopic faith in the invincibility of the Wehrmacht, and seriously underestimated the capabilities, endurance, and determination of the Soviet forces. The fateful decision was the first one, the effort to invade the Soviet Union without recognizing the serious logistical and tactical problems that were ensue when prosecuting a fight over such a vast distance and with a front that was thousands of miles long. Likewise, the decision by Hitler and General Staff to declare war against the Americans seemed more the result of an arrogant disregard for facts in favor of self-serving ideology. Of course, to argue that the general staff itself was complicit is not to deny the degree of sloth and banality associated with Hitler's command and control of the armed forces. He brashly demoted men who had failed him and his wildly unrealistic expectations while promoting incompetent sycophants based solely on their loyalty. Such policies compounded the difficulties associated with attempting to execute a war that had turned into a much wider and more complex effort than Hitler or the General Staff had ever envisioned.<br />This is a wonderful book, one that gives fresh evidence of the dangers inherent in consensus management. Hitler's fateful problem was that by demanding the outrageous and the unrealistic, he increasingly gathered around him the worst liars, game-players, and toadies in the history of modern warfare. He consistently winnowed out anyone who told him the unvarnished truth, especially if it was negative. By doing so he guaranteed the desperate failure of his most audacious and precarious adventures into the realm of war, and brought the heavy weight of ruin and destruction upon himself, the General Staff, the Wehrmacht, and the German people. Of course, along the way, he managed to ruin most of Europe and kill tens of millions of people, as well.  This is an excellent book, and is one I heartily recommend. Enjoy!elf, the General Staff, the Wehrmacht, and the German people. Of course, along the way, he managed to ruin most of Europe and kill tens of millions of people, as well.  This is an excellent book, and is one I heartily recommend. Enjoy!	2001-01-28
2124230:US	52447634	RJS12CT46V9TU	1565845994	730486974	War of the Century: When Hitler Fought Stalin	Books	5	25	30	N	N	Wonderful Overview Of Campaign Along The Eastern Front!	In the last decade or so there have been a number of excellent works emanating from historians regarding the nature of the conflict between the German and Soviet forces during Operation Barbarossa. This provocative, entertaining, and very well written history based on the popular BBC series and written by by Laurence Rees of the German assault into the Soviet Union and the ensuing war along the Eastern front employs a wealth of information released from Soviet archives in the last ten years and emphasizes the enormous struggle in terms of the fate of the Nazi state as well as the enormous contribution of the Russians to the Allied effort. Like a number of other recent works such as Richard Overy's \\"Russia's War\\", Glantz and Houses' \\"When Titans Clashed\\", and Alan Clark's classic \\"Barbarossa\\" it emphasizes Soviet strengths and attributes as central to the eventual result. Unlike earlier efforts that argued that blame for losing the war belonged to the Germans, all of these books argued that one must recognize the massive strengths and military cunning of the Russians in winning this campaign, which he terms to be the \\"battle of the century\\".<br />Like the TV series it is based on, this book is a spellbinding read! All the basics found in the other recent works is here in spades; a tragic misinterpretation of Soviet strength by the German high command, especially of the Russian troop reserves and manpower resources, which were a whopping three times as large as believed, the curious notion that by simply crushing the troops massed between the border and the Leningrad-Moscow-Crimea salient the German forces would thereby crush the communist government and send the country into anarchy, chaos, and ruin, and the profound German  arrogance in believing they could master and quickly dominate this gargantuan nation of several hundred million in a short savage campaign lasting only a single season. Hitler and the German General Staff were consistently shocked and amazed by the continuing tenacity, resourcefulness, and endurance of an army they had presumed to have already beaten in the opening weeks of the campaign. As in the other tomes, he marvels as to how the Russians, after losing two million men in a single two-month period could rally itself, reorganized, re-outfit, and send another two million into combat so quickly. In so doing, he treads on well-covered ground.<br />Yet he also broaches other aspects of the war between the Soviet forces and the Wehrmacht not so well covered in the other books, and this adds immeasurably to the value and entertaining qualities of the book. For example, he makes the curious argument that it was the defeat of the German forces at the hands of the Russians that led to the Holocaust. The argument is curious given the fact that the systematic murder of both the indigenous and German Jewish populations in both Poland and elsewhere (including within Germany itself) had already begun in earnest before the turn in fortunes along the Eastern front. Of course, it appears to be true that the particular manner in which the Nazis approached the issue of the extermination of the Jews and others was profoundly influenced by the exigent circumstances caused by the disastrous campaign along the Eastern front, it seems specious to argue that it would not have happened had the Germans been victorious.<br />In matter of fact, it was a central canon of Nazi ideology that the Jews were central to the Aryan struggle, and it was this rabid belief in the reputed world-wide Jewish conspiracy against the Aryan race that was motivating them to exterminate the Jewish population, not the Wehrmacht's impending defeat at the hands of the Soviets. The primary reason for proceeding with Operation Barbarossa in the first place was to systematically exterminate the indigenous population through a three-pronged operation involving murder, slavery and starvation and subsequent use of the conquered land for future German settlement.Therefore, although one must admit the particular character of the Holocaust was influenced by what was happening along the eastern front, one wonders as to the reasons for this misguided and wrong-headed line of argument.<br />Rees is absolutely correct, however, in arguing that the nature of the conflict was biblical in its magnitude, ferocity, and endurance. The climatic conditions, including the most severe winter fighting ever recorded, were unprecedented. The lack of supplies and the consequent hunger, hand to hand fighting, in which the Germans soldiers were aghast at the willingness of the Russians to fight with almost bestial ferocity, and the intense continuing artillery barrage used by both sides all support Rees contention that this was the battle of the century.  My recommendation is that your read this along with the books mentioned above. Doing so will leave you with a much better understanding of the war along the Eastern front and better appreciated how the Russians did so much to help win the European theater of the Second World War. Enjoy!t. Therefore, although one must admit the particular character of the Holocaust was influenced by what was happening along the eastern front, one wonders as to the reasons for this misguided and wrong-headed line of argument.<br />Rees is absolutely correct, however, in arguing that the nature of the conflict was biblical in its magnitude, ferocity, and endurance. The climatic conditions, including the most severe winter fighting ever recorded, were unprecedented. The lack of supplies and the consequent hunger, hand to hand fighting, in which the Germans soldiers were aghast at the willingness of the Russians to fight with almost bestial ferocity, and the intense continuing artillery barrage used by both sides all support Rees contention that this was the battle of the century.  My recommendation is that your read this along with the books mentioned above. Doing so will leave you with a much better understanding of the war along the Eastern front and better appreciated how the Russians did so much to help win the European theater of the Second World War. Enjoy!	2001-01-28
2128055:US	52447634	R23OHVYXDQ5IVG	0684848090	280599935	Pillar of Fire : America in the King Years 1963-65	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Terrific Second Volume In Planned Three-Volume Series!	Presenting an authentic and comprehensive picture of the mammoth civil rights movement in the United States in the post WWII era is a daunting task, yet noted author and journalist Taylor Branch has succeeded masterfully with this, the second of a planned three-volume history of the struggle of blacks in America to find justice, equality and parity with the mainstream white society. Detailing the final desperate years of the mature and charismatic Rev. Martin Luther King, Branch sets the stage for a wide range of events, personalities, and public issues. This is truly a wonderful read, fascinating, entertaining, and endlessly detailed in its description of people and events, and quite insightful in its chronicling of the fortune of those social forces that created, sustained, and accomplished the single most momentous feat of meaningful social action in our nation's contemporary history.<br />His range of subjects is necessarily wide and deep, and we find coverage of every aspect of the tumultuous struggle as it reaches into the final desperate efforts of the mature Martin Luther King, a man haunted by efforts at blackmail, internal bickering and dissension, and racist hatred as he continues the efforts to rectify the social evils of segregation and works toward greater civil rights and justice under the law. As in the first volume, this work at times borders on becoming a biography of Martin Luther King and his times, yet Branch so extends his coverage of the eddies and currents of the movement itself that it appears to be by far the most comprehensive and fair-minded treatment of the civil rights movement published to date. Indeed, in detailing these critical years of the movement, Branch offers a wonderfully recreated portrait of all of the participants in this momentous and historical struggle, illustrating just how close to the breaking point our society came during these fateful years, and therefore memorably engages the reader with every element of this and a thousand other personalities, issues, and events that helped to carve out the history of our country for almost twenty years.<br />Here one finds a very detailed coverage of the rise of black firebrand Malcolm X and how he influenced the ongoing movement, of J. Edgar Hoover, perpetually obsessed with King and his sexual exploits, and of Lyndon Johnson, who, acting out of his concern for his dream for the Great Society, forcefully twisted the forces of the U.S. Congress toward accepting meaningful civil rights legislation. So too, do we find lesser known names and personalities covered, from Diane Nash to Robert Moses to Fannie Lou Hamer, all of who played critical and fateful roles in the unfolding of the civil rights movement. The names and places and events described here are legion, and one gets the sense that anyone who had a conscience was involved, and many of the names mentioned later went on to greater accomplishment and further noteworthy contribution in their public lives and careers.<br />This, then, is a stupendous second book in a wonderful planned three-volume history of the civil rights movement in the United States; the first volume covered the period from the late 1950s when the first rumblings of the movement were sounded until just after the assassination of John F. Kennedy in Dallas in November of 1963. This second volume picks up the thread thereafter, extending out through the Johnson years and including aspects of the coalescence of the movement with the Vietnam anti-war protest. This is a wonderful book, and one I would consider essential reading for anyone with an interest in American history in the 20th century. I highly recommend both of the books already published, and I hope you appreciate reading them as much as I did while we wait for the arrival of the third and final volume. Enjoy!a thousand other personalities, issues, and events that helped to carve out the history of our country for almost twenty years. <br />Here one finds a very detailed coverage of the rise of black firebrand Malcolm X and how he influenced the ongoing movement, of J. Edgar Hoover, perpetually obsessed with King and his sexual exploits, and of Lyndon Johnson, who, acting out of his concern for his dream for the Great Society, forcefully twisted the forces of the U.S. Congress toward accepting meaningful civil rights legislation. So too, do we find lesser known names and personalities covered, from Diane Nash to Robert Moses to Fannie Lou Hamer, all of who played critical and fateful roles in the unfolding of the civil rights movement. The names and places and events described here are legion, and one gets the sense that anyone who had a conscience was involved, and many of the names mentioned later went on to greater accomplishment and further noteworthy contribution in their public lives and careers. <br />This, then, is a stupendous second book in a wonderful planned three-volume history of the civil rights movement in the United States; the first volume covered the period from the late 1950s when the first rumblings of the movement were sounded until just after the assassination of John F. Kennedy in Dallas in November of 1963. This second volume picks up the thread thereafter, extending out through the Johnson years and including aspects of the coalescence of the movement with the Vietnam anti-war protest. This is a wonderful book, and one I would consider essential reading for anyone with an interest in American history in the 20th century. I highly recommend both of the books already published, and I hope you appreciate reading them as much as I did while we wait for the arrival of the third and final volume. Enjoy!	2001-01-24
2133596:US	52447634	R7OCSNCB86Q9I	0300077920	899703411	Grand Delusion: Stalin and the German Invasion of Russia	Books	5	27	40	N	N	Authoritative Interpretation of Stalin's &quot;Grand Illusion&quot;	Few events in the history of the Second World War inspire as much controversy and debate as the circumstances surrounding the legendary chaos and lack of preparedness of the Soviet forces at the onset of Hitler's invasion of Russia with Operation Barbarossa. Given Stalin`s legendary cynicism and distrust for the West, it has been hard for historians to accurately determine what Stalin's motives and perspectives were during the period of time preceding the invasion, and as to whether it was a calculated and very dangerous risk he was willing to take, or if, on the contrary, he and the Soviet army were suddenly caught unaware and off-guard by the most daunting frontal assault in the history of WWII. This book magnificently addresses these historical questions in a captivating, authoritative, and magisterial argument that it was, at least in Israeli author Gabriel Gorodetsky's opinion, a combination of all of the above that led to the astounding Russian debacle and military collapse of 1941.<br />Gorodetsky emphatically rejects the idea that Stalin was in fact beat to the punch while planning an invasion of his own, posting instead that Stalin was convinced based on circumstances as well by his own preoccupations with internal Russian concerns that Chancellor Hitler would, at least temporarily, live up to his non-aggression treaty with the Soviet Union.  The author marshals a convincing and well-substantiated argument detailing a multitude of circumstances that lead him to conclude he had little to fear from Hitler in the short term, but recognized and was preparing for the ostensible long-term threat to Mother Russia once Hitler had conquered the rest of Europe. In this sense, he discounts, and even ridicules, what he considers to be the preposterous notion that Hitler struck preemptively against he saw to be an imminent threat from the Russian army massed all along the border with Poland for a strike against the Third Reich.<br />Instead, the author argues that Stalin's fabled paranoia, his concern with consolidating power, and his unfounded concerns with possible internal threats emanating from the General Staff of the professional military led to a wide-ranging set of purges within the ranks of the officer corps and vitiated the capability of the army to conduct offensive operations. Under such circumstances, it would have been suicidal to propose aggressive action against such a well-prepared foe as the Wehrmacht would have been at that time. Indeed, the Soviet experience in the campaign conducted the year before against Finland had convincingly disabused them of any illusions they might otherwise have had regarding their state of war readiness.<br />In essence, the portrait of Stalin painted in this work is that of a man literally obsessed with the historical precedents of Soviet diplomacy and political intrigue. After a year spent dabbling in the deep waters of international bargaining with England, France, and Germany, and skillfully playing them off each other to gain ground for Russia, he hoped to watch the west beat each other into the stone age. Thus, having concluded he had somehow successfully negotiated his way into a fabulous and harmless bargain with the devil, he just couldn't bring himself to believe the devil would then promptly double-cross him.  After all, Hitler needed all the raw materials and petroleum products Stalin alone could give him, making Hitler immune to the kinds of slow death via blockades that had so damaged Germany during WWI. Why would he then turn on the one country he needed to stave off any threats from the Allies.<br />This in essence was the \\"grand illusion\\" he subscribed to: that based on the mutual benefit to both countries of the non-aggression pact, he could successfully negotiate his way out of immediate danger until he and the Soviet Union was better prepared in the mid 1940s to take on the Nazis. This is a terrific book, and one I highly recommend. It already has become a standard text, and will, I am sure, become a perennial favorite. Enjoy!ndard text, and will, I am sure, become a perennial favorite. Enjoy!	2001-01-20
2148179:US	52447634	R3CP2VP0IK3A5R	0691049440	468575734	War and Punishment: The Causes of War Termination and the First World War	Books	5	21	21	N	Y	Absorbing, Provocative, &amp; Erudite Study Of War Termination!	According to Clausewitz, an understanding of war cannot be meaningfully divorced from political life. Indeed, he maintains, whenever we attempt to do so, the many links connecting the two phenomena are lost and we are left virtually bereft of understanding.  One of the several virtues in this tightly argued and scholarly tome by Stanford professor Hein Goemans is its meticulous and careful consideration of empirical evidence in assessing the interaction and influence of such interrelated factors in what he refers to as \\"war termination\\". Using the massive data concerning what specific factors helped to finally bring an end to the First World War to create a fascinating case study, Goemans marshals an articulate and convincing argument regarding the fashion in which these mutually reinforcing factors come to bear on the progress toward cessation of hostilities.<br />Goemans' thesis proceeds from a simple yet provocative premise; that leaders decide to either prosecute or cease fighting at least partly based on how the terms of settlement affect their postwar fate. The author argues that the belligerents make an initial assessment of their chances to succeed in their war aims based on what they learn from their engagements with the enemy, and that such battlefield assessment is a critical factor in determining what is possible in terms of settling the hostilities. He shows how different kinds of regimes blend this assessment with both their understanding of the international structure they are operating within as well as with their own domestic political considerations. According to the author, war settlement is only possible when a situation he refers to as \\"bargaining space\\" develops, i.e., both sides come to similar conclusions regarding the likely outcome as well as the advantages of settling now rather than later.<br />Goemans is at his best when arguing for a more sophisticated appreciation for how this multiplicity of factors interacts in a dynamic setting that is \\"realpolitik\\", and demonstrates how such mutually reinforcing factors influence the war goals and determination of future action by individual belligerents. For example, in a telling example Hoemans illustrates that in spite of a stunning defeat at Verdun, the French decided to escalate their war aims; their collective faith in the personal capabilities of Robert Nivelle were so great that they expected to gain the advantage despite all the setbacks.  Likewise, his consideration of how domestic political circumstances and the subjective reading of the international situation by both German and Russian officials influenced the course and outcome of the war.<br />His scholarly approach as well as an unfortunate tendency toward continuing use of very carefully constructed terms and phrases may at times seem a bit repetitive and initially a bit off-putting to the general reader, yet understanding the academic tone of the book, seems perfectly understandable.  The author is, after all, writing a book for other academics rather than for a general audience, even though I'm confident that many serious students of military history will find this particular academic book a fascinating and useful read. When all is said and done, this is a very interesting book, and it is one I highly recommend to those students of military history who appreciate the amazingly complex interaction of a welter of factors in determining the onset, progress, and termination of war.at is \\"realpolitik\\", and demonstrates how such mutually reinforcing factors influence the war goals and determination of future action by individual belligerents. For example, in a telling example Hoemans illustrates that in spite of a stunning defeat at Verdun, the French decided to escalate their war aims; their collective faith in the personal capabilities of Robert Nivelle were so great that they expected to gain the advantage despite all the setbacks.  Likewise, his consideration of how domestic political circumstances and the subjective reading of the international situation by both German and Russian officials influenced the course and outcome of the war.   <br />His scholarly approach as well as an unfortunate tendency toward continuing use of very carefully constructed terms and phrases may at times seem a bit repetitive and initially a bit off-putting to the general reader, yet understanding the academic tone of the book, seems perfectly understandable.  The author is, after all, writing a book for other academics rather than for a general audience, even though I'm confident that many serious students of military history will find this particular academic book a fascinating and useful read. When all is said and done, this is a very interesting book, and it is one I highly recommend to those students of military history who appreciate the amazingly complex interaction of a welter of factors in determining the onset, progress, and termination of war.	2001-01-08
2149902:US	52447634	RN34C9EO42XHO	0582290856	595050592	The Origins of the Second World War (2nd Edition)	Books	5	43	45	N	Y	Wonderful Overview Of The Factors Leading To WWII!	In this interesting, provocative, and comprehensive overview of the antecedents leading up to and causing the onset of the Second World War, noted British historian Richard Overy (\\"Why The Allies Won\\", \\"Russia's War\\") presents a masterful summary of the complex welter of factors influencing the drift into conflict between the Axis powers and the more established powers of Britain and France. Overy carefully articulates the ways in which a multiplicity of factors created a power vacuum as well as an associated change in the balance of power such that the existing world order created at the close of the First World War became increasingly fragile and dysfunctional. It was into this moment of recognized weakness in both the British and French empires that the German, Japanese, and Italian governments sought to create their own empires at the expense of the existing order.<br />This, of course, varies from the conventional belief that World War Two was singularly Hitler's war, one that he alone created and prosecuted against the good will and conventional moral purposes of the powers that be. Yet Overy argues quite convincingly that this is hardly a fair or objective reading of the historical record, since the policies of appeasement pursued by both Britain and France were hardly moral, being rather more organized around preserving their own political, economic, and military advantage than around any kind of democratic values or concern for the common good. While it is true that Hitler aggressively sought to change the existing framework to the benefit of the German state, it is hardly true that the political or economic policies of the other world powers were in any fashion necessarily more selfless or altruistic.  Indeed, the acts of appeasement were callously designed to give whatever they could over to Germany without endangering their own admittedly precarious strategic economic and political interests, with little regard for the consequences for the indigenous populations of the areas surrendered in the process.<br />Seen in this way, Hitler was feeding into the existing time-honored mode of empire creation, and one must remember that when general war was declared in the fall of 1939, it was Britain and France that declared war on Germany over the issue of the invasion of Poland. In this fashion, one must examine the reasoning behind the Allies decision to commence hostilities at that point rather than later. Given the fact that Hitler did not seek a wider war at that point, one must question the specific reasons that the Allies chose to prosecute a general war at that juncture. Overy argues that it was due as much to political self-interest more than altruism that they decided for a general mobilization. This becomes even clearer when one recognizes that Hitler wanted to avoid a two-front war, and the main objective of his reach eastward was to gain &quot;lebensraum&quot;, or living room, for the rapidly expanding German population. In this sense, he made a fatal miscalculation of British and French resolve, and their decision to escalate the conflict in the Fall of 1939 rather than later resulted in the transformation of what Hitler expected to be a quick and easy regional war into a messy and prolonged general European war.<br />Overy argues that it was only when it became apparent to the Allies that Germany posed a real danger to \\"their common political and economic interests, a danger they would be unable to accommodate without endangering their own strategic interests did they decide to escalate\\" to general war. He also argues that only the Soviet Union or the United States might have helped to prevent the general European war that subsequently broke out, but that neither of these countries were in a position to do so, largely for domestic political and economic reasons. Yet in so avoiding participation, they ironically guaranteed it would later escalate into a world war when the Axis powers tragically underestimated the power and resolve of each to engage in and successfully prosecute a war neither originally sought.<br />This is wonderfully comprehensive book of barely 100 pages, part of a series of such \\"seminar studies in history\\" produced by a consortium of British academics who are central figures in a variety of contemporary history topics. The book is quite concise and yet eminently quotable, and Overy manages to pack in a lot of provocative and well substantiated points regarding the epoch leading up to the onset of hostilities that powerfully demonstrates the truth in the claim that in order to understand the outbreak of hostilities in 1939 that eventually became World War Two, one must understand the \\"international structure as a whole, its weaknesses and strengths, and the character and motives of the major powers that comprised it\\". This is a terrific book, and one I highly recommend to any serious student of 20th century history. Enjoy!ed the power and resolve of each to engage in and successfully prosecute a war neither originally sought. <br />This is wonderfully comprehensive book of barely 100 pages, part of a series of such \\"seminar studies in history\\" produced by a consortium of British academics who are central figures in a variety of contemporary history topics. The book is quite concise and yet eminently quotable, and Overy manages to pack in a lot of provocative and well substantiated points regarding the epoch leading up to the onset of hostilities that powerfully demonstrates the truth in the claim that in order to understand the outbreak of hostilities in 1939 that eventually became World War Two, one must understand the \\"international structure as a whole, its weaknesses and strengths, and the character and motives of the major powers that comprised it\\". This is a terrific book, and one I highly recommend to any serious student of 20th century history. Enjoy!	2001-01-07
2149973:US	52447634	R2EXGENPS6ZK2H	0275957330	895894820	Kursk: Hitler's Gamble, 1943	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Absorbing Study Of The Fateful Battles At Kursk!	The German conduct of Operation Barbarossa against the Russians along the Eastern front was an incredibly massive and at first very successful campaign which slowly but fatefully turned against the Wehrmacht due both to an underestimation of the strength and resiliency of the Russians on the one hand, and the Germans' over-confidence and arrogance on the other. Indeed, nowhere was their conduct more self-defeating or more disastrous than at Kursk, in one of the most fateful conflicts in the war. In this book, author Walter S. Dunn concentrates tellingly on relating the stunning particulars of the epic exchanges at Kursk that, when the smoke and dust finally cleared, fatefully altered the entire balance of World War Two, not only for the so-called Eastern front of the war, but for the entire Allied war effort in Europe. One might argue that in this regard, if Stalingrad was that point in the conflict at which the fortunes of the Wehrmacht were first so fatefully reversed, then Kursk was the point of no return, where the specter of unavoidable eventual defeat and the horrific destruction of the Nazi Wehrmacht was all that lay ahead.<br />The Battle of Kursk was one of the most pivotal and epochal struggles in the Allied war against the Germans, and comprised one of the largest tank engagements in military history. Through its devastating destruction in terms of the number of functional and operating armored vehicles left for the Wehrmacht to continue their prosecution of the war, it was the turning point in the war, the catastrophic defeat the Nazis could no longer afford to absorb. In this regard, considerable controversy has revolved around the extent to which Hitler himself was to blame for the terrible defeats at Kursk, given his fabled micromanagement of the Eastern campaign in general and the battle at Kursk in particular. The author engages such arguments both quite directly and forcefully, and readers will appreciate the intellect, accuracy, and details contained in his overview of the events at Kursk, as well as their import for subsequent events along the Eastern front.<br />Too many Americans familiar only with the Cold War aspects of Russian history tend to be ignorant of the critical contribution the Soviets made in winning a war so essential to the survival of democracy. It is an uneasy truth that without the Russian contribution in battling up to 200 divisions of German Wehrmacht troops for over four years, our entry onto the continent in France would not have been possible in 1944. Indeed, risking such a large sea borne assault would have been problematic against a force of the numbers of troops who would have been available had they not been otherwise preoccupied and engaged in an epic effort attempting to stem the terrible onslaught they were receiving at the hands of a resurgent Soviet Army. This isn't to claim the Russians could (or would) have won the war themselves, although there are serious and scholarly arguments forwarding such propositions. Rather, it is to contend that the Russian front became the real-life tar baby requiring so much German energy and resources that the Nazis were unable to adequately defend against the Allied invasion in Normandy in June 1944.<br />Many historians now contend that the Russians single-handedly repeatedly smashed (and cumulatively diminished) the vast and critically important war-fighting capabilities the Wehrmacht continued to thrust against them, and that in doing so they changed the course of the war both along the Eastern front and for the war against the Allies in general. The evidence of just how formidable, ferocious, and inexhaustible opponents they had become in the two short years since the inauguration of Operation Barbarossa is detailed and documented herein, showing how a series of hasty, chaotic, and disastrous German attacks at Kursk led into the largest armored confrontation in the war and precipitated the devolution of the once proud Wehrmacht into a fragmented, fractious, and mortally wounded fighting force soon compelled to retreat, foot by foot all the way back to Berlin, losing millions of soldiers along the way. This is an authoritative, carefully documented, and absolutely entertaining account of one of the most important battles of WWII, and I highly recommend it. Enjoy.a fragmented, fractious, and mortally wounded fighting force soon compelled to retreat, foot by foot all the way back to Berlin, losing millions of soldiers along the way. This is an authoritative, carefully documented, and absolutely entertaining account of one of the most important battles of WWII, and I highly recommend it. Enjoy.	2001-01-07
2150455:US	52447634	RSNKM6S8DZVOY	0192892851	263395985	The Second World War: A Short History (Opus)	Books	5	31	31	N	Y	Wonderfully Concise Yet Comprehensive History Of WWII!	For serious students of the WWII era wishing to have a handy, concise, and yet quite comprehensive overview of the Second World War and its times by way of a one-volume effort, this is the book to start with. Unlike much more massive, detailed, and descriptive tomes such as Gerhard Weinberg's \\"A World At War\\", Sir Martin Gilbert's \\"The Second World War\\", or the new \\"A War To Be Won\\" by Murray and Millett, this book pares down the tremendous sweep and circumstances surrounding the war to a relatively brief (just over three hundred pages) and yet amazingly concise and comprehensive narrative. Indeed, Professors from Harvard to Stanford often assign this book for introductory courses on World War Two because it is both manageable and accurate.<br /><br />Parker's narrative is informed by his matchless grasp of the relevant documents and official records as well as a unique feel for the way in which the various aspects of the conflict interweave and interact to create and sustain a worldwide conflagration. In his stirring and entertaining treatment, one finds a treasure trove of details, and at the same time also gains a better understanding of the way in which the economic, diplomatic, and military factors combine during the drift toward war in the late 1930s. In this sense the book is written with great verve and obvious historical impact.<br /><br />Viewed in this way, the book can be considered a quite compact and yet still comprehensive overview of the war itself, how it began, its slow and horrific progress, and how it was both won by the Allies and lost by the Axis powers. Indeed, one comes away from the reading experience with a much improved and enhanced appreciation for the far-reaching impact the war had on humanity at large, since the war affected everyone, combatants, noncombatants, and onlookers alike. As Parker argues quite persuasively, the Second World War changed the course of the 20th century forever.<br /><br />The author faithfully traces how the key events of the war progress, showing how the strategies of each of the participants as well as their indigenous populations and economies affect the course of the conflict. In looking at major battles and campaigns, Parker provides a wealth of insight that is disproportionately detailed compared to the length of the book, and provides the reader with a wonderfully informative, insightful, and entertaining reading experience. He discusses specific aspects of the war such as mobile warfare, the Holocaust, forced migration, and the use of the atomic bomb in a way that helps the reader to understand the importance of each and gives specific reasons as to how and why they occurred. This is a book that is easy to recommend to anyone wanting a relatively concise and yet immensely rewarding reading experience. Enjoy!y events of the war progress, showing how the strategies of each of the participants as well as their indigenous populations and economies affect the course of the conflict. In looking at major battles and campaigns, Parker provides a wealth of insight that is disproportionately detailed compared to the length of the book, and provides the reader with a wonderfully informative, insightful, and entertaining reading experience. He discusses specific aspects of the war such as mobile warfare, the Holocaust, forced migration, and the use of the atomic bomb in a way that helps the reader to understand the importance of each and gives specific reasons as to how and why they occurred. This is a book that is easy to recommend to anyone wanting a relatively concise and yet immensely rewarding reading experience. Enjoy!	2001-01-06
2161671:US	52447634	R1ZJ45IXZEPV51	0684870584	115663280	Malignant Sadness: The Anatomy of Depression	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Important, Provocative, &amp; Informative Book On Depression!	In a time so significantly distinguished by mass dyspepsia and personal crisis, this book is a significant contribution to better public understanding. In a country so singularly obsessed with the simple-minded solution of feeling better through pharmaceutical support by way of Prozac, Zoloft and all the whole class of new central psycho-active and regulative brain drugs of that ilk, this book shines a bright and illuminating light into the morass of serious psychiatric darkness.  Indeed, what is most striking and valuable about Wolpert's approach to this massively interesting and endlessly complex issue is the fact that he makes a great effort to explain and detail exactly where the current state of knowledge is about this often baffling and extremely debilitating affliction. Depression is so widespread and so commonplace that the public knows it by a variety of everyday names such as the blues, or being \\"off\\", or just as being down.<br />Few of us are unaffected by its massive effects, since either we ourselves or someone we know and love is so profoundly affected by its symptoms.  He threads his way knowingly through a mountain of data and scientific literature, sifting out tidbits of knowledge from to help us understand just how Depression works its evil within us. His balancing act as both an observer and a sufferer from its effects make his perceptions especially acute and valuable, as his description of what the experience itself is like is a powerful demonstration of just how disabling depression can be. I must also admit that I found his views especially interesting since I admit to a long-standing personal bias against psychiatrists and mental health care professionals based on my own adolescent and adult experiences with depression, which left me suspicious of both physicians and psychiatric professionals who often seem all too ready for simple solutions such as simply medicating the symptoms away, refusing to deal with what one believes to be the underlying causes of the malady.<br />Certainly Wolpert mounts a wall of impressive research findings to support his own perceptions, and his combination of such data with his own experiences sounded a responsive chord in my own admittedly limited experiences. He does not disappoint the reader in the sense that while one expects him to over-emphasize biological causes and the subsequent recourse to pharmaceutical relief, yet Wolpert (to his considerable credit) also examines and evaluates both psychological and environmental factors their due. Thus, while admitting that the current theory that serotonin plays a major role in depression is given too much credence, he also admits that he believes that pharmaceutically altering brain chemistry may offer a major possibility for relief from depression in the future.<br />My only qualm concerning his approach or his intellectual stance is that he seems to underplay what many believe are overwhelming indications that social and cultural factors may significantly influence the onset of depression and also often exacerbate its symptoms. In this sense the book falls short of being truly comprehensive, for without due consideration of the ways in which such social factors contribute to and foster the development and extension of depression in its members, we can never truly understand the degree to which its development is a psychiatric, as opposed to philosophical, response by increasingly vulnerable and sensitive individuals to the manifest ills of a world gone absolutely bonkers. This is a book I highly recommend.ying causes of the malady. <br />Certainly Wolpert mounts a wall of impressive research findings to support his own perceptions, and his combination of such data with his own experiences sounded a responsive chord in my own admittedly limited experiences. He does not disappoint the reader in the sense that while one expects him to over-emphasize biological causes and the subsequent recourse to pharmaceutical relief, yet Wolpert (to his considerable credit) also examines and evaluates both psychological and environmental factors their due. Thus, while admitting that the current theory that serotonin plays a major role in depression is given too much credence, he also admits that he believes that pharmaceutically altering brain chemistry may offer a major possibility for relief from depression in the future. <br />My only qualm concerning his approach or his intellectual stance is that he seems to underplay what many believe are overwhelming indications that social and cultural factors may significantly influence the onset of depression and also often exacerbate its symptoms. In this sense the book falls short of being truly comprehensive, for without due consideration of the ways in which such social factors contribute to and foster the development and extension of depression in its members, we can never truly understand the degree to which its development is a psychiatric, as opposed to philosophical, response by increasingly vulnerable and sensitive individuals to the manifest ills of a world gone absolutely bonkers. This is a book I highly recommend.	2000-12-29
2163220:US	52447634	R1QN6J15H78N7S	0891416021	543558724	When the Odds Were Even: The Vosges Mountains Campaign	Books	5	19	23	N	Y	Rousing &amp; Well-Written Tome About Vosges Mountains Campaign!	Most military historians are likely to offer the Battle of the Bulge as constituting proof positive of the Allies' military prowess and ability to fight toe to toe with the Wehrmacht and win. Yet, in this fine book by Keith E. Bonn, the author argues persuasively that in the battle for the Vosges Mountain region in the late fall and winter of 1944-45, the Allies in general, and the American army in particular, showed just how well they could meet the challenge of defeating a numerically superior foe that was well dug-in and much more familiar with the terrain. The stunning defeat of the German forces at the hands of the Americans should put quite a wrinkle in the discussion about the war being decided by either the sheer weight of Allied logistics support or of overwhelming numerical advantage. Here the odds truly were even.<br />This campaign conducted toward the end of the war is a stirring account of how the American Seventh Army gradually but steadily breached the well-established fortifications in the Vosges Mountain region, where the remnants of the Wehrmacht had reconstituted itself in a last ditch effort to punish the Allies and slow their progress across the region's passes. Indeed, Bonn illustrates how many of the German army's finest combat forces were clustered into the area in an effort to safeguard it.  In summary, he shows how all of the prevailing conditions initially favored the defenders, and shows how the American Seventh army systematically worked its way painfully but effectively through the stagnant defense and gradually overcame all these initial advantages. In so doing the American army made history, for it was the first time a defender had been successfully defeated in the Vosges Mountains region.<br />As another reviewer commented, Bonn shows how the better organized and better trained American troops acted in systematically attacking and overcoming each of the many obstacles the Germans had erected to repel them. Of course, it is also true that the American forces were better able to focus the kinds of men and equipment they needed to overcome the circumstances. Yet, even when considering the fact of superior logistical support and air superiority, one must recognize that even when these advantages were removed due to poor weather, extremely rugged terrain, the ongoing competition for scarce resources due to the rush toward Berlin, the Americans simply outthought, outmaneuvered, and outfought their German opponents.<br />Thus, this book offers a stunning example of how well the American fighting man could compete on the battlefield when adequately trained and equipped. \\"When the Odds Were Even\\" offers powerful testimony to that fact, and by carefully analyzing the campaign, succeeds marvelously in conveying an accurate and quite detailed portrait of the relative merits of the two opposing sides. I agree with another reviewer's comment that this book is destined to become a classic, and should be on any serious WWII scholar's reading list. I highly recommend this book. Enjoy!that the American forces were better able to focus the kinds of men and equipment they needed to overcome the circumstances. Yet, even when considering the fact of superior logistical support and air superiority, one must recognize that even when these advantages were removed due to poor weather, extremely rugged terrain, the ongoing competition for scarce resources due to the rush toward Berlin, the Americans simply outthought, outmaneuvered, and outfought their German opponents.<br />Thus, this book offers a stunning example of how well the American fighting man could compete on the battlefield when adequately trained and equipped. \\"When the Odds Were Even\\" offers powerful testimony to that fact, and by carefully analyzing the campaign, succeeds marvelously in conveying an accurate and quite detailed portrait of the relative merits of the two opposing sides. I agree with another reviewer's comment that this book is destined to become a classic, and should be on any serious WWII scholar's reading list. I highly recommend this book. Enjoy!	2000-12-27
2169251:US	52447634	R3GHW8Z7XA1NVS	0671869205	680068737	Truman	Books	5	157	175	N	N	Superb Coverage Of An Amazing Man's Life and Times!	Into the press of circumstance and the irony of history strode the diminutive and bespectacled Harry S. Truman, who promptly grinned his way into becoming the single most surprising President of the 20th century. Written off as a party hack of the Missouri democratic machine until very late in his political career, Truman astounded everyone by picking up the shambles left in the wake of Franklin Delano Roosevelt's sudden death and turning in a deft and remarkable performance against the most formidable of odds. In this best-selling biography by noted author and historian David McCullough (The Path Between The Seas), one is treated to a massively informative and yet immensely readable treatment of Truman's life and times. The author uses a treasure-trove of newly available archives, personal interviews, and historical records to show how the unassuming man from Missouri who everyone under-appreciated became responsible for everything from the successful conclusion of WWII to the Marshall Plan to the formation of NATO to the Berlin Airlift rose to assume the Presidency in one of our nation's darkest moments.<br />From his first halting steps as a young man rising out of poverty and a farm family background to become a sudden war hero who led men bravely in combat, from his frequent missteps and failures as a post-war businessman to a first failed try for local political office, from his quick rise from county-level politics to become the darling and frequent benefactor of the quite colorful Pendergast political machine, this is the stuff of a momentous 20th century life, told as well as it can be by a master of historical biographies. Truman, who arose from a family beset by tragedy, missteps, and misfortune, was saddled before adulthood with the responsibilities and burdens that were so common for those coming of age early in this century. His is the story of a man who kept trying, arising again and again when life and misfortune knocked him down, and like the proverbial hero of one of Horatio Alger's novels, Truman's persistence and dogged courage before personal defeat eventually brought him to public prominence and to the United States Senate.<br />Once established in the Senate, Truman quite rapidly (and totally unexpectedly) proved himself a consummate diplomat, negotiator, and dogged proponent for what was right, rational, and reasonable. In doing so, he earned himself a reputation as man with uncommon moral character and indefatigable energy. Later this strength of character and ability to do the hard things when pressed to do so proved invaluable, as in the decision to employ the atomic bomb against Japan and to fire that most vexing and perplexing of military war heroes, the legendary Douglas MacArthur. McCullough's treatment reveals for us the drama of Truman's sudden and unexpected tour as President; a terrifying, wrenching and extraordinarily difficult balancing act for someone left so singularly unprepared and unprepared as was Truman. Yet so masterful was his balancing act that he became a legend himself by simply being himself, a man who believed in all of the traditional verities and virtues, a man of the common people who was always unassuming, self-effacing, and quick to admit his own mistakes.<br />This is truly a wonderful book, one I have read several times simply because I find its depiction of Truman as being quite inspirational. Here was a man who rose to meet the challenges of his life and his times, a most unexpected leader and role model who showed us, even in his death, that the role of the man of enduring virtue participating in public life is an achievable and workable goal, that we can have people with moral direction and the courage of their convictions to serve us and the country at large as President. Especially now, in the age of mental midgets and errant sons of former presidents running for office, it is wonderful to remember a time when an ordinary man proved just how extraordinary he couldbe. Enjoy!ld be. Enjoy!	2000-12-20
2173673:US	52447634	R389S4F9LXK3R4	0195133544	101902922	The Power Elite	Books	5	53	55	N	Y	Perennial Best Seller and Stunning Critique Of America!	No one has written with more verve and authority about the awesome and frightening capabilities of man than the late C. Wright Mills, a prominent and controversial sociologist who wrote such memorable tomes as &quot;White Collar&quot;, an exploration of the emerging American Middle class in the early 1950s, and \\"The Sociological Imagination\\", a brilliant introduction to the values of employing the sociological perspective in better understanding the realities of ordinary life. In this book, \\"The Power Elite&quot;, Mills delivers a provocative examination of the nature of power, privilege, and status in the United States, and how each of these three critical elements of power and property in this country are irrevocably connected to each other, and how they affect and determine the life chances and material hopes of ordinary human beings. What is most amazing about this book is that while it was written almost fifty years ago to detail what Mills saw as the principal characteristics of American society at the century's mid-point, it also has great verve and value in understanding our contemporary cultural dilemma.<br />After nearly fifty years, that in and of itself is powerful testimony to his enduring value as a scholar and an original thinker. To Mills, it is critical to understand what he viewed as inherent differences between personal troubles of the individual on the one hand, which that particular person has the responsibility to resolve and overcome, and social ills on the other hand, which are beyond both the ken or control of the solitary individual. Indeed, according to Mills, increasingly in the 20th century one finds himself trapped by social circumstance into dilemmas he is absolutely unable to resolve without significant help from the wider social community. \\"The Power Elite\\" is a masterful attempt on Mills' part to accurately describe the nature of American society, and to detail how wealth, power, and privilege systematically influence and affect the ordinary individual's progress in the economic, social, and political domains.<br />Mills specific focus in this book is on the interlocking nature of three aspects of the power elite in this country, including the military, the corporate, and the political elite. According to Mills, they share a mutuality of life experiences, educational backgrounds, and economic situations that they cooperate and support each other to the detriment and disfavor of the mass of ordinary Americans. Mills wanted to alert his contemporaries as to the critical ways in which the nature of power and privilege had changed in the 20th century, and while many critics have openly criticized his findings and his conclusions after the book's publications, many readers now find his prognostications and warnings regarding the ways in which the power elite would collusively wrest and manipulate control of every aspect of life in this country an amazingly accurate critique of the true nature of power and privilege in America.<br />Mills often write eloquently regarding the ways in which a person's recognition of &quot;what's what&quot; and &quot;who's who&quot; based on the ability to judge the information within the social environment would dramatically aid him or her in operating within the social environment. Obviously, these words and this observation are as valuable as ever. This is a wonderful book, written in a very accessible and entertaining style, meant both for an intellectual audience and for the scholastic community as well. While it may not be for &quot;everyman&quot;, any person wanting to better understand and more fully appreciate how individual biography and social history meaningfully interact to create the realities we live in will enjoy and appreciate this legendary sociological critique and invitation to the pleasures of a sociological perspective by one of its most remarkable proponents some half century ago.e ordinary individual's progress in the economic, social, and political domains. <br />Mills specific focus in this book is on the interlocking nature of three aspects of the power elite in this country, including the military, the corporate, and the political elite. According to Mills, they share a mutuality of life experiences, educational backgrounds, and economic situations that they cooperate and support each other to the detriment and disfavor of the mass of ordinary Americans. Mills wanted to alert his contemporaries as to the critical ways in which the nature of power and privilege had changed in the 20th century, and while many critics have openly criticized his findings and his conclusions after the book's publications, many readers now find his prognostications and warnings regarding the ways in which the power elite would collusively wrest and manipulate control of every aspect of life in this country an amazingly accurate critique of the true nature of power and privilege in America. <br />Mills often write eloquently regarding the ways in which a person's recognition of &quot;what's what&quot; and &quot;who's who&quot; based on the ability to judge the information within the social environment would dramatically aid him or her in operating within the social environment. Obviously, these words and this observation are as valuable as ever. This is a wonderful book, written in a very accessible and entertaining style, meant both for an intellectual audience and for the scholastic community as well. While it may not be for &quot;everyman&quot;, any person wanting to better understand and more fully appreciate how individual biography and social history meaningfully interact to create the realities we live in will enjoy and appreciate this legendary sociological critique and invitation to the pleasures of a sociological perspective by one of its most remarkable proponents some half century ago.	2000-12-16
2174907:US	52447634	R39ZB3X1UHK4X1	0736632107	514169439	The Day The War Ended	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Terrrific Overview of A Fascinating Moment In History!	No one has been more acclaimed or prolific in writing about the total scope of twentieth century history than British author and historian Sir Martin Gilbert, who sometimes seems to represent a kind of one-man revival in British historical publication. Here he focuses impressively on the end of the war in Europe in \\"The Day The War Ended\\", giving the reader a breathless and almost exhausting look at all that transpired all over Europe, and indeed, in the world, as the terrible conflict that had raged for almost five years final drew to a terrifying close. He brings impressive credentials to the task; as the foremost biographer and authority on Winston Churchill (with an 8 volume biography already published), he is obviously well versed on the particulars of the European theater of the conflict, and in this volume he displays how comprehensive his knowledge of the other theaters of wars, especially the Pacific campaign, is as well.<br />Gilbert's particular genius as a writer and as an historian is particularly acute here, for the narrative centers on the very human ways in which the war has affected people. Here the people have names, families, pasts, and hopefully, now, futures as well, as the dust finally begins to settle over the ashes of a Europe that had been ablaze. The reader is allowed to make the essential connections between various events and the breathing, living human beings that made them happen, and that makes this work fascinating to read. His approach is magisterial, and his account vast in terms of the numbers of people, places, and situations he describes. Doing so, of course, is all too appropriate, for this war was indeed global, and it is indeed useful to recognize that events transpiring in places as far flung as London, Budapest, and Stalingrad were materially affected by each other, and by the particular events that each scene of the war experienced in its final moments.<br />Gilbert's sweeping prose style and selection of topics makes for entertaining and informative reading; he masterfully weaves together a meaningful context in which the political, military, and diplomatic aspects of the conflict are connected in a perspective that always pays compassionate heed to the civilian impact of the bloody struggle. As one of the foremost authorities on the Holocaust, Gilbert blends the particulars of the \\"Final Solution\\" into the history of the final day of the war in Europe as part of the ongoing narrative, placing it in context and showing the shock, bewilderment, and amazement of so many people at what had transpired as they liberated the death camps.<br />Of particular interest is the way Gilbert uses personal recollections and anecdotal details to humanize the epic struggle and to bring home the horrific and monstrous scale on which this war brought terror, death and destruction to much of the civilized world. He reminds us with compelling evidence and stirring narratives that people died horribly and needlessly every day during the disastrous, painful, and nearly six-year long struggle, so that those who still stood alive and alert in its final moments were survivors forged in the crucible of a terrible, horrific ordeal. If you want to better understand what happened as the raging inferno that raged over Europe was finally extinguished and a very human look at the people who actually experienced it, this wonderful and admirably comprehensive overview will serve you quite well. Enjoyentertaining and informative reading; he masterfully weaves together a meaningful context in which the political, military, and diplomatic aspects of the conflict are connected in a perspective that always pays compassionate heed to the civilian impact of the bloody struggle. As one of the foremost authorities on the Holocaust, Gilbert blends the particulars of the \\"Final Solution\\" into the history of the final day of the war in Europe as part of the ongoing narrative, placing it in context and showing the shock, bewilderment, and amazement of so many people at what had transpired as they liberated the death camps. <br />Of particular interest is the way Gilbert uses personal recollections and anecdotal details to humanize the epic struggle and to bring home the horrific and monstrous scale on which this war brought terror, death and destruction to much of the civilized world. He reminds us with compelling evidence and stirring narratives that people died horribly and needlessly every day during the disastrous, painful, and nearly six-year long struggle, so that those who still stood alive and alert in its final moments were survivors forged in the crucible of a terrible, horrific ordeal. If you want to better understand what happened as the raging inferno that raged over Europe was finally extinguished and a very human look at the people who actually experienced it, this wonderful and admirably comprehensive overview will serve you quite well. Enjoy	2000-12-15
2179321:US	52447634	R1X0LRUAOMV9TC	0671687425	267532725	Parting the Waters : America in the King Years 1954-63	Books	5	36	36	N	N	Authentic  &amp; Comprehensive History of Civil Rights Movement	Presenting an authentic and comprehensive picture of the mammoth civil rights movement in the United States in the post WWII era is a daunting task, yet noted author and journalist Taylor Branch has succeeded masterfully with this, the first of a two-volume history of the struggle of blacks in America to find justice, equality and parity with the mainstream white society. Tracing the rise of the singular leader personified in the young Rev. Martin Luther King, Branch sets the stage for a wide range of events, personalities, and public issues. This is truly a wonderful read, fascinating, entertaining, and endlessly detailed in its description of people and events, and quite insightful in its chronicling of the fortune of those social forces that created, sustained, and accomplished the single most momentous feat of meaningful social action in our nation's contemporary history.<br />His range of subjects is necessarily wide and deep, and we find coverage of every aspect of the tumultuous struggle beginning in the deep South, and gradually working its way north and west until most of the urban northeast also surrendered to the battle cry for civil rights and justice under the law. In many respects this borders on being a biography of Martin Luther King and his times, yet Branch so extends his coverage of the eddies and currents of the movement itself that it appears to be by far the most comprehensive and fair-minded treatment of the civil rights movement published to date. Whether covering the issue of Martin Luther King's own personal life, his internal philosophical concerns, or his appetite for young white women, the reader is engaged with every element of this and a thousand other personalities, issues, and events that carved out the history of our country for almost twenty years.<br />One finds a very detailed of the Kennedy involvement in the movement, first as a purely political ploy to help to win the black vote in the extremely tight race for the Presidency in 1960, and then as an administration struggling to do what was right in the face of enormous social, political, and even economic opposition. Here too we find an absorbing account of how the FBI attempted to infiltrate and influence the movement, with J. Edgar Hoover's adroit political savvy and deep-seated racism causing great difficulty and a number of tribulations for the civil rights cause. The names and places and events described here are legion, and one gets the sense that anyone who had a conscience was involved, and many of the names mentioned later went on to greater accomplishment and further noteworthy contribution in their public lives and careers.<br />This, then, is a stupendous first volume of a wonderful two-volume history of the civil rights movement in the United States, and covers the period from the late 1950s when the first rumblings of the movement were sounded until just after the assassination of John F. Kennedy in Dallas in November of 1963. The second volume picks up the thread thereafter, extending out through the Johnson years and including aspects of the coalescence of the movement with the Vietnam anti-war protest. This is a wonderful book, and one I would consider essential reading for anyone with an interest in American history in the 20th century. I highly recommend both books, and I hope you appreciate reading them as much as I did.  Enjoy!in 1960, and then as an administration struggling to do what was right in the face of enormous social, political, and even economic opposition. Here too we find an absorbing account of how the FBI attempted to infiltrate and influence the movement, with J. Edgar Hoover's adroit political savvy and deep-seated racism causing great difficulty and a number of tribulations for the civil rights cause. The names and places and events described here are legion, and one gets the sense that anyone who had a conscience was involved, and many of the names mentioned later went on to greater accomplishment and further noteworthy contribution in their public lives and careers.  <br />This, then, is a stupendous first volume of a wonderful two-volume history of the civil rights movement in the United States, and covers the period from the late 1950s when the first rumblings of the movement were sounded until just after the assassination of John F. Kennedy in Dallas in November of 1963. The second volume picks up the thread thereafter, extending out through the Johnson years and including aspects of the coalescence of the movement with the Vietnam anti-war protest. This is a wonderful book, and one I would consider essential reading for anyone with an interest in American history in the 20th century. I highly recommend both books, and I hope you appreciate reading them as much as I did.  Enjoy!	2000-12-12
2179824:US	52447634	R1RDFWRXDPTHYG	0870744372	985858324	Tyranny on Trial: The Trial of the Major German War Criminals at the End of the World War II at Nuremberg Germany 1945-1946 (Revised Edition)	Books	4	24	27	N	Y	Interesting &amp; informative Overview Of Trials At Nuremberg	To the mind of many historical observers, nothing so defines the striking differences between the nature of the  Third Reich from the constitutional democracies that largely comprised the Allies as the way in which the defendants of the trials at Nuremberg were handled. With painstaking precision and at extraordinary cost in terms of international arm-twisting and back-door deals, the proponents of a judicial proceeding designed to illustrate the manifest individual guilt of the various Nazi officials forged a result that still stands today as a model of a non-retributive effort in the face of extraordinary pressure. While one can hardly describe the Nuremberg trials as unflawed or perfect, they did prove to the world that the Allies were willing to subscribe to the existing canon of law to judge the actions of the Nazis.<br />Doing so was anything but easy, Indeed, achieving a fair result that would literally convince the watching world of the guilt of the participants in the war was anything but easy, and moving toward that deliberate goal is a theme providing an interesting theme punctuating the pace of the book. Churchill wanted revenge by way of summary trials and quick retribution, while the Russians just wanted to string up the whole group in a mass hanging. Yet American Supreme Court Justice Robert Jackson was able to resolve the differences well enough to proceed, although at times the reader wonders if the trials will be anything like the fair-minded judicial event he has in mind. Indeed, the back-stabbing, personal ambitions, and petty jealousies of the various factions, trial officials, and individual defendants becomes a kind of political circus that sometimes resembles nothing so much as vaudevillian showboating.<br />Still, the efforts at conducting a fair and open forum for the world to watch as the prosecution and defense teams clashed before the international tribunal prevailed, and the trials concluded with mixed results in terms of the results. Most of the defendants were found guilty, and many were hanged. Yet few observers doubted that the defendants had had their day in court along with and adequate opportunity to defend their actions to a watching world. Given how little justice and liberty they collectively allowed for their tens of millions of victims, it is remarkable just how civilized and dignified a proceeding the Nuremberg trials were, with all their theatrics and subterranean undercurrents.<br />One marvels at the fact that after fifty years the world still stands in awe at the deliberate, careful, and methodical way in which the Allies achieved the result of a rational and fair trial of the defendants in history's most horrific modern nightmare, the terror of the Third Reich. This is an interesting and absorbing book, and a fascinating and entertaining book to read. It was also particularly interesting to me because it explores the lives of each of the defendants in looking at their individual guilt. I recommend it to anyone interested in learning more about these singular trials and their impact on historyMost of the defendants were found guilty, and many were hanged. Yet few observers doubted that the defendants had had their day in court along with and adequate opportunity to defend their actions to a watching world. Given how little justice and liberty they collectively allowed for their tens of millions of victims, it is remarkable just how civilized and dignified a proceeding the Nuremberg trials were, with all their theatrics and subterranean undercurrents. <br />One marvels at the fact that after fifty years the world still stands in awe at the deliberate, careful, and methodical way in which the Allies achieved the result of a rational and fair trial of the defendants in history's most horrific modern nightmare, the terror of the Third Reich. This is an interesting and absorbing book, and a fascinating and entertaining book to read. It was also particularly interesting to me because it explores the lives of each of the defendants in looking at their individual guilt. I recommend it to anyone interested in learning more about these singular trials and their impact on history	2000-12-11
2180733:US	52447634	R2IBMYSU9RPJEZ	0679446958	810809476	Hitler's Willing Executioners: Ordinary Germans and the Holocaust	Books	5	79	127	N	Y	Erudite Thesis Of German Complicity In The Holocaust!	In one of the most controversial and sensational books published in the last decade, Harvard professor Daniel Goldhagen forwards a provocative thesis regarding the culpability of the German people at large for the execution of the Holocaust. In a massively documented, carefully argued, and enormously researched effort that was in fact culled from his doctoral dissertation on the same subject, the author weaves together a stunning indictment of millions of Germans who, through their active participation and willing consent, helped in the achievement of the Nazis' so-called \\"Final Solution\\". However, while this is truly a fascinating and often spellbinding argument, in the end Goldhagen fails to sustain the argument with enough evidence to prove the German people were active, willing, and even enthusiastic executioners of its Jewish citizens.<br />This is neither to deny the power of Goldhagen's narrative nor to deny that this is a work of great historical importance, being quite as authoritatively written and documented as it is, and based on the evidence he provides. Nor is it to deny that \\"Hitler's Willing Executioners\\" is a titanic work that has fundamentally changed the reading public's perception of both the Holocaust itself and of the German people during the reign of the Nazi regime. However, while there is no denying this or the fact that Goldhagen reaches conclusions that are quite uncompromising and very well substantiated, I believe that ultimately he failed to provide adequate actual evidence that the German people, as racist and as predisposed as they might be toward scapegoating, vilifying, and victimizing the Jews among them, actually were actively aware and consciously and deliberately and voluntarily involved in the systematic murder of the Jewish population in the Holocaust.<br />One of the primary problems that is evident in this work is the fact that most of the European Jews exterminated were in fact not German. So too, the vast majority of the extermination camps were located in other countries, especially in Poland. Moreover, it does not appear that the movement toward the systematic campaign of murder of either the German Jews or their European brethren was as organized or as well thought-through as Goldhagen maintains. Other scholars, many of them Jewish themselves (as is Goldhagen) argue that the Holocaust appears to have evolved from a number of factors, including the lack of coherent and cohesive control over the Nazi bureaucracy, especially in conquered territories. What transpired seems as much the consequence of exigent circumstance (lack of food, potable water, and lack of space to house refugees) as it was the deliberate decision to systematic murder the Jews. This isn't to suggest that the Nazis were intending to spare either the German Jews or the indigenous Jewish population in the conquered areas, but rather that they originally intended to starve and work them to death, in concert with teir general plans to so use all the so-called \\"sub-humans\\" that they considered the subjugated populations of the Eastern Front to be. As secretive as the Nazis were, much of what happened did in fact appear to occur without a great deal of publicity or public knowledge. To my mind, Goldhagen never successfully counters this fact with evidence showing the German people at large knew what was going on, or that they participated in its execution.<br />While I consider this a monumental work of tremendous importance, I do not believe Goldhagen has proven his thesis that the German people at large were active and willing participants in the Holocaust here. What he has accomplished, however, is to provide a well-documented roadmap to further meaningful research regarding this issue. My own suspicion is that we will find that the German people...did in fact succumb to a disturbing degree to the rampant racism prevalent in Germany during the 1920s and 1930s. Moreover, they were also guilty of moral indifference, astriking self-interested disinterest in what was happening around them to non-Aryan Germans, and a craven cowardice that resulted in an \\"every creep for himself\\" attitude that turned a deaf ear to all the horrors transpiring around them. They may not have been the willing executioners Goldhagen claims them to be, but they certainly were un-indicted co-conspirators in the horrific deliberate campaign to disenfranchise and victimize the Jews. I recommend this book to anyone who is a serious student of the Holocaust, and to the general public as an immensely educational book.a striking self-interested disinterest in what was happening around them to non-Aryan Germans, and a craven cowardice that resulted in an \\"every creep for himself\\" attitude that turned a deaf ear to all the horrors transpiring around them. They may not have been the willing executioners Goldhagen claims them to be, but they certainly were un-indicted co-conspirators in the horrific deliberate campaign to disenfranchise and victimize the Jews. I recommend this book to anyone who is a serious student of the Holocaust, and to the general public as an immensely educational book.	2000-12-11
2181042:US	52447634	RKCIFU0Q2FMU	1841761109	540862007	A Bridge Too Far - Operation Market Garden (Trade Editions)	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	Wonderful Illustrated Overview Of Operation Market Garden!	This new short book by British scholar and historian Stephen Badsey masterfully and colorfully presents the boldest, largest and most disastrous Allied airborne attack of the European campaign during WWII. This operation, a massive airborne and armored attack in the autumn of 1944 in a single drive up the coast toward Arnhem in an effort to seize control of a number of bridges key to establishing a beachhead into Germany itself. Had it been successful, the attack could have considerably shortened the war, possibly ending it by Christmas 1944. However, the operation, which was the brainchild of British Army Field Marshall Montgomery, was fatally flawed, and led to a bloodbath which trapped tens of thousands of British, American, and other allied troops behind enemy lines for up to nine days without reinforcements or supplies. Thus, although the Allies did succeed in capturing several of the bridges along the route, their failure to wrest the bridge at Arnhem led to a hellacious firefight that eventually led to an Allied withdrawal.<br />Badsey, a lecturer at Britain's famed Royal Military Academy at Sandhurst, uses a variety of different media in presenting this excellent and informative overview of the fatally flawed campaign, using color drawings, photographs, and a number of maps as reference material to better illustrate the details of Operation Market Garden. Badsey has produced a brief (less than 100 pages) work that manages to capture the conflict in very colorful and imaginative ways. In what is best described as a picture book format, Badsey lets the disastrous story of the wrong-headed Allied decision to risk an immense day-light paratrooper drop with \\"thunderclap surprise\\" (catching the Germans with their proverbial pants down) for the first time in the European campaign unfold as an ill-conceived effort to capture a series of bridges critical to a fast and successful prosecution of the Allied thrust into the heart of Germany.<br />Thus, although this does not provide the riveting story telling of Cornelius Ryan's masterful story-telling, it does convey the tale of the Allied miscalculation of potential German resistance and the speed with which they could proceed up the one road needed to support the airdropped forces is a riveting tale. In doing so, it provides a cautionary lesson for history in terms of the human lives and collateral destruction of the local population and a number of then still untouched and undamaged areas of the area under siege. Like previous books on the subject, this tome draws heavily from the faithful recollections of the actual participants in the action. Thus, the reader is wept into the action as we get a voyeur's view of the moment-to-moment development of the story as it unfolds in all its horrific detail.<br />Badsey is one of the best of a new generation of British historians developing a fresh and re-energized perspective on a number of the elements of the European campaign. The net effect of this book is not to offer a great deal of new insight regarding Operation Market garden, but rather to present what is known in a quite interesting, entertaining, and therefore more educational way for both the casual reader as well as for more serious students of military history. Moreover, while Professor Badsey is not a master story teller like Ryan, John Toland, William Shirer, or a number of notable others, the present work illuminates the human side of war by helping to shine the light of investigative truth on a still controversial and provocative Allied action that could have expedited the end of the war, but instead resulted in large scale death and destruction. Enjoy!oes not provide the riveting story telling of Cornelius Ryan's masterful story-telling, it does convey the tale of the Allied miscalculation of potential German resistance and the speed with which they could proceed up the one road needed to support the airdropped forces is a riveting tale. In doing so, it provides a cautionary lesson for history in terms of the human lives and collateral destruction of the local population and a number of then still untouched and undamaged areas of the area under siege. Like previous books on the subject, this tome draws heavily from the faithful recollections of the actual participants in the action. Thus, the reader is wept into the action as we get a voyeur's view of the moment-to-moment development of the story as it unfolds in all its horrific detail.<br />Badsey is one of the best of a new generation of British historians developing a fresh and re-energized perspective on a number of the elements of the European campaign. The net effect of this book is not to offer a great deal of new insight regarding Operation Market garden, but rather to present what is known in a quite interesting, entertaining, and therefore more educational way for both the casual reader as well as for more serious students of military history. Moreover, while Professor Badsey is not a master story teller like Ryan, John Toland, William Shirer, or a number of notable others, the present work illuminates the human side of war by helping to shine the light of investigative truth on a still controversial and provocative Allied action that could have expedited the end of the war, but instead resulted in large scale death and destruction. Enjoy!	2000-12-10
2183008:US	52447634	RWQQ9ENTEC6MO	0252024842	288802957	Collaboration, Reputation, and Ethics in American Academic Life: Hans H. Gerth and C. Wright Mills	Books	2	13	17	N	N	Scandalous Treatment Of Two Academic Superstars!	What is most illuminating about this gossip-ridden compendium of neo-conservative arguments against the brilliant collaboration of famed sociologist C. Wright Mills (\\"White Collar\\", \\"The Sociological Imagination\\", \\"The Power Elite\\") with his long-time friend and fellow University of Wisconsin graduate student Hans Gerth is the fact that it is an obvious attempt to discredit the now famous work of these two scholars. The two collaborated to successfully translate for the American academic and intellectual community many of the heretofore-unavailable works of famed German sociologist Max Weber. In what one of my former professors would refer to as the \\"carbuncle theory\\" of history, these two authors attempt to discredit Mills and Gerth by engaging in a vicious (and totally uncalled for) smearing of their admittedly difficult and sometimes stridently competitive combined efforts.<br />As with the famous carbuncle theory, which was a notorious attempt by conservative turn of the century scholars to explain away Marx's brilliant observations regarding the way in which social forces act as the motive force of history as simple dyspepsia due to his chronic affliction with carbuncles. Of course, the professor's point is that, in the last analysis, Marx's theories must be judged based on their rational and intellectual merits, not on some silly emotional attempt to discredit the author without considering the weight of his or her intellectual argument. So, too, here, we must keep in mind that however messy and unpleasant the process, the fruit of intellectual labors must be judged based on their results rather than on the personalities or character flaws of the individuals involved. Sad to say, it appears that these two authors are all too willing to sully their own academic reputations by engaging in such gossip mongering.<br />Another reviewer admits to shock and surprise regarding the ways in which petty egos and aggressive careerism affect the ways in which the gentlemen in question behave. Might I suggest he read James D. Watson's own surprising autobiographical accounting for similar shortcomings, personal ambition, and pettiness among the several Nobel laureates who jointly discovered the helical nature of DNA in \\"The Double Helix\\"? Perhaps it is time for such nave people to grow up and recognize the fact that the stuff of science and research is often a messy and unpleasant business, and not at all the stiff, pristine, disinterested, and sanitized search for truth that appears monthly within the carefully arranged type-set pages of \\"Scientific American\\" magazine. Noted scientific luminaries like Albert Einstein admitted as much in their own memoirs, and perhaps the reading public should realize that anything as worthwhile as meaningful scientific research doesn't necessarily emanate from people who always chew with their mouths closed. Bad people may in fact do brilliant science, and it matters not a rattler's damn whether we like these people or not.<br />Therefore, regardless of what these two sociologists say in their shameless attempt to rake over the ashes of the dead in this mean-spirited effort to make their own academic reputation here, the fact remains that both C. Wright Mills and Hans Gerth published widely recognized and acclaimed works during their very fruitful careers, and the efforts they made to collaborate on \\"From Max Weber\\", &quot;Character and Social Structure&quot;, and other tomes has stood the test of time, and are all still in active use. Moreover, there is a new resurgence of interest in C. Wright Mills work in particular, and one suspects that the two authors writing this book are attempting to capitalize on his newly resurgent cache (witness the new publication of his collected letters) in order to make their own bones and to sell some books of their own. I do not recommend this book. It is a pathetic and singularly unscientific attempt to discredit some of sociology's most prolific and productiveauthors by deliberately sullying their characters and personal reputations.ve authors by deliberately sullying their characters and personal reputations.	2000-12-08
2185301:US	52447634	R1T13ID9DNESND	0967600308	321600275	Hunger and Other Stories	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Spell-Binding Collection Of Short Stories by Ian Wilson!	I was frankly spell-bound by the sheer power of poet and short story essayist Ian Randall Wilson's prose skills as I literally devoured this book last weekend. With a wry and deft scalpel blade, he peels away the layers of skins separating the reader from his unique view of contemporary reality. One is most often reminded of a young Ann Beattie, or at times of John Cheever by Wilson's amazing use of tight and colorful language, which is then deployed to describe ordinary situations with a quite extraordinary flair. This is a collection of stories I plan to read again and again, just for the sheer pleasure of being in the company of an author whose lyrical abilities betray the poet's skill in service to a unique prose style. He uses strong imagery and a range of diverse characters to reveal an emotional and heart-felt orientation to the world he inhabits. To my mind, Wilson combines the best of descriptions with a kind of world-weary cynicism that also has undercurrents one would expect of a failed romantic, an almost schizophrenic somebody who wants and desperately needs to believe, despite all of the evidence of his own experience, that the world is still enchanted.<br />Like Tom Robbins, Wilson's observations can be both funny and caustic, all in the same breathless phrase.  These are stories of human beings caught in situations created by their own drives and urges to satisfy life's most basic hungers and desires, of men trying again and again to connect to what is most vital and important to them as individuals. Herein a wide and intimate range of emotions are revealed to the viewer in all their natural human rawness and sensitivities, and Wilson pulls no punches with happy endings or unbelievable twists or turns. Instead, the reader is invited on a busman's tour of the realities of human relations in everyday America, where protagonists cynically keep score of lovers' performances, where accomplishing goals often comes at a high price, and where the fruits of victory are often ashes in the mouths of the victors. The characters are impatient, self-absorbed, and often mean-spirited, but one still cannot help but empathize with the ways in which each is caught by the petard of their own private human frailties.<br />Although Wilson works within the confines of a very different and distinct prose style, I was reminded by these stories of authors John Updike on one hand and Bernard Malamud on the other, and this is due to the fact that like these authors, Wilson seems able to make each of these stories funny, brutal, and surreal, and still make the situations and the characters seem believable. I believe this is the first collection of stories by a very gifted someone we are going to hear a lot more from, and I will not be surprised when Wilson soon joins the ranks of more celebrated and much more widely read authors like those mentioned above. His singular prose style and the unique way in which he colorfully approaches the human dilemma ensure him a long and successful career. This is a book I highly recommend, and I one I hope you enjoy as much as I did.victory are often ashes in the mouths of the victors. The characters are impatient, self-absorbed, and often mean-spirited, but one still cannot help but empathize with the ways in which each is caught by the petard of their own private human frailties. <br />Although Wilson works within the confines of a very different and distinct prose style, I was reminded by these stories of authors John Updike on one hand and Bernard Malamud on the other, and this is due to the fact that like these authors, Wilson seems able to make each of these stories funny, brutal, and surreal, and still make the situations and the characters seem believable. I believe this is the first collection of stories by a very gifted someone we are going to hear a lot more from, and I will not be surprised when Wilson soon joins the ranks of more celebrated and much more widely read authors like those mentioned above. His singular prose style and the unique way in which he colorfully approaches the human dilemma ensure him a long and successful career. This is a book I highly recommend, and I one I hope you enjoy as much as I did.	2000-12-06
2187958:US	52447634	R9A8QP1TD5R0U	0679767436	757818213	The Battle For History: Re-fighting World War II	Books	5	37	38	N	Y	Wonderful Bibliographic Survey Of World War Two Titles!	In a manner that will surprise few of his faithful readers, historian and writer John Keegan turns what one would expect to be a dry bibliographic survey of what this noted scholar believes to be the seminal and meaningfully works on the subject of World War Two into a fascinating and sometimes provocative survey into the subject of not only that most fateful of conflicts, but also of war itself.  As has recently been proven through the edifying work of other authors such as Ian Kershaw with his brilliant two volume study of Adolph Hitler (see my reviews) as well as books by Michael Burleigh's \\"The Third Reich: A New History\\", Daniel Goldhagen's \\"Hitler's Willing Executioners\\", and Williamson Murray and Allan Millet's \\"A War To Be Won\\", the field of investigation is hardly complete.<br /><br />Indeed, given the fact that the integration of all the relevant information concerning the war remains such a daunting task based on its size, complexity, and the fact that it is found in a plethora of languages and dialects, one has to admire Keegan's admission that his own work as well as that by notable others such as Sir Martin Gilbert, Gerhard Weinberg's mammoth \\"A World At Arms\\" (my own personal favorite) do not represent anything close to definitive histories of the Second World War. Instead, he insists with both energy and enthusiasm that such a definitive work is yet to be written. Moreover, as anyone familiar with works ranging from Hugh Trevor-Roper's early masterpiece on Hitler's final days in the Berlin bunker to the recent short overview by Richard Overy (see his wonderful short essay and overview in \\"The Origins Of The Second World War\\"), arguments regarding the etiology and progress of that war are hardly settled beyond the point of argument or discussion.  So while one might think that some half century after the fact the dust of truth would have settled over the subject, Keegan insists the quite the opposite is the case.<br /><br />In my opinion, this book is an essential read for anyone who seriously attempts to study the most amazing string of historical events we now refer to as comprising World War Two. Keegan threads his way through a pile of titles, many of which the serious student of 20th century history will be familiar with, but also including a number of titles I am now scurrying to find or order in order to further my understanding of this endlessly fascinating time period. By the way, by providing such an authoritative survey of all these works, he of necessity must provide a kind of unifying narrative that amounts to one of the most concise and immensely readable histories of the war I have yet seen, including all of Professor Keegan's other works.<br /><br />This may not be the first book on WWII you want to order, and in fact few of us finding this book would expect to approach it as anything like a comprehensive history. But it is at once both an engaging and entertaining read as well as an intelligent guide through the virtual briar patch of the hundreds and hundreds of titles still in print on the subject of the single most important historical event of the 20th century. I highly recommend this book. Enjoy!an essential read for anyone who seriously attempts to study the most amazing string of historical events we now refer to as comprising World War Two. Keegan threads his way through a pile of titles, many of which the serious student of 20th century history will be familiar with, but also including a number of titles I am now scurrying to find or order in order to further my understanding of this endlessly fascinating time period. By the way, by providing such an authoritative survey of all these works, he of necessity must provide a kind of unifying narrative that amounts to one of the most concise and immensely readable histories of the war I have yet seen, including all of Professor Keegan's other works.<br /><br />This may not be the first book on WWII you want to order, and in fact few of us finding this book would expect to approach it as anything like a comprehensive history. But it is at once both an engaging and entertaining read as well as an intelligent guide through the virtual briar patch of the hundreds and hundreds of titles still in print on the subject of the single most important historical event of the 20th century. I highly recommend this book. Enjoy!	2000-12-04
2191211:US	52447634	RBQPG280UJ0UL	0393307344	936742801	The Battle of Britain : The Greatest Air Battle of World War II	Books	4	16	19	N	N	Interesting &amp; Informative Overview Of The Battle Of Britain	In one of the darkest moments of modern history, the British people stood isolated and alone against the bulwark of the fabulously successfully forces of the Third Reich, who had just finished \\"blitkreiging\\" their way across Western Europe, forcing the desperate evacuation of the battered English army from the shores of Dunkirk to save them from certain slaughter at the hands of a rampaging Wehrmacht. In this absolutely riveting book, the authors describe the extraordinary effort of the Brits in fending off the vastly superior numbers of Luftwaffe aircraft soon invading the airspace over the English countryside. As Churchill said so memorably at the time, this attempt to beat back the Nazis in \\"The Battle Of Britain\\" might well become the country's \\"finest hour\\". This interesting book by Richard Hough and Denis Richards covers the waterfront of events in that momentous conflict.<br />It is a tale well told, one most Americans of a certain age are familiar with. But our mere familiarity should not deter us from enjoying this endlessly entertaining and well-narrated tale, which is both extremely approachable and understandable on the one hand for the first time student, and also immensely informative and detailed regarding Churchill's knack for popular leadership and the ways in which he bedeviled his countryman into rising to the their \\"finest hour\\". It may come as a surprise to some to discover that up to the moment of defeat in France, there were still efforts at appeasement of the Nazis being bandied about within the marbled halls of Parliament. Yet the British quickly rallied round the flagpole that Winston Churchill raised on high, and he urged them on provocatively and memorably time after time.<br />The book also excels at telling this story from the viewpoint of eye-witness participants, and the reader is whisked memorably along by machine-gun rapid-fire of personal eyewitness testimonies that succeed brilliantly in bringing the drama into bold relief and focus, breathing life into this otherwise `oft told tale'. It is hard for one to commit the most grievous crime of hyperbole when speaking of this particular event and time in history, when the Third Reich had quickly and massively crushed all opposition against it, and the Wehrmacht swept west all the way to the English Channel. In this moment of fear, terror and expectation, the world literally held its breath as the fateful and bloody contest began. The Brits stood alone, the only obstacle to Hitler's determination to end all opposition in the west so he could concentrate on his real objective, \\"living space\\" in the east in the breadbasket region of the Soviet Union, the Ukraine. And the British, having the undivided attention of the Luftwaffe, were indeed badly outnumbered.<br />The reader will soon find himself glued to his armchair, unable to resist continuing as the pages resound quickly past one with a myriad of colorful details and discussions about how the defense of the home island and all that involved. Whether it be a discussion of how the Americans participated, the German views and expectations, or the experiences of a British submariner telling his sobering story, this is a book one has to put to the top of his or her reading list. It is indeed an informative and entertaining book offering the reader an expansive, educational, ground level view of perhaps the most celebrated time of peril and derring-do in the history of the 20th century. Truly, this was their finest hour. Enjoy!ocus, breathing life into this otherwise `oft told tale'. It is hard for one to commit the most grievous crime of hyperbole when speaking of this particular event and time in history, when the Third Reich had quickly and massively crushed all opposition against it, and the Wehrmacht swept west all the way to the English Channel. In this moment of fear, terror and expectation, the world literally held its breath as the fateful and bloody contest began. The Brits stood alone, the only obstacle to Hitler's determination to end all opposition in the west so he could concentrate on his real objective, \\"living space\\" in the east in the breadbasket region of the Soviet Union, the Ukraine. And the British, having the undivided attention of the Luftwaffe, were indeed badly outnumbered. <br />The reader will soon find himself glued to his armchair, unable to resist continuing as the pages resound quickly past one with a myriad of colorful details and discussions about how the defense of the home island and all that involved. Whether it be a discussion of how the Americans participated, the German views and expectations, or the experiences of a British submariner telling his sobering story, this is a book one has to put to the top of his or her reading list. It is indeed an informative and entertaining book offering the reader an expansive, educational, ground level view of perhaps the most celebrated time of peril and derring-do in the history of the 20th century. Truly, this was their finest hour. Enjoy!	2000-12-01
2200026:US	52447634	R3NS9M457RRHSS	0807840998	450252900	Down and Out in the Great Depression: Letters from the Forgotten Man	Books	5	33	34	N	N	Terrific Compilation Of Depression- Era Correspondance	This wonderful collection of depression-era letters from both ordinary men in the street as well as from celebrated people alike is offered by noted Depression era historian Robert McElvaine. In the opinion of most contemporary historians, the Second World War was the single most important event shaping and directing subsequent developments throughout the 20th century. Moreover, no single other event so shaped the 1930s world or influenced the events leading to WWII than did the great worldwide depression. Through the words of the survivors of those terrible time themselves we are introduced into the world of those times, and in the process are treated to a terrific account of the human ordeal of the 1930s, which, as noted historian Arthur Schlesinger Jr. Notes, \\"does justice to the social and cultural dimensions of economic crisis as well as to its political and economic impact.\\" Here we take a busman's tour into a world literally turned upside down by the massive and systematic economic dislocations that suddenly arose in the late 1920s.<br />This collection of letters breathes life into the otherwise stale statistics of the times. Moreover, this is a quite interesting collection that imaginatively recreates the amazing social, economic, and political conditions of the Great Depression for the reader in a most entertaining and edifying way. Today it is difficult, especially for younger readers, to understand just how traumatic and dangerous the crisis in democracy that the events surrounding the Great Depression were, not only in this country, but also in all of the constitutional democracies of the west. To the minds of many fair-minded Americans, the capitalist system had failed, and it was the man in the street with his family who bore the cruelest brunt of this failure. Millions were set adrift, and everywhere ordinary human beings were stripped of their possessions, their livelihood, and their dignity as thousands and then millions of businesses and enterprises went bankrupt.<br />For a time it appeared the government itself would lost the confidence of the people, and that civil order would be sacrificed along with all of the material dispossessions millions had already suffered.  Socialism and even communism flourished as alternative answers in academic circles, and no one seemed sure or even confident that the system could be saved or resurrected as it continued to fail. The rise from the ashes of the Great Depression was uncertain, fitful, and quite painful, and only the advent of the circumstances surrounding the Second World War really cured the economic ills that Americans struggled with in those times. The fact that we seem to have forgotten the fact that capitalism is a god that can and does fail is worrying to the author, and he examines some of the dangerous and misguided tacit assumptions of contemporary politicians such as the supply side \\"voodoo\\" economics of Ronald Reagan's administration.<br />I found the book to be a valuable aid in understanding how ordinary Americans, forged in the crucible of hard times and make-do, were given the character, self-reliance, and native ability to improvise that so influenced our conduct in the Second World War.  Many scholars attribute our military success to the brilliant efforts by our young company and platoon leaders both in Europe and in the Pacific with providing the decisive ingredient to win the war in terms of the hand-to-hand combat. As David Kennedy argues so persuasively in \\"Freedom From Fear\\" (see my review), it was the young Americans whose characters were forged in the hard times of the Great Depression who so the moral courage and strength of character to rise up from their foxholes to win their war. This is a wonderful book, and I highly recommend it.rprises went bankrupt. <br />For a time it appeared the government itself would lost the confidence of the people, and that civil order would be sacrificed along with all of the material dispossessions millions had already suffered.  Socialism and even communism flourished as alternative answers in academic circles, and no one seemed sure or even confident that the system could be saved or resurrected as it continued to fail. The rise from the ashes of the Great Depression was uncertain, fitful, and quite painful, and only the advent of the circumstances surrounding the Second World War really cured the economic ills that Americans struggled with in those times. The fact that we seem to have forgotten the fact that capitalism is a god that can and does fail is worrying to the author, and he examines some of the dangerous and misguided tacit assumptions of contemporary politicians such as the supply side \\"voodoo\\" economics of Ronald Reagan's administration.<br />I found the book to be a valuable aid in understanding how ordinary Americans, forged in the crucible of hard times and make-do, were given the character, self-reliance, and native ability to improvise that so influenced our conduct in the Second World War.  Many scholars attribute our military success to the brilliant efforts by our young company and platoon leaders both in Europe and in the Pacific with providing the decisive ingredient to win the war in terms of the hand-to-hand combat. As David Kennedy argues so persuasively in \\"Freedom From Fear\\" (see my review), it was the young Americans whose characters were forged in the hard times of the Great Depression who so the moral courage and strength of character to rise up from their foxholes to win their war. This is a wonderful book, and I highly recommend it.	2000-11-24
2200071:US	52447634	R2Y8BWYHN2QC4S	0761123628	757384823	The Ladies of Rylstone	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Wonderful Product Done For A Wonderful Cause!	One is left almost speechless when first viewing this splendidly risqu&eacute; calendar; it is warm, winsome and well done. The ladies involved are courageous and trend setting in their unabashed willingness to bare it all for a good cause. Moreover, as a middle-aged male who usually dates younger women, I do not necessarily share the unvarnished enthusiasm of many of the other reviewers regarding the innate beauty and attractiveness of aging beauties. Yet, I must admit that I could hardly resist paging through the various ladies revealing their womanly charms in the calendar itself, discovering in the process of doing so the well-chosen selection of photographs that are much more reality-based, revealing, and downright humorous than either their Playmate or Swimsuit competitors.<br />This isn't to suggest that these ladies will soon displace the Heather Locklears and Angie Everhearts of the swimsuit aficionados. These lovely, lithe and oft-times leering ladies can rest easy in their tiny little bikinis without displaying a resident pout or worrying that their livelihood is endangered by the appearance of this calendar displaying all these brave, hardy, and splendidly wrinkled souls. Instead, what all this illustrates so wonderfully is that the human female form comes in all sorts of delicious shapes, varieties and degrees of comeliness; this calendar proves that quite ordinary women in the autumn of their feminine years still retain a vital sensuality. This is all for a good cause, and it is easy to recommend the calendar to anyone wanting a refreshing dose of realistic womanhood while savoring the good humor obvious to any who view it.  Enjoy!	2000-11-24
2200118:US	52447634	R2QSH5SHFTXIX4	068484267X	698161422	Angela's Ashes: A Memoir	Books	5	43	56	N	N	Powerful &amp; Provocative Portrait Of An Irish Boyhood!	As someone who spent the majority of his formative childhood living within the realms of a struggling blue-collar Irish-American Catholic neighborhood housing project, much of the atmosphere and flavor so memorably and powerfully described in this best-selling memoir seems like familiar territory, from the hard-drinking and somewhat remote and indifferent fathers to the sainted mothers, from the raucous black humor to the spasms of terrible drama and tragedy, often visited on helplessly impoverished children. Yet Frank McCourt manages to display a unusually colorful and quite unique descriptive power to the florid retelling of this life lived under conditions of extreme privation and misery, a life which he largely describes in terms so dismal, dark and devoid of hope that it is remarkable to witness the degree of grace, resilience, and good humor that he so often brings to bear. It is this most prominent feature of his creative writing that gives such a powerful testimony to his ability as a writer.<br />Like James Joyce's personal glimpses into Irish lives in his classic series of short stories, \\"The Dubliners\\", McCourt evokes the suffocating and smarmy atmosphere of flagrant poverty, to the point that I often found the story difficult to read. Thus, regardless of how well he illustrates the ways in which he and his family struggled to overcome the circumstances, it was, for me at least, often difficult reading. For any of us who have actually lived under such circumstances of privation, these powerfully drawn recollections can be challenging and painful to recall. And while I would never suggest that my own experiences approach the extremes of want and squalor described herein, I took a long time to finally work my way into the portions of the book where the McCourt brothers finally triumph based on their American citizenry.  While the tone of the memoir is sometimes downbeat and sullen, the progress of these two young pilgrims toward a life of greater promise is one that gains ballast as we progress toward the end.<br />The memoir is, as one has come to expect, full of the usual Irish complaints, from the egregious and often outrageous alcoholism of the father and Irish men in general to the full McCourt treatment regarding the so-called Irish troubles and the unmitigated perfidy of the dreaded English. Having heard all this throughout my fifty years, it finally becomes tiresome, boring and irrelevant to hear all the highly polished and crudely embellished litanies again and again here. We who are either Irish or of Irish ancestry must learn to live with what we have, to do the best we can to make the most of what we find our existential circumstances may be, and I for one would hope that the reading of books like this, books which faithfully chronicle the consequences of all the particulars of traditional Irish working class culture, would act to mollify the most extreme of these conditions and save the next generation of young Irish men and women from its manifest dysfunctions.s one that gains ballast as we progress toward the end.      <br />The memoir is, as one has come to expect, full of the usual Irish complaints, from the egregious and often outrageous alcoholism of the father and Irish men in general to the full McCourt treatment regarding the so-called Irish troubles and the unmitigated perfidy of the dreaded English. Having heard all this throughout my fifty years, it finally becomes tiresome, boring and irrelevant to hear all the highly polished and crudely embellished litanies again and again here. We who are either Irish or of Irish ancestry must learn to live with what we have, to do the best we can to make the most of what we find our existential circumstances may be, and I for one would hope that the reading of books like this, books which faithfully chronicle the consequences of all the particulars of traditional Irish working class culture, would act to mollify the most extreme of these conditions and save the next generation of young Irish men and women from its manifest dysfunctions.	2000-11-24
2200924:US	52447634	R1RVKCGAZ19G5R	0140235426	913684934	Six Armies in Normandy: From D-Day to the Liberation of Paris; June 6 - Aug. 5, 1944; Revised	Books	5	37	39	N	Y	Terrific Account Of The Extended Battle For Northern France!	Few contemporary authors have had such an illustrious or successful career so late in life as had British scholar and historian John Keegan. Mr. Keegan, much like his American counterpart, Stephan Ambrose, has become a sort of one-man cottage industry pouring out literate tomes on a variety of historical subjects, dealing in the main with the subject of 20th century war and its warriors. In each case, Keegan brings a singular understanding of the nature of war itself as well as what it means for the soldier on the ground. Thus, while other authors tend to concentrate more exclusively on what national and military leaders do and how each of the associated counties strategize, Mr. Keegan tends to emphasize the meaning of these conflicts and circumstances as they apply to the man in the field, and this refreshing approach to be more realistic and more relevant to the experience of the common man makes him both entertaining and educational to read. This particular book, \\"Six Armies In Normandy\\", represents a superb effort to summarize the events surrounding the Allied invasion of France in June 1944 and its aftermath all the way to the liberation of Paris later that year.<br />As such it presents a thrilling and wonderfully readable account of how one of the most momentous clashes of the century began and unfolded on the beaches, along the coastline, and then on into the bucolic fields, villages, and countryside of France itself. Like an afternoon's excursion into Hell itself, one quickly becomes embroiled in the vision of battle across the face of Normandy, watching as a cauldron of murder and mayhem pours itself onto the face of France, witnessing the Allies as they successfully beat back the counter-offenses by the German panzer divisions. Keegan focuses on specific engagements, brilliantly recreating the atmosphere of conflict and chaos such as the fabled 101st Airborne drop into several Normandy villages along the coastline, being furiously chewed up by German ground forces even as they attempt to land.<br />Keegan's approach here is to show that the landing was just the beginning of the liberation of France, and as any serious student of the war along the Western Front can attest, the Germans were tenacious and dogged in their defense, and the road to Paris and the liberation of all of France was one both hard-fought and well sprinkled with the blood of both combatants and non-combatants alike.  Far from being a beaten force that was to be run over by the Allied machine, the German Wehrmacht still had the discipline, the determination, and a ready reservoir of self-reliance and battle experience to use in fighting the invaders. The battle for France was anything but a cakewalk, and herein the author handlily demonstrates the extraordinary degree to which each of the six armies used everything possible that was at their disposal to fatefully influence the eventual result. This is a wonderful book, one that both entertains and edifies. It is also one that I have read several times, and I recommend it for anyone who wants to take a wonderful look at the nature of the battle of France from the foot soldier's perspective.round forces even as they attempt to land. <br />Keegan's approach here is to show that the landing was just the beginning of the liberation of France, and as any serious student of the war along the Western Front can attest, the Germans were tenacious and dogged in their defense, and the road to Paris and the liberation of all of France was one both hard-fought and well sprinkled with the blood of both combatants and non-combatants alike.  Far from being a beaten force that was to be run over by the Allied machine, the German Wehrmacht still had the discipline, the determination, and a ready reservoir of self-reliance and battle experience to use in fighting the invaders. The battle for France was anything but a cakewalk, and herein the author handlily demonstrates the extraordinary degree to which each of the six armies used everything possible that was at their disposal to fatefully influence the eventual result. This is a wonderful book, one that both entertains and edifies. It is also one that I have read several times, and I recommend it for anyone who wants to take a wonderful look at the nature of the battle of France from the foot soldier's perspective.	2000-11-23
2203672:US	52447634	R2D6CYS02EBTEF	0812910613	321162053	The Great Depression	Books	5	116	136	N	N	Terrific Overview Of The Great Depression Of The 193Os	Most historians agree that the Second World War is the single most important event shaping and directing subsequent developments throughout the balance of the 20th century. Indeed, no single other event so shaped the world or influenced the events leading to that war than did the great worldwide depression. In this wonderful book by historian Robert McElvaine, we are treated to a terrific account of the human ordeal of the 1930s, which, as noted historian Arthur Schlesinger Jr. Notes, \\"does justice to the social and cultural dimensions of economic crisis as well as to its political and economic impact.\\" Here we take a busman's tour into a world literally turned upside down by the massive and systematic economic dislocations that suddenly arose in the late 1920s.<br />Moreover, this is a quite fair-minded and scrupulously researched effort that imaginatively recreates the amazing social, economic, and political conditions of the Great Depression for the reader in a most entertaining and edifying way. Today it is difficult, especially for younger readers, to understand just how traumatic and dangerous the crisis in democracy that the events surrounding the Great Depression were, not only in this country, but also in all of the constitutional democracies of the west. To the minds of many fair-minded Americans, the capitalist system had failed, and it was the man in the street with his family who bore the cruelest brunt of this failure. Millions were set adrift, and everywhere ordinary human beings were stripped of their possessions, their livelihood, and their dignity as thousands and then millions of businesses and enterprises went bankrupt.<br />For a time it appeared the government itself would lost the confidence of the people, and that civil order would be sacrificed along with all of the material dispossessions millions had already suffered.  Socialism and even communism flourished as alternative answers in academic circles, and no one seemed sure or even confident that the system could be saved or resurrected as it continued to fail. The rise from the ashes of the Great Depression was uncertain, fitful, and quite painful, and only the advent of the circumstances surrounding the Second World War really cured the economic ills that Americans struggled with in those times. The fact that we seem to have forgotten the fact that capitalism is a god that can and does fail is worrying to the author, and he examines some of the dangerous and misguided tacit assumptions of contemporary politicians such as the supply side \\"voodoo\\" economics of Ronald Reagan's administration.<br />I found the book to be a valuable aid in understanding how ordinary Americans, forged in the crucible of hard times and make-do, were given the character, self-reliance, and native ability to improvise that so influenced our conduct in the Second World War.  Many scholars attribute our military success to the brilliant efforts by our young company and platoon leaders both in Europe and in the Pacific with providing the decisive ingredient to win the war in terms of the hand-to-hand combat. As David Kennedy argues so persuasively in \\"Freedom From Fear\\" (see my review), it was the young Americans whose characters were forged in the hard times of the Great Depression who so the moral courage and strength of character to rise up from their foxholes to win the Second World War. This is a wonderful book, and I highly recommend it.onfident that the system could be saved or resurrected as it continued to fail. The rise from the ashes of the Great Depression was uncertain, fitful, and quite painful, and only the advent of the circumstances surrounding the Second World War really cured the economic ills that Americans struggled with in those times. The fact that we seem to have forgotten the fact that capitalism is a god that can and does fail is worrying to the author, and he examines some of the dangerous and misguided tacit assumptions of contemporary politicians such as the supply side \\"voodoo\\" economics of Ronald Reagan's administration.<br />I found the book to be a valuable aid in understanding how ordinary Americans, forged in the crucible of hard times and make-do, were given the character, self-reliance, and native ability to improvise that so influenced our conduct in the Second World War.  Many scholars attribute our military success to the brilliant efforts by our young company and platoon leaders both in Europe and in the Pacific with providing the decisive ingredient to win the war in terms of the hand-to-hand combat. As David Kennedy argues so persuasively in \\"Freedom From Fear\\" (see my review), it was the young Americans whose characters were forged in the hard times of the Great Depression who so the moral courage and strength of character to rise up from their foxholes to win the Second World War. This is a wonderful book, and I highly recommend it.	2000-11-20
2204478:US	52447634	RYCRUTQ8ICQ9Q	0226812243	71676217	The Last Days of Hitler	Books	4	61	66	N	Y	Interesting Albeit Dated Overview Of Hitler's Last Days	The chief impediment to this literate and interesting overview of the last few weeks of life in the bunker with the surrounded, embattled, and doomed denizens of the Third Reich is the fact that it was written so soon after the end of the war itself, and therefore had no access to the vast array of material that has since come to light regarding Hitler's last days. Thus, unlike either John Toland's &quot;The Last Hundred Days&quot; or Cornelius Ryan's &quot;The Last Battle&quot;, it does not take advantage of the incredible store of archives that became available in the decades that have followed its publication in the late 1940s.<br />Moreover, it cannot use the kinds of secret data now coming to light within the former Soviet Union which contemporary authors like Ian Kershaw use so effectively in retelling the story in books like &quot;Hitler: Nemesis&quot;. Still, this is a wonderful book, one that is both immensely readable and marvelously entertaining. At times it is almost comical, with the nazi High Command being so estranged and cut off from the outside world that their conversations seem bizarre and surreal. Even at the end Hitler hoped for rescue from armies long since defeated and destroyed by the marauding Russians, who were angrily raping, pillaging, and murdering their way across the cityscapes above.<br />In the end we see just how perverted, committed, and maniacal the embattled Nazis are, with few of them even opting for survival in a post-Nazi world. Not only Hitler but also several of his closest associates chose suicide over capture or escape. Only Bormann and some of his underlings seem to have a realistic notion of what surrounds them, and only they seem willing to risk capture and death to escape to safety in the chaos that was raging all around the bunker in the streets and buildings of besieged Berlin.<br />This is a terrific book, one that in spite of its shortcomings should be read by all serious students of the Second World War. Given the fact that it was written so soon after the end of the war itself, the author was able to interview many of the surviving principles before they disappeared into the dustbin of obscurity, and to take advantage of the times in effectively using contemporary memories and archives before they were forgotten or misplaced. In reading it one becomes much more aware of the ways in which time is of the essence in historical study, both in terms of how the author was both given an advantage based on his rapid response to the event in question, but also in terms of how he was hampered by not having access to materials and archives that have since come to light. I strongly recommend this book. Enjoy.ven the fact that it was written so soon after the end of the war itself, the author was able to interview many of the surviving principles before they disappeared into the dustbin of obscurity, and to take advantage of the times in effectively using contemporary memories and archives before they were forgotten or misplaced. In reading it one becomes much more aware of the ways in which time is of the essence in historical study, both in terms of how the author was both given an advantage based on his rapid response to the event in question, but also in terms of how he was hampered by not having access to materials and archives that have since come to light. I strongly recommend this book. Enjoy.	2000-11-20
2205757:US	52447634	R2IVCI7T20VSHH	0674003306	472729616	Lenin: A Biography	Books	5	32	42	N	Y	Terrific, Comprehensive Overview Of Lenin And His Ideas!	As a graduate student in sociology who studied the works of Karl Marx, I was always struck by the cruel irony that the only countries advancing his communist theories were exactly those places in which he least expected such revolutionary change; czarist Russia and feudal China. Marx had predicted that the western democracies, including England, France, and Germany, were the most likely locale for such proletariat uprisings. The fact that the two backward and predominantly rural countries of China and Russia were the only ones to succumb to the siren call of a worker's paradise owes much to the unique and extraordinary efforts of exceptional individuals in each of the two countries, each of whom through their own extraordinary insight, political savvy and exquisite timing successfully executed bloody overthrows of ancient regimes.<br />This wonderfully written and masterfully told biography of the first of these two men on horseback, Russian Vladimir Ilyich Ulyanov (Lenin) does great tribute to both the incredible genius and singularity of the man himself, while at the same time paints a wonderfully descriptive and quite comprehensive picture of the maelstrom of social, economic, and political circumstances surrounding the rise of Lenin's Bolshevik party to power. Lenin's importance in the subsequent developments both within the former Soviet Union and indeed throughout the modern world can hardly be exaggerated. And while we now self-confidently brag that the specter of communism is dead, the fact is that much of what Marx and later Lenin wrote regarding the continuing evolution of society continues to unfold.<br />In what is commonly referred to as Marx's \\"Emiseration\\" theory, the gradual but inexorable drift of the two major political forces, the proletariat and the bourgeoisie, toward increasing polarization and the eventual erosion of the large middle class separating them would lead to increasing concentration of wealth and widespread impoverishment as the owners of industry and corporations became more and more powerful and less and less accountable. Many observing the contemporary creation of a permanent \\"underclass\\" in modern democratic societies in the United States, Great Britain, and Germany as well as the slide of many in the middle class toward economic uncertainty and insecurity remember Marx's prognostications nervously. Perhaps, they say, we have celebrated the final victory over communism too soon.<br />In this fashion, Service's wonderful book about Lenin and his ideas provides the reader with a terrific understanding of his biographical roots, his philosophical concerns, and his social, economic, and political agenda. Whether one gives any credence to Marxian thought or to Lenin's revisions to this theory of scientific socialism, one must give credit to the quality of mind that conceived of such a mind-boggling overthrow of the powers that be, with little to work with but a rag-tag bunch of political malcontents and committed party members to work with. The story of how they actually succeeded at overthrowing one of the most callous and brutal regimes in modern history with so little going for them but the indifference of the populace and the blind ignorance of the existing monarchy is truly one for the history books. While that story is brilliantly told in John Reed's spellbinding \\"Ten Days That Shook The World\\", this biography shows how Lenin himself came to be the mastermind guiding the Bolsheviks toward victory and then through a bloody civil war to come to rule the country with an iron fist. This is a marvelously entertaining and edifying book, and is one I heartily recommend. Enjoy!wners of industry and corporations became more and more powerful and less and less accountable. Many observing the contemporary creation of a permanent \\"underclass\\" in modern democratic societies in the United States, Great Britain, and Germany as well as the slide of many in the middle class toward economic uncertainty and insecurity remember Marx's prognostications nervously. Perhaps, they say, we have celebrated the final victory over communism too soon. <br />In this fashion, Service's wonderful book about Lenin and his ideas provides the reader with a terrific understanding of his biographical roots, his philosophical concerns, and his social, economic, and political agenda. Whether one gives any credence to Marxian thought or to Lenin's revisions to this theory of scientific socialism, one must give credit to the quality of mind that conceived of such a mind-boggling overthrow of the powers that be, with little to work with but a rag-tag bunch of political malcontents and committed party members to work with. The story of how they actually succeeded at overthrowing one of the most callous and brutal regimes in modern history with so little going for them but the indifference of the populace and the blind ignorance of the existing monarchy is truly one for the history books. While that story is brilliantly told in John Reed's spellbinding \\"Ten Days That Shook The World\\", this biography shows how Lenin himself came to be the mastermind guiding the Bolsheviks toward victory and then through a bloody civil war to come to rule the country with an iron fist. This is a marvelously entertaining and edifying book, and is one I heartily recommend. Enjoy!	2000-11-19
2217334:US	52447634	R33PRMMBWT0PCX	0151004439	877433184	Snow Falling on Cedars: Movie Tie-in Edition	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	Wonderful, Uplifting Exploration of Love &amp; Prejudice	Like the wonderful movie version of this haunting and timeless story (see my review), this is a wonderfully written and superbly executed novel that both evokes a particular time and epoch in American history and also relates a breath-taking love story at the same time. Although the movie version unfortunately opened to mixed critical reviews, in my opinion it is one that comes very close to cinematic perfection. Here in the original best selling novel written so powerfully by David Guterson, we are treated to a powerfully depicted drama that also gives us a splendid tale of contemporary social tensions and one man's view of his own personal responsibilities to do what is right and moral. This spellbinding tale of love, mystery and intrigue is set in the Pacific Northwest in the time period right after the end of World War Two, and deals with the undercurrents of deep-seated racism against a group of ethnic Japanese who had made their home for decades on the island depicted in the movie, and who were in many ways the most terribly and unjustly mistreated group within the United States during the war.<br />The story is told in a series of flashback vignettes, and the narrator is the protagonist wrestling with the jumble of feelings and motives as he moves uncertainly toward making his fateful decision to do what he must. In many respects this is also a marvelous murder mystery, and the courtroom drama that unfolds delivers a stunning indictment of the racist tensions and prejudices rampant in this small ocean-side community just after the conclusion of World War Two. The narrator, a decorated war veteran who has lost both his arm and his love to another is covering the story of the murder trial as the reporter/publisher of the small local newspaper also has other, less apparent motives that unravel as the story proceeds. What becomes a life and death drama soon becomes much more a mysterious excursion into the past and a chronicle of tender first love lost, and we begin to understand the complicated jumble of feelings that the narrator reveals to us. This is a book that deals masterfully with a painful aspect of American history quite well without either looking for easy answers or contriving convenient solutions, and in exploring the dimensions of human prejudice and personal feeling as well as it does, manages to let us know that the only way to end such prejudice and fateful discrimination is through individual effort and personal growth. This is a book I heartily recommend for a weekend's intellectual entertainment. Enjoy.egin to understand the complicated jumble of feelings that the narrator reveals to us. This is a book that deals masterfully with a painful aspect of American history quite well without either looking for easy answers or contriving convenient solutions, and in exploring the dimensions of human prejudice and personal feeling as well as it does, manages to let us know that the only way to end such prejudice and fateful discrimination is through individual effort and personal growth. This is a book I heartily recommend for a weekend's intellectual entertainment. Enjoy.	2000-11-08
2218119:US	52447634	R2E6J8WO3654R5	0684829479	992008202	The Origins of The Second World War	Books	5	56	73	N	Y	Masterful Interpretation Of the Manifest Causes Of WWII!	In what is often considered the most controversial of his many scholarly books, this exploration into the putative causes of World War Two by renowned British historian A.P.J. Taylor caused great controversy and discussion when published in the sixties. I remember as a college student the arguments regarding his scholarship, sympathies for Hitler, and somewhat simplistic approach in trying to mount an ardent and convincing argument demolishing the conventional wisdom holding that one man, Adolph Hitler, was uniquely responsible for the outbreak of the most horrific conflict in modern history. Amazingly, upon rereading this wonderfully written, entertaining, and erudite tome again recently, one walks away still impressed by his ability to marshal a wall of facts that seemingly support his incendiary ideas.<br />On the surface Taylor's general thesis that, given the poorly constructed and patently unfair peace treaty levied by the victorious allies onto Germany at Versailles, the war was inevitable is well-taken, as is his contention that many besides Hitler and the Nazis were responsible for the increased tensions and resort to force of arms in the 1930s both through acts of commission such as the peace treaty, and also through acts of omission, in particular referring to the failure of any of the allies to act responsibly and thoughtfully to the provocative acts of rearming Germany. Certainly the policies of appeasement, willful ignorance, and benign neglect of the international agreements so painfully wrought with the blood of millions of soldiers on the battlefields of France in WWI led to such a level of indifference and anarchy that it became an ideal environment for the incubation of the kinds of tyranny that arose in Italy, Germany, and Spain in those years. As Taylor points out, the fact of this indifference did much to sow the seeds of what would be reaped so painfully later.<br />Yet while any thoughtful student will heartily agree that the whole western world's blind indifference and acts of craven appeasement to the rising tides of murder and mayhem did much to encourage the excesses and bloody dreams of the Nazis, one finds it more difficult to excuse or ignore Hitler's own role in steering Germany toward confrontation and fatal conflict with all of its European neighbors. While one can argue that he never intended a war against England and France, that he misunderstood their resolve regarding Poland and the declaration of war against Germany, it is simply silly to argue that Hitler was somehow not directly responsible for the planning and execution of Operation Barbarossa, the invasion of the Soviet Union and the quite systematic murder of its people. Thus, while in arguing for the wider sharing of blame for the possibility of war existing Taylor does a marvelous job, he fails miserably in trying to explain the specifics of the war, since Hitler said all along the reason for the war was to establish an area of expansion for the German people, or \\"living room\\", in the wheat-belt of Russia called the Ukraine.<br />Hitler intended from the beginning to systematically  exterminate all the indigenous people living in the Ukraine (and elsewhere in Russia) through a delberate campaign of murder, slave labor, and starvation.  He considered the Russian people subhumans he would smash and exterminate. Similarly, the so called \\"Final Solution\\", while not necessarily the product of the kind of systematic planning many have attributed to it, was in the end a masterfully executed campaign of deliberate genocide against Jews, gypsies, and other non-Aryans. This is a fascinating book, and Taylor argues articulately for the idea that others besides Hitler deserve a portion of the blame for what unfolded into the largest conflict in the history of the world. His notion that one can more fully comprehend Hitler's actions when viewing them in the context of a poisonously dangerous world environment in which others failed to act humanely and responsibly is both sophisticated and well supported. Yet he oversimplifies certain aspects of the story, and seems to be overly sympathetic to Hitler and the National Socialists in doing so. This book is a wonderful read, and it is a pleasure to be in the presence of such a marvelous intellect, even if I do not agree with the overall thesis he is arguing for. Enjoy!anely and responsibly is both sophisticated and well supported. Yet he oversimplifies certain aspects of the story, and seems to be overly sympathetic to Hitler and the National Socialists in doing so. This book is a wonderful read, and it is a pleasure to be in the presence of such a marvelous intellect, even if I do not agree with the overall thesis he is arguing for. Enjoy!	2000-11-07
2221148:US	52447634	R27GHNLZPNTM8	0679724141	821994534	A Bright Shining Lie: John Paul Vann and America in Vietnam	Books	5	70	79	N	N	Single Best Book Yet Written About Americans In Vietnam	Sociologist C.Wright Mills once wrote that the key to meaningful social analysis was to understand the actions of an individual in the context of his or her social situation, to place the person in a historical context so as to better appreciate the aspects of the social environment that motivate the individual to act and react in a particular way. Thus, to understand the actions of a middle aged German Jew in the context of the 1930s, one must understand the nature of the Nazi society he lived his daily routine within. Here we can observe how brilliantly this principle can be used with journalist Neil Sheehan book, \\"A Bright Shining Lie\\", a book in which he not only tells the story of a single man, John Paul Vann, but also explains the history of American involvement in Vietnam. This is a marvelous tale of a modern tragedy, not only for Vann himself, but for the American people and of course, the poor Vietnamese, who had nowhere to run when the bombs started falling.<br /><br />Vann began his involvement with Vietnam as an Army Lt. Colonel. Because of both some personal troubles and his outspoken criticism of the ineffective and unnecessarily cruel way in which the war was being conducted, he was in effect cashiered, and he returned briefly to civilian life back in the United States. Yet Vann couldn't help but be drawn back into this country he had fallen in love with while doing his initial military tour. He found the opportunity to return to Vietnam as a civilian supporting the American military mission, and threw himself into the opportunity with characteristic energy and enthusiasm. He seemed to have an almost instinctive understanding of how to conduct an effective counter-insurgency operation, and based on his tireless efforts and his success in pacifying the area he was assigned, he gained increased credibility and influence within both the American military as well as the South Vietnamese government, and as a result became much more influential and powerful.<br /><br />Yet in the moments of his success Vann began to fatefully turn away from precisely those perceptions regarding the nature of the conflict and the need to be effectively engaged at the micro-level, and he, like many other individuals prosecuting the war, turned to more traditional and massive intervention techniques such as carpet bombing, that were not only indiscriminate, but also tended to be counterproductive in the longer term. Vann's slow but inexorable corruption by power and influence is a familiar tale, and indeed sadly documents one specific example of a widespread phenomena which continues to this day within our military; that of careerism. It is easy to understand how the quest for rank in order to do what one believes is right gets twisted into an eventual accommodation with the very devil one is combating in order to get ahead.<br /><br />Of course, once makes the necessary accommodation to succeed in a military career by mindlessly following orders, then when the particular officer eventually succeeds in getting promoted (by going along with the wrong-headed policies of his or her superiors) he or she becomes exactly that corrupted and compromised type that he or she was originally so motivated to replace. This, then, is the true tragedy of both John Paul Vann in particular and the American Army in Vietnam in general. In my humble opinion, everyone in the officer corps shared this dirty little secret of co-option that made each of them, to some degree, at least, un-indicted co-conspirators in a quite deliberate and systematic campaign to murder countless men, women, and children in living in nameless hamlets and villages in Vietnam. Of course, I am not alone in this view, and former officers such as Col. David Hackworth and Lt. Col Anthony Herbert have written poignantly about this very subject. This is a wonderful book about a terrifying truth, and one all Americans should read to understand the true dimensions of the tragedy in Vietnam.in the moments of his success Vann began to fatefully turn away from precisely those perceptions regarding the nature of the conflict and the need to be effectively engaged at the micro-level, and he, like many other individuals prosecuting the war, turned to more traditional and massive intervention techniques such as carpet bombing, that were not only indiscriminate, but also tended to be counterproductive in the longer term. Vann's slow but inexorable corruption by power and influence is a familiar tale, and indeed sadly documents one specific example of a widespread phenomena which continues to this day within our military; that of careerism. It is easy to understand how the quest for rank in order to do what one believes is right gets twisted into an eventual accommodation with the very devil one is combating in order to get ahead.    Of course, once makes the necessary accommodation to succeed in a military career by mindlessly following orders, then when the particular officer eventually succeeds in getting promoted (by going along with the wrong-headed policies of his or her superiors) he or she becomes exactly that corrupted and compromised type that he or she was originally so motivated to replace. This, then, is the true tragedy of both John Paul Vann in particular and the American Army in Vietnam in general. In my humble opinion, everyone in the officer corps shared this dirty little secret of co-option that made each of them, to some degree, at least, un-indicted co-conspirators in a quite deliberate and systematic campaign to murder countless men, women, and children in living in nameless hamlets and villages in Vietnam. Of course, I am not alone in this view, and former officers such as Col. David Hackworth and Lt. Col Anthony Herbert have written poignantly about this very subject. This is a wonderful book about a terrifying truth, and one all Americans should read to understand the true dimensions of the tragedy in Vietnam.	2000-11-05
2221161:US	52447634	RECRG4EWBBQNZ	0671042815	866458955	Dream Catcher: A Memoir	Books	5	23	33	N	N	Absorbing, Provocative, &amp; Revealing Look At J.D. Salinger	It is perhaps inevitable in a culture so drunkenly obsessed with celebrity worship that we are drawn to poignant and outrageously confessional memoirs like this one by the daughter of fabled author and major league recluse J.D. Salinger. Still, this particular work is a masterfully written, absorbing and provocative look at the ways in which very famous people like Salinger prove to be all too frail and human themselves. But then again, as poet Leonard Cohen once said about Adolph Eichmann, what did we expect? Talons? Green saliva? Madness? Perhaps the latter is the closest approximation we can hope for in attempting to understand how horrific life within the surreal world of the Salingers could be for a soul as tender, malleable, and fragile as Peggy Salinger appears to be.<br />This is a terrific book, one full of privileged and intimate glimpses into the magical albeit often terrifying environment she grew up within. Yet although one comes away from reading this book with a better appreciation for the fact that one may find horror and despair almost anywhere in life, regardless of one's position or place, that one should never assume anything about the quality of lives of the rich and famous. It is also an object lesson in the dangers of celebrity worship. Having said all this, I must also mention that I was a bit offended by the presumptions evident in several of the other reviews for the book, and especially the negative assumptions attendant to author J. D. Salinger's character, behavior and reputation. We are well advised to remember that what we have here is one daughter's subjective recollections of what life with Dad was like, which, however credible and accurate, can hardly be accepted as the whole truth of the matter on either the man himself or any of his qualities.<br />It is certainly instructive to recognize the degree to which we seem to be so singularly judgmental regarding our opinions of such reclusive and legendary luminaries and artists as Salinger, Thomas Pynchon, and even poor feckless Cat Stevens, whose own religious prejudices seem to belie the humanistic nature of his dreamy philosophical ruminations in his folk art. Salinger, true to his public persona, at least, remains aloof and remote, silent and respectfully wordless in the face of all these revelations and accusations. Read the book, revel in the inherited power to express that Peggy seems to have gathered well enough to write so powerfully, eloquently, and emotionally in service to her memoirs. But let's remember that Salinger's art is not in any way touched, blemished, or altered by these revelations. His literary work stands, apart from the man and his life, as a lasting tribute to the power of individual humans to reach far beyond themselves, their personal pettiness, and their flawed human qualities to make a powerful, enduring work of artnger, Thomas Pynchon, and even poor feckless Cat Stevens, whose own religious prejudices seem to belie the humanistic nature of his dreamy philosophical ruminations in his folk art. Salinger, true to his public persona, at least, remains aloof and remote, silent and respectfully wordless in the face of all these revelations and accusations. Read the book, revel in the inherited power to express that Peggy seems to have gathered well enough to write so powerfully, eloquently, and emotionally in service to her memoirs. But let's remember that Salinger's art is not in any way touched, blemished, or altered by these revelations. His literary work stands, apart from the man and his life, as a lasting tribute to the power of individual humans to reach far beyond themselves, their personal pettiness, and their flawed human qualities to make a powerful, enduring work of art	2000-11-05
2228096:US	52447634	R20V12VF655G4K	0679729941	133815702	Hitler and Stalin: Parallel Lives	Books	5	77	78	N	N	Alan Bullock's Masterful Dual Biography Of Hitler &amp; Stalin!	What is most fascinating about this novel dual biographical approach toward understanding both Hitler and Stalin is the startling degree to which such an unorthodox approach illuminates one's understanding not only of their remarkable similarities, but also their philosophical, tactical, and personal differences. This truly is a fascinating and absorbing book, and it is well enough written that the narrative seems to spin along on its own strength, and we find ourselves captivated by the degree to which these two seem star-crossed in terms of their destinies. As Bullock deftly illustrates, the main differences between the two dictators were found in their personalities. Yet, even after all these crucial differences in both personal style and substance are considered, the degree to which they were similar is both remarkable and frightening to comprehend.<br />Stalin was a creature of bureaucracy, the ultimate insider, someone who knew how to use the organization bonding the Communist Party together for his own rise to prominence and power, an increasingly clever, adroit, and masterful practitioner of power politics. He was nothing if not careful, cautious, deliberate, and shrewd. Hitler, on the other hand, was a gambler, a masterful politician, a bold, easily bored, and endlessly distracted dreamer whose natural ability to charm, captivate, and enchant helped him to rise by extraordinary means. In many ways, these men came to prominence in quite different ways; Stalin, by mastering the art of bureaucratic manipulation and quietly assuming key roles within the organization that gave him friendships, alliances, and information that he used masterfully to rise through the ranks of the faithful, and Hitler, the manic-depressive natural leader whose charismatic popular appeal and desperate, authoritarian, and often violent measures were used to gain political power through extraordinary means.<br />Yet Bullock shows how similar both men were in terms of the way they used their power once established to execute their national responsibilities, and in the way they ruthlessly pursued their goals without mercy, remorse or any concern for others who suffered for their sake. Both used extralegal means to maintain position, both cruelly purged potential rivals through purges or political overthrows. Both bordered on being psychotic; Hitler coming close to being declared certifiably insane, and Stalin by having all the symptoms of classic paranoia. Certainly both had personal histories that can most kindly be described as bizarre in terms of the ways in which they treated those close to them as well as the populace in general. Both also seemed convinced of their own central and unique role in terms of their country's destiny, and indeed each identified his own importance in terms of succeeding in accomplishing that historical mission. Also, both were guilty of massive crimes against humanity, both against the opposing forces they captured and their own subjects. Hitler persecuted German citizens who were Jewish, Gypsies, or otherwise \\"undesirables\\", while Stalin persecuted Ukrainians in general and peasant farmers in particular, not to mention the systematic purges of thousands of Army, Navy, and Air Force officers he or his cronies suspected of potential disloyalty.<br />This is a wonderful book in terms of its insights, unusual research sources, and provocative speculations regarding each of these two quite unique historical figures. The narrative carries itself in an entertaining, edifying, and comprehensible fashion, and his use of photographs and maps serves the text well. All in all, I would have to describe this book as a must-read for anyone seriously interested in how the personalities and characteristics of these two key leaders in 20th century history figured into the unholy calculus of madness and mayhem, otherwise referred to as World War Two. I highly recommend it. Enjoy!d their power once established to execute their national responsibilities, and in the way they ruthlessly pursued their goals without mercy, remorse or any concern for others who suffered for their sake. Both used extralegal means to maintain position, both cruelly purged potential rivals through purges or political overthrows. Both bordered on being psychotic; Hitler coming close to being declared certifiably insane, and Stalin by having all the symptoms of classic paranoia. Certainly both had personal histories that can most kindly be described as bizarre in terms of the ways in which they treated those close to them as well as the populace in general. Both also seemed convinced of their own central and unique role in terms of their country's destiny, and indeed each identified his own importance in terms of succeeding in accomplishing that historical mission. Also, both were guilty of massive crimes against humanity, both against the opposing forces they captured and their own subjects. Hitler persecuted German citizens who were Jewish, Gypsies, or otherwise \\"undesirables\\", while Stalin persecuted Ukrainians in general and peasant farmers in particular, not to mention the systematic purges of thousands of Army, Navy, and Air Force officers he or his cronies suspected of potential disloyalty.   <br />This is a wonderful book in terms of its insights, unusual research sources, and provocative speculations regarding each of these two quite unique historical figures. The narrative carries itself in an entertaining, edifying, and comprehensible fashion, and his use of photographs and maps serves the text well. All in all, I would have to describe this book as a must-read for anyone seriously interested in how the personalities and characteristics of these two key leaders in 20th century history figured into the unholy calculus of madness and mayhem, otherwise referred to as World War Two. I highly recommend it. Enjoy!	2000-10-30
2228616:US	52447634	R2NF14YW2K4DG	0822324601	374071410	Anxious Intellects: Academic Professionals, Public Intellectuals, and Enlightenment Values	Books	5	18	18	N	Y	Informative, Entertaining, &amp; Edifying Look At Intellectuals!	Anyone interested in broadening his or her horizons in terms of understanding just how we are influenced by intellectuals in contemporary American society will find this fascinating, provocative, and well-written new book by academic John Michael a welcome introduction to the subject of the roles of intellectuals in influencing and informing public understanding and participation in the political process. The simple fact that the author has succeeded in getting this thoughtful probe into the nature of the intellectual pursuits published speaks volumes about the value of the book itself, for he has evidently succeeded in turning what could have been an offbeat and low-pulsed subject into a immensely interesting and entertaining look at a number of our contemporary intellectuals, at the same time also exploring individual authors' styles and substance and explaining how each of the elements in their interesting intellectual products affects us as citizens operating in a democracy.<br />Michael argues quite persuasively that without an active, informed, and energetic effort on the part of a well-placed caste of intellectuals on both sides of the political aisle, effective and meaningful participation in a democratic state (or in a constitutional republic like ours) is problematic, if not impossible. Certainly, with the rise of the electronic media, many thoughtful scholars are questioning whether accurate and meaningful information is being imparted and disseminated to the citizenry at large. In this sense the author's concern is well placed, and he approaches the issue of the role of intellectual conversations among the citizenry with verve and energy. He also seems quite willing to jump into the current \\"culture wars' fray by examining the degree to which intellectual discussion addresses the real needs of the populace and the degree to which individual intellectuals and celebrities like Rush Limbaugh (to call this clown an intellectual seems a contradiction in terms) seem engaged in mere polemics as apologists of a particular political persuasion.<br />This is a serious book, and yet is also one that is fun to read, with many interesting asides and anecdotes to keep the reader's interests and spirits up as one trudges through the otherwise depressing minefields and foxholes of the various battles now conducted on the contemporary intellectual landscape. Although Michael obviously has a point of view and a particular perspective he is not shy about sharing, he is also seemingly fair-minded and objective in citing the various aspects of individual intellectual's strengths and weaknesses. This is an interesting, entertaining, and well-written book I heartily recommend.) seem engaged in mere polemics as apologists of a particular political persuasion. <br />This is a serious book, and yet is also one that is fun to read, with many interesting asides and anecdotes to keep the reader's interests and spirits up as one trudges through the otherwise depressing minefields and foxholes of the various battles now conducted on the contemporary intellectual landscape. Although Michael obviously has a point of view and a particular perspective he is not shy about sharing, he is also seemingly fair-minded and objective in citing the various aspects of individual intellectual's strengths and weaknesses. This is an interesting, entertaining, and well-written book I heartily recommend.	2000-10-29
2229125:US	52447634	R1MXVDJM1U2YZ7	068810066X	971632676	A History of the Twentieth Century, Volume III: 1952-1999	Books	5	17	17	N	Y	Final Of Gilbert's Terrific  3  Volume 20th Century History	British historian and academic Sir Martin Gilbert (knighted by the Queen in 1995) has a well-deserved reputation as one of the most authoritative academics on the subject of the twentieth century, and has written perhaps more prolifically than anyone else on various aspects of this remarkable epoch. Indeed, he has written such a torrent of different books on everything ranging from a multiple volume biography of Sir Winston Churchill to histories of World War One, World War Two, that a complete accounting of his efforts would require more space than is available for the review. Thus it should come as no surprise that he has written a three-volume overview of the twentieth century itself. What is so surprising is how engaging, entertaining, and accessible each of the three volumes is to the reader.<br />In this third and final volume of the epic narrative of the twentieth century, Gilbert carefully and cogently describes the unfolding of the post world war drama as the struggle between the forces of the western democracies face down the forces of the socialist states of the Soviet Union, China, and Cuba in a fight for the hearts and minds of the burgeoning world population. In providing this continuous narrative thread from the beginnings of the struggle from the beginning of the century and the transformation from all that was traditional, autocratic, and orderly to all that was democratic, innovative, and chaotic, we see the master forces behind the massive dislocations, murderous warfare, and technological transformations that characterize the last hundred years. Of course, much of the narrative covering the last fifty years is a description of regional conflicts, from the so-called police action in Korea to American involvement in Vietnam, from the continuing Irish &quot;troubles&quot; to the murderous genocide in Cambodia under Pol Pot, from the fratricide in Rwanda to the ethnic cleansing in Bosnia and Kosovo, this is a portrait of an increasingly violent, dissonant, and fractured world in which many more voices, angry and otherwise, add to the shouts and clamorous sounds of history.<br />From the description of the postwar resurrection in Europe to the momentous dissolution of the Soviet Union in the last ten years, this is a narrative of a world in the process of multiplying its faces, voices, and flavors. This is a book that engages the reader in the spectacle of the transformation of our world from everything autocratic, traditional and rigidly controlled to all that became so characteristic of the century thereafter; democratic, irrational, murderous, and wildly chaotic. With an amazing and delightful eye for absorbing detail, Gilbert threads his way through the particular personalities, events and issues as they arise chronologically. One criticism I have read about concerning the book is absolutely dead-on, and that is Gilbert does somewhat pedantically stick to a faithful chronological narrative.<br />Yet, given the plethora of events, issues, personalities and changes occurring throughout the world, any other organization would suffer from other problems such as maintaining context for the reader, so one can appreciate all that faced a particular leader in a given situation. Understanding how the multitudes of actors, issues, and countries are involved and intertwined lends itself to better comprehension, at least in this reviewer's mind. After all, it is mind-boggling to understand in the last hundred years the western world transformed itself in almost every dimension imaginable; technological, scientific, social, economic, and philosophical. To attempt to do justice to this wide panoply of revolutionary change requires a certain perspective and rigorous discipline to do so, especially in the 3,000 or so pages allotted to the overall work. This is a book and also three volume set I can heartily recommend. Enjoy!onant, and fractured world in which many more voices, angry and otherwise, add to the shouts and clamorous sounds of history. <br />From the description of the postwar resurrection in Europe to the momentous dissolution of the Soviet Union in the last ten years, this is a narrative of a world in the process of multiplying its faces, voices, and flavors. This is a book that engages the reader in the spectacle of the transformation of our world from everything autocratic, traditional and rigidly controlled to all that became so characteristic of the century thereafter; democratic, irrational, murderous, and wildly chaotic. With an amazing and delightful eye for absorbing detail, Gilbert threads his way through the particular personalities, events and issues as they arise chronologically. One criticism I have read about concerning the book is absolutely dead-on, and that is Gilbert does somewhat pedantically stick to a faithful chronological narrative. <br />Yet, given the plethora of events, issues, personalities and changes occurring throughout the world, any other organization would suffer from other problems such as maintaining context for the reader, so one can appreciate all that faced a particular leader in a given situation. Understanding how the multitudes of actors, issues, and countries are involved and intertwined lends itself to better comprehension, at least in this reviewer's mind. After all, it is mind-boggling to understand in the last hundred years the western world transformed itself in almost every dimension imaginable; technological, scientific, social, economic, and philosophical. To attempt to do justice to this wide panoply of revolutionary change requires a certain perspective and rigorous discipline to do so, especially in the 3,000 or so pages allotted to the overall work. This is a book and also three volume set I can heartily recommend. Enjoy!	2000-10-29
2236454:US	52447634	R18BZJU9HIL9KJ	0684865459	915618001	High Exposure: An Enduring Passion for Everest and Unforgiving Places	Books	5	35	36	N	Y	Spellbinding Account Of  The Tragic Events Of '96 Climb!	This first-hand account of the frightening and absolutely breath-talking adventures on the slopes of Mount Everest during the ill-fated 1996 American climbing expedition is terrific reading. Brashears, a professional cinematographer, had already climbed Everest previous to this expedition, and his prize-winning documentary IMAX film about the ascent of Everest is itself both entertaining and edifying, as it holds no punches regarding the reality of life on the mountain. Neither does this book, which certainly proves that the author has a future in journalism is he chooses to pursue it.<br />His colorful and well-written autobiography also does great service in helping those of us who prefer to have our adventure while sitting in the comfort of our reading room just what it is that draws people like him to the pursuit of mountaineering. Indeed, his gleeful enthusiasm is close to being contagious; this too is testimony to Brashears' ability to write convincingly and well. His approach is so colorful as to blur the lines between biography and fiction, and I often found myself having to remember that all this really did happen. It is that well written.<br />His beginnings, too, seem like the stuff of popular fiction; a childhood of humility and privation, his early exploits in climbing on a virtual shoestring, his wildcat days in the oil field, all seem to fit this persona that wangles his way into situations and then has the gumption, intelligence, and character to pull it all off. He progresses with climbs both domestically and internationally, finally reaching into Nepal and Tibet. Always with him is this sense of humor on the one hand, and a willingness to take risks that most of just would turn away from. One senses he is heading for even more danger and self-discovery.  Of course, the key to the book is his description of the events leading up to, including, and after the tragic catastrophe and loss of several climbers' lives in the ascent of the mountain. Busy himself with both the climb on the one hand and the IMAX filming of it on the other left him little time for instant reflection or remorse. These things probably helped him to focus on what had to be done to go on with the successful climb, the discovery of the bodies, and a safe descent to the camps far below. I found myself sorry to reach the final pages of his book, and I for one hope to find more writing from this talented filmmaker, writer, and climber in the future. I can highly recommend this book, and I think you will enjoy it, as well.himself with both the climb on the one hand and the IMAX filming of it on the other left him little time for instant reflection or remorse. These things probably helped him to focus on what had to be done to go on with the successful climb, the discovery of the bodies, and a safe descent to the camps far below. I found myself sorry to reach the final pages of his book, and I for one hope to find more writing from this talented filmmaker, writer, and climber in the future. I can highly recommend this book, and I think you will enjoy it, as well.	2000-10-23
2236953:US	52447634	R20VODJTC7KWEI	0375701273	706296379	Building a Bridge to the 18th Century: How the Past Can Improve Our Future	Books	5	20	21	N	Y	Another In A Long Line Of Excellent Postman Tomes!	With the publication of \\"Building A Bridge To The Eighteenth Century\\", Neil Postman has produced another thoughtful, articulate, and informative tome describing the numbing effects of postmodern society on individual consciousness, moral values, and the disintegration of our culture. In previous books he cited the dangers associated with runaway technological innovation (\\"Technopoly\\") and the corrosive cumulative effect of the manipulation of what we see through electronic media, profoundly biasing the ways we come to view, interpret and understand the world at large (\\"Amusing Ourselves To Death\\"). Here he examines a multitude of problems associated with the obvious circumstances of our rapidly disintegrating sense of commonality with our fellows in local and regional communities.<br />Not surprisingly, Postman finds solace and hope in the values and ideas of the Enlightenment, and in particular with authors like Voltaire, Goethe, Jefferson, and Thomas Paine. He quite artfully broaches the problems we currently have and meaningfully connects them to the assault on traditional systems of meanings that former societies had a wealth of. Yet Postman also understands one cannot simply glue or graft old ideas and values onto contemporary situations and expect them to cohere and work. Although he never quite articulates the notion, one can certainly connect the dots among the lines of his argument to disocver a stunning indictment of our present culture, which he apparently sees as hollow, superficial, and cravenly focused on material acquisition. In this fashion he seems to be accepting the arguments of a number of other contemporary thinkers who see the hope for the future in terms of recognizing what our material progress has cost.<br />In saying that we have become so enamored of progress that we have lost our social narrative, he seems to be recognizing the degree to which our stated values and ideals no longer cohere or make adequate sense in terms of motivating or integrating the social community at large. In this he falls into a long tradition of social criticism that reaches back to classic sociologists like Karl Marx, Max Weber, and Emile Durkheim, each of whom argued that rapid scientific and technological progress and the eclipse of the traditional values associated with Christian communities posed enormous dangers for continuation of western culture, since, unlike religion, science had no core values which could act to integrate the community by reference to common values and ideals. In this sense, one can draw a line between these 19th century thinkers and others like C. Wright Mills, John Maynard Keynes, the early Alvin Toffler (before he became an apologist and fellow-traveler of the rich and famous), and contemporary authors such as Noam Chomsky, Wendell Beery, and Theodore Roszak.<br />This is a thoughtful and wide-ranging book written by someone who understands just how complex our current dilemma is, and who also appreciates that correcting it takes more than the kinds of superficial corrections in course being bandied about in this year of political promises and presidential campaigns. It also shows Postman's powerful intellect at work. He understands that progress in and of itself is meaningless unless it is informed by a meaningful direction in which to grow toward some greater fulfillment of real human possibilities. What we have now is hardly anything like meaningful progress; it is much more like a blind thirst for egregious acquisitions of more and more material wealth at the cost of everything we once treasured.  This is an informed excursion into the past in order to better appreciate how we can use our traditional values more meaningfully to avoid the pitfalls of runaway technological innovation and the cultural detritus it has left in its wake. I highly recommend this book. Enjoy!integrating the social community at large. In this he falls into a long tradition of social criticism that reaches back to classic sociologists like Karl Marx, Max Weber, and Emile Durkheim, each of whom argued that rapid scientific and technological progress and the eclipse of the traditional values associated with Christian communities posed enormous dangers for continuation of western culture, since, unlike religion, science had no core values which could act to integrate the community by reference to common values and ideals. In this sense, one can draw a line between these 19th century thinkers and others like C. Wright Mills, John Maynard Keynes, the early Alvin Toffler (before he became an apologist and fellow-traveler of the rich and famous), and contemporary authors such as Noam Chomsky, Wendell Beery, and Theodore Roszak.   <br />This is a thoughtful and wide-ranging book written by someone who understands just how complex our current dilemma is, and who also appreciates that correcting it takes more than the kinds of superficial corrections in course being bandied about in this year of political promises and presidential campaigns. It also shows Postman's powerful intellect at work. He understands that progress in and of itself is meaningless unless it is informed by a meaningful direction in which to grow toward some greater fulfillment of real human possibilities. What we have now is hardly anything like meaningful progress; it is much more like a blind thirst for egregious acquisitions of more and more material wealth at the cost of everything we once treasured.  This is an informed excursion into the past in order to better appreciate how we can use our traditional values more meaningfully to avoid the pitfalls of runaway technological innovation and the cultural detritus it has left in its wake. I highly recommend this book. Enjoy!	2000-10-22
2237079:US	52447634	R2RZEIYB6ORUDU	0688100651	787653953	A History of the Twentieth Century, Volume II: 1933-1951	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Gilbert's Masterful 2nd Volume of His 20th Century History!	British historian and academic Sir Martin Gilbert (knighted by the Queen in 1995) has a well-deserved reputation as one of the most authoritative academics on the subject of the twentieth century, and has written perhaps more prolifically than anyone else on various aspects of this remarkable epoch. Indeed, he has written such a torrent of different books on everything ranging from a multiple volume biography of Sir Winston Churchill to histories of World War One, World War two, that a complete accounting of his efforts would require more space than is available for the review. Thus it should come as no surprise that he has written a three-volume overview of the twentieth century itself. What is so surprising is how engaging, entertaining, and accessible each of the three volumes is to the reader.<br />In the second volume Gilbert masterfully guides us through the events that mesmerized and profoundly affected the whole world, from the Depression of the 1930s to the efforts of various world leaders to construct a workable peace in the face of the mounting hostility from a Nazified Germany. Of course, the drift into the Second World War and the conduct of that massive conduct is the centerpiece of the book, and in the effort Gilbert illustrates just how well he can provide an interesting, provocative, and intelligible overview of such a mind-boggling war involving so many people in so many far flung places throughout the world. This really is history that has been shorn of all its externalities, stripped to its bare essentials, clipped free of all its celebrities, all its petty nonsense, and its hoopla, to concentrate only on that which is central, consequential, and the core of the stuff of history. In Gilbert's capable hands we come to better appreciate just how momentous the torrent of worldwide changes were, sweeping away all that went before them. This is a book that engages the reader in the spectacle of the transformation of our world from everything autocratic, traditional and rigidly controlled to all that became so characteristic of the century thereafter; democratic, irrational, murderous, and wildly chaotic. With an amazing and delightful eye for absorbing detail, Gilbert threads his way through the particular personalities, events and issues as they arise chronologically.<br />This is the one accurate criticism I have read about which may be directed at the book. He does stick fairly much to a faithful chronological narrative. Yet, given the plethora of events, issues, personalities and changes occurring throughout the world, any other organization would suffer from other problems such as maintaining context for the reader, so one can appreciate all that faced a particular leader in a given situation. Understanding how the multitudes of actors, issues, and countries are involved and intertwined lends itself to better comprehension, at least in this reviewer's mind. After all, it is mind-boggling to understand in the last hundred years the western world transformed itself in almost every dimension imaginable; technological, scientific, social, economic, and philosophical. To attempt to do justice to this wide panoply of revolutionary change requires a certain perspective and rigorous discipline to do so, especially in the 3,000 or so pages allotted to the overall work.<br />The narrative herein works its way fatefully through the events leading up to and including the Second World War, and allowing for a better understanding of the world that emerged from the cauldron of that conflict, guiding us through the tragedy of this most unnecessary of wars, and shows us how the various national interests and ideologies involved not only during the war but in its aftermath set the stage for what follows. One is struck by how masterfully Gilbert threads his way through this most essential lesson of history; i.e., how the past and what it holds profoundly sets the stage and writes the script for all that follows. From London to Berlin, from Moscow to Washington, from Singapore to Paris, we follow the story of our own century as it unfolds, and the act of finishing this particular volume only whets one's appetite for the next volume, which picks up the thread of the story of this century in the early 1950s in the midst of the world's adjustment to the new political stand-off between the United States and the Soviet Union. Enjoy!n to Berlin, from Moscow to Washington, from Singapore to Paris, we follow the story of our own century as it unfolds, and the act of finishing this particular volume only whets one's appetite for the next volume, which picks up the thread of the story of this century in the early 1950s in the midst of the world's adjustment to the new political stand-off between the United States and the Soviet Union. Enjoy!	2000-10-22
2237281:US	52447634	R3UT75FORRMH6S	0520211065	454705963	C. Wright Mills: Letters and Autobiographical Writings	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	A Wonderful Look At The Insights Of An Intellectual Titan!	No one has written with more verve and authority about the awesome and frightening capabilities of man than the late C. Wright Mills, a prominent and controversial sociologist who wrote such memorable tomes as &quot;White Collar&quot;, an exploration of the emerging American Middle class in the early 1950s, and The Power Elite&quot;, a provocative examination of the nature of power, privilege, and status in the United States, and how each of these three critical elements of power and property in this country are irrevocably connected to each other. At last look, both books were still in print and are still used in both undergraduate and graduate sociology courses throughout the world. After fifty years, that in and of itself is powerful testimony to his enduring value as a scholar and an original thinker.<br />Here Mills focuses memorably on the qualities and uses of the sociological perspective in modern life, how such a scientifically based way of looking at, interpreting, and interacting with the larger world invests its user with a better, more accurate, and quite instrumental picture of what is happening meaningfully around him. For Mills, the key to understanding the value in such a perspective is in appreciating that one can only understand the motives, behavior, and actions of others by locating them within a wider and more meaningful context that connects their personal biographies with the large social circumstances that surround, direct, and propel them at any given historical moment. For Mills, for example, trying to understand the reasoning behind the sometimes desperate actions of Jews in Nazi Germany without appreciating the horrifyingly unique existential circumstances they found themselves in is hopelessly anachronistic and limited.<br />On the other hand, one invested with such an appreciation for how biography and history interact to create the meaningful social circumstances of any situation finds himself better able to understand the fact that when in a country of one hundred million employed, one man's singular lack of employment might be due to his persoanl deficiencies or lack of a work ethic, and be laid at his feet as a personal trouble, it is also true that when twenty million individuals out of that one hundred million figure suddenly find themselves so disposed and unemployed, that situation is due to something beyond the control of those many individuals and is best described in socioeconomic terms as a social problem to be laid at the feet of the government and industry to resolve. To Mills, it is critical to understand the inherant differences between personal troubles on the one hand, which an individual has the responsibity to resolve and overcome, and social ills, which are beyond both his ken or control. Indeed, according to Mills, increasingly in the 20th century one finds himself trapped by social circumstance into dilemmas he is absolutely unable to resolve without significant help from the wider social community.<br />Thus, for both psychological as well as social reasons, a person using the sociological perspective, or invested with what he called the &quot;sociological imagination&quot;, is more able to think and act critically in accordance with the evidence both outside his door and beyond himself. Fifty years later, such a recognition of &quot;what's what&quot; and &quot;who's who&quot; based on the ability to judge the information within the social environment is as valuable as ever. This is a wonderful book, written in a very accessible and entertaining style, meant both for an intellectual audience and for the scholastic community as well. While it may not be for &quot;everyman&quot;, any person wanting to better understand and more fully appreciate how individual biography and social history meaningfully interact to create the realities we live in will enjoy and appreciate this legendary sociological critique and invitation to the pleasures of a sociological perspective by one of its most remarkable proponents some half century ago.of its most remarkable proponents some half century ago.	2000-10-22
2237972:US	52447634	RK9397MN1E4OT	0140048979	773818200	The Face of Battle: A Study of Agincourt, Waterloo, and the Somme	Books	5	36	37	N	Y	Rivetingly Accurate Look At Nature Of Combat  Experience	One of the most wonderful aspects of John Keegan's impeccable writing style is that it is always used in service to the telling the story at hand, in this case a quite unique and fascinating look at the literal face of battle itself, that is, at the nature of the experience of combat from the soldier's perspective. Of course, since most of his other tomes he argues masterfully about the integrating elements of warfare regarding specific campaigns and battles in a specific conflict such as World War Two or the First World War (see my reviews), here he focuses brilliantly on the nature of organized violence itself, and how it is perceived and witnessed by the men who are so engaged. In a very real sense, he has reversed the usual logic about conducting war from the overall perspective and strategies of the generals and admirals overseeing the engagement of forces to focus instead on the horrific and mind-boggling perspective of the soldier on the ground, the \\"cipher\\" so often taken for granted and ignored in historical treatments. For this reason alone any serious student of military history should enthusiastically devour this book.<br />Yet, of course, as we devotees of Keegan's works have come to expect and admire, there is much more of value in this thin but provocative volume. Keegan memorably details and describes the horror, pain, and confusion of the battlefield, and redefines the nature of our understanding of what it means to be a soldier, from the nature of a soldier's fears to the physical and emotional assault on his person, covering everything from wounds to trauma to shell shock. He accurately and articulately describes the operation of everything from field hospitals to makeshift prisoner of war camps, and the atrocious realities involved in experiencing either.  Similarly, he briefly explores the nature of leading men into combat, and the qualities of personality that make one a leader under such traumatic circumstances, how it is that some men can make his fellows stand their ground when everything around them screams for them to flee.<br />Combat is surely one of the most extreme of human experiences, and as Keegan so deftly demonstrates, it is also one of the least understood.  I have always told people I thought the most honest and accurate description of combat were depicted in the last few battle scenes in the movie \\"Platoon\\", where an ungodly amalgam of terror, confusion, and unpredictable staccato punctuations of sudden violence and death were interruptions to the horror of a night spent sitting frozen by fear in a foxhole, waiting and almost hoping for any kind of movement to end the suffocating suspense and yet at the same moment praying for nothing to happen at all. Now I can add this book to the suggestion list, for whether Keegan is describing the terror of the archer attack at Agincourt, the ball and musket charges at point blank range at Waterloo, or the hailstorm of rapid-fire machine guns used to such horrific effect against the trench charges in the First World War, Keegan has captured the insanity, bravery, and futility of the experience of war better than anyone else to date. I highly recommend this book to any student of war or military history.ke his fellows stand their ground when everything around them screams for them to flee. <br />Combat is surely one of the most extreme of human experiences, and as Keegan so deftly demonstrates, it is also one of the least understood.  I have always told people I thought the most honest and accurate description of combat were depicted in the last few battle scenes in the movie \\"Platoon\\", where an ungodly amalgam of terror, confusion, and unpredictable staccato punctuations of sudden violence and death were interruptions to the horror of a night spent sitting frozen by fear in a foxhole, waiting and almost hoping for any kind of movement to end the suffocating suspense and yet at the same moment praying for nothing to happen at all. Now I can add this book to the suggestion list, for whether Keegan is describing the terror of the archer attack at Agincourt, the ball and musket charges at point blank range at Waterloo, or the hailstorm of rapid-fire machine guns used to such horrific effect against the trench charges in the First World War, Keegan has captured the insanity, bravery, and futility of the experience of war better than anyone else to date. I highly recommend this book to any student of war or military history.	2000-10-21
2237997:US	52447634	R4G1350A3QN6Q	0684842548	62503323	Vietnam the Necessary War: A Reinterpretation of America's Most Disastrous Military Conflict	Books	1	46	83	N	N	A Provocative Albeit Misleading Thesis About Vietnam!	As a person who has been fascinated by 20th century history for several decades, I have learned to be a bit skeptical about a number of provocative and sensational books that purport to turn conventional wisdom on its head. Often, I have learned, the author has an ulterior motive in trying to correct the record, and understanding the political persuasion of the individual author writing the book is often most helpful in placing the book and its argument in perspective. Nowhere is this more true than with a rash of recent neo-conservative tomes regarding the events of the 1960s, including the Vietnam War. Thus armed, I found Michael Lind's book \\"Vietnam The Necessary War\\" fascinating (if unconvincing) reading.  My overall impression after finishing the book was that it was part and parcel of a determined neo-conservative effort to so revise our understanding of 20th century history and America's part in the Cold War that it comes to justify our habitual post-WWII siding with regimes that were undemocratic, unpopular, and totalitarian regimes as long as they supported our trade prerogatives rather than surrender to more honorable and democratic impulses to do what was right, honorable, and legal. Ain't capitalism great?<br /><br />Thus, while many of his specific arguments are interesting, rational, and sometimes even convincing, he is quite selective in his marshaling of the facts, and seems to take it as an article of faith that the nature of the communist threat was such that the end justifies the means. Although he never makes the specious argument that the communist threat was a universal one, he comes close. He also callously disregards the methods we used to combat the indigenous forces of the Viet Cong; yet in employing some of the indiscriminate targeting practices we did, we were more like the Nazis in our callous disregard of human life than most of us want to think about. I still believe Robert McNamara, William Westmoreland, and other should be indicted as war criminals. Indeed, our allies were astonished and dismayed by our brutal attempts to sue sheer firepower to win the day in Southeast Asia. Yet, rather than focus on eliminating the enemy force of Viet Cong, we used blunt firepower and airborne attacks, including carpet bombing, in establishing a reign of terror unlike anything seen since the Second World War.<br /><br />For example, establishing free fire zones where anything moving was a fair target is hardly a credible or defensible combat tactic, especially for a democracy whose putative rationale for entering Vietnam was to safeguard the right of the South Vietnamese to self-govern. Indeed, we stubbornly refused to admit this was a war of attrition against deeply embedded and protected guerilla forces, and never used appropriate tactics as such a campaign would require. Instead, we conveniently disregarded such considerations; like a moron looking for the keys he lost near his parked car under the nearest streetlight two hundred feet away because the light is better there, we adopted a policy to do what was easiest, safest, and convenient, regardless of whether or not it made any tactical or strategic sense. For example, adopting the tactic of firebombing villages and killing innocent men, women and children was a policy borne of frustration and confusion on our part; we either could not or would not recognize that we could not defeat a popular guerilla force that was sheltered by the very people we were sent there to protect.<br /><br />To accept Mr. Lind's argument is to accept the idea that the Russians and Chinese considered Vietnam critical or even relevant to their aims in spreading communism throughout their spheres of influence. Lind seems to ignore the fact that having us pinned down and distracted by Vietnam was not a pleasant and positive set of affairs for our Cold War antagonists. Moreover, as the records of the Soviet Union slowly become available, we are finding that even they were baffled by our intransigence and stubbornness in attempting to do what the French had already demonstrated was impossible to successfully accomplish. And they hardly learned much from our tragic mistakes; the Soviets stumbled badly in attempting to control the Afghans a few years later. My basic problem with Lind's arguments is that to accept them is to buy into the seriously anti-democratic idea that our conduct in foreign policy during the post-war period was justified. If we accept that, we accept that we were justified in toppling more popular governments in Iran for the Shah in a CIA-sponsored coup, in Chile against a duly elected Marxist in favor of a brutal military dictatorship, and on and on and on.<br /><br />Friends, perhaps it is considered naive to believe that if we stand for anything, we should stand for supporting and promulgating the ideals and moral principles on which our country is founded. If so, we should be facilitating democratic governments, whatever their politics, not sabotaging them because it is good for Coca-Cola or the Sugar trust or Alcoa or Standard Oil. This is a book that gives a carefully couched political twist to contemporary history, and a quite disingenuous account of how we came to involve ourselves in Vietnam, why we decided to escalate the participation of Americans in the fighting, and what the consequences of our involvement (or non-involvement) would be. Keep in mind that no less a cold warrior than Richard Nixon learned to his disdain that Vietnam was an obstacle to effectively dealing with the Soviets and the Chinese. Was Nixon wrong? History doesn't seem to think so. Finally. Lind fails to explain why we won the Cold War despite our ignominious defeat at the hands of the Viet Cong. If fighting it was so necessary, why was losing it so inconsequential for us in terms of what happened thereafter? Perhaps it is because fighting the war in Vietnam had less to do with the demands of geopolitical considerations than it did with monumental egos, wrongheaded ideologies, surreptitious motives, and criminal indifference on the part of our leaders. Avoid this book. I cannot recommend it.y our intransigence and stubbornness in attempting to do what the French had already demonstrated was impossible to successfully accomplish. And they hardly learned much from our tragic mistakes; the Soviets stumbled badly in attempting to control the Afghans a few years later. My basic problem with Lind's arguments is that to accept them is to buy into the seriously anti-democratic idea that our conduct in foreign policy during the post-war period was justified. If we accept that, we accept that we were justified in toppling more popular governments in Iran for the Shah in a CIA-sponsored coup, in Chile against a duly elected Marxist in favor of a brutal military dictatorship, and on and on and on.<br /><br />Friends, perhaps it is considered naive to believe that if we stand for anything, we should stand for supporting and promulgating the ideals and moral principles on which our country is founded. If so, we should be facilitating democratic governments, whatever their politics, not sabotaging them because it is good for Coca-Cola or the Sugar trust or Alcoa or Standard Oil. This is a book that gives a carefully couched political twist to contemporary history, and a quite disingenuous account of how we came to involve ourselves in Vietnam, why we decided to escalate the participation of Americans in the fighting, and what the consequences of our involvement (or non-involvement) would be. Keep in mind that no less a cold warrior than Richard Nixon learned to his disdain that Vietnam was an obstacle to effectively dealing with the Soviets and the Chinese. Was Nixon wrong? History doesn't seem to think so. Finally. Lind fails to explain why we won the Cold War despite our ignominious defeat at the hands of the Viet Cong. If fighting it was so necessary, why was losing it so inconsequential for us in terms of what happened thereafter? Perhaps it is because fighting the war in Vietnam had less to do with the demands of geopolitical considerations than it did with monumental egos, wrongheaded ideologies, surreptitious motives, and criminal indifference on the part of our leaders. Avoid this book. I cannot recommend it.	2000-10-21
2238384:US	52447634	R1J334QYPABX84	1580050239	46075101	Climbing High: A Woman's Account of Surviving the Everest Tragedy	Books	3	21	25	N	N	Provocative Albeit Self-Absorbed Account of Her Climb!	As someone who has watched with dismay as rich Yuppies searching for the ultimate `edge' adventure have been allowed to buy their way into the \\"Everest experience\\", I was quite interested in this personal account by one such adventurer lucky enough to survive one of the most disastrous accidents on the mountain. Based on her narrative, my own conclusion was that most of them simply had no business being that high on a mountain like Everest where there is no room for error, no forgiveness shown, and no way out once things go awry. Still, this young woman is an interesting combination of gung-ho enthusiasm and thoughtful consideration, although one wonders if she had a potential book deal in mind when she bought her way into the \\"adventure' in the first place. After all, there are a lot of sister women out there willing to buy into this pseudo-\\"bought and paid for adventure experience\\" nonsense. Of all things, this book reminds me of the recent pseudo-adventure memoir by Jon Katz, \\"Running To The Mountain\\". At least Jon had the sense to leave the crampons home and settle for a broken down cabin to repair in the Adirondacks.<br />There seem to be two schools of thought in the reviews for this book. The first seems to be a single-minded endorsement of the experience full of the \\"yahoo!\\" Nike-like \\"just do it\\" credo that such hardy denizens of faux-macho tri-athletic events and celebrators of philosophies of personal punishment parading as self-discovery are wont to believe. I trust all of these ardent adventurers have never been to war, and come from backgrounds of affluence and comfort. The search for \\"edge experience\\" appear to be drowning in pools of pathetic self-absorption and petulant self-importance, as these otherwise safe and banal souls seem desperate for the ultimate experience like author Stephen Crane's fabled \\"Red Badge Of Courage\\". Why not just get somebody to take potshots at you? In this sense it seems more an expression of an immature inchoate longing for validation as a worthwhile adult than a native yearn for adventure. Of course, there are exceptions, and as far as I am concerned the author of the book may be one, given her own careful consideration of the risks and the care with which she approached the whole venture.<br />The other predominant school of criticism seems to enthusiastically denigrate the way in which such foolhardy amateurs have deliberately endangered both themselves and their Expedition colleagues by venturing into realms they have no business climbing into. It isn't a coincidence that most of the people expressing these views seem to be both older and more experienced. Those of us who have been deliberately shot at by other human beings who meant us malice and harm rarely find a need to express our sense of adventure afterward. Life has already shown us that aspect of existence, and driving in traffic provides all of the elements of risk taking without any need to backpack into the  rugged interior of Nepal.  Still, as someone always fascinated by mountaineering and rock climbing, I hail those with the yearning and the willingness to experience their own innate curiosity by venturing up the slope and through the craggy precipices in search of whatever demons as propel them there.<br />My real problem with the book is that like many other such well-organized contrived commercial pseudo-adventures, it allows the wealthy amateurs who can buy into the expedition to stand in the shadows of titans like Tenzing, Hilary, Mallory and Irving who  sometimes struggled and even crawled toward the heights with their own hands and feet,  often carrying their own provisions, quite unlike these pampered affluent \\"clients\\" who expect to be deferred to and helped  by their \\"guides\\", and who seem to expect to be given the experience of reaching the pinnacle on the virtual backs of others because they have \\"paid for it\\". Such ideas and expectations not only vulgarize the quest for excellence into a craven management slogan but also give adventurers a bad name. In that sense, let the disaster on Everest give fair warning.  When all else is said and done, man is still just an inconsequential visitor to the roof of the world, an intruder perilously perched on the quicksilver hope for good luck and good weather, and no one is safe if and when Mother Nature suddenly turns [ugly]. Enjoy!management slogan but also give adventurers a bad name. In that sense, let the disaster on Everest give fair warning.  When all else is said and done, man is still just an inconsequential visitor to the roof of the world, an intruder perilously perched on the quicksilver hope for good luck and good weather, and no one is safe if and when Mother Nature suddenly turns [ugly]. Enjoy!	2000-10-21
2238591:US	52447634	R1QHEW8INVZO5V	0688172032	616949727	The Day John Died	Books	1	12	16	N	N	An Unprincepled Exploitation of JFK Jr. and His Family	If this were a perfect world, both JFK and JFK Jr. would still be alive and among us. But it isn't and they are not. I confess that I liked what I knew about JFK Jr., thought he was an admirable and worthwhile young man, and was indeed sad that he died so young last year. But enough is enough, folks. Why do we as a people feel we have the right to dwell so cravenly over the anniversary of his death? One cringes at the fact that this slick, sales-oriented book detailing the specifics of the weeks and hours leading up to the fatal plane crash is full of gossip, rumor, and glossy sexy photographs, and it is already on its way to becoming a best seller. I suppose that tells us volumes about the tastes of the American reading public. After reading through the book at a friend's house, I found myself repulsed by what I discovered inside. It is a shameless exploitation of JFK Jr. and his family.<br />H.L. Mencken once commented that no one ever lost a single dollar by underestimating the level of public taste, and based on that knowledge this will likely make the author millions. I hope it is worth it to the author and publisher to take such unfair advantage of the dead.  The author is noted for his post-mortem take on dead celebrities, especially the Kennedys, so I suppose buying into his &quot;People-Magazine&quot; background helps us to understand why this book is so consciously oriented toward rummaging around in the detritus of the dearly departed like rumor-starved vultures picking at a lifeless carcass. Poor John (and his family) fought all his life to protect his personal privacy, and the posthumous publication of this tome represents a shocking deliberate betrayal of that spirit even more venal and vulgar than the &quot;memorial trash heap&quot; of flowers, teddy bears and other crap people felt entitled enough to leave outside his NYC apartment building as if this young man they did not in fact know was a personal friend, instead of just a celebrity they usually admired from afar.<br />Anyone who buys this book should be ashamed for stooping low enough to buy this kind of rumor-packed speculation regarding John's earlier romantic escapades, his youthful faults and his personal foibles as though we have some kind of sick voyeuristic right to wallow in the private and personal specifics now that the anniversary of his death last year has come. Give it up, friends. Let the dead have at least a modicum of dignity. Otherwise, all he really was to us was just another celebrity to feed our entertainment needs. If you really care about him and what he stood for, don't trash his memory by gloating over the trash inside the covers of this rag. By the way, I gave this one star because Amazon doesn't make any provision for negative number ratings.ly admired from afar. <br />Anyone who buys this book should be ashamed for stooping low enough to buy this kind of rumor-packed speculation regarding John's earlier romantic escapades, his youthful faults and his personal foibles as though we have some kind of sick voyeuristic right to wallow in the private and personal specifics now that the anniversary of his death last year has come. Give it up, friends. Let the dead have at least a modicum of dignity. Otherwise, all he really was to us was just another celebrity to feed our entertainment needs. If you really care about him and what he stood for, don't trash his memory by gloating over the trash inside the covers of this rag. By the way, I gave this one star because Amazon doesn't make any provision for negative number ratings.	2000-10-21
2244911:US	52447634	R224AWF2GWVKC3	0674000811	89670342	Acheson: The Secretary of State Who Created the American World	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Brilliant Biography Of Man Who Created A Pax Americana!	No one was more influential in successfully constructing the American political approach toward negotiating the difficult passage of the United States in the fractious post World War Two period than Harry Truman's controversial Secretary Of State, Dean Acheson. No single individual was more energetic, impassioned, or persistent in creating the American worldview of the second half of this century than Acheson, and although he was not among the original company of American \\"Cold Warriors\\", he quickly made up for his late start with extraordinary enthusiasm, brilliance, and decisive action. In this stirring, comprehensive, and immensely readable biography by historian James Chace, the reader is taken into the fascinating vortex of the wealthy power elite, where we watch with fascination as this child of privilege slowly comes of age, graduating from prestigious Groton Academy and undergraduate studies at Yale, moving on to Harvard Law School, where he was a housemate of Cole Porter's.<br />Acheson indeed quickly learned to walk with ease in the corridors of money, power, and influence, first, as a prot&eacute;g&eacute; of Supreme Court Justice Felix Frankfurter, and then as a close advisor to General George Marshall. He was a friend and confidant to Winston Churchill, and after the war was appointed by Harry Truman to the job of a lifetime, that of Secretary of State from 1949 until 1953, thus achieving the key position he needed to massively influence the key decisions and policies that would shape the post-WWII world. As a consummate man of action who often moved decisively behind the scenes, Acheson executed the Marshall Plan to contain Soviet aggression and influence in Berlin, and was also the principal architect of the so-called Truman Doctrine designed to limit Stalin's expansionist ambitions in the early 1950s. Moreover, he was a driving force in the creation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, or NATO, which ensured military parity in Europe and restrained The Soviet Union in its efforts to export its philosophy and politics to the rest of a Europe still reeling from the effects of the war.<br />The author's portrait of Acheson is not that of an impassioned ideologue seemingly obsessed with single-handedly combating the evils of communism. Quite the contrary, Chace's view of Dean Acheson seems more that of a quite intelligent, thoughtful, and balanced veteran of `realpolitik', i.e., of a brilliantly pragmatic patriot whose enlightened views of the Soviet Union and Communist China quite gradually hardened based both on experience as well as a belated recognition of the horrors of what had transpired in each of those countries both before and during the Second World War. Unfortunately for Acheson, his moderate and realistic views earned him the distrust and repudiation of the far right, and McCarthy and his fellow travelers unfairly branded him as the man \\"who had lost China\\". Acheson later became a much-valued elder statesman who advised Presidents and Senators alike, and he is largely credited with having successfully articulated the policies and strategies that eventually won the Cold War.  This is a quite literate, entertaining, and very informative book about a man central to the construction of the post WWII American foreign policies that literally saved the world from communism. I highly recommend it. Enjoy!oviet Union in its efforts to export its philosophy and politics to the rest of a Europe still reeling from the effects of the war.<br />The author's portrait of Acheson is not that of an impassioned ideologue seemingly obsessed with single-handedly combating the evils of communism. Quite the contrary, Chace's view of Dean Acheson seems more that of a quite intelligent, thoughtful, and balanced veteran of `realpolitik', i.e., of a brilliantly pragmatic patriot whose enlightened views of the Soviet Union and Communist China quite gradually hardened based both on experience as well as a belated recognition of the horrors of what had transpired in each of those countries both before and during the Second World War. Unfortunately for Acheson, his moderate and realistic views earned him the distrust and repudiation of the far right, and McCarthy and his fellow travelers unfairly branded him as the man \\"who had lost China\\". Acheson later became a much-valued elder statesman who advised Presidents and Senators alike, and he is largely credited with having successfully articulated the policies and strategies that eventually won the Cold War.  This is a quite literate, entertaining, and very informative book about a man central to the construction of the post WWII American foreign policies that literally saved the world from communism. I highly recommend it. Enjoy!	2000-10-16
2245541:US	52447634	ROSKH0PX9GSDD	0380713934	971632676	A History of the Twentieth Century: Volume 1, 1900-1933	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	A Masterful Attempt To Describe The Twentieth Century!	British historian and academic Sir Martin Gilbert (knighted by the Queen in 1995) has a well-deserved reputation as one of the most authoritative academics on the subject of the twentieth century, and has written perhaps more prolifically than anyone else on various aspects of this remarkable epoch. Indeed, he has written such a torrent of different books on everything ranging from a multiple volume biography of Sir Winston Churchill to histories of World War One, World War two, that a complete accounting of his efforts would require more space than is available for the review. Thus it should come as no surprise that he has written a three-volume overview of the twentieth century itself. What is so surprising is how engaging, entertaining, and accessible each of the three volumes is to the reader.<br />In this first volume Gilbert masterfully introduces us to the sweep of events beginning at the opening of the century, and we almost immediately understand just how momentous the coming changes must be to sweep away the incredible array of traditional forces present at the turn of the century in 1900.  From the description in the opening pages of the so-called boxer Rebellion in China as the marvelous international cooperation that characterized this multi-country military and diplomatic operation to the narrative explaining the difficulties facing both the newly elected Franklin Delano Roosevelt and the rising Chancellor of Germany, Adolph Hitler, in the depths of the Depression some 33 years later, this is a book that engages the reader in the spectacle of the transformation of our world from everything autocratic, traditional and rigidly controlled to all that became so characteristic of the century thereafter; democratic, irrational, murderous, and wildly chaotic. With an amazing and delightful eye for absorbing detail, Gilbert threads his way through the particular personalities, events and issues as they arise chronologically.<br />This is the one accurate criticism I have read about which may be directed at the book. He does stick fairly much to a faithful chronological narrative. Yet, given the plethora of events, issues, personalities and changes occurring throughout the world, any other organization would suffer from other problems such as maintaining context for the reader, so one can appreciate all that faced a particular leader in a given situation. Understanding how the multitudes of actors, issues, and countries are involved and intertwined lends itself to better comprehension, at least in this reviewer's mind. After all, it is mind-boggling to understand in the last hundred years the western world transformed itself in almost every dimension imaginable; technological, scientific, social, economic, and philosophical. To attempt to do justice to this wide panoply of revolutionary change requires a certain perspective and rigorous discipline to do so, especially in the 3,000 or so pages allotted to the overall work.<br />The narrative herein works its way fatefully through the events leading up the First World War, guiding us through the tragedy of this most unnecessary of wars, and shows us how the various national interests and ideologies involved not only during the war but in its aftermath set the stage for what follows. One is struck by how masterfully Gilbert threads his way through this most essential lesson of history; i.e., how the past and what it holds profoundly sets the stage and writes the script for all that follows. From China to Berlin, from Sarajevo to Washington, from Gallipoli to Paris, we follow the story of our own century as it unfolds, and the act of finishing this particular volume only whets one's appetite for the next volume, which covers the era from the Depression of the 1930s through the epic events of the Second World War and the world that conflict created up into the 1950s.Enjoy!cism I have read about which may be directed at the book. He does stick fairly much to a faithful chronological narrative. Yet, given the plethora of events, issues, personalities and changes occurring throughout the world, any other organization would suffer from other problems such as maintaining context for the reader, so one can appreciate all that faced a particular leader in a given situation. Understanding how the multitudes of actors, issues, and countries are involved and intertwined lends itself to better comprehension, at least in this reviewer's mind. After all, it is mind-boggling to understand in the last hundred years the western world transformed itself in almost every dimension imaginable; technological, scientific, social, economic, and philosophical. To attempt to do justice to this wide panoply of revolutionary change requires a certain perspective and rigorous discipline to do so, especially in the 3,000 or so pages allotted to the overall work.<br />The narrative herein works its way fatefully through the events leading up the First World War, guiding us through the tragedy of this most unnecessary of wars, and shows us how the various national interests and ideologies involved not only during the war but in its aftermath set the stage for what follows. One is struck by how masterfully Gilbert threads his way through this most essential lesson of history; i.e., how the past and what it holds profoundly sets the stage and writes the script for all that follows. From China to Berlin, from Sarajevo to Washington, from Gallipoli to Paris, we follow the story of our own century as it unfolds, and the act of finishing this particular volume only whets one's appetite for the next volume, which covers the era from the Depression of the 1930s through the epic events of the Second World War and the world that conflict created up into the 1950s.Enjoy!	2000-10-15
2246733:US	52447634	R31NA77I4MF5NG	0195091906	858914852	America Divided: The Civil War of the 1960s	Books	5	38	42	N	Y	Accurate, Comprehensive, &amp; masterful Overview of the 1960s!	It is often said that history is written by the victors, meaning, I suppose, that the particular  interpretation recorded for posterity reflects the ideology and perspective of those dominating forces successful in the particular struggle a particular historical treatment covers. Of course, such a self-serving interpretation may in fact vary wildly from anything like an accurate accounting of the actual unfolding of events and issues. Nowhere in contemporary society is such an inaccurate, disingenuous, and self-serving  revisionist tendency likely as in the coverage and reflection on the events and issues of the sixties counterculture. Many recent tomes purport the times in such a solipsistic and self-serving fashion as to turn the truth on its very head. Yet all that is corrected in this wonderful overview of the momentous events and social, economic, and political issues as characterized the sixties. In \\"America Divided\\", a fascinating work comparing the deep and dangerous divisions within American society to those of the Civil War a hundred years before, authors Maurice Isserman and Michael Kazin accurately describe and explain the complex forces that seemed to strain the social fabric to the point of near-revolution and widespread violence in the streets.<br />The authors carefully avoid the twin mistakes of either overly romanticizing the perspectives, ideas, and issues of the youthful counter culturists to epic proportions on the one hand, or of summarily dismissing them as silly and superficial on the other hand, as is often the case with neo-conservative revisionists who would have us believe the manifest troubles of contemporary America stem primarily from the permissiveness of the counterculture rather than admit it is much more likely the result of massive and constant dislocations associated with scientific and technological change that is threatening the core values and mores of American culture. This book faithfully retraces and integrates the various strands running through the sixties into a seamless historical narrative that renders one of the most sophisticated, articulate, and accurate interpretations of a decade that left those of us who lived through it breathless and yet strangely unable to describe it to anyone who had not shared the experience.<br />After reading the book, one remembers that those times were indeed characterized by great complexity, diversity, and incredible intellectual ferment and debate. Other recent accounts that blame the counterculture for the contemporary cultural malaise overlook the amazing diversity and intense ongoing dialogue that often degenerated into violent confrontation, whether it be over free speech, civil rights, Vietnam, or the perfidy of the power elite comprised of multinational corporations and big government. This book is a compelling, immensely readable, and quite entertaining work, and one that brilliantly achieves its objective by accurately describing, explaining, and integrating the intricate patchwork of events, issues, and perspectives that made the sixties decade so vital and so unique on recent American history. As with the Civil War, we are unlikely to see its like again. Those of us who remember it as a time of pitch and moment regret it, though clearly other more constipated and conservative voices hardly agree. Read this one before the nattering nabobs of negativity at the helm of the media succeed in explaining it all away.ous strands running through the sixties into a seamless historical narrative that renders one of the most sophisticated, articulate, and accurate interpretations of a decade that left those of us who lived through it breathless and yet strangely unable to describe it to anyone who had not shared the experience.<br />After reading the book, one remembers that those times were indeed characterized by great complexity, diversity, and incredible intellectual ferment and debate. Other recent accounts that blame the counterculture for the contemporary cultural malaise overlook the amazing diversity and intense ongoing dialogue that often degenerated into violent confrontation, whether it be over free speech, civil rights, Vietnam, or the perfidy of the power elite comprised of multinational corporations and big government. This book is a compelling, immensely readable, and quite entertaining work, and one that brilliantly achieves its objective by accurately describing, explaining, and integrating the intricate patchwork of events, issues, and perspectives that made the sixties decade so vital and so unique on recent American history. As with the Civil War, we are unlikely to see its like again. Those of us who remember it as a time of pitch and moment regret it, though clearly other more constipated and conservative voices hardly agree. Read this one before the nattering nabobs of negativity at the helm of the media succeed in explaining it all away.	2000-10-14
2254500:US	52447634	RLEWN3NBWP1PU	0520215117	427097161	Choosing War: The Lost Chance for Peace and the Escalation of War in Vietnam	Books	5	42	52	N	Y	Scathing &amp; Illuminating Examination Of Why Vietnam....	This fascinating, extremely readable, and carefully researched book by historian Frederik Logevall has an intriguing thesis closely paralleling that of several other emerging scholars regarding the origins and prosecution of the Vietnam War. Like David Kaiser's provocative indictment in \\"American Tragedy; Kennedy, Johnson, &amp; The Origins Of The Vietnam War\\" of both the military and civilian advisors to Presidents Eisenhower, Kennedy, and Johnson, the author presents a damning and quite convincing stream of evidence proving that it was in fact a series of individuals like Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara, Secretary of Defense Dean Rusk, and General William Westmoreland who arrogantly chose to pursue a war that many around them actively questioned and discouraged. The author's careful research shows a flood of documentary evidence indicating that these people and a number of like-minded others, deliberately chose to prosecute a war for which they had good reason to believe would not likely succeed.<br />Unlike Kaiser in his excellent book, Professor Logevall chooses to concentrate impressively on a critical eighteen-month period spanning from the summer of 1963 to the early winter of 1965, and the fateful steps taken during that period toward a policy of escalation and direct involvement of American combat units. The author contends that any one of a number of important opportunities to step aside were deliberately ignored, often based on important information provided by key insiders such as McNamara. As the record also shows, this information was anything but the disinterested and objective assessment of the political, economic, and military situation on the ground in South Vietnam it was presented as. In this sense both President Kennedy and President Johnson were victims of a quite deliberate campaign of misinformation and self-serving worst-case analysis by Rusk, McNamara, and Westmoreland.<br />It was in such a poisonous and duplicitous environment that Lyndon Johnson made a fateful series of decisions to escalate the war by \\"Americanizing\\" it, something Kennedy before him had quite insistently denied permission to do. The author also argues quite persuasively that both Kennedy and Johnson had stepped away from opportunities for disengaging from the involvement in Vietnam for domestic political reasons, including a concern with being seen as \\"soft\\" on communism in the period preceding the coming national elections of 1964. This is substantiated by Johnson's actions after Kennedy's assassination; while secretly initiating actions to escalate the war, Johnson self-consciously campaigned saying exactly the opposite. He understood the potential firestorm American involvement could have for both liberal and conservative criticism, and was therefore careful to mitigate his vulnerability by neutralizing it as a political factor until after the Presidential elections of 1964.<br />Likewise, once committed to a policy of massive American participation in the war, Johnson feared the personal consequences both domestically and internationally were he to decide to withdraw and admit defeat. Yet world leaders almost uniformly distanced themselves from American involvement, and privately counseled Johnson to \\"cut and run\\". In addition, Johnson's own lack of appreciation for the potential damage our involvement in Vietnam might have on international relations resulted in a number of lost opportunities for d&eacute;tente and improvement in relations with both the Soviet Union and China. Based on his own personal frailties and the bad counsel of both his military and civilian advisors, he pursued the single most disastrous course imaginable; further escalation, condemning not only his own domestic program but nearly 60,000 American soldiers to untimely (and absolutely unnecessary) death.<br />This is am intriguing, insightful, and important book, and the author writes both in an entertaining and accessible style. He mirrors the evidence presented in other recent books such as the aforementioned Kaiser tome, and also in Major H.R. McMaster's absorbing recent book, \\"Dereliction Of Duty; Lyndon Johnson, Robert McNamara, The Joint Chiefs Of Staff, And The Lies That Led to Vietnam\\", and handily helps to put the lie to the kind of neo-revisionist saber-rattling of armchair conservatives like Michael Lind ( one wonders if Lind was ever in the military; or if he is a &quot;George W. Bush&quot; kind of born-again macho clebrant of combat who has never had a shot fired at him, an armchair enthusiast who cheered from the sidelines as a passive noncombatant member of the Texas Air National Guard). Gee, let's fly planes over the vacant Texas tundra and we can call ourselves patriots! Lind would have us believe this was all God's work in his silly and wrong-headed narrative \\"The Necessary War\\". Since he was likely still in his nappies when the firestorm was raining all over the heads of the more than half million uneducated, largely blue-collar men and women we deployed at any one time to Vietnam, I wonder how he would know. Did he read about it at Yale? &quot;Choosing War&quot;, on the other hand, is an excellent and carefully crafted work of scholarship, and one that helps to nail together a much more comprehensive understanding of how it was we were so badly and quite unnecessarily led into this most unfortunate of American wars.ce presented in other recent books such as the aforementioned Kaiser tome, and also in Major H.R. McMaster's absorbing recent book, \\"Dereliction Of Duty; Lyndon Johnson, Robert McNamara, The Joint Chiefs Of Staff, And The Lies That Led to Vietnam\\", and handily helps to put the lie to the kind of neo-revisionist saber-rattling of armchair conservatives like Michael Lind ( one wonders if Lind was ever in the military; or if he is a &quot;George W. Bush&quot; kind of born-again macho clebrant of combat who has never had a shot fired at him, an armchair enthusiast who cheered from the sidelines as a passive noncombatant member of the Texas Air National Guard). Gee, let's fly planes over the vacant Texas tundra and we can call ourselves patriots! Lind would have us believe this was all God's work in his silly and wrong-headed narrative \\"The Necessary War\\". Since he was likely still in his nappies when the firestorm was raining all over the heads of the more than half million uneducated, largely blue-collar men and women we deployed at any one time to Vietnam, I wonder how he would know. Did he read about it at Yale? &quot;Choosing War&quot;, on the other hand, is an excellent and carefully crafted work of scholarship, and one that helps to nail together a much more comprehensive understanding of how it was we were so badly and quite unnecessarily led into this most unfortunate of American wars.	2000-10-08
2254654:US	52447634	R2L27GGVCZ53K2	0809089068	518265730	Strange Victory: Hitler's Conquest of France	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	Interesting &amp; Well-Written Look At Fall Of France in 1940	Much of what Harvard historian Ernest May presents in this fascinating and well written book detailing the amazing circumstances surrounding the inexplicably quick defeat of the Allied forces in France at the hands of the Wehrmacht in May and June 0f 1940 is beyond dispute; numerically and technologically the combined forces of the French, British and other forces outgunned and overshadowed their Nazi opponents. Yet in terms of leadership, military philosophy, and a resident willingness to face the true nature of the threat that faced them, they were miserably much more deficient. In this masterfully argued book, Professor May chooses to place most of the stress for this stunning reversal of fortune on the shoulders of the admittedly inept leadership and lack of imagination of the Allied leaders, both military and political.<br />While such an interpretation is indeed hard to argue with, stressing it so prominently tends to belie a welter of complex interacting factors that the author gives short shrift to. For example, anyone familiar with other excellent books detailing the quick defeat and capitulation of the Allied forces such as William Shirer's \\"The Fall Of The Third Republic\\" or Phillipe Burrin's \\"France Under The Germans\\" understands the massive effect of other salient factors in the collapse of the third republic and the allied forces, factors including reluctance to produce war materials in the midst of the Depression's deprivations, the deeply painful and heartfelt memories associated with the possibility of repeating another bloodbath like that of the \\"Great War\\", and the sheer fact that most of the civilized intelligentsia throughout Europe, including those in Germany itself, believed that only a madman would start another such holocaust. Indeed, William Shirer actually lived in both Paris and Berlin during the period in question, and his own explanation of what happened and why is much more complex than is Professor May's. By the way, the fact that Hitler was indeed such a psychopath was not as clear then as it is in retrospect. Therefore, in my opinion, simply laying the blame on the Allies' admittedly execrable failures in leadership and amazing lack of imagination is a reductionistic exercise in describing some quite necessary but certainly not sufficient conditions to explain the stunning reversal the quick Nazi victory represented.<br />All of these factors as well as a general failure of nerve and a shameful moral cowardice on the part of the leaders led to a general discounting of the horrific possibility of another war. This isn't to quibble with the accuracy of the extensive research in the book, nor to take issue with its entertaining and edifying narrative. Rather, it is to contest the author's unnecessarily narrow attribution of cause to the obvious aspects of failures in both civic and military leadership. One need not go far from the case at hand to demonstrate how important factors other than leadership are in determining the outcome of military confrontation. For example, the debacle in Russia during the first year of Operation Barbarossa is largely attributable to a massive failure of imaginative leadership. In many ways one can persuasively argue that the failure of Soviet leadership from Stalin down were far more catastrophic in terms of the defeats and loss of life (given conservative estimates of 6 to 8 million men lost the first year alone) than those in France. Yet the Soviets persevered, often in spite of the terribly inept leadership of the purge-ravaged officer corps of the Soviet military.<br />Clearly, then, there is more to such terrible defeats than a question of leadership. None of this is intended to minimize the value of the book, but rather to pre-warn the reader that the author appears to have an ulterior motive in mind when drawing out his quite persuasive argument. This becomes apparent as he draws some quite stunning parallels between the mindset of the Allied leaders and ourown increasingly complacent military trends of our times; for example, the reliance on technological edges, our curious aversion to recognizing casualties are an integral aspect of military operations (a la Kosovo), and the stupefying delays and deferrals contemporary politicians make while searching desperately for easy political solutions to obvious military situations. In this I agree with his conclusions concerning the lessons to be drawn from the fall of France.<br />Indeed, if we are to learn anything from history, it is that the single best way to forestall massive military engagements one must be willing to act quickly and decisively to convince potential foes the risk isn't worth the possible gains. As the late George Santayana said, \\"those who do not learn the lessons of history are condemned to repeat them\\". To think otherwise is to court the same kinds of disastrous delusions and wishful thinking that led to the \\"strange victory\\" described in the book. Still, Professor May argues (unnecessarily in my opinion) on behalf of an overly simplistic interpretation of the circumstances surrounding the fall of France. Surely any student of the Allies'disastrously consistent acts of appeasement of Chancellor Hitler action in the late 1930s understands the dangers inherent in such a policy. As the good professor contends, it would be even more dangerous for us to not take heed of the lessons he has laid out so clearly for our considerable edification. Enjoy!our own increasingly complacent military trends of our times; for example, the reliance on technological edges, our curious aversion to recognizing casualties are an integral aspect of military operations (a la Kosovo), and the stupefying delays and deferrals contemporary politicians make while searching desperately for easy political solutions to obvious military situations. In this I agree with his conclusions concerning the lessons to be drawn from the fall of France. <br />Indeed, if we are to learn anything from history, it is that the single best way to forestall massive military engagements one must be willing to act quickly and decisively to convince potential foes the risk isn't worth the possible gains. As the late George Santayana said, \\"those who do not learn the lessons of history are condemned to repeat them\\". To think otherwise is to court the same kinds of disastrous delusions and wishful thinking that led to the \\"strange victory\\" described in the book. Still, Professor May argues (unnecessarily in my opinion) on behalf of an overly simplistic interpretation of the circumstances surrounding the fall of France. Surely any student of the Allies'disastrously consistent acts of appeasement of Chancellor Hitler action in the late 1930s understands the dangers inherent in such a policy. As the good professor contends, it would be even more dangerous for us to not take heed of the lessons he has laid out so clearly for our considerable edification. Enjoy!	2000-10-08
2254752:US	52447634	R2EX9QMIIMWY2I	0679748199	79113792	Voltaire's Bastards: The Dictatorship of Reason in the West	Books	5	32	40	N	Y	Scathing Diatribe Against Post-Modern Rationalism	This intellectual tour-de-force by author John Ralston Saul comes quite close to mirroring my own beliefs regarding the massive, corrosive effects of the increasing domination of so-called rational thought in post-modern culture. Saul traces with both scathing sarcasm and incredible acumen the ways in which this insidious set of precepts and notions surrounding our rational word view informs our every action, behavior and disposition, and acts to rob us of a much wider and deeper set of understandings, interpretations, and recognitions regarding the world around us and our place in it. He engages in a wide-ranging analysis of contemporary society, turning all our closely-held ideals on their heads by critically examining the contexts in which these notions arose in the first place.<br />He shows that although we describe ourselves in terms of individual freedom, we in fact live (quite unnecessarily) in a stringently conformist culture. While everyone from industrialists to government leaders to software gurus describe themselves as capitalist entrepreneurs, relatively few individuals have the power or latitude to act with any independence outside the limited confines of their highly structured organizational hierarchies. Indeed, while we debate passionately about the intrinsic power of Adam Smith's invisible hand of the market and the corollary power of market competition, in actuality there is little true competition found in the market place. We studiously ignore, for example, the many ways in which modern commerce is aided, abetted, and subsidized by federal, state, and local governments, such that these hardy entrepreneurs are given advantages as corporate entities that no individual citizen shares. Around us institutions traditionally key to past success and growth are now each stumbling and progressively failing even in this time of great prosperity and corporate wealth.<br />Most interesting is the way in which Saul traces the blind faith we have come to place in the intrinsic value of reason as a guiding force, and in the corallary importance of what we have come to call \\"progress', which is usually defined in material terms,; more bread, more clothing, better shelter. etc. The author argues persuasively that this poorly constructed edifice of reason has no moral force, and in fact is no more than an administrative method designed to promote effectiveness and efficiency. In this way, tied to the rigors of math and science, we have come to view that which is both effective and efficient and somehow signifying a higher order of truth rather than recognizing it is simply a very useful operational approach toward accomplishing quite complex tasks. In this sense, we have come confuse effectiveness and efficiency on the one hand with the good and the true on the other, and Saul illustrates just how grievous such an intellectual and philosophical error this is. According to the author, this confusion had transformed western civilization into a vast, incomprehensible, directionless machine, run by what he terms to be process-oriented experts, or as he names them, \\"Voltaire's bastards\\".<br />Anyone doubting the veracity of this view is invited to try to argue any truth about any subject without recourse to the exclusive use of rational proof or scientific protocols, but first take fair warning; you will laughed off the stage. Trying to use any other sort of argument will be summarily dismissed as nothing more than subjective nonsense. Our culture has come to the point where rational discourse is now seen as the only legitimate discourse allowed or taken seriously. Recourse to arguments regarding tradition, values, or &quot;common sense&quot; have no currency. More to the point, non-rational (as opposed to irrational) modes of understanding are simply no longer tolerated; no longer do we even pay lip service to the idea of moral responsibility to the poor or the unfortunate. We may be good scientists, but in the fact of being sosingularly bound to the characteristic rational perspective associated with rational thought, we are much less worldly, experienced, tolerant, or understanding human beings as a result. Indeed, the inevitable result of all this is that we have a much less comprehensive and much more constrained reality paradigm to use to perceive, interpret, and understand the world outside us with. As Saul remarks, we may have immense technological power, yet we dwell increasingly in an unimaginative and illusory world whose dimensions are restricted to all things rational.  Welcome to our brave new world!so singularly bound to the characteristic rational perspective associated with rational thought, we are much less worldly, experienced, tolerant, or understanding human beings as a result. Indeed, the inevitable result of all this is that we have a much less comprehensive and much more constrained reality paradigm to use to perceive, interpret, and understand the world outside us with. As Saul remarks, we may have immense technological power, yet we dwell increasingly in an unimaginative and illusory world whose dimensions are restricted to all things rational.  Welcome to our brave new world!	2000-10-08
2260006:US	52447634	R24QVH3O73HTQV	0688166318	648621291	Hitler's Silent Partners: Swiss Banks, Nazi Gold, And The Pursuit Of Justice	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Absorbing Description Of Swiss Complicity In The Holocaust!	In this fascinating, well-researched and highly accessible book, journalist Isabel Vincent more than adequately covers the mind-boggling spectacle of the selfishness, inhumanity, and well-organized corruption of the European fellow travelers of the Nazis, who aided and abetted the progress of Germany's preparations for and later prosecution of the Second World War. Far from being the nonaligned neutral countries they claimed to be, Swiss, Portuguese, and other bankers and financers from supposedly neutral countries unscrupulously served the insidious purposes of the Third Reich by dealing with the ill-gotten goods extorted from displaced Jews, the gold bullion of the conquered countries, and the stolen art work looted from all of Europe. One finds it hard to comprehend the degree to which the Swiss in particular deliberately decided to collude with the Nazis in accepting gold in exchange for the hard currency the Germans needed to finance the war effort it began to prepare for in the 1930s.<br />Although the author's writing style is somewhat limited, and her approach to relating critical historical events seems a bit trivial and oversimplified, the story she tells distracts one from such minor drawbacks to the book. I also found myself wondering how much of an earnest research effort the author made, as she has a tendency to quote a few authors extensively, and attributes all the quotes from each of them to a single book, such as \\"Rise And Fall Of The Third Reich\\". She also tends to repeat herself unnecessarily, and uses one particular quote from one of the protagonists on the book cover, again in the narrative a few times, and then yet again in a newspaper clipping used as part of the photo section describing Holocaust survivor Renee Lang. Yet all this seems more the result of limited experience and poor editing than anything else. Again, given the riveting story she has to tell, using first person recollection, one finds a great deal of well organized information here regarding the cupidity and deviousness of the Swiss in giving dissembling and dishonest answers for decades about the stolen treasures and life savings of so many displaced and murdered Jews still stored in Swiss bank vaults. The sad story of how and why the Swiss were allowed to get away with one of the most profitable crimes of the century makes for sad but still fascinating reading.<br />  This book is much like another more recent book, \\"Pack Of Thieves\\", by Richard Chesnoff (see my review) in its painstaking description of the varieties of humiliations, dispossessions, and barbarisms perpetrated against European Jews, gypsies and other non-Aryans by the Nazis during their twelve-year reign of terror. To Ms. Vincent's considerable credit, her story is personalized by the use of a single family to tell the tale; and this device helps to bring the unbelievably horrific nature of the persecution of the Jews into bold relief. This is a book that tells a cautionary and still topical true story well, and is one that reminds us that human beings are capable of almost anything, from the wonderful acts of personal courage she often describes and attributes to specific named individuals based both on personal recollections and eye-witness accounts as well as a number of interviews with Holocaust survivors who were kind enough to share their stories with her. I recommend this book for anyone interested in the detailed history of how Swiss, Portuguese, and other bankers avoided repatriation of billions of dollars worth of money, gold bullion, and art treasures stolen from displaced and murdered Jews during the Holocaust.n here regarding the cupidity and deviousness of the Swiss in giving dissembling and dishonest answers for decades about the stolen treasures and life savings of so many displaced and murdered Jews still stored in Swiss bank vaults. The sad story of how and why the Swiss were allowed to get away with one of the most profitable crimes of the century makes for sad but still fascinating reading. <br />   This book is much like another more recent book, \\"Pack Of Thieves\\", by Richard Chesnoff (see my review) in its painstaking description of the varieties of humiliations, dispossessions, and barbarisms perpetrated against European Jews, gypsies and other non-Aryans by the Nazis during their twelve-year reign of terror. To Ms. Vincent's considerable credit, her story is personalized by the use of a single family to tell the tale; and this device helps to bring the unbelievably horrific nature of the persecution of the Jews into bold relief. This is a book that tells a cautionary and still topical true story well, and is one that reminds us that human beings are capable of almost anything, from the wonderful acts of personal courage she often describes and attributes to specific named individuals based both on personal recollections and eye-witness accounts as well as a number of interviews with Holocaust survivors who were kind enough to share their stories with her. I recommend this book for anyone interested in the detailed history of how Swiss, Portuguese, and other bankers avoided repatriation of billions of dollars worth of money, gold bullion, and art treasures stolen from displaced and murdered Jews during the Holocaust.	2000-10-04
2263378:US	52447634	R2VIQBJD16EEW9	068485628X	996959617	The Victors: Eisenhower and His Boys: The Men of World War II	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	Wonderful Overview of Americans Helping Liberate Europe!	No one has been more prolific or entertaining in his efforts to bring the gritty, unit-level personal experiences of the Allied drive from Normandy into Germany to the public's attention than Stephen Ambrose. In his series of books including &quot;D-Day: June 6, 1944: The Climactic Battle of World War Two&quot;, &quot;Citizen Soldiers&quot;, &quot;Band Of Brothers&quot;, and the present book, &quot;The Victors&quot;, he has masterfully employed a little-known treasure trove of personal interviews with thousands of Allied soldiers to marshal an absolutely absorbing, captivating, and insightful treatise on the nature of combat as experienced by the men and women in the forefront of action as it transpired all along the front.<br />In this volume he uses vignettes and stories told in the other books mentioned above to weave an overall summary of the American soldier's experience in the eleven-month struggle to liberate Europe. He includes stories of individual battles, personal privations, acts of individual sacrifice and surprising courage, and in doing so with these true accounts of men in battle weaves a tale depicting the unbelievable human cost of the war. This book, as with the others, brings the life of a soldier into bold relief, and relates the spellbinding story of men in combat in a way made more vivid, vital, and personal than is possible in any other way. By filling the pages with men we comes to know better than in his other books, we watch with amazement as they moved into free fire zones where anything that moves dies, and in the process Ambrose paints an indelible portrait of the unbelievable madness of war.<br />This is a story that should be told again and again, so we never forget what it took to take back Europe from the beasts who first stole it so savagely, of the men who died on the beaches, who fell for freedom in the surrounding countryside, all to prepare for those like this company of ordinary men who relentlessly pushed deeper and deeper into the interior of France, finally pushing the battered and beaten Germans all the way back to Berlin. This was the single greatest adventure of the 20th century, an epic struggle in which millions of Brits, Canadians, Australians, Frenchmen, and Americans took back by force of arms the liberty and freedom that had been wrested away from the mainland so cruelly four years before. This, then, is the story of how that crusade to liberate Europe unfolded through the personal experiences of a small group of American soldiers.<br />Mr. Ambrose has become a virtual cottage industry in the World War Two section of your local bookstore, while he has also published works such as his recent best seller on explorers Lewis and Clark. Meanwhile, he has become phenomenally successful because many of his books have captured the public's imagination by being so readable, entertaining, and informative. While popular success doesn't always equate to critical worthiness, in his case it consistently seems to. This is a wonderfully worthwhile, eminently researched, exhaustively documented, and superbly narrated book on the most historic struggle in the long and painful struggle to finally liberate Europe. Enjoy!into the interior of France, finally pushing the battered and beaten Germans all the way back to Berlin. This was the single greatest adventure of the 20th century, an epic struggle in which millions of Brits, Canadians, Australians, Frenchmen, and Americans took back by force of arms the liberty and freedom that had been wrested away from the mainland so cruelly four years before. This, then, is the story of how that crusade to liberate Europe unfolded through the personal experiences of a small group of American soldiers.      <br />Mr. Ambrose has become a virtual cottage industry in the World War Two section of your local bookstore, while he has also published works such as his recent best seller on explorers Lewis and Clark. Meanwhile, he has become phenomenally successful because many of his books have captured the public's imagination by being so readable, entertaining, and informative. While popular success doesn't always equate to critical worthiness, in his case it consistently seems to. This is a wonderfully worthwhile, eminently researched, exhaustively documented, and superbly narrated book on the most historic struggle in the long and painful struggle to finally liberate Europe. Enjoy!	2000-10-01
2263804:US	52447634	R33RNW9KX6FME7	0060929081	900958788	Dereliction of Duty: Johnson, McNamara, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the Lies That Led to Vietnam	Books	5	24	30	N	N	Dereliction of Duty : Johnson, McNamara, the Joint Chiefs of	In a book that predates and yet closely parallels the important new work by David Kaiser on the same subject, career military historian H.R. McMaster masterfully indicts both the Pentagon and the civilian leadership for leading us into the Vietnam War in an interesting, provocative, and well-written work of careful scholarship. By doing so he, like Kaiser, has raised the level of intellectual discussion regarding the origins and prosecution of the war in Vietnam. Interestingly, this  West Point graduate and career soldier who is also a well-credentialed historian, places blame for American involvement in Vietnam squarely on the shoulders of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and their civilian counterparts like Robert McNamara and Dean Rusk. Also like Kaiser's book, it is a worthy companion piece to David Halberstam's memorable book, \\"The Best And The Brightest\\", in the fact that it argues that it was a number of specific individuals within the upper reaches of the military and civilian establishment within the government operating with their own personal credos, private agendas, and belief systems that led to the deepening involvement in Southeast Asian affairs.<br />Using newly available archival and other historical materials, the author argues quite persuasively that both John Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson were seriously misled and mis-served as to the status of ongoing efforts through obfuscations and deliberate deception on the part of individuals such as Dean Rusk, William Westmoreland, and Robert McNamara, the Secretary of Defense in both Kennedy's and Johnson's administration (see my review of McNamara's book).  Thus, Kennedy died in late 1963 believing the situation in Vietnam to be much more constrained and careful than it actually was. With Kennedy's departure from the scene in late 1963, events began to move much more quickly and fatefully toward our blind involvement in a situation we neither appreciated the complexity of nor had any real strategy to deal with. In this sense, Lyndon Johnson became the unwitting dupe of self-interested efforts on the part of Rusk, McNamara, and the Joint Chiefs to massively escalate the war, eventually employing over half a million men in country to try to defeat the communist insurgency.<br />At each step of the way along the tortuous route into and the quagmire of Vietnam, a quite deliberate campaign of self-serving lies and deceptions was used to deliberately and callously escalate a war that many privately understood could never be meaningfully won. This is a wonderfully written book, and the author's no-nonsense narrative style is lends itself well to debunking the notion that the military were caught in a bind by civilians like Rusk and McNamara. On the contrary, they were willing and often-enthusiastic co-conspirators in the single most disastrous series of military decisions ever made by this country. McMaster writes with authority and candor, and deals with a whole range of issues, complexions, and countervailing situations with aplomb, honesty and verve. He makes the otherwise inexplicable series of decisions to descend into the national madness of the Vietnam War all too understandable and human. And while he does not specifically broach the issue, I still believe that Robert McNamara, General William Westmoreland, and a number of others should be tried as war criminals for crimes against humanity; after all, otherwise to try Serbians and Croats for their detestable deeds in the former Yugoslavia is utter hypocrisy), I believe this book will quickly become one of the standard texts for helping us to understand how the ritual abuse of power by officials not democratically elected can itself become an anti-democratic force profoundly affecting not only the lives of our citizens, but people everywhere in the developing world.<br />Hopefully books like this will help us to come to understand and accept the reality of what the American government did in our name to Vietnam. We need to understand how we came to export our darkest emotional suspicions and a sense of national paranoia about a monolithic communist threat into an incredibly murderous campaign that almost exterminated a whole generation of Vietnamese by way of indiscriminate carpet bombing, deliberate use of environmentally horrific defoliates, and creation of so-called &quot;free-fire&quot; zones, where everything and anything moving was assumed to be hostile, whether it be man, woman, child, or beast. All of this was visited on the world in general and the Vietnamese in particular for little or no reason other than the extremely aggressive and ultimately dangerous can-do macho world-view of the power elite. The sooner we recognize this, the better it will be for us as citizens of a democratic government, and the more likely it is we will stop the next set of so- inclined bureaucratic monsters from acting in this way again.to understand how we came to export our darkest emotional suspicions and a sense of national paranoia about a monolithic communist threat into an incredibly murderous campaign that almost exterminated a whole generation of Vietnamese by way of indiscriminate carpet bombing, deliberate use of environmentally horrific defoliates, and creation of so-called &quot;free-fire&quot; zones, where everything and anything moving was assumed to be hostile, whether it be man, woman, child, or beast. All of this was visited on the world in general and the Vietnamese in particular for little or no reason other than the extremely aggressive and ultimately dangerous can-do macho world-view of the power elite. The sooner we recognize this, the better it will be for us as citizens of a democratic government, and the more likely it is we will stop the next set of so- inclined bureaucratic monsters from acting in this way again.	2000-10-01
2265855:US	52447634	R2CYMVXG4MVDJH	1585670138	487265671	The Pied Piper's Poison	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Spellbinding First Novel About Man's Inhumanity To Man!	In this spectacular, spellbinding, ethereal, macabre, and uneasy novel, a young Scottish doctor makes a journey of discovery, and what a wild trip it is! The young doctor takes a guided tour through the hell of postwar Europe, and with each step is sucked inexorably deeper into the human quagmire and deeper into discovering just how eternal man's inhumanity to man is.  Set initially amid the rubble and ruins of postwar Berlin, with its mingling minions of desperate homeless, then moving on to all too typically horrifying war camp in the mud, decay, and filth of bombed-out post war Poland, the protagonist peals off selective layers of civilized behavior and mystery as he delves deeply into the human psyche and what makes man so consistently barbaric to his fellows. We learn quite quickly along with this young doctor the dangerous and deadly complexities of existence, and learn, to our horror, just how terrible and shocking this complexity can be. And thus the ceremony of innocence is drowned.<br />What the doctor discovers transpiring in the damp and dusky cellars of this wretched estate turned internment camp is surprising, shocking, illuminating, and provocative, and endlessly fascinating because one is often convinced that one thing is happening while on another level it appears that something quite different is actually transpiring. And yet these false leads often turn out not to be so false, or so clear cut, or so easy to either prove or discount. There is a powerful, intelligent and irresistible energy driving the narrative that spins you along despite your mounting trepidation as to where all this is leading you.<br />This is a whopper of a first novel, and one that works by flipping back and forth between the present day and a quite revealing and similar incident that occurred at the end of the Thirty Years War several centuries before. What author Christopher Wallace is really taking us on here, however, appears to be a express subway ride back down into the heart of human darkness, and what we see when we arrive is hard to describe, so dark and tentative are the shadows we can recognize. But what we see horrifies us.<br />This is a great book and a great read, and a terrific effort for someone entering the fray with their first novel. I read it very quickly and set it aside for another reading some weekend soon. I hope you can find yourself a copy and read it before it disappears from view. Believe me, this is not the last you will hear of this Wallace fellow! And by the way, what a wonderful property for a sophisticated and intelligent suspense/horror movie. Enjoy!he heart of human darkness, and what we see when we arrive is hard to describe, so dark and tentative are the shadows we can recognize. But what we see horrifies us. <br />This is a great book and a great read, and a terrific effort for someone entering the fray with their first novel. I read it very quickly and set it aside for another reading some weekend soon. I hope you can find yourself a copy and read it before it disappears from view. Believe me, this is not the last you will hear of this Wallace fellow! And by the way, what a wonderful property for a sophisticated and intelligent suspense/horror movie. Enjoy!	2000-09-29
2266078:US	52447634	R2855JKSG1FVWH	0805047344	453534220	The First World War: A Complete History	Books	5	21	26	N	Y	Masterful Overview Of World War One!	No one has been more acclaimed or prolific in writing about the total scope of twentieth century history than British author and historian Sir Martin Gilbert, who sometimes seems to represent a kind of one-man revival in British historical publication. Here he focuses impressively on the total scope of World War One, from the initiating atmosphere in the various capitals and the precipitating event in Sarajevo, Yugoslavia to the momentous and ill-fated peace negotiations. Indeed, he brings impressive credentials to the task; as the foremost biographer and authority on Winston Churchill, the author of a recent three-volume work on the entire scope of the 20th century, and probably the most noted British academic on the subject. In this one volume work Gilbert displays how comprehensive his knowledge of the all the theaters of the First World War is as well.<br />It is a commonplace that the chief characteristic of the First World War was its numbing futility; indeed, it is sometimes described as a war that settled nothing but transformed everything. Moreover, it momentously ushered out the age of monarchy and introduced the modern era, a time since characterized by startling contrasts, on one hand more popular and democratic, yet on the other hand more frightening and totalitarian. The lives of untold millions were affected by the social, economic, and political changes it forced onto the landscape of the times. The \\"Great War\\" all fatefully presaged the 20th century's subsequent taste for both sweet reason and well as maddening violence. This Great War slowly ground down everything, from four monarchies to countless millions of lives.<br />Gilbert engages here in a painstaking effort to present the facts both exhaustively and comprehensibly, and does so masterfully. While Gilbert's approach cannot be described in what can be referred to as a stirring narrative, it is both entertaining and endlessly informative in aiding the reader in understanding the specifics of how this first great tragedy of our century occurred. In fact, he sometimes is surprisingly brief in describing a particular battle, yet manages to connect all the dots in way that is instrumental in making sense of what otherwise seems to be insane proceedings. One reviewer describes the narrative as a \\"painstaking compilation of fact...that prose advances like the rolling artillery barrages it describes\\". This captures the tone of the writing style and the reading experience perfectly.<br />Yet at the same time he masterfully weaves together a meaningful context in which the political, military, and diplomatic aspects of the conflict are connected in a perspective that always pays compassionate heed to the overall civilian impact of the bloody struggle. As one of the foremost authorities on the 20th century, Gilbert blends the particulars of the war into history as part of the ongoing narrative, placing it in context and making it that much more meaningful. Of particular interest is the way Gilbert uses personal recollections and anecdotal details by individuals to humanize the epic struggle and to bring home the horrific and monstrous scale on which this war brought terror, death and destruction to much of the civilized world. He reminds us with compelling evidence and stirring narratives that people died horribly and needlessly every day during the disastrous, painful, and epic struggle. If you want to better understand what happened during WWI and why it did, this wonderful and admirably comprehensive overview will serve you quite well. Enjoyhow this first great tragedy of our century occurred. In fact, he sometimes is surprisingly brief in describing a particular battle, yet manages to connect all the dots in way that is instrumental in making sense of what otherwise seems to be insane proceedings. One reviewer describes the narrative as a \\"painstaking compilation of fact...that prose advances like the rolling artillery barrages it describes\\". This captures the tone of the writing style and the reading experience perfectly. <br />Yet at the same time he masterfully weaves together a meaningful context in which the political, military, and diplomatic aspects of the conflict are connected in a perspective that always pays compassionate heed to the overall civilian impact of the bloody struggle. As one of the foremost authorities on the 20th century, Gilbert blends the particulars of the war into history as part of the ongoing narrative, placing it in context and making it that much more meaningful. Of particular interest is the way Gilbert uses personal recollections and anecdotal details by individuals to humanize the epic struggle and to bring home the horrific and monstrous scale on which this war brought terror, death and destruction to much of the civilized world. He reminds us with compelling evidence and stirring narratives that people died horribly and needlessly every day during the disastrous, painful, and epic struggle. If you want to better understand what happened during WWI and why it did, this wonderful and admirably comprehensive overview will serve you quite well. Enjoy	2000-09-29
2286317:US	52447634	R36XX3EVBVGZZW	0674002253	288929585	American Tragedy: Kennedy, Johnson, and the Origins of the Vietnam War	Books	5	63	68	N	N	Terrific Entry In Debate Over Responsibility For Vietnam!	In an interesting, provocative, well-written and often very surprising  work of careful scholarship, author David Kaiser has raised the level of  intellectual discussion regarding the origins and prosecution of the war in  Vietnam.  Using a range of new archival materials only now available, he  carefully constructs an intriguing and disturbing portrait of individuals  out of control. In this sense this book is a worthy companion piece to  David Halberstam's memorable book, \\"The Best And The Brightest\\", in the  fact that it argues that it was a number of specific individuals with their  own personal credos, private agendas, and belief systems that led to the  deepening involvement in Southeast Asian affairs.  However, this is not to  suggest that Professor Kaiser either agrees with Halberstam's thesis or to  argue that he has nothing new or worthwhile to reveal. Yet there are  undeniable threads of similarity running through both works. Most  interesting is Kaiser's contention that it was the unique and singular  \\"can-do\\" Yankee spirit and aggressive attitude of the World War Two  generation that directly led to the decisions to interfere in the internal  policies of Vietnam.<br />Unlike previous tomes such as Halberstam's as  well as Stanley Karnow's excellent book, \\"Vietnam\\", that portrayed  President Eisenhower's policies of global containment of communism as  extremely cautious and careful, Kaiser presents a mass of documentary  evidence that reveals that it was precisely those decisions and policy  predispositions established by Eisenhower, including a willingness to use  nuclear weapons tactically, that later led to the fateful moves toward  greater involvement by Lyndon Johnson. Even more interesting, Kaiser  presents evidence by way of policy changes made By President Kennedy  illustrating his own deep concern and reticence regarding involvement in  the former French Indochina. In fact, the author shows that for the three  years of his administration, Kennedy purposefully denied repeated attempts  by both his senior advisors and the military to significantly widen our  action in Vietnam. According to Kaiser, while JFK did allow escalation by  way of many more military advisors, he repeatedly quite specifically  denied, both verbally and by way of documented minutes to meetings with  advisors, authorization to escalate by introducing direct combat  involvement.<br />However, the author argues that even Kennedy was seriously  misled and misserved as to the status of ongoing efforts by deliberate  deception on the part of that great national hero and contemporary  revisionist historian, Robert McNamara, the Secretary of Defense in  Kennedy's administration (see my review of McNamara's book). As a result,  Kennedy died believing the situation in Vietnam to be much more constrained  and careful than it actually was.  With Kennedy's departure from the scene  in late 1963, events began to move much more quickly and fatefully toward  our blind involvement in a situation we neither appreciated the complexity  of nor had any real strategy to deal with. In this sense, Lyndon Johnson  became the single worst possible foil for the efforts by McNamara and Army  General William Westmoreland to massively escalate the war by introducing  forty-four combat battalions to the conflict.<br />According to Kaiser,  Johnson lacked Jack Kennedy's sophisticated foreign policy approach and did  not understand or appreciate the massively negative effects that an active  prosecution of the war would have in our relationship with the rest of the  world.  So, even as he reassured the American people to the contrary,  Lyndon Johnson prepared for a quick and massive entry into the single most  disastrous American foreign policy decision of the 20th century. Later, of  course, he tried to extricate himself from the tar baby the war became for  his administration, yet given his own philosophical world view as a cold  warrior, could never manage to takeHubert Humphrey's advice to \\"just cut  and run'. Likewise, Johnson's successor, Richard Nixon, did no better.  After shamelessly interfering in the internal political disposition of the  South Vietnamese government through Madame Chennault in order to ensure his  place in winning the closely contested 1968 elections, Nixon soon found  himself stuck to the waist in the sucking quicksand of continuing  involvement in the war and a terrifying related national debate approaching  a revolutionary fervor.  He waited four long and painful years before  finally ending American involvement.<br />This is a wonderfully written  book, and the author's style is both entertaining and edifying. He handily  deals with a myriad of issues, complexions, and countervailing situations  with aplomb, honesty and verve. He makes the otherwise inexplicable descent  into national madness and the nightmare of Vietnam all too understandable  and human. While I do not share his personally stated philosophical  resignation regarding the liability of those individuals responsible for  prosecuting the war (I still believe that Robert McNamara, General William  Westmoreland, and a number of others should be tried as war criminals for  crimes against humanity; after all, otherwise to try Serbians and Croats  for their detestable deeds in the former Yugoslavia is utter hypocrisy), I  believe this book will quickly become the standard text for helping us to  understand how the ritual abuse of power by officials not democratically  elected can itself become an anti-democratic force profoundly affecting not  only the lives of our citizens, but people everywhere in the developing  world.<br />Hopefully books like this will help us to come to understand and  accept the reality of what the American government did in our name to  Vietnam. We need to understand how we came to export our darkest emotional  suspicions and a sense of national paranoia about a monolithic communist  threat into an incredibly murderous campaign that almost exterminated a  whole generation of Vietnamese by way of indiscriminate carpet bombing,  deliberate use of environmentally horrific defoliates, and creation of  so-called &quot;free-fire&quot; zones, where everthing and anything moving  was assumed to be hostile, whether it be man, woman, child, or beast. All  of this was visited on the world in general and the Vietnamese in  particular for little or no reason other than the extremely aggressive and  ultimately dangerous can-do macho world-view of the power elite. The sooner  we recognize this, the better it will be for us as citizens of a democratic  government, and the more likely it is we will stop the next set of so-  inclined bureaucratic monsters from acting in this way again.o take Hubert Humphrey's advice to \\"just cut  and run'. Likewise, Johnson's successor, Richard Nixon, did no better.  After shamelessly interfering in the internal political disposition of the  South Vietnamese government through Madame Chennault in order to ensure his  place in winning the closely contested 1968 elections, Nixon soon found  himself stuck to the waist in the sucking quicksand of continuing  involvement in the war and a terrifying related national debate approaching  a revolutionary fervor.  He waited four long and painful years before  finally ending American involvement.   <br />This is a wonderfully written  book, and the author's style is both entertaining and edifying. He handily  deals with a myriad of issues, complexions, and countervailing situations  with aplomb, honesty and verve. He makes the otherwise inexplicable descent  into national madness and the nightmare of Vietnam all too understandable  and human. While I do not share his personally stated philosophical  resignation regarding the liability of those individuals responsible for  prosecuting the war (I still believe that Robert McNamara, General William  Westmoreland, and a number of others should be tried as war criminals for  crimes against humanity; after all, otherwise to try Serbians and Croats  for their detestable deeds in the former Yugoslavia is utter hypocrisy), I  believe this book will quickly become the standard text for helping us to  understand how the ritual abuse of power by officials not democratically  elected can itself become an anti-democratic force profoundly affecting not  only the lives of our citizens, but people everywhere in the developing  world. <br />Hopefully books like this will help us to come to understand and  accept the reality of what the American government did in our name to  Vietnam. We need to understand how we came to export our darkest emotional  suspicions and a sense of national paranoia about a monolithic communist  threat into an incredibly murderous campaign that almost exterminated a  whole generation of Vietnamese by way of indiscriminate carpet bombing,  deliberate use of environmentally horrific defoliates, and creation of  so-called &quot;free-fire&quot; zones, where everthing and anything moving  was assumed to be hostile, whether it be man, woman, child, or beast. All  of this was visited on the world in general and the Vietnamese in  particular for little or no reason other than the extremely aggressive and  ultimately dangerous can-do macho world-view of the power elite. The sooner  we recognize this, the better it will be for us as citizens of a democratic  government, and the more likely it is we will stop the next set of so-  inclined bureaucratic monsters from acting in this way again.	2000-09-12
2286729:US	52447634	R125RD8ZDRMQ4R	0140265473	219042777	Vietnam: A History	Books	5	21	28	N	N	Thorough &amp; Fair-Minded Treatment Of America's War	For those of us of certain age and particular life experience, this book  sounds too much like a quite uncomfortable forced patrol down a very muddy,  torpid, and uncertain memory lane. That said, I must confess that I was  pleasantly surprised when I finally broke down my resolve to avoid reading  it and then devoured this massively documented and carefully researched  book on Vietnam by journalist Stanley Karnow. It is indeed a fair-minded,  comprehensive and well-constructed chronological look at one of the most  ill-fated and unfortunate military efforts in modern American history, and  one holds his  breath in recognizing the risks as we start down that  ineluctable path toward greater and greater commitments of men and material  in a vain effort to force from outside a predetermined political solution  for Vietnam for which there was little of no popular support within the  country itself.<br />As in Korea, the international concerns for providing  separate areas of political influence for both the communists and the  \\"democratic forces\\" at the close of WWII as a practical way of settling  issues with the Soviet Union led to the partitioning of the country. This  ultimately led to the establishment of an innately unstable political  situation that by being both arbitrary and locally unpopular literally  begged at indigenous attempts to alter the modus vivendi. As a result,  through our lack of understanding and our arrogance, we consistently  insisted on various courses of actions that were not only indifferent to  the actual politics of the area, but were deaf, dumb, and blind to the ways  in which such actions inevitably served to progressively alienate us from  the indigenous people and their strong and quite insistent political will.<br />From the beginning, when we agreed as a friendly gesture to set aside  our better judgment and allow the French to regain their colonial holdings  in what was then popularly referred to as Indochina, everything went wrong.  The popular leader of the indigenous Vietnamese anti-Japanese guerrilla  movement, Ho Chi Minh, asked for American support but was refused based on  our ill-advised attempts to appease the French by allowing them to return  to the area. As the resistance to the French colonial regime mounted, it  was increasingly clear the French had their hands full. And by the fall of  the French at Dienbienphu in 1954, the Vietnamese were running a very  effective, forceful, and determined effort to drive the colonialists out of  the country.<br />Thus, throughout the 1950s we pursued policies that not  only alienated the popular leaders like Ho, but also supported blatantly  corrupt and profoundly anti-democratic autocrats like the Diems in South  Vietnam as a countermeasure against the strong communist regime north of  the lines of partitioning. American foreign policy in the 1950s and 1960s  was so completely dominated by our nave perception of a united worldwide  communist movement to conquer the world that we responded by supporting  whoever we viewed as strong enough to prevent such local communist  takeovers. Thus Eisenhower, Kennedy, and Johnson each pursued a consistent  policy of communist containment in Vietnam that led to increasing American  support for whatever regime currently in power in the south. After  Kennedy's death, that escalation took wings.<br />The author's approach does  much to organize and rationalize the chronology of events, and one finds  himself swept along recognizing that we are being sucked into a vortex with  no clear point of extraction should things backfire. And during the next  ten years, from 1964 to 1974, everything that could go wrong surely did.  All of it is covered graphically, compassionately, and comprehensively in  this massive, entertaining, and quite literate history of America's tragic  involvement in the longest and most painful modern in its history. There  are other excellent books on Vietnam, such as Frances Fitzgerald's \\"Fire In  The Lake\\" and Neil Sheehan's \\"A Bright Shining Lie\\", but neither of those  books stands as quite the accomplished work of objective, accurate, and  well-documented chronological history that this book is. I highly recommend  it, and hope it finds its way to rest on your bookshelf.erald's \\"Fire In  The Lake\\" and Neil Sheehan's \\"A Bright Shining Lie\\", but neither of those  books stands as quite the accomplished work of objective, accurate, and  well-documented chronological history that this book is. I highly recommend  it, and hope it finds its way to rest on your bookshelf.	2000-09-12
2294774:US	52447634	R1K09MDK2EDFTV	0393048799	997615053	The Twilight of American Culture	Books	4	133	154	N	N	Provocative But Flawed Discussion Of Contemporary Culture!	This provocative, interesting and thoughtful book by social critic Morris  Berman is both absorbing and troubling. Mr. Berman is right on target in  much of what he contends in his quite literate and entertaining assessment  of the sorry state of our contemporary intellectual and cultural malaise  befuddling American society. Indeed, with mind-numbing statistics he  effectively illustrates just how rampant the growing public ignorance is,  and although I would question the meaning of some of the statistics used in  marshaling his argument, I would not fault his conclusion that we are in  the midst of a frightening decline in our collective understanding of how  the work operates and what our meaningful place within it is. We are indeed  now living lives that come increasingly close to comprising the brave new  world of Aldous Huxley's frightening 1930s novel.<br />Yet, Berman doesn't use  this analysis as a point of departure to discuss the nature of what must  come next to rescue us from this situation. Instead, he prefers to \\"give up  the ghost\\" and initiates a passionate discussion of why it is critical to  preserve the values and treasures of the Enlightenment. Wow! Hasn't anyone  told him that, as novelist and poet Leonard Cohen once put it, you don't  polish windows in a car wreck?  Worrying about the accumulated treasures of  intellectual pursuit at this point seems to be both curious and baffling.  So, while I share his passionate concern for preserving the best from the  past, I am baffled by his choosing to discuss or consider the much more  pressing contemporary issue of how intelligent individuals can either  moderate the alarming \\"dumbing-down\\" of American culture or prepare  themselves for what he refers to as a coming dark age.  With maddening  casualness, he neglects to flesh out what the nature of this coming \\"dark  age\\" might be, what possible factors might act as a trigger for it, or what  we can do, either as individuals or in terms of social action, in the face  of it. Given his concerns for the values of the Enlightenment, why not  stand to fight for them now, when it counts?  Instead, he engages in a  feeble plea for proper appreciation of the classics and the intellectual  proclivities such an orientation provides for. All this as preparation for  an extended musing over what a new secular intellectual monastic movement  might consist of.<br />This is not to deny the accuracy of Mr. Berman's  heartfelt concerns for such intellectual preoccupations, but rather to  bemoan his seeming lack of concern for what this means for the millions of  people who will suffer from its collapse and his total disregard of the  meaning behind the horrendous cultural crisis we now face. Likewise, in  calling for concerned intellectuals to prepare to become the \\"thousand  points of light\\" we will need to continue to illuminate the darkness and  ensure the survival of the mass of accumulated human knowledge in the  coming age of ignorance and barbarism, Mr. Berman ignores the existence of  such a movement among the so-called neo-Luddites, or that such intellectual  movements have a noted history in American culture, all the way from  Thoreau's 19th century musings about self-reliance to Helen and Scott  Nearing's retreat in the midst of the Depression  to the woods of New  England to live in self-imposed exiles as the first in a wave of  subsistence farmers minimizing their dependence on a culture lurching  wildly out of control.<br />Likewise, he never mentions contemporary authors  like Sales Kirkpatrick, Theodore Roszak, Wendell Beery, or a number of  others who have consistently warned of the dangerous instability and  structured inequalities associated with global capitalism and the  likelihood of its systematic collapse. Instead, Mr Berman prefers to give  us a grand and entertaining education regarding what the previous Dark Age  was like, what impelled Rome onto the slippery slope of cultural decline,  and what the various monks and monastic orders in medieval Europe did to  preserve the sum of existing knowledge.  Similarly, while he correctly  suggests Max Weber predicted the rise of a society based on increasing  levels of bureaucratization and more and more complex hierarchies, he  neglects to mention that Weber also warned that an integral aspect of this  rationalization process would be to do foster the emergence of a class of  specialized bureaucrats who would become \\"specialists without heart\\",  monsters of effectiveness and efficiency increasingly lacking in any human  vision or concern.<br />In fact, Herr Weber warned almost a hundred years ago  of the potential threat the rise of an exclusively scientifically and  technologically oriented culture posed for social democracies, with their  tendency to trash traditional values and human orientation in favor of a  faux rationality oriented almost exclusively on questions of effectiveness  and efficiency. In such technically oriented calculations, human concerns  take a back seat to accomplishing organizational goals. Sound familiar?  We  find no such discussion here, given Berman's concentration on a romantic  fugue suggesting his thoughts regarding the particular shapes and  modalities of the coming monastic intellectual orders, at one point  actually suggesting the possibility of the same sorts of science  fiction-based example as depicted in Ray Bradbury's \\"Fahrenheit 451\\" for  consideration.<br />While all of this is great fun, and shows Mr Berman's  keen intelligence, scholarship, and sense of imaginative conjecture, it has  little to do with either the nature of our current dilemma or what we might  practically do to either avert it or moderate its effects.  Unless you want  some interesting intellectual diversions in what seems more like science  fiction than serious social commentary, I suggest you pass this by in favor  of Neil Postman's \\"Technopoly\\" or Scott Nearing's \\"Living The Good Life\\".  The single best strategy for dealing with whatever horrors as may face us  is to live a life of meaning and purpose, and to do so as far removed from  dependency on the current regime as possible.  Unless Mr Berman can provide  some more practical advice regarding how one survives to eventually live  out his fantasies, planning to become a new monk in the forthcoming  monastic orders that he predicts is really just an amusing exercise in  mental masturbation.various monks and monastic orders in medieval Europe did to  preserve the sum of existing knowledge.  Similarly, while he correctly  suggests Max Weber predicted the rise of a society based on increasing  levels of bureaucratization and more and more complex hierarchies, he  neglects to mention that Weber also warned that an integral aspect of this  rationalization process would be to do foster the emergence of a class of  specialized bureaucrats who would become \\"specialists without heart\\",  monsters of effectiveness and efficiency increasingly lacking in any human  vision or concern. <br />In fact, Herr Weber warned almost a hundred years ago  of the potential threat the rise of an exclusively scientifically and  technologically oriented culture posed for social democracies, with their  tendency to trash traditional values and human orientation in favor of a  faux rationality oriented almost exclusively on questions of effectiveness  and efficiency. In such technically oriented calculations, human concerns  take a back seat to accomplishing organizational goals. Sound familiar?  We  find no such discussion here, given Berman's concentration on a romantic  fugue suggesting his thoughts regarding the particular shapes and  modalities of the coming monastic intellectual orders, at one point  actually suggesting the possibility of the same sorts of science  fiction-based example as depicted in Ray Bradbury's \\"Fahrenheit 451\\" for  consideration. <br />While all of this is great fun, and shows Mr Berman's  keen intelligence, scholarship, and sense of imaginative conjecture, it has  little to do with either the nature of our current dilemma or what we might  practically do to either avert it or moderate its effects.  Unless you want  some interesting intellectual diversions in what seems more like science  fiction than serious social commentary, I suggest you pass this by in favor  of Neil Postman's \\"Technopoly\\" or Scott Nearing's \\"Living The Good Life\\".  The single beststrategy for dealing with whatever horrors as may face us  is to live a life of meaning and purpose, and to do so as far removed from  dependency on the current regime as possible.  Unless Mr Berman can provide  some more practical advice regarding how one survives to eventually live  out his fantasies, planning to become a new monk in the forthcoming  monastic orders that he predicts is really just an amusing exercise in  mental masturbation.	2000-09-05
2295314:US	52447634	R4KFUA22FVKVH	0679758569	386862227	Breaking The News: How the Media Undermine American Democracy	Books	5	57	59	N	N	A Terrific &amp; Penetrating Look At How The Media Fails Us!	Few authors are as capable of approaching the unenviable task of  explaining the otherwise baffling devolution in both the content and  context of the mass media's coverage of the news as brilliantly as is noted  journalist James Fallows in this literate, scathing, and thought-provoking  broadside against his fellow journalists and the organizations they work  for. By illuminating the specific circumstances attending the startling  transformation in terms of the way news is viewed and covered by the media,  he consistently gives readers reason for concern, and often for alarm. For  example, Fallows contends that the viewing public increasingly distrusts  the media because the public recognizes they can no longer depend on the  media to provide the essential information citizens need to make sense out  of current events and the world at large.<br />In a carefully constructed  look at how this has happened, Fallows masterfully describes how several  aspects of media's coverage of the news has had the net effect of its  become more of an effort to entertain and less an exercise in edifying and  informing the public in an objective and disinterested fashion. As a  result, the media increasingly presents public life in terms of a  \\"depressing spectacle\\" rather than in its proper context as one of several  vital aspects of a vibrant democratic experiment in progress. By  concentrating almost exclusively on those more entertaining elements of the  news involves conflict or controversy, the media offers us a glossy,  superficial and profoundly inaccurate perspective of the often intricately  complicated world outside our doors, and in the process makes the world  even less comprehensible to those of us attempting to make sense of it  all.<br />Fallows argues that at least part of this process is propelled by  the phenomenon of corporate acquisition of news agencies by large  conglomerates whose concern for \\"the bottom line\\" has corrupted the news  organization's fabled ability to maintain objectivity and disinterest. This  results in concerns for competitive ratings, and a desperate attempt to  compete with more traditional entertainment programs for audience share.  As a result, news programs go for what is shocking, flashy, and  provocative, so that \\"what bleeds, leads\\" the evening's news coverage. In a  similar financial concern for confining costs, a plethora of quasi-news  programs featuring \\"talking heads\\" featuring well known journalists like  Robert Novak who ostensibly discuss the news but are actually offering  their contrived punditry for our entertainment.  In such a world dominated  by a script requiring conflict and controversy, politicians are covered  like sports stars, and all political actions, from attempts to pass  healthcare legislation to decisions to bomb Iraq, are viewed strictly in  terms of their consequence for the politicians involved and seldom  discussed or debated in terms of their specifics or substantive elements.<br />  Yet clever parlor talk by pontificating pundits does little to help  us comprehend or interpret current events or important social, economic, or  political issues; in this way our overflowing servings of political  entertainment disguised as public service are actually obstacles to public  awareness. It is this unintended consequence of the change in the news that  Fallows is most concerned with, for to the extent the media becomes an  element in managing the news rather than a disinterested purveyor of it, it  becomes a potentially anti-democratic vehicle for anyone clever enough and  cynical enough to manipulate it. In this sense this book is a call to arms,  and a compassionate plea to his colleagues to correct the serious  dysfunctions now visiting professional journalism. This is an important  book, and one I heartily recommend to all citizens concerned with how the  media is increasingly abrogating their civic responsibilities in favor of  serving their own parochial secular interests.interests.	2000-09-05
2309334:US	52447634	R3TPQG5T4SRZ0A	0684855747	836806258	Why We Don't Talk To Each Other Anymore: The De-Voicing of Society	Books	1	32	38	N	N	Dangerously Miasmic View Of Contemporary Problems!	After reading this book I wasn't sure whether to laugh or cry. I felt like  laughing because this book is a silly, superficial, and self-important tome  aimed at simplistic answers to very complicated cultural issues. Like a lot  of other silly books like \\"Bobos In Paradise\\", \\"Stiffed\\", and a veritable  armload of other self-help books, this is a pedestrian attempt by someone  who seems singularly unaware of the magnitude or meaning of the phenomena  he so entertainingly describes. On the other hand, I felt like crying  because he encourages simple answers to nave people, who then breathlessly  announce to the world we all just need to talk to each other to make things  better.  Oh, if things were only that simple!<br />While I have no problem  with what he said, and must admit he writes both well and entertainingly,  he seems to view everything around him exclusively in terms of  interpersonal dynamics, which is not surprising given his background as a  psycho-linguist. But to advance a thesis arguing that all we need to do to  begin to effectively set aside the tortured and complicated evils of the  20th century is to \\"just talk to each other, really talk\\" is patent  nonsense, and he should certainly know better. It makes little differnce  whether we talk face to face or over electronic devices, most of what we  say is of such little consequence and has so little to do with anything  that matters that the particular technology employed is close to  irrelevant. The fact that he apparently doesn't understand this, or at  least does not specifically acknowledge the primary role of the virtual  revolution of social and cultural changes associated with the rise of  technology and technological innovation in the manifest woes that confront  us, has the unfortunate consequence of misinforming and confusing people  looking for simplistic answers to devilishly complex cultural realities.  Sad as it is to say, we can't just kiss this booboo and make it go away. To  suggest we can is just plain wrong.<br />Thus, getting back to basics, as  another reviewer claims we need to do, is a ridiculously reductionistic  oversimplification of what we need to do to rescue ourselves from the  mischief of ourselves.  It reminds me of Rodney King's plaintive plea  asking \\"can't we just all get along?\\" Or, as Pogo once said, the enemy is  us. Yet it is precisely because we are children born into and raised as  natives in this schizophrenic material culture that we are singularly  unable to see beyond the confines of our own quite specifically organized  way of looking at, interpreting, and interacting with reality that we are  now so painfully dissociated and alienated from each other.  Everything  within our contemporary cultural environment serves to guide us away from  each other and to regard each other with suspicion, distrust, and growing  hostility. In such a late stage of profound social dissolution, to suggest  we can just \\"talk our way out of it' by being real with each other is to  deny what the culture, and we as members of it, have become. It is also a  dangerous delusion to suppose it is as easy as all that. Dancing down the  yellow brick road just won't work.  This is a silly and wrong-headed book.  Avoid it.t we can is just plain wrong. <br />Thus, getting back to basics, as  another reviewer claims we need to do, is a ridiculously reductionistic  oversimplification of what we need to do to rescue ourselves from the  mischief of ourselves.  It reminds me of Rodney King's plaintive plea  asking \\"can't we just all get along?\\" Or, as Pogo once said, the enemy is  us. Yet it is precisely because we are children born into and raised as  natives in this schizophrenic material culture that we are singularly  unable to see beyond the confines of our own quite specifically organized  way of looking at, interpreting, and interacting with reality that we are  now so painfully dissociated and alienated from each other.  Everything  within our contemporary cultural environment serves to guide us away from  each other and to regard each other with suspicion, distrust, and growing  hostility. In such a late stage of profound social dissolution, to suggest  we can just \\"talk our way out of it' by being real with each other is to  deny what the culture, and we as members of it, have become. It is also a  dangerous delusion to suppose it is as easy as all that. Dancing down the  yellow brick road just won't work.  This is a silly and wrong-headed book.  Avoid it.	2000-08-24
2315198:US	52447634	RBMEYFQ1PEN20	0671867369	867939499	Band of Brothers : E Company, 506th Regiment, 101st Airborne from Normandy to Hitler's Eagle's Nest	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Terrific, Intense Look  At  A Company Of  American  Soldiers	No one has been more prolific or entertaining in his efforts to bring the gritty, unit-level personal experiences of the Allied drive from Normandy  into Germany to the public's attention than Stephen Ambrose. In his series  of books including &quot;D-Day: June 6, 1944: The Climactic Battle of World  War Two&quot;, &quot;The Victors&quot;, &quot;Citizen Soldiers&quot;, and  the present book, &quot;Band Of Brothers&quot;, he has masterfully employed  a little-known treasure trove of personal interviews with thousands of  Allied soldiers to marshal an absolutely absorbing, captivating, and  insightful treatise on the nature of combat as experienced by the men and  women in the forefront of action as it transpired all along the front.<br />In this volume he concentrates on the exploits of a company of soldiers  from their indoctrination into combat with the assault on the beaches in  Normandy, following them as they fight their way, along with two million  other Allied soldiers, into the heartland of Germany itself.  In a book  memorable for its unusual focus (for Ambrose) on a small group of men we  come to know and admire for their all too human traits and character  foibles, the spellbinding story of men in combat is made more vivid, vital,  and personal than is possible in any other way. By concentrating on the  ordinary men of E-Company as they move through a panorama of death and  destruction, their personal stories, private adventures, and shared horrors  in the midst of carnage, chaos, and confusion become a fascinating and  compelling tale. By filling the pages with men we comes to know better than  in his other books, we watch with amazement as they moved into free fire  zones where anything that moves dies, and in the process Ambrose paints an  indelible portrait of the unbelievable madness of war.<br />This is a story  that should be told again and again, so we never forget what it took to  take back Europe from the beasts who first stole it so savagely, of the men  who died on the beaches, who fell for freedom in the surrounding  countryside, all to prepare for those like this company of ordinary men who  relentlessly pushed deeper and deeper into the interior of France, finally  pushing the battered and beaten Germans all the way back to Berlin. This  was the single greatest adventure of the 20th century, an epic struggle in  which millions of Brits, Canadians, Australians, Frenchmen, and Americans  took back by force of arms the liberty and freedom that had been wrested  away from the mainland so cruelly four years before. This, then, is the  story of how that crusade to liberate Europe unfolded through the personal  experiences of a small group of American soldiers.<br />Mr. Ambrose has  become a virtual cottage industry in the World War Two section of your  local bookstore, while he has also published works such as his recent best  seller on explorers Lewis and Clark. Meanwhile, he has become phenomenally  successful because many of his books have captured the public's imagination  by being so readable, entertaining, and informative. While popular success  doesn't always equate to critical worthiness, in his case it consistently  seems to. This is a wonderfully worthwhile, eminently researched,  exhaustively documented, and superbly narrated book on the most historic  struggle in the long and painful struggle to finally liberate Europe.  Enjoy!, of the men  who died on the beaches, who fell for freedom in the surrounding  countryside, all to prepare for those like this company of ordinary men who  relentlessly pushed deeper and deeper into the interior of France, finally  pushing the battered and beaten Germans all the way back to Berlin. This  was the single greatest adventure of the 20th century, an epic struggle in  which millions of Brits, Canadians, Australians, Frenchmen, and Americans  took back by force of arms the liberty and freedom that had been wrested  away from the mainland so cruelly four years before. This, then, is the  story of how that crusade to liberate Europe unfolded through the personal  experiences of a small group of American soldiers.      <br />Mr. Ambrose has  become a virtual cottage industry in the World War Two section of your  local bookstore, while he has also published works such as his recent best  seller on explorers Lewis and Clark. Meanwhile, he has become phenomenally  successful because many of his books have captured the public's imagination  by being so readable, entertaining, and informative. While popular success  doesn't always equate to critical worthiness, in his case it consistently  seems to. This is a wonderfully worthwhile, eminently researched,  exhaustively documented, and superbly narrated book on the most historic  struggle in the long and painful struggle to finally liberate Europe.  Enjoy!	2000-08-20
2315251:US	52447634	R3DV83A6EY0022	0679767495	771111727	In Retrospect: The Tragedy and Lessons of Vietnam	Books	1	62	92	N	N	Let's Give Mcnamara A One-Way Ticket To Vietnam!	Reading through this absorbing and well-written book often made me physically ill. As a guy who personally followed the flag into the miasma  of that terrible war, I often got so angry reading the arguments and  rationalizations spewed like so much vomit in the pages of this book that I  literally threw this book against the wall. After I finished reading it I  threw it in the garbage, where it and its author belong. After all this  time, more than thirty years, McNamara's arrogance and indifference to the  fate of thousands of young Americans still makes me so angry I would like  to use him to personally demonstrate how easy it is to crush an enemy's  windpipe. There can never be any excuse for the callous, craven, and  criminal acts that the so-called \\"best and brightest\\" committed, thereby  condemning a whole generation of the finest young men this country has ever  produced to the horrors and insanity of Vietnam. McNamara still doesn't get  it, after all this time. He is actually a bona-fide war criminal, and he  should be arrested and tried just as the Allies did to the Nazis after  World War Two in Nuremburg. But as Bobby Kennedy once said, \\"Kill one  man and they call it murder. Kill a million and they call it war\\".  When are we going to learn? These men will never see justice or the inside  of a jail cell.<br /><br />It turned my stomach to read this outrageous account of  an unpenitent confessed killer looking for forgiveness and absolution after living a life of privilege and affluence, after he personally oversaw, with  amazing indifference, the most atrocious set of public policies this side of Dachau. The only fit punishment for McNamara (along with a long list of other scumbag fellow-travelers like Henry Kissinger and General  Westmoreland) is either execution, or alternatively, immediate imprisonment, where he could live the rest of his pathetic life confined in solitary confinement, just like former Reich-Marshal Rudoph Hess, for the crimes against humanity that he  admits committing. On the other hand, perhaps we could provide real justice  for this pseudo-macho pencil pusher by issuing him an M-16, some  provisions, and a machete, setting him down by `chopper' in the middle of  some God-forsaken jungle, along with a couple of companies of similarly  equipped and well-motivated Vietnam vets a few miles away. Perhaps then,  before he suffers and dies as slowly and as horribly at the hands of some  people with a real sense of justice, he will understand how many of the  people he anonymously condemned to such a fate for no good reason than  personal cowardice thirty years ago felt. I volunteer for the mission here  and now! Maybe then he would finally understand the true price of his  arrogance, indifference, and cowardice. Boycott this book.umanity that he  admits committing. On the other hand, perhaps we could provide real justice  for this pseudo-macho pencil pusher by issuing him an M-16, some  provisions, and a machete, setting him down by `chopper' in the middle of  some God-forsaken jungle, along with a couple of companies of similarly  equipped and well-motivated Vietnam vets a few miles away. Perhaps then,  before he suffers and dies as slowly and as horribly at the hands of some  people with a real sense of justice, he will understand how many of the  people he anonymously condemned to such a fate for no good reason than  personal cowardice thirty years ago felt. I volunteer for the mission here  and now! Maybe then he would finally understand the true price of his  arrogance, indifference, and cowardice. Boycott this book.	2000-08-20
2315275:US	52447634	RMYG1HWI0GCW8	0898866995	94945383	Ghosts of Everest: The Search for Mallory & Irvine	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A Terrific Real Life Aadventure On The Roof Of The World!	In reading this wonderful, literate, and spellbinding exploration into the question as to whether or not the very experienced and quite venerable  mountain climbers George Mallory and Andrew Irvine actually reached the  summit of the world on Everest before succumbing to the elements in a  sudden storm some seventy five years ago, again and again I found myself  asking myself the question as to why this is so important to so many  people. After all, the two died in a valiant attempt, successful or not, to  do something they thought was worth the risk of their own lives to  accomplish. Comparing their incredible courage, stamina, and almost  superhuman strength in getting as far as they did to what Sir Edmund  Hillary and Tensing Norgay did accomplish some twenty-five years later with  vastly superior support and much better equipment is silly; what Mallory  and Irvine did was a singular historic accomplishment, regardless of  whether they were the first to reach the summit or not.<br />On an entirely  different level, this is a wonderful adventure book, filled not only with  the specifics of the earlier attempt, but also of the intrepid attempt by a  group of true believers to discover the truth by finding the bodies of the  two climbers. One comes to admire the motives and the morality of these  men, who indeed put their own lives on the line in a determined effort to  determine where on the mountain they had succumbed. Of course, as the trail  leads them higher and higher, one's own expectations and sense of  excitement rises, as well.  This is a terrific book, one I suggest for all  readers, a well written, carefully organized, and nicely photographed  journey of discovery and a lesson in just how much a determined group of  men can do when they have an important mission that each has a sense of  commitment toward, and when they all share a common sense of purpose to  propel them.  This is a great book, and one I highly recommend.	2000-08-20
2316123:US	52447634	R3K7MNBK8Q22PJ	038546973X	253371496	Anne Morrow Lindbergh: A Biography	Books	4	53	55	N	N	A Fascinating autionary Biography Of Anne Morrow Lindbergh!	This book is a wonderful reminder of just how remarkable a woman the long-suffering Anne Morrow Lindbergh was in her own right, and of the  difficult time she had emerging from the extremely dark shadows of husband  Charles Lindbergh life of accomplishment, aggravation, and pathetic  self-absorption. In this literate and quite readable biography by Susan  Hertog, a portrait of this singular woman comes soaring to the heights  despite of life of incredible personal hardship and sorrow.  It is also a  sad reminder that into each life rain must fall, regardless of how  affluent, famous, or privileged.<br />It is a common place by this point in  our history that Anne Morrow Lindbergh was a victim of colossal  proportions, not only in terms of the controversial and shocking kidnapping  and death of her infant son in the early 1930s, but also by her domination  for decades by \\"Lucky Lindy\\", and she was trapped by convention and  circumstance into an incredibly difficult life with this brilliant but  strangely detached human being she was married to. From the moment they met  her life was destined to trail in the shadow of his, both by virtue of  tradition and her own desire to have a predominantly private life. Yet,  curiously, she ironically married the man most singularly unable to give  her all that she wanted and needed. Their life together is a somber and  complicated modern American tragedy on the scale of  \\"Death of a Salesman\\".<br />Yet Anne Morrow Lindbergh rose above her situation and their personal  life of tragedy and disappointment. Lindbergh was a peripatetic traveler,  and while she often accompanied him (indeed, he insisted in order to keep  her primary focus exclusively on him rather than on their children or  anything else), in their later years they came to live increasingly more  separate and distinct lives, even while together. To say Lindbergh was a  bizarre man and a strange soul is to be kind to a man described in pitiless  terms by his widow herself and his adult child.  It is easy for younger  readers ignorant of how difficult and scandalous divorce or separation  would have been for her, it may seem difficult to understand why she stayed  with him despite his cruelty, indifference, and prejudices all those years.  But for older readers more familiar with the older and more common  character virtues people of Mrs. Lindbergh's generation, social background,  and time subscribed to, it is a tragic set of circumstances that only she  can understand in all its tragic overtones.<br />This is a close up portrait  of a woman tragically trapped by fame, marriage, and social convention into  a life of limitless advantages but cruelly wasted opportunities. That she  was as successful as an author, humanitarian, social activist and early  feminist later in her life is a tribute to a remarkable woman, and yet a  bittersweet reminder of how much more she might have been had she never met  her future husband. This is a interesting, well written, and captivating  study of a woman and her times, and is one I recommend to people interested  in a most fascinating yet offbeat biography. Enjoy!self and his adult child.  It is easy for younger  readers ignorant of how difficult and scandalous divorce or separation  would have been for her, it may seem difficult to understand why she stayed  with him despite his cruelty, indifference, and prejudices all those years.  But for older readers more familiar with the older and more common  character virtues people of Mrs. Lindbergh's generation, social background,  and time subscribed to, it is a tragic set of circumstances that only she  can understand in all its tragic overtones.<br />This is a close up portrait  of a woman tragically trapped by fame, marriage, and social convention into  a life of limitless advantages but cruelly wasted opportunities. That she  was as successful as an author, humanitarian, social activist and early  feminist later in her life is a tribute to a remarkable woman, and yet a  bittersweet reminder of how much more she might have been had she never met  her future husband. This is a interesting, well written, and captivating  study of a woman and her times, and is one I recommend to people interested  in a most fascinating yet offbeat biography. Enjoy!	2000-08-19
2316274:US	52447634	R32QETPU9FGVGS	1885283016	840406792	K2: The Savage Mountain (The Adventure Library)	Books	5	39	41	N	N	Timeless Tale Of Raw Adventure and Individual Courage!	I remember first reading this book as a teenager in the early 1960s, and  the spellbinding story told by authors Charles Huston and Robert Bates of  the fateful attempt to first scale K2, the second highest mountain in the  world, is one that helped to hook me at that tender age on a lifetime of  reading and a love for the great outdoors. The saga of the team's creation,  the mustering of the incredible logistics support required to mount a  credible assault on the extremely remote peak, and the long and arduous  trek into the interior to reach the base camp location is a wonderful  adventure story, but only a prelude to the incredible and harrowing events  to follow.<br />The assault was a failed effort, and a disastrous experience  that left several members of the team dead, and forced the surviving  members of the bizarre accident to transport a badly injured colleague  perilously back down the treacherous slopes to the base camp far below. The  book is a wonderful introduction to the offbeat world of the world of  mountaineering, and one that left this reader breathless just in reading  about the climber's courage and tenacity under the worst weather conditions  imaginable here on earth. So,  I was pleasantly surprised to find this book  reissued after all these years, and bought myself the hardcover as it is a  book I love having both  for its content as well as its sentimental value.  This is a book one can enjoy oneself and share with any family member with  confidence, knowing that even Ernest Hemingway would agree with the verdict  that it is a damn fine read. Enjoy.	2000-08-19
2319048:US	52447634	R3PH85CX6XJZI1	1571817514	820549659	National Socialist Extermination Policies: Contemporary German Perspectives and Controversies (War and Genocide)	Books	4	32	34	N	Y	An Interesting &amp; Informative Range of Holocaust Articles	This is a quite diverse collection of translated essays written by a selection of young contemporary German scholars discussing various aspects  of the Holocaust, ranging from individual articles describing Jewish  resettlement to the deportation of French Jews during the occupation of  France to a fascinating albeit bizarre depiction of Concentration Camp SS  officers as a kind of functional elite within the military hierarchy. The  authors collectively discuss a myriad of otherwise mystifying aspects of  the Holocaust, bring in to light interesting, provocative, and diverting  bits of information that helps the reader to better understand the  complexities of the Holocaust.<br />  This is, in essence, the book's major  strength, for it aids us now some sixty years removed from the savage  barbarism that was the experience of the Holocaust to get a more accurate  glimpse of how and why it was that ordinary human beings like ourselves  actually perpetrated the mistreatment, torture and murder on so many  innocent men, women and children for no other reason than their status as  Jews. In several cases the information presented here considerably revises  or alters our previous understanding of particular aspects of those  experiences and those years. Taken as a group, these articles provide the  reader with an overview of how existential circumstances and the gradual  corruption and re-socialization of the German population into a world-view  that would allow these kinds of atrocities.<br />These essays are certainly  not light reading, and although they are quite educational, I would  strongly suggest caution in allowing them to be read by anyone not  emotionally mature enough to deal with the rather brutal realities of life  as a Jew in Nazi Germany as are often graphically described herein. One of  the most surprising and fascinating aspects of the book is the way in which  the reader comes to recognize in these pages how little we actually know,  in concrete terms, about the specific influences that animated particular  policy changes within specific regions of Central and Eastern Europe during  the years of Nazi rule.<br />As has been written elsewhere, most notably by  authors like Martin Gilbert and Gerhard Weinberg, there is much evidence  that various aspects of the so-called &quot;Final Solution&quot; appear on  balance to have been more the improvised policies emanating from the  hellishly fragmented and hopelessly bureaucratized nature of Nazi  governance than from any brilliantly evil design. This isn't to suggest  that the Nazis meant the Jews no harm, or that they didn't mean to  annihilate them, but that the specific way the Holocaust evolved seem to  owe more to the requirements of exigent circumstance (e.g. the inability of  Nazi officials in Poland to feed and house the dislocated Jews in their  districts) than to any well-coordinated master plan. All that said, the  jury is still out, research is ongoing, and this book of essays from  scholars involved in Holocaust studies is an interesting, informative, and  provocative look into various aspects of the particulars of life during  those times. I highly recommend this book.s, about the specific influences that animated particular  policy changes within specific regions of Central and Eastern Europe during  the years of Nazi rule. <br />As has been written elsewhere, most notably by  authors like Martin Gilbert and Gerhard Weinberg, there is much evidence  that various aspects of the so-called &quot;Final Solution&quot; appear on  balance to have been more the improvised policies emanating from the  hellishly fragmented and hopelessly bureaucratized nature of Nazi  governance than from any brilliantly evil design. This isn't to suggest  that the Nazis meant the Jews no harm, or that they didn't mean to  annihilate them, but that the specific way the Holocaust evolved seem to  owe more to the requirements of exigent circumstance (e.g. the inability of  Nazi officials in Poland to feed and house the dislocated Jews in their  districts) than to any well-coordinated master plan. All that said, the  jury is still out, research is ongoing, and this book of essays from  scholars involved in Holocaust studies is an interesting, informative, and  provocative look into various aspects of the particulars of life during  those times. I highly recommend this book.	2000-08-17
2320307:US	52447634	RRG5FJEB4YO19	1885119313	886443435	It Never Snows in September: The German View of Market Garden and the Battle of Arnhem, September 1944	Books	4	53	55	N	Y	A Provocative Interpretation of Operation Market Garden!	The critical difference employed in this book about Operation Market Garden is its use of the German perspective regarding the fabled and  fatefully miscalculated Allied assault in the fall of 1944 in an  vainglorious attempt to grab and hold several bridges leading into Germany.  This book by British author Robert J. Kershaw retelling the oft-told tale  of the momentous Allied miscalculation of potential German resistance and  the speed with which the Allied armored forces could proceed up the one  road needed to support and sustain the airdropped forces is a riveting  tale. Like the most famous book yet published (a new book on the subject is  due out this fall) it graphically describes the total cost in terms of  human life and unnecessary destruction. This is a story told at every  level, but concentrating on the faithful recollections of the German  participants in the action. Thus, the reader is swept into the action to  get a voyeur's view of the moment-to-moment development of the story as it  unfolds to the Wehrmacht's amazement in all its horrific detail.<br />The  title refers to a German soldier's observation of the white parachutes  suddenly filling the morning sky over Arnhem; since it never snows in  September, the soldier instantly realized it must mean an invasion. As  mentioned above, the preponderance of attention is paid to the  recollections and experiences of the German armed forces, although these  are balanced with liberal sprinklings of noncombatants and Allied  observations.  It is clear that the author feels that earlier works on this  subject leaves the reader with a quite biased view of the events, and he  marshals an impressive number of impressive findings to suggest the Allies  were either criminally negligent or unbelievably inept in assessing the  risks associated with the operation. From the beginning they should have  understood the degree of ferocity and tenacity with which the Germans would  respond. Much of what is said here reflects poorly on judgments made by the  Allied hierarchy, but especially Field Marshall Montgomery and also  Eisenhower in allowing the raid to proceed.<br />At the same time, it is  important to keep in mind that such decisions were often made against best  judgment, and that it is far easier in historical retrospective to  criticize a disastrous decision which could have potentially shortened the  war by six months and saved hundreds of thousands of lives. This is a  provocative and absorbing book, one I am sure all WWII buffs will enjoy  paging through, and one stirring the pot of expectation regarding the  newest entry in the Operation Market Garden discussion due out early this  fall. I highly recommend this book, and like an earlier reviewer, suggest  it be read along with Cornelius Ryan's \\"A Bridge Too Far\\", which to my mind  is till the standard work on the subject. Enjoy.eflects poorly on judgments made by the  Allied hierarchy, but especially Field Marshall Montgomery and also  Eisenhower in allowing the raid to proceed. <br />At the same time, it is  important to keep in mind that such decisions were often made against best  judgment, and that it is far easier in historical retrospective to  criticize a disastrous decision which could have potentially shortened the  war by six months and saved hundreds of thousands of lives. This is a  provocative and absorbing book, one I am sure all WWII buffs will enjoy  paging through, and one stirring the pot of expectation regarding the  newest entry in the Operation Market Garden discussion due out early this  fall. I highly recommend this book, and like an earlier reviewer, suggest  it be read along with Cornelius Ryan's \\"A Bridge Too Far\\", which to my mind  is till the standard work on the subject. Enjoy.	2000-08-16
2322363:US	52447634	R2GM0G0EA5ST7	0738201472	833041912	Archibald Cox: Conscience Of A Nation	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A Terrific Biography Of An Extraordinary Individual!	In a time curiously bereft of public heroes, the life and achievements of Professor Archibald Cox of Harvard University stands in bold relief as a  reminder of what a man of singular dedication, an ethic of public service,  and a lifetime of professional integrity can do to change the course of  history.  This wonderful biography by law professor Ken Gormley recounts  the life and accomplishments of this extraordinary person, a man who stood  face to face in opposition to one of the most popular and powerful  Presidents of the 20th century and, to his undying credit, never blinked.  It is a riveting tale of man whose allegiance was to the simple notion that  our nation is one ruled by law and not by individual personality. It also  tells the captivating story of man who spent a lifetime serving the  American people, living by his principles, and passing them on so memorably  as a law professor at Harvard University.<br />Cox appears everywhere in the  pantheon of modern American accomplishment during his more than sixty year  career. He first clerked for the legendary Supreme Court Justice Learned  Hand in the midst of the Depression before embarking on a course as a  pioneer in public labor law, soon to be asked to serve the federal  executive, first as a Special Assistant to the National Defense Mediation  Board, and then with the Solicitor General's office.  Finally, shortly  after the end of the war, he accepted a teaching position with Harvard Law  School, where he was destined to become a leading legal expert in labor  law.  It was in this capacity that he eventually became an advisor to John  F. Kennedy, a Harvard graduate and the junior Senator from Massachusetts.<br />When Kennedy won the Presidency in 1960, he appointed Cox the position  of Solicitor General, giving Cox the opportunity to argue brilliantly  before the Supreme Court as the Government's advocate for civil rights  reform. He also worked behind the scenes as a mediator during Harvard's  internal student troubles in the late 1960s, trying to mend the huge  political, philosophical, and educational issues leading to such dynamic  student unrest. Yet all of these accomplishments and lifetime enterprises  pale in the face of his later involvement as the Justice Department's  Special Prosecutor in that newly created post to independently investigate  the troubling issues surrounding the Nixon administrations participation in  a wide range of suspect activities.<br />As such, he was a key figure in the  unraveling of the Watergate scandal as well as the subsequent Congressional  investigations and impeachment proceedings against Richard Nixon.  Instructed to conform, heal to Nixon's dictates or else, to cease and  desist from his pursuit of the White House tapes, Cox quite simply refused  to be cowed. Of course, he was then fired in the infamous Saturday Night  Massacre, in which both Attorney General and his assistant publically  refused to fire Cox and themselves resigned from the Administration.  Republican toady, Solicitor General Robert Bork had no such scruples or  compunctions, and promptly fired Cox. It was this single event of firing  Cox that awoke the Congress and the nation regarding Nixon's viability, and  this subsequently changed the political equation that eventually led to  Nixon's own resignation in August of 1974.<br />This is an entertaining,  absorbing, and quite literate book, one that takes a fond and pensive look  at that most rare of human individuals, a man guided by his dedication to  principles and the rule of law. It is also a wonderful up-close and  personal look at life inside the confines of the well-furnished parlors of  privilege Cox has habituated all his life, based on birth, wealth, and, of  course, his extraordinary ability. It is a rare open and honest look at the  realities of how America works, often on the quite undemocratic basis of  where one happens to go to college and professional study, upon who one  knows, and by how well one can rise to the expectations and rules of  conduct prevailing in the power elite. This is a splendid book about a rare  and admirable man, and one most people can learn from reading. I highly  recommend it.nd by how well one can rise to the expectations and rules of  conduct prevailing in the power elite. This is a splendid book about a rare  and admirable man, and one most people can learn from reading. I highly  recommend it.	2000-08-15
2324944:US	52447634	R3I9B3XL9U1OBM	0788163590	245358260	The Right to Privacy	Books	5	29	32	N	N	Thoughtful, Cogent, &amp; Wonderful Overview of Right To Privacy	Today, when voyeurs, marketers, and the curious are invading so many aspects of what has traditionally been considered the individual's  inviolate personal domain, this book is a God-send in helping us understand  what it is we have with the right to privacy, and also in helping us to  focus on what is so much at risk. While the word \\"privacy\\" appears nowhere  in our Constitution, a majority of Americans fervently believe that their  right to privacy is a key element which is central to the way they live  their public and personal lives, and that it is also key to the viability  of the democratic system. Given the fact that it is a somewhat abstract,  ambiguous, and difficult idea to define, privacy is indeed seen as being a  critical and irreplaceable basic right of individuals.<br />In this  wonderful, eminently accessible, and very readable book, Ellen Alderman and  Caroline Kennedy, produce a gem of a work that offers a thoughtful,  absorbing, and provocative overview of what the generally perceived  (although not specifically Constitutionally defined) right to privacy means  for us as citizens and individuals. Using a well-integrated series of  landmark cases, trial decisions, and an entertaining  plethora of  anecdotal situations, the authors render this abstract, complicated, and  critically important legal right much more understandable and  comprehensible. As with their earlier book, \\"In Our Defense\\", Alderman and  Kennedy transform the arcane legal language of various laws, regulations,  and court decisions into relevant and compelling arguments that help the  reader understand just how central to our basic liberties the right to  privacy is.<br />The book examines six general areas of tension and concern  regarding the right to privacy; privacy versus law enforcement, privacy and  your self, privacy versus the press, privacy versus the voyeur, privacy in  the workplace, and privacy versus information. In examining each of these  issues, the authors engage what the right to privacy means in practical  terms. For example, can one refuse to comply if a police officer asks  permission to look through one's luggage? Does your employer have a right  to know your sexual orientation? Can the electronic media invade your home  in pursuit of a hot story? In each of these cases, they also show how the  rights to privacy must be seen and understood in the context of other  public and individual rights and prerogatives.<br />In all this cogent and  compelling narrative, one hear the consistent voice of caution and reason,  for the authors are mindful of the fact that we live in a society in which  our individual rights as citizens and individuals are under continuing  assault, and are very much under threat from other competing needs and  concerns. This is an extremely thoughtful, straightforward, and an  eminently compelling argument on behalf of public education and enlightened  self-interest. This is a wonderful book, and one I highly recommend. Enjoy.gage what the right to privacy means in practical  terms. For example, can one refuse to comply if a police officer asks  permission to look through one's luggage? Does your employer have a right  to know your sexual orientation? Can the electronic media invade your home  in pursuit of a hot story? In each of these cases, they also show how the  rights to privacy must be seen and understood in the context of other  public and individual rights and prerogatives. <br />In all this cogent and  compelling narrative, one hear the consistent voice of caution and reason,  for the authors are mindful of the fact that we live in a society in which  our individual rights as citizens and individuals are under continuing  assault, and are very much under threat from other competing needs and  concerns. This is an extremely thoughtful, straightforward, and an  eminently compelling argument on behalf of public education and enlightened  self-interest. This is a wonderful book, and one I highly recommend. Enjoy.	2000-08-13
2325114:US	52447634	R317YTSE7VGDUK	1565843231	789219397	France Under the Germans: Collaboration and Compromise (Iberian Cultures)	Books	5	30	34	N	N	Riveting Thoughtful Look At French Collaboration With Nazis!	One of the most bizarre and unexpected ironies of modern history was the capitulation, collaboration, and compromises made by the French to the Nazi  forces that so quickly overwhelmed them with the blitzkrieg assault against  Western Europe in the summer of 1940. In this thoughtful, scholarly, and  compelling book, noted historian Phillipe Burrin examines the issues  surrounding this otherwise puzzling twist of national fate that so  contrasted with the patriotic fervor and courage the French had displayed  during the exhausting confrontations of the First World War.  The issues  are indeed troubling to historians, ranging from the quick and nearly  bloodless capitulation to the shocking enthusiastic collaboration in the  systematic arrest, torture, and elimination of so-called \\"enemies of the  state\\" to the compromise of so many of their values, cultural  traditions,  and social customs. How and why did this happen?<br />The outlines of that  troubled time is fairly easy to determine; from 1940 to 1944 the French  adapted in a variety of ways to extraordinary existential situation  presented by the fact of total military domination by the Wehrmacht. This  work is a definitive study of that period in France, and of the choice made  by French citizens in face of the circumstance of Nazi occupation, and the  stunning degree to which they indeed collaborated.  Of course, not all the  French capitulated or cooperated. Some joined a very active and energetic  underground resistance movement, one that was effective and energetic right  up to D-Day. Others fled as best they could, trying to avoid the hell on  earth they feared France would become when dominated by the Nazis. Yet  others did cooperate, collaborate, and participate in the unspeakable  violence the Nazis visited on the non-Aryan members of French  society.<br />While this book lacks the kind of thoughtful retrospective look  at the forces within France leading up to the war and placing the Vichy  regime in historical perspective described so brilliantly by William Shirer  in \\"The Collapse of the Third Republic\\", it is a terrific examination of  life inside the Nazi regime after the fall. The author employs a number of  previously unused sources such as French business archives, those of the  Vichy police, and records of telephone conversations to document the degree  of French collaboration. His findings are stunning and shocking. Burrin  reveals, for example, that French heavy industries became key partners  contributing significantly to the production of Nazi war materials,  devoting ever-increasing percentages of its total output to war support  until it became virtually an exclusively war-oriented activity by the end  of the war.<br />Burrin also reveals, in a scholarly yet absorbing narrative,  just how complete the eventual degree of betrayal to self, country, and any  meaningful notion of right or wrong became under the occupation. This is a  compelling analysis examining the ways in which ordinary people respond to  the extraordinary pressures of such a horrific set of circumstances, and  how they then surrendered to the seductively self-serving (and easier)  answers of collaboration and denial of personal responsibility rather than  withstand the very real dangers of active or passive resistance. This is a  fascinating book, a tome destined to become the standard reference for all  future study of the French collaboration with the Germans during WWII, and  one I highly recommend. Enjoy.istorical perspective described so brilliantly by William Shirer  in \\"The Collapse of the Third Republic\\", it is a terrific examination of  life inside the Nazi regime after the fall. The author employs a number of  previously unused sources such as French business archives, those of the  Vichy police, and records of telephone conversations to document the degree  of French collaboration. His findings are stunning and shocking. Burrin  reveals, for example, that French heavy industries became key partners  contributing significantly to the production of Nazi war materials,  devoting ever-increasing percentages of its total output to war support  until it became virtually an exclusively war-oriented activity by the end  of the war. <br />Burrin also reveals, in a scholarly yet absorbing narrative,  just how complete the eventual degree of betrayal to self, country, and any  meaningful notion of right or wrong became under the occupation. This is a  compelling analysis examining the ways in which ordinary people respond to  the extraordinary pressures of such a horrific set of circumstances, and  how they then surrendered to the seductively self-serving (and easier)  answers of collaboration and denial of personal responsibility rather than  withstand the very real dangers of active or passive resistance. This is a  fascinating book, a tome destined to become the standard reference for all  future study of the French collaboration with the Germans during WWII, and  one I highly recommend. Enjoy.	2000-08-13
2325855:US	52447634	RMPYEJ2ML23ST	0399144498	281434626	Lindbergh	Books	5	60	64	N	N	Fascinating, Cautionary Tale Of The Price Of Fame & Fortune!	From the moment his wheels touched ground at Orly Airport in Paris in May of 1927, Charles Lindbergh's life started on an incredible second journey  over which he often seemed to have little guidance or control, a whirlwind  life spent in the suffocating death-grasp of public attention. In this  wonderful biography by A. Scott Berg, we are invited to take this momentous  ride alongside &#34;Lucky Lindy&#34; from his birth and early beginnings to his  efforts to gain fame and recognition by becoming the first man to fly solo  across the Atlantic. Yet in a way totally unanticipated by the enigmatic  and somewhat nave Lindbergh, this was only the beginning of an incredible  life. For in accomplishing this spellbinding feat, to this brilliantly  enterprising young man's amazement, the fame and fortune he had so eagerly  sought to achieve soon took control over the direction and destiny of his  life.<br /><br />This is a book full of surprising twists and turns, and the reader  is led on an entertaining  and exotic excursion unto the interior of a  marvelously complicated man's life, as well as into the realities of the  story-book romance with his beautiful young wife, the former Anne Morrow,  an ambassador's daughter. Their courtship and marriage fueled the public's  imagination, and they became figures that loomed larger than life in the  tabloid journalism of the early 1930s. Lindbergh found himself fashioned  into the first modern day media superstar, a person so celebrated and  famous it sometimes seems he spent the balance of his life's energy trying  to escape such attention. As a result of his own personal qualities and  frailties, and his uneasy and sometimes uncomprehending place in  American  spotlight, he was both deified and demonized in the public press again and  again.<br /><br />Each event in his all-too public personal odyssey is examined  here, from the trip into fame and fortune aboard the &#34;Spirit of Saint  Louis&#34; to his romance and marriage to Anne Morrow, from their life in the  spotlight to the incredible ordeal of the kidnapping and death of their  infant son, which resulted in the most celebrated and controversial trials  and subsequent executions in modern American history. Berg examines the  evidence of the kidnapping, which eventually led to the Lindberghs fleeing  for their sanity sake on an odyssey taking them to England, an island off  the coast of France, and to Nazi Germany, where Lindbergh's fascination  with Hitler's regime and technical prowess led him to eventual political  adventurism of his own with the &#34;America First&#34; movement. In unsuccessfully  challenging Franklin D. Roosevelt, Lindbergh lost both his public  credibility and cache, becoming vilified in the press for his questionable  political views and dubious patriotism.<br /><br />When war came Lindbergh was  flatly refused any active role, but eventually found himself a way into the  fracas first as a commercial test pilot, and later as an unofficial pilot  in the South Pacific, where he performed brilliantly as a combat pilot with  over fifty missions to his credit.  After the war he became involved in a  number of environmental, humanitarian, and medical issues, and devoted  himself to anonymous public service, purposefully hidden from popular  scrutiny and public view. In his strange and eclectic odyssey, he had  caught public imagination, but had kept his own complexities and personal  demons hidden from view. Lindbergh is in many ways a tragic figure, a  person tripped by fate into being believed  as a figure bigger than life,  when in fact he was unequal to the task. He was, after all, only human, and  tragically so at that. This is a fascinating and entertaining book about  one of the most enigmatic and puzzling figures in 20th century history. I  highly recommend it. Enjoy!om their life in the  spotlight to the incredible ordeal of the kidnapping and death of their  infant son, which resulted in the most celebrated and controversial trials  and subsequent executions in modern American history. Berg examines the  evidence of the kidnapping, which eventually led to the Lindberghs fleeing  for their sanity sake on an odyssey taking them to England, an island off  the coast of France, and to Nazi Germany, where Lindbergh's fascination  with Hitler's regime and technical prowess led him to eventual political  adventurism of his own with the &#34;America First&#34; movement. In unsuccessfully  challenging Franklin D. Roosevelt, Lindbergh lost both his public  credibility and cache, becoming vilified in the press for his questionable  political views and dubious patriotism.  When war came Lindbergh was  flatly refused any active role, but eventually found himself a way into the  fracas first as a commercial test pilot, and later as an unofficial pilot  in the South Pacific, where he performed brilliantly as a combat pilot with  over fifty missions to his credit.  After the war he became involved in a  number of environmental, humanitarian, and medical issues, and devoted  himself to anonymous public service, purposefully hidden from popular  scrutiny and public view. In his strange and eclectic odyssey, he had  caught public imagination, but had kept his own complexities and personal  demons hidden from view. Lindbergh is in many ways a tragic figure, a  person tripped by fate into being believed  as a figure bigger than life,  when in fact he was unequal to the task. He was, after all, only human, and  tragically so at that. This is a fascinating and entertaining book about  one of the most enigmatic and puzzling figures in 20th century history. I  highly recommend it. Enjoy!	2000-08-12
2326887:US	52447634	R2LSG8FP8Z8KNY	0449908704	357701822	The Best and the Brightest	Books	5	213	227	N	N	Superb Overview Of How We Slid Into A Quagmire In Vietnam!	Nothing so brilliantly crystallized and clarified the epic true story of how the American people were led into the tragedy of Vietnam better than  did this classic book by David Halberstam. Already famous for his  journalistic overview in &#34;The Making of a Quagmire&#34;, Halberstam  riveted the nation with his absorbing, literate, and very detailed account  of how the arrogant, insular, technocratically well educated, and affluent  sons and daughters of the Power Elite in this country led us into the  unholy miasma of Vietnam. This is a classic story superbly told by a  journalist with impeccable credentials.<br /><br />Halberstam already had a wealth  of personal experience as a correspondent in Vietnam before initiating the  research for this book, and he draws a number of fascinating, intimate, and  quite absorbing in-depth portraits of the major figures involved in this  fool's errand formerly referred to as French Indochina. From the feckless  and perhaps clueless Robert McNamara to McGeorge Bundy, brother William  Bundy, former Oxford Scholar Dean Rusk, George Ball, William Westmoreland,  Maxwell Taylor, and Presidents Kennedy and Johnson, all these alumni of the  best schools and best families (with the single exception of LBJ, an  accidental president) pranced their pseudo-macho way toward the single most  disastrous series of military decisions this side of Pearl Harbor.<br /><br />Unlike those of us who actually saw the jungles of Vietnam up close and  personal, these men were neither ignorant, nor provincial (at least not in  the ordinary use of that term), nor poorly informed; rather, they both  considered themselves and were considered by others to be the most  outstanding, capable, and effective members of the contemporary &#34;Power  Elite&#34; i.e. the best of the then contemporary ivy League graduates  Kennedy could lure from the bastions of the academic, business, and  corporate world into the magic and presumptuous world of Camelot.  In  essence, these guys were seen as the best and the brightest of their  generation.  Just how their elite educations, presumptuous world-views, and  de-facto actual ignorance and lack of what we would now refer to as  &#34;street-smarts&#34; led them to conclude it was in the nation's  interests to fight what others have called &#34;the wrong war in the wrong  place with the wrong foes at the wrong time&#34; is an epic tale of  arrogance, insular thinking, and mutually sustained delusions.<br /><br />Through  their efforts they embroiled us in an unwinnable war, a conflict that the  rest of us paid so dearly for in blood, sweat and tears. They led a nation  then so singularly blessed with affluence and peace into a bottomless  cauldron of dissent, inter-generational strife, and almost pitched us off  the precipice of social and political revolution. It is important to better  understand what kind of men they were, and why they led us so carelessly  into such sustained disaster. Why did they react to defeats by escalating,  even when the evidence clearly indicated (as McNamara has recently  admitted) doing so was futile? Who led whom down the primrose path in the  meetings in which these decisions were repeatedly argued, hammered out and  finally refined?<br /><br />All these questions and many more are answered in this  wonderfully documented and exhaustively detailed account of how it is that  so few individuals engaged in a series of such disastrous policy decisions  that led America into the quagmire of Vietnam. By the way, after carefully  re-reading the book I am more convinced than ever that McNamara and  Westmoreland (among others) should be indicted and tried as war criminals.  Let them spend their dotage in federal prison. After all, there is no  statute of limitations on conspiracy to commit murder, and I have dozens of  friends gone too soon based on nothing more than the deliberately callous  and reckless decisions made by these men as outlined in this book. I highly  recommend it.mmend it.	2000-08-12
2327270:US	52447634	R2J70CLY9BCKBF	0700609784	562488507	The Battle of Kursk (Modern War Studies)	Books	5	106	116	N	N	Authoritative &amp; Compelling Overview of The Battle At Kursk!	It is perhaps a considerable understatement to argue that history has not been kind in interpreting the German conduct of the war against the  Russians along the Eastern front. Nowhere was their conduct more  self-defeating or more disastrous than at Kursk, in one of the most epochal  battles in the war. In this book, authors David M. Glantz and Jonathan M.  House, noted authors of other such singular tomes about Operation  Barbarossa and the later Russian campaigns into Germany as \\"When Titans  Clashed\\", concentrate provocatively on the particulars of the epic  exchanges at Kursk that changed the calculus of the Second World War, not  only for the Russian front of the war, but for the entire Allied war effort  in Europe. In this regard, if Stalingrad was the point at which the  fortunes of the Wehrmacht were first so fatefully reversed, then Kursk was  the point of no return, where the unavoidable destiny of the eventual  defeat and horrific destruction of the Nazi regime was all that lay ahead.<br />The Battle of Kursk was one of the most pivotal and epochal struggles in  the Allied war against the Germans. It was one of the largest tank  engagements in military history, and through its devastating destruction in  terms of the number of functional and operating armored vehicles left for  the Wehrmacht to continue their prosecution of the war, it was the turning  point in the war, the catastrophic defeat the Nazis could no longer  afford  to absorb. In this regard, considerable controversy has revolved around the  extent to which Hitler himself was to blame, given his fabled  micromanagement of the Eastern campaign in general and the battle at Kursk  in particular. In this book the authors meet this controversy head on, and  while many readers may not agree with the interpretations and conclusions  of the authors, they will certainly appreciate the verve, scope, and  details contained in their overview of the events at Kursk, and their  import for subsequent events all along the Eastern front as well.<br />Too  many Americans familiar only with the Cold War aspects of Russian history  tend to be ignorant of the critical contribution the Soviets made in  winning a war so essential to the survival of democracy. It is an uneasy  truth that without the Russian contribution in battling up to 200 divisions  of German Wehrmacht troops for over four years, our entry onto the  continent in France would not have been possible in 1944. Indeed, risking  such a large sea borne assault would have been problematic against a force  of the numbers of troops who would have been available had they not been  otherwise preoccupied and engaged in an epic effort attempting to stem the  terrible onslaught they were receiving at the hands of a resurgent Soviet  Army.  This isn't to claim the Russians could (or would) have won the war  themselves, although there are serious and scholarly arguments forwarding  such propositions.<br />Rather, my point is that the Russians single-handedly  repeatedly smashed (and cumulatively diminished) the vast and critically  important war-fighting capabilities the Wehrmacht continued to thrust  against them, and that in doing so they changed the course of the war both  along the Eastern front and for the war against the Allies in general. The  evidence of just how formidable, ferocious, and inexhaustible opponents  they had become in the two short years since the inauguration of Operation  Barbarossa is detailed and documented in this terrific book, which shows  how the series of hasty, chaotic, and disastrous German attacks at Kursk  led into the largest armored confrontation in the war and precipitated the  devolution of the Wehrmacht into a fragmented, fractious, and mortally  wounded fighting force that soon was compelled to retreat, step by tortuous  step, all the painful way back to Berlin, losing millions of soldiers along  the way. This is an authoritative, scrupulously documented, and quite  entertaining account of one of the most important battles of WWII, and I  highly recommend it. Enjoy.account of one of the most important battles of WWII, and I  highly recommend it. Enjoy.	2000-08-11
2327648:US	52447634	R14T8F93IZMHUR	0060977728	855973047	The Shadow University: The Betrayal Of Liberty On America's Campuses	Books	5	36	40	N	N	Terrific Exploration Of Dark Side Of Political Correctness	Each generation seems destined to learn the dangerous consequences of allowing any infringement of free speech, and based both on the themes of  the authors and the content of the review comments herein it is obvious  there is much to concern lovers of liberty. Students of history understand  that usurping the rights to open dialogue and freedom of expression quickly  deteriorates into a frightening loss of all freedoms. Based on a historical  perspective, convenient public orthodoxies such as are represented by the  prevailing pantheon of politically correct precepts and the associated  convenient systematic abrogation of others' rights to speak their versions  of the truth without undue interference from others or the state itself  always leads to a loss of freedom and individual rights. Freedom is never  free, and we must always beware of easy answers that endanger individual  liberties and rights.<br />Many students of history still remember that this  is how fascism starts, how it ignites into a burning ideology, with the  simple promulgation of the notion that there is only one correct way to see  or believe things, disregarding constitutional safeguards by shouting down  people and ideas you disagree with, never allowing their ideas to compete  in the public marketplace, forcing other people to subscribe to your own  notion of what is true, right, and appropriate. The best way to do this is  to ensure no one disagreeing with you can gain a public forum to do so. If  this doesn't suffice (and it never does, before long one beats down such  people to keep them quiet, or one preempts them by arresting them and  putting them behind barbed wire to ensure they won't spew their dangerous  ideas to infect the rest of the population.<br />Of course you say, all that  is ridiculous; those kinds of things can never happen here. Can I remind  you that is what German Jews said about Hitler's preposterous ideas about a  &quot;final solution&quot;. Once one allows the first little lie, others  flow quite easily, until you are deluged in a torrent of convenient  untruths, overwhelming you with an impetus of their own. Today in our  country feminists routinely shout down males who try to argue logically  against their ideas, preferring to call them names like \\" sexist\\" and  \\"reactionary\\" rather than reasonably debate the logic and value of their  arguments. Such tendencies border on the fascistic. Whenever reason is  shouted down, civility is breached, and raw, subjective emotion rules the  roost. And we all know how dangerous raw emotion can be as a basis for  public policy. Yet, as the authors poingnantly point out, this is exactly  what is happening on our college campuses today.<br />Sexual harassment laws  routinely enforce the logically ludicrous idea that it is the so-called  victim who subjectively decides what was intended by a casual comment or  action from an alleged harasser, giving the victim a self-interested loaded  gun to shoot the reputed assailant with. How can anyone kkknow what is in  anther heart or head? Yet in such cases it is the male who must beware, for  he can be accused of anything and be left to 'prvie' it is untrue. What  happened to the notion of due process of the law, or the presumption of  innocence? Finally, proponents of affirmative action passionately refuse to  even consider debating the idea that any systematic program of preferential  treatment is by its very design a discriminatory policy, which is therefore  patently illegal. Yet the courts refuse to face the issue. There is no one  left to stand for the truth. Doing so has become too dangerous politically.<br />The frightening truth is that we really can lose our liberties; we're  already taking the first fledgling steps toward a mindless conformity  through the social institutionalization of political correctness and by  encouraging and formalizing public intolerance for social nonconformists.  Males have been so systematically disenfranchisedby the spate of laws and  regulations giving preferential treatment in employment, educational  opportunities, and social legitimacy that they are now punished literally  for the terrible crime of being born as biological males. We need to  seriously consider the fact that our freedoms are being threatened even as  you read this, and as in Hitler's Germany, it is all being done for one  political faction's self-interested version of what constitutes the  &quot;betterment of society&quot;. Ready for the brave new world of  political correctness and mandatory conformity? The outlines are spelled  out in the frightening neo-fascist trends outlined here in this book.anchised by the spate of laws and  regulations giving preferential treatment in employment, educational  opportunities, and social legitimacy that they are now punished literally  for the terrible crime of being born as biological males. We need to  seriously consider the fact that our freedoms are being threatened even as  you read this, and as in Hitler's Germany, it is all being done for one  political faction's self-interested version of what constitutes the  &quot;betterment of society&quot;. Ready for the brave new world of  political correctness and mandatory conformity? The outlines are spelled  out in the frightening neo-fascist trends outlined here in this book.	2000-08-11
2334895:US	52447634	R2Z0V17KVN8EIT	068480137X	705619047	D Day: June 6, 1944: The Climactic Battle of World War II	Books	5	49	65	N	N	Exciting, Poignant, Graphic Account of Assault in Normandy!	No one has been more prolific or entertaining in his efforts to bring the  gritty, unit-level personal experiences of the Allied drive from Normandy  into Germany to the public's attention than Stephen Ambrose. In his series  of books including &quot;Band Of Brothers&quot;, &quot;The Victors&quot;,  &quot;Citizen Soldiers&quot;, and &quot;D-Day: June 6, 1944: The Climactic  Battle of World War Two&quot;, he has masterfully employed a little-known  treasure trove of personal interviews with thousands of Allied soldiers to  marshal an absolutely absorbing, captivating, and insightful treatise on  the nature of combat as experienced by the men and women in the forefront  of action as it transpired all along the front.<br />In this volume he  concentrates on the D-Day invasion onto the beachheads along the exposed  coast of Normandy on June 6, 1944, in what was the largest and by far the  most dangerous sea borne assault since the disastrous Australian failure to  establish a beachhead at Gallipoli and the ensuing bloodbath earlier in the  century.  In a book memorable for its countless personal stories and  private adventure in the midst of carnage, chaos, and confusion, of free  fire zones where anything that moves dies, Ambrose paints an indelible  portrait of the unbelievable madness of war. Following in the famous  footsteps of famed author Cornelius Ryan in \\"The Longest Day\\", Ambrose uses  the amazing and absorbing recollections of the men who fought there to tell  the story with poignancy, clarity, and a profound respect for the deeds of  so many who fought so valiantly there in service to their countries.<br />This is a story that should be told again and again, so we never forget  what it took to take back the beaches, the surrounding countryside, all in  preparation for moving on into the interior of France to push the Germans  all the way back to Berlin. This was not only the longest day, but also one  of the greatest days in history, when hundreds of thousands of Brits,  Canadians, Australians, Frenchmen, and Americans strove out of their  landing boats to set foot back on Europe, to take back by force of arms the  liberty and freedom that had been wrested away from the mainland so cruelly  nearly five years before. This, then, is the story of how that crusade to  liberate Europe began, of its first shaky steps off the LSTs and boats onto  the rocky bloodied shores of France.<br />Mr. Ambrose has become a  virtual cottage industry in the World War Two section of your local  bookstore, while he has also published works such as his recent best seller  on explorers Lewis and Clark. Meanwhile, he has become phenomenally  successful because many of his books have captured the public's imagination  by being so readable, entertaining, and informative. While popular success  doesn't always equate to critical worthiness, in his case it consistently  seems to. This is a wonderfully worthwhile, eminently researched,  exhaustively documented, and superbly narrated book on the most critical  day in the long and painful struggle to finally liberate Europe. Enjoy!sands of Brits,  Canadians, Australians, Frenchmen, and Americans strove out of their  landing boats to set foot back on Europe, to take back by force of arms the  liberty and freedom that had been wrested away from the mainland so cruelly  nearly five years before. This, then, is the story of how that crusade to  liberate Europe began, of its first shaky steps off the LSTs and boats onto  the rocky bloodied shores of France.      <br />Mr. Ambrose has become a  virtual cottage industry in the World War Two section of your local  bookstore, while he has also published works such as his recent best seller  on explorers Lewis and Clark. Meanwhile, he has become phenomenally  successful because many of his books have captured the public's imagination  by being so readable, entertaining, and informative. While popular success  doesn't always equate to critical worthiness, in his case it consistently  seems to. This is a wonderfully worthwhile, eminently researched,  exhaustively documented, and superbly narrated book on the most critical  day in the long and painful struggle to finally liberate Europe. Enjoy!	2000-08-06
2335753:US	52447634	R2QM5PYIJN1USP	0805017887	798984170	The Second World War: A Complete History	Books	5	84	89	N	N	A Terrific Overview Of The Second World War!	No one has been more acclaimed or prolific in writing about the total scope of twentieth century history than British author and historian Sir  Martin Gilbert, who sometimes seems to represent a kind of one-man revival  in British historical publication. Here he focuses impressively on the  total scope of World War Two, from the opening shots fired in Poland to the  surrender of the Japanese in Tokyo Bay.  He brings impressive credentials  to the task; as the foremost biographer and authority on Winston Churchill  (with an 8 volume biography already published), he is obviously well versed  on the particulars of the European theater of the conflict, and in this  volume he displays how comprehensive his knowledge of the other theaters of  wars, especially the Pacific campaign, is as well.<br />Readers looking for  specific orders of battle or \\"blow by blow\\" detailed accounts of particular  engagements are likely to be disappointed, but even die-hard military huffs  like me sometimes tire of such endlessly specifics, and it is refreshing to  have an approach like Gilbert's which concentrates more on the context and  connections of such engagements to use to get a better and perhaps more  complete appreciation for what was happening in the same time or in the  local area that materially affected the progress and eventual outcome of a  particular battle. After all, this war was indeed global, and it is indeed  useful to recognize that events transpiring in Stalingrad were materially  affected by the dispositions of troops and airplanes dedicated to other  Nazi commitments in the Mediterranean theater or to defend the skies of  Berlin against British and American air raids.<br />Gilbert's  sweeping prose style and selection of topics makes for entertaining and  informative reading; he masterfully weaves together a meaningful context in  which the political, military, and diplomatic aspects of the conflict are  connected in a perspective that always pays compassionate heed to the  civilian impact of the bloody struggle. As one of the foremost authorities  on the Holocaust, Gilbert blends the particulars of the \\"Final Solution\\"  into the history as part of the ongoing narrative, placing it in context  and offering the opinion that it seemed more the result of exigent  circumstance and expediency that it evolved the way it did rather than as a  calculated and well-organized campaign of deliberate mass extermination.  This isn't to say the Nazis didn't mean to solve their so-called \\"Jewish  Question\\" violently; it just means that the particular way this was  accomplished owed much more to happenstance than to contrived evil  brilliance.<br />Of particular interest is the way Gilbert uses personal  recollections and anecdotal details to humanize the epic struggle and to  bring home the horrific and monstrous scale on which this war brought  terror, death and destruction to much of the civilized world. He reminds us  with compelling evidence and stirring narratives that people died horribly  and needlessly every day during the disastrous, painful, and nearly  six-year long struggle. If you want to better understand what happened  during WWII and why it did, this wonderful and admirably comprehensive  overview will serve you quite well. Enjoynate heed to the  civilian impact of the bloody struggle. As one of the foremost authorities  on the Holocaust, Gilbert blends the particulars of the \\"Final Solution\\"  into the history as part of the ongoing narrative, placing it in context  and offering the opinion that it seemed more the result of exigent  circumstance and expediency that it evolved the way it did rather than as a  calculated and well-organized campaign of deliberate mass extermination.  This isn't to say the Nazis didn't mean to solve their so-called \\"Jewish  Question\\" violently; it just means that the particular way this was  accomplished owed much more to happenstance than to contrived evil  brilliance.    <br />Of particular interest is the way Gilbert uses personal  recollections and anecdotal details to humanize the epic struggle and to  bring home the horrific and monstrous scale on which this war brought  terror, death and destruction to much of the civilized world. He reminds us  with compelling evidence and stirring narratives that people died horribly  and needlessly every day during the disastrous, painful, and nearly  six-year long struggle. If you want to better understand what happened  during WWII and why it did, this wonderful and admirably comprehensive  overview will serve you quite well. Enjoy	2000-08-06
2336359:US	52447634	R1E4PM77PGU5S8	0385158424	585110954	Long Time Passing: Vietnam and the Haunted Generation	Books	5	27	27	N	Y	Thoughtful &amp; Absorbing Look At The Vietnam War Come Home!	Reading this book was like revisiting the political cauldron that was the sixties. The author, a noted journalist for the Washington Post, chronicles  the issues and matters that divided a country against itself, and split a  generation of young Americans in half. Using a data base of hundreds of  in-depth interviews with a representative sample of members of the  baby-boomer generation coming of age in the sixties, Myra MacPherson  explores the social, cultural, and political topography of the times,  taking a deep and sometimes disturbing look at the at the wounds opened by  the war in Vietnam, the sense of pride of both the pro-war and anti-war  factions, both of whom seem convinced they had made the right decisions in  participating either as combatants in the armed services or as protestors  against the war. It was indeed a fabled albeit rancorous time, of which  much has been written. Yet Ms. MacPherson centers in well on these issues  related to the Vietnam War that so riveted the nation's attention and  polarized a generation.<br />The saving grace of this entertaining and  fascinating book is in the wide variety of individual stories it tells.  Quite an interesting range of stories unfold in these pages, from the  anti-war protestors who burned draft cards, marched in protests all over  the nation and even fled to Canada to avoid military service to the largely  blue-collar and mostly un- deferred volunteers who were anxious to serve  their country, right or wrong. And serve they did, in the millions over the  decade of active fighting in Southeast Asia. In some cases we hear from  people who went to frightening extremes to escape the war, men who exiled  themselves, or went underground in America. Some gave up the ghost and  either filed as conscientious objectors or chose to go to jail rather than  serve. Some starved themselves into ill health or even mutilated themselves  to avoid the draft. Heading north to Montreal became a philosophically rite  of passage for any number of young men who for a variety of reasons would  rather leave the country than love what it was doing in Vietnam. We also  hear from a variety of women who were involved, either as the lovers,  wives, or sisters of the young men involved, or who were philosophically,  politically, or socially opposed to the war.<br />On the other side, we hear  from the young men and women who paid such a life's ransom for their  patriotism, adventurism, and curiosity in serving in the military and many  of them volunteering for Vietnam. So many fine young people were lost, and  in turned lost so much, either through death or permanent disability that  many of their fellow baby boomers began to think that ours, like the  generation of the First World War, was a \\"lost generation\\". Often  homecoming soldiers coming home in uniform were spit upon by cruel and  stupid people, civilians who should have understood that most of these men  served nobly and proudly on behalf of their generation. I once personally  witnessed an enlisted buddy angrily attack such a provocateur. Yet, on the  other hand, many of the veterans became quite vocal opponents of the war  they had just come home from. It was this kind of activity that did so much  to educate the rest of the population.<br />In truth, there were so many  casualties on both sides of the fence, so many veterans and anti-war  activists who had their lives ruined by the turmoil that aged around them  that it is still difficult to recollect. This is a haunting and memorable  book, a well written, compassionately framed study in the mischief the war  did to everyone it touched; the young men, their wives and lovers, their  brothers and sisters, their parents, and the community at large. Although  the book is not currently in print, I am sure you can get a copy through  Amazon's used book service, or by asking your local bookstore to do a  search for you. I hope you find it as worthwhile a reading experience as I  did.ssage for any number of young men who for a variety of reasons would  rather leave the country than love what it was doing in Vietnam. We also  hear from a variety of women who were involved, either as the lovers,  wives, or sisters of the young men involved, or who were philosophically,  politically, or socially opposed to the war.<br />On the other side, we hear  from the young men and women who paid such a life's ransom for their  patriotism, adventurism, and curiosity in serving in the military and many  of them volunteering for Vietnam. So many fine young people were lost, and  in turned lost so much, either through death or permanent disability that  many of their fellow baby boomers began to think that ours, like the  generation of the First World War, was a \\"lost generation\\". Often  homecoming soldiers coming home in uniform were spit upon by cruel and  stupid people, civilians who should have understood that most of these men  served nobly and proudly on behalf of their generation. I once personally  witnessed an enlisted buddy angrily attack such a provocateur. Yet, on the  other hand, many of the veterans became quite vocal opponents of the war  they had just come home from. It was this kind of activity that did so much  to educate the rest of the population.<br />In truth, there were so many  casualties on both sides of the fence, so many veterans and anti-war  activists who had their lives ruined by the turmoil that aged around them  that it is still difficult to recollect. This is a haunting and memorable  book, a well written, compassionately framed study in the mischief the war  did to everyone it touched; the young men, their wives and lovers, their  brothers and sisters, their parents, and the community at large. Although  the book is not currently in print, I am sure you can get a copy through  Amazon's used book service, or by asking your local bookstore to do a  search for you. I hope you find it as worthwhile a reading experience as I  did.	2000-08-05
2336446:US	52447634	R2AG7U39J1DKT4	0805045597	256568224	Homophobia: A History	Books	3	37	70	N	N	An Interesting, Absorbing, But Seriously Flawed Study!	This is truly an interesting and provocative work, and it is hard to find fault with the accuracy of the scholarship, the seriousness of its  implications both in discrimination and violence, or the dismal findings in  terms of the rampant prejudices and tortured logic that brings people to  the point of committing such violence on gays or lesbians. As the author  contends, there is never an excuse for this kind of gay bashing as is  sometimes a sport of preferences for young toughs. No matter what anyone  believes or holds dear, once the step toward assault is taken, all pretense  of civil society is lost. All this said, and for all the many excellent  qualities making this book a provocative and worthwhile reading experience,  I must admit to having some discomfort with the author's all too frequent  tendency to use the world \\"homophobia\\" to generally refer to a plethora of  different ways in which many mainstream citizens have historically  expressed their antipathy and hostility toward the homosexual lifestyle.<br />While I heartily agree that anyone who engages in active discrimination  against gays or lesbians should face the legal consequences of their  illegal activities, I part company with the author as to whether such acts  are necessarily intrinsically \\"homophobic\\", as he maintains. He seems to  define any sort of personal antipathy toward gays or lesbians as  constituting de facto evidence of prejudice, disregarding religious,  philosophical, and ethical considerations as just so much smoke screen.  This, in my view, is a highly inaccurate and ultimately dysfunctional  approach to take in objectively ascertaining what the nature and social  dimensions of homophobia happen to be. Traditionally the term \\"homophobia\\"  has been to refer to a specific pathological psychological syndrome in  which the individual's often violent attitudes and behaviors stem from a  repressed fear of what used to be euphemistically referred to as one's own  \\"latent homosexuality\\". One use to hear this referred to as \\"homosexual  panic\\", in which one assaulted gays because one felt a need to demonstrate  (to oneself) that one was straight.  Phobia is an irrational fear, and  therefore \\"homophobia\\" so defined is an irrational fear of gays.<br />Insofar  as this term is used in this way, I agree with much of what the author  says. Yet too often here there seems to be a blurring of what the term  means, and too often it seems to be used as a blanket term to refer to  anyone who has the misfortune to disagree with gay and lesbian ideas and  goals, for anyone who is not in agreement with the currently chic  politically correct notion of what the contemporary social attitudes toward  gays and lesbians should be. I think it is a mistake to use the term  \\"homophobia\\" in such a way, not only because it is a patently incorrect use  of the term, but also because it also increases confusion about how to  effectively discriminate among a variety of public attitudes and behaviors,  some of which are indeed pathological, and others which are most certainly  not.<br />I believe it is a mistake to argue that any and all opposition to  gays and lesbians stems from a pathological syndrome, or that anyone  expressing shock and intense dislike for the particulars of the homosexual  political goals is necessarily prejudiced, hateful, or hostile. The truth  is much more complex than that, and it is a convenient subterfuge for gays  to argue that anyone arguing against them is by definition \\"sick\\" and  needing re-education. To me, it smacks too much of political rhetoric  disguised as scholarship to put the glossy shine of authenticity on  something that's nothing more than a personal opinion. The truth is that  many who disfavor extension of further legislation or social change to  accommodate gays and lesbians cannot be accurately viewed in such a  reductionistic fashion. The fact that the author does so undercuts his  credibility and the urgent message about gays and prejudice that so  urgently need to be heard.ut gays and prejudice that so  urgently need to be heard.	2000-08-05
2336608:US	52447634	R3HQ5TZX5T712R	0805023968	352900823	Churchill: A Life	Books	5	56	59	N	Y	A Wonderful One Volume Overview Of Winston Churchill's Life!	No one short of Winston himself is more of an established authority on Winston Churchill than noted British author and historian Sir Martin  Gilbert, who renders an intelligent, eminently readable, and carefully  culled one-volume overview of his imposing eight volume history of  Churchill that took over 25 years to finish.  Unlike some of the other  recent covers of Churchill, this carefully composed, organized and  articulated work covers the entire story of Churchill's incredible life  from childhood, supplying a steady stream of memorable anecdotes and  constant good humor that punctuates the text and makes the usual drab early  years much more entertaining and enjoyable.<br />He takes great pains to  describe Churchill's daredevil antics early in life, a man more foolhardy  than fool, a man with piercing intellect and a sardonic wit. According to  Gilbert, young Winston was always good company, with an endless store of  stories he spun with great relish and amazing recall.  He had an early  sense about the possibilities of technology, and could fly a British  bi-plane even before the onset of WWI. He seemed to recognize the potential  of such new weaponry to revolutionize warfare, and often took pains to tell  anyone who would listen how much more dynamic such things as tanks and  artillery could make the modern battlefield.<br />Of course, the events  surrounding World War Two provided Churchill with the opportunity of a  lifetime; the author argues he was exactly the right man to pull Britain  out of its desperate doldrums and to jump fearlessly into the fray. For  while he was no military genius, he was a singular statesman and leader,  and he used his stirring orations to electrify the English populace and  prepare them for the war of endurance he knew he struggle with Germany  would certainly become. He threaded the delicate high wire of political  negotiations with the Americans, and forged an unusually strong and open  friendship with Franklin Roosevelt that was a dynamic factor in the Allied  partnership.<br />As Gilbert writes so memorably, he summoned forth the  mysterious stuff of greatness to assume leadership of Britain when it was  most isolated, threatened, and weak. In such circumstances, his own  bulldog-like resolve and legendary stubbornness made those who oppose him  rue the day. No one in modern history was so singularly responsible for the  rescue of the world from the clutches of evil incarnate (as personified by  Hitler and Nazi Germany) than did Winston Churchill. This is a masterful  biography written in a magisterial fashion by the single greatest authority  on Churchill. I highly recommend it. Enjoy!t that was a dynamic factor in the Allied  partnership. <br />As Gilbert writes so memorably, he summoned forth the  mysterious stuff of greatness to assume leadership of Britain when it was  most isolated, threatened, and weak. In such circumstances, his own  bulldog-like resolve and legendary stubbornness made those who oppose him  rue the day. No one in modern history was so singularly responsible for the  rescue of the world from the clutches of evil incarnate (as personified by  Hitler and Nazi Germany) than did Winston Churchill. This is a masterful  biography written in a magisterial fashion by the single greatest authority  on Churchill. I highly recommend it. Enjoy!	2000-08-05
2339901:US	52447634	RPEI10WVVWOKP	0140246967	501983138	Touched with Fire: The Land War in the South Pacific	Books	5	51	53	N	Y	Superb Coverage of Pacific Campaign in WWII!	The superb account rendered so graphically in this book educates a new  generation of readers as to the horrific practical realities involved in  the Allied island-hopping strategy employed by the Allies in waging the  Pacific campaign during World War Two. Indeed, while the specific  individual battles often involved far fewer ground troops and were much  smaller in scale than what occurred in the European theater of the war, the  ferocity of the opposition and the relative number of casualties were  staggering. Thus Eric Bergerud's gripping recounting of the incredible  details involved with the war in the South Pacific in \\"Touched With Fire:  The Land War In The South Pacific\\" reminds us of the terrible costs  associated with that campaign.<br />This was truly a campaign requiring a  total re-education of the American military involved. Starting with the  disastrous lessons of the quite different realities of jungle warfare first  experienced on Guadalcanal, the Allied command had to learn to adapt to the  extremely tenacious, ingenious, and almost indefatigable efforts of the  island's Japanese defenders, who could subsist on a little water and rice  and move through the jungles with much great ease and skill than could we.  No one was prepared for the sustained levels of ferocity with which the  Japanese fought, usually to the death, over these small atolls that they  had to recognize they could not hold onto forever. Yet they fought on.<br />The book recounts the many ways in which the war in the Pacific was  different from that waged in Europe, and is organized around several themes  such as terrain, climate, diseases such as dysentery, etc. in illustrating  how the very different negative circumstances surrounding the island  hopping strategy affected and constrained our ability (as well as those of  the Japanese) to fight effectively in such an environment. Of course, as  the author maintains, the Allies learned very quickly; they needed to in  order to survive. As so well described in Ronald Spector's \\"Eagle Against  The Sun\\", the Japanese were incredibly ingenious in devising ways to use  topography, indigenous materials, and a willingness to \\"`rough-it\\" to build  virtually impregnable walls of resistance to the oncoming invaders.<br />This  is a very well written, passionately argued, and absolutely entertaining  book to read. The author has done a remarkable job in documenting and  substantiating his notions and theories, and I found myself surprised at  how well some of his more provocative and controversial ideas are supported  by the data he employs. This is an eminently worthwhile book, a wonderful  addition to the growing library of titles exploring the realities of the  war in the Pacific, and one I would recommend to anyone interested in  learning more about the gritty details of the Allied `island to island' war  against the Japanese.  Enjoy!urvive. As so well described in Ronald Spector's \\"Eagle Against  The Sun\\", the Japanese were incredibly ingenious in devising ways to use  topography, indigenous materials, and a willingness to \\"`rough-it\\" to build  virtually impregnable walls of resistance to the oncoming invaders. <br />This  is a very well written, passionately argued, and absolutely entertaining  book to read. The author has done a remarkable job in documenting and  substantiating his notions and theories, and I found myself surprised at  how well some of his more provocative and controversial ideas are supported  by the data he employs. This is an eminently worthwhile book, a wonderful  addition to the growing library of titles exploring the realities of the  war in the Pacific, and one I would recommend to anyone interested in  learning more about the gritty details of the Allied `island to island' war  against the Japanese.  Enjoy!	2000-08-03
2340386:US	52447634	R3VJ5ATPT6PQ0U	0684833638	917889657	A Moveable Feast	Books	5	507	520	N	N	A Timeless Recollection Of A Lost Time And Place !	Whenever friends ask me why, at my age, I still love Hemingway, I smile  and think about this book. They say &#34;Hemingway' and conjure up familiar  visions of the older, bloated and blighted boozer bragging about his macho  accomplishments in the world of war and sports, while I consider the young  Hemingway in Paris. I am thinking of a much younger, intellectually virile  man, someone far more alert, aware and alive; Hemingway as a `moveable  feast' strolling deliberately through the streets of a rain-swept Paris on  a quiet Monday morning, heading to a caf&eacute; for some caf&eacute; au lait to begin  his long day's labor.<br /><br />In this single, slim tome Hemingway beautifully and  unforgettably evokes a world of beauty and innocence now so utterly lost  and irretrievable both to himself, through his fame, alcohol, and  dissipation, but also to us, for Paris as she was in the 1920s was a place  made to order for the lyrical descriptive songs he sings about her in this  remembrance; endlessly interesting, instantly unforgettable, and also  accessible to the original &#34;starving young artist types&#34; so well depicted  here. As anyone visiting Paris today knows, that magical time and place has  utterly vanished. Tragically, Paris is just another city these days.<br /><br />Yet  this is a book that unforgettably captures the essence of what the word  'romance' means, and does so in the spare and laconic style that Hemingway  developed while sitting in the bistros and watching as the world in all its  colors and hues flowed by him. The stories he tells are filled with the  kinds of people one usually meets only in novels, yet because of who they  were and who they later became in the world of arts and letters, it is hard  to doubt the veracity or honesty he uses to such advantage here. This is a  portrait of an artist in full possession of his creative powers, full of  the vinegary spirit and insight that made him a legend in his own time, and  consequently ruined him as an artist and as a human being.  There are few  books I would endorse for everyone as a lifelong friend. This, however, is  a book I can recommend for anyone who wants the reading enjoyment and  intellectual experience Hemingway offers in such wonderful abundance in  these pages.<br /><br />Take my advice, though. Buy it first in paper, read it  until it begins to fray and fall apart (and you will), and then go out and  buy yourself a new hardcover edition to adorn your shelf, so on that  proverbial rainy afternoon when the house is quiet, the kids are gone, and  you just want to escape from the ordinary ennui and humdrum of life, pull  &#34;A Moveable Feast&#34; down and hold it close enough to read. A cup  of steaming tea by your side, return all by yourself to a marvelous world  of blue city skyscapes, freshly washed cobblestone and unforgettable  romance; return once more to Paris in the twenties, when life was simple,  basic, and good.human being.  There are few  books I would endorse for everyone as a lifelong friend. This, however, is  a book I can recommend for anyone who wants the reading enjoyment and  intellectual experience Hemingway offers in such wonderful abundance in  these pages.  Take my advice, though. Buy it first in paper, read it  until it begins to fray and fall apart (and you will), and then go out and  buy yourself a new hardcover edition to adorn your shelf, so on that  proverbial rainy afternoon when the house is quiet, the kids are gone, and  you just want to escape from the ordinary ennui and humdrum of life, pull  &#34;A Moveable Feast&#34; down and hold it close enough to read. A cup  of steaming tea by your side, return all by yourself to a marvelous world  of blue city skyscapes, freshly washed cobblestone and unforgettable  romance; return once more to Paris in the twenties, when life was simple,  basic, and good.	2000-08-03
2343308:US	52447634	R3TA9R1YH562JL	0306805626	359845423	The Collapse of the Third Republic: An Inquiry into the Fall of France in 1940	Books	4	68	71	N	N	Wonderful Examination of The Curious Defeat Of The French!	Anyone familiar with William Shirer's spectacular and varied career as an international journalist, war correspondent, radio commentator, and best-selling author of such tomes as &quot;Berlin Diary&quot;, &quot;The  Rise &amp; Fall Of The Third Reich&quot;, &quot;The Nightmare Years&quot;  and many others will appreciate this interesting and extremely well  documented examination of the otherwise mind-boggling spectacle of the  quick and effortless defeat of the French army at the hands of the  Wehrmacht in a few short weeks in the summer of 1940. The world was stunned  by the lack of resistance and quick capitulation of what had been the  single strongest and most awesome fighting force in Europe almost without a  struggle. Shirer has masterfully sifted through the wreckage of the Third  Republic to discover the provocative and disturbing story behind the loss  of heart and courage as well as the shocking and immoral betrayal involved  in the subsequent collaboration with the Nazis under the notorious Vichy  government.<br />Shirer arrived back in Paris shortly after the hostilities  ceased, and was shocked by what he observed. As a longtime resident and  reporter in the area, he understood the negative forces working to erode so  fatefully away at what had once been the finest, largest, and best  respected military force in Europe. This, then, is an absorbing,  thoughtful, and compassionate look at how Germany came to defeat France's  Third Republic so easily, at the tragic errors in tactical judgment and the  continuing comedy of stupid military errors that constituted the French  response to both the preparations for war as well as the invasion itself.  It is also, perhaps much more importantly, a deep and detailed look at what  went wrong in France in the years between the two world wars to so weaken  the resolve, combativeness, and spirit of the nation in general and the  army in particular.<br />This is fascinating stuff, a tale told as only  someone with Shirer's intimate knowledge of French character, Parisian  affairs and the political debacle that was the Third Republic could tell.  It is at once quite detailed, compassionate, and entertaining, for as  always Shirer brings a foreign correspondent's street-smart assessments to  issues and events that a historian might not appreciate or understand. He  notes, for example, the growing confusion, helplessness, and cynicism of  the French people during the 1930s, as well as the ineptness and hopeless  bureaucratization of the French army, and the ceaseless cycle of political  and commercial corruption that sapped the strength and morale of the  country.<br />I must confess to being a Shirer addict, having read just about  everything he has published. Now that he is finally gone (having died  within the last ten years), we are left with few of the brilliant cast of  WWII alumni like John Toland, William Manchester, Cornelius Ryan, and  William Shirer that so often illuminated us with their native intellect,  writing skills, and sheer presence. But be of good cheer; they each have  left us with a treasure trove of literary gifts we can enjoy at our  leisure. This excellent tome discussing the otherwise inextricable  mysteries of how the French could have been so easily defeated by a country  that was less well manned, armed, and equipped than the French. Shirer may  be gone, but this wonderful book still remains to remind us of his genius.  Read this and remember.h Shirer's intimate knowledge of French character, Parisian  affairs and the political debacle that was the Third Republic could tell.  It is at once quite detailed, compassionate, and entertaining, for as  always Shirer brings a foreign correspondent's street-smart assessments to  issues and events that a historian might not appreciate or understand. He  notes, for example, the growing confusion, helplessness, and cynicism of  the French people during the 1930s, as well as the ineptness and hopeless  bureaucratization of the French army, and the ceaseless cycle of political  and commercial corruption that sapped the strength and morale of the  country. <br />I must confess to being a Shirer addict, having read just about  everything he has published. Now that he is finally gone (having died  within the last ten years), we are left with few of the brilliant cast of  WWII alumni like John Toland, William Manchester, Cornelius Ryan, and  William Shirer that so often illuminated us with their native intellect,  writing skills, and sheer presence. But be of good cheer; they each have  left us with a treasure trove of literary gifts we can enjoy at our  leisure. This excellent tome discussing the otherwise inextricable  mysteries of how the French could have been so easily defeated by a country  that was less well manned, armed, and equipped than the French. Shirer may  be gone, but this wonderful book still remains to remind us of his genius.  Read this and remember.	2000-08-01
2343671:US	52447634	R34607PNWB8MFW	0684848015	340472252	Citizen Soldiers: The U. S. Army from the Normandy Beaches to the Bulge to the Surrender of Germany	Books	5	82	87	N	N	Terrific,  Entertaining Look  At  Allied Drive Into Germany	No one has been more prolific or entertaining in his efforts to bring the gritty, unit-level personal experiences of the Allied drive from Normandy into Germany to the public's attention than Stephen Ambrose. In his series  of books including &quot;D-Day: June 6, 1944: The Climactic Battle of World  War Two&quot;, &quot;Band Of Brothers&quot;, &quot;The Victors&quot;, and  &quot;Citizen Soldiers&quot;, he has masterfully employed a little-known  treasure trove of personal interviews with thousands of Allied soldiers to  marshal an absolutely absorbing, captivating, and insightful treatise on  the nature of combat as experienced by the men and women in the forefront  of action as it transpired all along the front.<br />In this volume he  concentrates on the drive from Normandy all the way into the heart of  Germany, and covering as much ground as the Allies conquered in that  fateful year is a considerable accomplishment. This makes for fascinating  and entertaining reading. A great deal of ground is covered, from the  consolidation of the beachheads in Normandy to the relatively quick  liberation of Paris, from the ill-fated Operation Market-Garden assault  into Holland in September to the disastrous bloodbath in Omar Bradley's  catastrophic excursion into the Hurtigen Forest, from the desperate clashes  around Bastogne in the wintry Battle of the Bulge to the long, costly drive  that unusually cold and snowy winter into Germany itself. As a result, we  don't find the level of detail or strict chronology he employed in  &quot;D-Day&quot;, for example, or the kind of comprehensive coverage of  specific events like the Battle of the Bulge that one finds in books like  John Toland's &quot;Battle&quot;.<br />This does not mean one doesn't learn a  great deal about all these events transpiring during that fateful year; on  the contrary, there is much in the way of provocative information and  startling perspective offered here on each of these events. Yet it is  unfair to expect a book addressing itself to the totality of the Allied  campaign to do so comprehensively in less than 500 pages. Certainly anyone  reading the corpus of all the Ambrose works on the year 1944-45 as is  represented by the books mentioned above gets a very comprehensive feel for  the progress of the war effort in Europe. Still, to gain the kind of  comprehensive and strictly chronological information a complete history  requires, one must look elsewhere, to tomes such as &quot;A World At  Arms&quot;, or &quot;A War To Be Won&quot;, or even the comfortable,  veritable, and well-worn &quot;The Rise And Fall Of The Third Reich&quot;,  my own personal favorite.<br />Mr. Ambrose has become a virtual cottage  industry in the World War Two section of your local bookstore, while he has  also published works such as his recent best seller on explorers Lewis and  Clark. Meanwhile, he has become phenomenally successful because many of his  books have captured the public's imagination by being so readable,  entertaining, and informative. While popular success doesn't always equate  to critical worthiness, in his case it consistently seems to. This is a  wonderfully worthwhile, eminently researched, exhaustively documented, and  superbly narrated book on the most critical last year of the war in Europe.  Enjoy!to expect a book addressing itself to the totality of the Allied  campaign to do so comprehensively in less than 500 pages. Certainly anyone  reading the corpus of all the Ambrose works on the year 1944-45 as is  represented by the books mentioned above gets a very comprehensive feel for  the progress of the war effort in Europe. Still, to gain the kind of  comprehensive and strictly chronological information a complete history  requires, one must look elsewhere, to tomes such as &quot;A World At  Arms&quot;, or &quot;A War To Be Won&quot;, or even the comfortable,  veritable, and well-worn &quot;The Rise And Fall Of The Third Reich&quot;,  my own personal favorite.   <br />Mr. Ambrose has become a virtual cottage  industry in the World War Two section of your local bookstore, while he has  also published works such as his recent best seller on explorers Lewis and  Clark. Meanwhile, he has become phenomenally successful because many of his  books have captured the public's imagination by being so readable,  entertaining, and informative. While popular success doesn't always equate  to critical worthiness, in his case it consistently seems to. This is a  wonderfully worthwhile, eminently researched, exhaustively documented, and  superbly narrated book on the most critical last year of the war in Europe.  Enjoy!	2000-08-01
2344177:US	52447634	R12GAG8OHYMB4V	0375503544	702212284	The Coming Anarchy: Shattering the Dreams of the Post Cold War	Books	3	35	54	N	Y	The World According To Robert D. Kaplan!	This is a book full of fascinating and absorbing essays portraying Robert Kaplan's insightful vision of a world suddenly full of frightening, endlessly fragmented, unstable and chaotic nations launching into violence  and internal genocide at the drop of the proverbial hat. So what has  changed, Bobby, other than the fact that the balance of terror provided by  a catastrophically expensive, wasteful, and useless Cold War that Kaplan  aches nostalgically for since it provided some means of international  stability?  While everything Mr. Kaplan argues for is ostensibly true in  the narrow sense, I have a problem with the fact that for all its flashes  of insight and brilliance, his perspective is sadly lacking in any genuine  insights in terms of a rational and progressive policy for righting what he  rightly views is ailing the collective world at large. Moreover, I suspect  from these essays that like many neo-conservatives desperately searching  for reasons and rationalizations to reignite the home fires now languishing  so petulantly beneath the American arms industry, he neglects to mention  how flagrantly the transnational corporations he often lectures to  negatively influence the regional conflagrations he so conspicuously  deplores. In short, I fear the author doth protest too much; for all his  urgent protestations, he seems more like a wolf dressed in wool baying like  a sheep than an ardently sincere proponent of peace in our time.<br />Certainly ours is a much more dangerous and fractious world than it was  before the breakup of the former Soviet Union. But it is a serious mistake  to conclude that this is solely due to the lack of a continuing balance of  terror that kept each opposing orbit of influence circling within tolerable  political tolerances. Instead, the circumstances represented by the  momentous change the author refers to must be viewed in a better defined,  developed, and articulated context, one recognizing that while we enjoy a  enviable lifestyle while producing what most of the rest of the world wants  and cannot find the means to afford, we also act to undermine their  positions, as well. For example, both the nation itself and the  transnational corporations it serves also conspicuously withhold (for  reasons of profit and advantage) humanitarian aid and support of the rest  of the world's basic needs for such elementary supplies and services as  pharmaceutical assistance for the third world tuberculosis epidemic, or  control of HIV infections in Africa, or a more rational crop management  system that doesn't ruthlessly exploit third world countries by condemning  their leaders to grow cash crops for export to meet their World Bank  payment obligations instead of allowing them to feed their burgeoning  populations. This is a hardly an enlightened, disinterested, or progressive  way to aid and assist the emerging third world countries.<br />In short, far  from being innocent observers of dangerous trends going on &quot;out there'  in Kaplan's sterile and superficially defined world of nation states, we  need to integrate what we know about the way the world really works, not  just in the notional and abstract political world discussed in foreign  policy statements for public consumption. Rather, we need one that  recognizes the fact that nations often conduct foreign policy in service to  their corporate sponsors' perceived interests, that the flag often follows  commerce, that the profound social, economic, and political influence  wielded with great purpose by the cynical, indifferent, and anonymous  corporations who are in fact almost exclusively oriented and motivated by  profit considerations affect what is going on in the world. I agree with  much of what Mr. Kaplan has to say in terms of individual statements about  the dangerous, unpredictable, and provocative times we are moving into. But  I hardly believe it serves public discussion to voice these concerns so  articulately only to thenretreat to a silly and superficial set of notions  about what the larger social, economic and political realities are or what  an enlightened foreign policy would be to guard against these dangers. It  is a sweet but insubstantial confection, one that patently disregards the  profound issues of corporate globalization and how it views its role in the  unfolding drama the author addresses so interestingly.hen retreat to a silly and superficial set of notions  about what the larger social, economic and political realities are or what  an enlightened foreign policy would be to guard against these dangers. It  is a sweet but insubstantial confection, one that patently disregards the  profound issues of corporate globalization and how it views its role in the  unfolding drama the author addresses so interestingly.	2000-07-31
2346006:US	52447634	R1K63L866UVA6A	0684803305	874197393	A Bridge Too Far: The Classic History of the Greatest Battle of World War II	Books	5	51	55	N	N	Superb First Person Approach to Operation Market Garden	Famed author Cornelius Ryan has a unique and appealing way of telling a story that makes his books quite unique, and this huge best seller is no exception. He lets the disastrous story of the wrong-headed Allied decision  to risk an immense day-light paratrooper drop with \\"thunderclap surprise\\"  (catching the Germans with their proverbial pants down) for the first time  in the European campaign unfold as an ill-conceived effort to capture a  series of bridges critical to a fast and successful prosecution of the  Allied thrust into the heart of Germany.<br />This tale retelling the Allied  miscalculation of potential German resistance and the speed with which they  could proceed up the one road needed to support the airdropped forces is a  riveting tale. Its total cost in terms of human life and unnecessary  destruction is a cautionary lesson for history.  Like his other books, this  is a story told at every level, but concentrating on the faithful  recollections of the actual participants in the action. Thus, the reader is  wept into the action as we get a voyeur's view of the moment-to-moment  development of the story as it unfolds in all its horrific detail.<br />There  is a cornucopia of information presented here, and Ryan's approach is  scrupulously faithful to the facts, all of them, regardless of the source.  Therefore, there is a great deal of attention paid to the recollections and  experiences of the German armed forces and noncombatants as well as the  Allied invaders. Unlike some other efforts on this subject, there is no  apparent effort here to color the results and make the Allies more  circumspect and less provocative in making and activating their  ill-conceived plans. One gets the sense on reading this book that this is  the whole story as best Ryan could determine it, and he makes an  extraordinary effort to include as much relevant information by way of  using both recollection and contextual data to bolster a comprehensive  picture of the battles as they unfolded in the air, and then more fatefully  on the ground.<br /> Ryan was one of a handful of masterful storytellers and  historians who emerged from the Second World War. Like John Toland, William  Shirer, and a number of notable others, Ryan illuminated the human stories  of war and destruction, and brought these otherwise unbelievable and  incomprehensible experiences home to an entire generation of otherwise  bewildered citizens. This is one of the best of the efforts, shining the  light of truth on a still controversial and provocative Allied action that  could have expedited the end of the war, but instead resulted in large  scale death and destruction.les as they unfolded in the air, and then more fatefully  on the ground. <br /> Ryan was one of a handful of masterful storytellers and  historians who emerged from the Second World War. Like John Toland, William  Shirer, and a number of notable others, Ryan illuminated the human stories  of war and destruction, and brought these otherwise unbelievable and  incomprehensible experiences home to an entire generation of otherwise  bewildered citizens. This is one of the best of the efforts, shining the  light of truth on a still controversial and provocative Allied action that  could have expedited the end of the war, but instead resulted in large  scale death and destruction.	2000-07-30
2346096:US	52447634	RNLVSHGXLC8HQ	0195038347	89984256	Freedom from Fear: The American People in Depression and War, 1929-1945 (Oxford History of the United States)	Books	5	59	66	N	Y	A Magisterial &amp; Authoratative Look At The Crisis Years!	With this wonderful book, David Kennedy has produced a definitive treatment of the crisis of the century, a book of epic proportions; one detailing, describing and explaining the many ways in which the insoluble  social, economic, and political maelstrom that enveloped this country is  related to the history of what came thereafter. As in other recent tomes  such as Doris Kearns Goodwin's \\"No Ordinary Times\\" and Tom Brokow's The  Greatest Generation\\", the present volume is quite explicit in meaningfully  linking how the harrowing kinds of experiences, trials, and tribulations of  the American people helped to forge the kind of character, determination,  and resolve that was later so instrumental in meeting the challenges  associated with the Second World War.<br />Yet unlike Brokow's effort and  that of other historians like Stephen Ambrose, Kennedy avoids wide use of  primary interviewing, and the difference this leads to in the tone and  perspective of the book is telling. Like Goodwin's effort, this is a superb  book, wonderfully written, eminently accessible (an important quality given  its length of nearly 900 pages), with a sometimes soaring prose style that  is so distinctive and so refreshing that reading it is a joy. This is  history come to life, full of the color and hues of the original events,  presented in a manner that is at once both academically sophisticated and  yet available and readable by the general audience. Kennedy makes the  reader feel as though he is present in the moment, experiencing the events  as they transpire rather than eavesdropping some seventy or so years after  the fact. Hearing about the ways in which feckless Herbert Hoover, for  example, was in many ways the helpless victim of circumstances is quite  interesting.<br />So is his take on so many other personalities and issues of  the time, from the particulars of the New Deal and how they were conceived  all the way to the insidious domestic treatment and 'internment' of  Japanese Americans after the outbreak of WWII. Of course, Kennedy's book is  rife with interesting and often provocative interpretations of the events,  and this willingness to weigh in intelligently and convincingly adds to the  overall entertainment and intellectual value of the book.  While I didn't  necessarily agree with all of these interpretations or his conclusions, it  is always a pleasure to be in the presence of such an active, nimble and  creative intellect. This is a book that anyone with an interest in the  literally endless ways we were formed in the crucible of events of the past  as well as by the people who came before us will want to experience this  absolutely top-shelf new work by David Kennedy. Enjoy!panese Americans after the outbreak of WWII. Of course, Kennedy's book is  rife with interesting and often provocative interpretations of the events,  and this willingness to weigh in intelligently and convincingly adds to the  overall entertainment and intellectual value of the book.   While I didn't  necessarily agree with all of these interpretations or his conclusions, it  is always a pleasure to be in the presence of such an active, nimble and  creative intellect. This is a book that anyone with an interest in the  literally endless ways we were formed in the crucible of events of the past  as well as by the people who came before us will want to experience this  absolutely top-shelf new work by David Kennedy. Enjoy!	2000-07-30
2346132:US	52447634	R2R9CI6NB8Z8FL	0684832836	22408140	Bowling Alone: The Collapse and Revival of American Community	Books	5	40	45	N	Y	Terrific &amp; Penetrating View At  American Loss Of Community!	It amazes me how often an academic with an important piece of the truth about the nature of contemporary social reality becomes embroiled in an avalanche of escalating public expectations &amp; hyperbole until suddenly  he is expected to become  a hopped-up social prophet singularly able to  explain, detail and unravel the heretofore-mysterious elements of our  existential dilemma. Such is the case here with Professor Putnam's  provocative findings regarding social disintegration in the America of the  `90s.<br />This is an absorbing book, the result of Putnam's efforts to expand  a short article Putnam had written regarding the observable facts of  increasing social isolation and personal disconnection within our culture.  Here he employs new data substantiating and extending the details of his  original thesis, indicating that on almost every measure investigated,  individual Americans are less likely to regularly socialize with their  peers, becoming more isolated, more fractious, and less friendly to others  than they have been in the recent past. The book is written in an engaging  way, and entertains and seduces the reader with amusing (as well as  frightening) facts and figures regarding the degree of animosity and  alienation individual citizens feel.<br />Of course, it is easy to become so  enthralled with reading through the entertaining list of particulars he  enumerates than to pay heed to the burgeoning shapes and images lurking  beneath the data; i.e., concerned readers should engage themselves in  locating all this information usefully within a meaningful social context.  Increasing social isolation and the progressive breakdown in what  sociologists call social cohesion are not new phenomena, but have been  steadily eroding the social fabric and our feelings of connectedness to one  another for over a century. In fact, at the turn of the 20th century both  Emile Durkheim and Max Weber were warning of the social dangers associated  with the rise of a rational, secular and materialistic social milieu.  Reading other recent books such as Sales Kirkpatrick's \\"Rebels Against The  Future\\" or Philip Slater's classic 1970 book \\"Pursuit of Loneliness\\" give  one a much better grounding in how the degree of social isolation and civil  alienation are related to what is happening in the larger social surround  individuals find themselves in.<br />In essence, the kinds of isolation  detailed so well in this tome are the result of the long-term corrosive  effects of materialism, with concentration on capital acquisition and  gaining more wealth and more affluent lifestyles. Indeed, if one reads the  recent book \\"The Overworked American\\" by Juliet Schor, one gets the  distinct impression that many Americans are so focused on \\"getting ahead'  that anything interfering with this obsessive reach for greater material  security gets short shrift in contemporary society. There should be no  confusion about the nature of the problem that confronts us; we have no  community because we have no culture left. The revolution of scientific  change and technical innovation has systematically swept away the web of  meanings we once had to integrate and make sense of all this. All we really  have today is a mutual acquisition society, based primarily on our mutual  lust for material goods and minimally constrained by the skeletal rules and  regulations civil society sets for the nature of the material quest.  This  is a terrific book. Read it.rational, secular and materialistic social milieu.  Reading other recent books such as Sales Kirkpatrick's \\"Rebels Against The  Future\\" or Philip Slater's classic 1970 book \\"Pursuit of Loneliness\\" give  one a much better grounding in how the degree of social isolation and civil  alienation are related to what is happening in the larger social surround  individuals find themselves in. <br />In essence, the kinds of isolation  detailed so well in this tome are the result of the long-term corrosive  effects of materialism, with concentration on capital acquisition and  gaining more wealth and more affluent lifestyles. Indeed, if one reads the  recent book \\"The Overworked American\\" by Juliet Schor, one gets the  distinct impression that many Americans are so focused on \\"getting ahead'  that anything interfering with this obsessive reach for greater material  security gets short shrift in contemporary society. There should be no  confusion about the nature of the problem that confronts us; we have no  community because we have no culture left. The revolution of scientific  change and technical innovation has systematically swept away the web of  meanings we once had to integrate and make sense of all this. All we really  have today is a mutual acquisition society, based primarily on our mutual  lust for material goods and minimally constrained by the skeletal rules and  regulations civil society sets for the nature of the material quest.  This  is a terrific book. Read it.	2000-07-30
2346322:US	52447634	R14XQAPWCCHMZ0	0671890913	686500362	The Longest Day: The Classic Epic of D-Day	Books	5	60	62	N	Y	The Single Best Book On D-Day Yet Written!	Famed author Cornelius Ryan has a unique and appealing way of telling a story that makes his books quite unique, and this huge best seller is no exception. Here he sets the stage for his brilliant trilogy on the war in  Europe by chronicling the events surrounding the fabled Allied sea-borne  assault in Normandy on June 6, 1944. Its total cost in terms of human life  and unnecessary destruction is a cautionary lesson for history.  Like his  other books, this is a story told at every level, but concentrating on the  faithful recollections of the actual participants in the action. Thus, the  reader is wept into the action as we get a voyeur's view of the  moment-to-moment development of the story as it unfolds in all its horrific  detail.<br />There is a virtual cornucopia of information presented here, and  Ryan's approach is scrupulously faithful to the facts, all of them,  regardless of the source. Therefore, there is a great deal of attention  paid not only to the recollections and experiences of the Allied assault  troops, but to German defenders and French civilians caught in the terrible  crossfire of the opposing forces. This was the book that originated the  man-on-the-ground perspective that has been subsequently used to such  advantage both by Ryan and number of notable others. There is little  apparent effort here to color the results and make the Allies more  circumspect and less provocative in making and activating their  star-crossed assault. One gets the sense on reading this, as with each of  Ryan's three books on the European campaign, that this is the whole story  as best he could determine it, and he makes an extraordinary effort to  include as much relevant information by way of using both recollection and  contextual data to bolster a comprehensive picture of the battles as they  unfolded all over Normandy and its environs.<br /> The late author Ryan was  one of a handful of masterful storytellers and historians who emerged from  the Second World War to chronicle its events so masterfully. Like John  Toland, William Shirer, and a number of notable others, Ryan illuminated  and familiarized a generation of readers with the human stories of war and  destruction, and brought these otherwise unbelievable and incomprehensible  experiences home to a waiting world of ordinary and otherwise bewildered  citizens. This is one of the best of the efforts, shining the light of  truth on one of the greatest moments in modern history, when the Allies  stood fatefully in the breach, about to take the European continent back by  force of arms from the terrible totalitarian forces that had stolen it so  cruelly and violently four years before.d War to chronicle its events so masterfully. Like John  Toland, William Shirer, and a number of notable others, Ryan illuminated  and familiarized a generation of readers with the human stories of war and  destruction, and brought these otherwise unbelievable and incomprehensible  experiences home to a waiting world of ordinary and otherwise bewildered  citizens. This is one of the best of the efforts, shining the light of  truth on one of the greatest moments in modern history, when the Allies  stood fatefully in the breach, about to take the European continent back by  force of arms from the terrible totalitarian forces that had stolen it so  cruelly and violently four years before.	2000-07-30
2346369:US	52447634	R2DFWEP8AAIN9O	0688042686	780375891	Barbarossa: The Russian-German Conflict, 1941-45	Books	4	67	71	N	Y	Classic Overview Of 2nd World War Along The Eastern Front!	This very well written history of the German assault into the Soviet Union and the ensuing war along the Eastern front represents a kind of landmark in being one of the earliest of the many histories of that conflict to  emphasize the enormous contribution of the Russians to the Allied effort.  It was considered controversial in its time because of its emphasis on  Soviet strengths and attributes as central to the eventual result. Most  other historians had argued that blame for losing the war belonged to  Hitler, the Wehrmacht and the well-debated arguments and disagreements  among the German General Staff  regarding the specifics of the waging the  total war Hitler had envisioned must be fought to annihilate the Russian  army.<br /><br />All the basics are here; the tragic misinterpretation of Soviet  strength, especially as it applies to Soviet reserve and manpower  resources, which were 300 percent higher than believed, the belief that by  simply crushing the troops massed between the border and the  Leningrad-Moscow-Crimea salient they would crush the communist government  and send the country into anarchy, chaos, and ruin, and their own uniform  arrogance in believing they could master and quickly dominate this  gargantuan nation of several hundred million in a single season. Hitler and  the German General Staff were shocked and amazed again and again by the  tenacity, resourcefulness, and staying power of an army they had presumed  to have already beaten in the opening weeks of the campaign. The author  masterfully explains how the Russians, after losing two million men in a  single two-month period could rally itself, reorganized, re-outfit, and  send another two million into combat so quickly. This is truly one of the  most maligned, misunderstood and mysterious aspects of the war in Europe.<br /><br />Alan Clark has succeeded in this book, which was first published in  1965, in providing an entertaining, edifying, and accurate overview of what  the Russians referred to as the \\"Great Patriotic War\\". He centers in on  four aspects of the more than four year long struggle; first, on the futile  and badly coordinated attack on Moscow in the early winter of 1941-42;  second, the siege at Stalingrad, a Wehrmacht blunder of catastrophic  proportions; third, the Kursk offensive in 1943, which was the largest and  most dramatic tank battle in history; and finally, the great Soviet  offensive beginning in 1944 that drove the Wehrmacht to its knees, sending  it crawling back inch buy inch and yard by yard all the way to the ashes  and ruins of a ravaged Berlin. My recommendation is to combine this  excellent book with \\"When Titans Clashed\\", a more recent tome, which  provides an amazing nuts and bolts perspective that is even more strictly  written from the Soviet perspective.  With the two books combined, you will  have a much better understanding of the war along the Eastern front and  better appreciated how the Russians did so much to win the European  theater of the Second World War. Enjoy!s referred to as the \\"Great Patriotic War\\". He centers in on  four aspects of the more than four year long struggle; first, on the futile  and badly coordinated attack on Moscow in the early winter of 1941-42;  second, the siege at Stalingrad, a Wehrmacht blunder of catastrophic  proportions; third, the Kursk offensive in 1943, which was the largest and  most dramatic tank battle in history; and finally, the great Soviet  offensive beginning in 1944 that drove the Wehrmacht to its knees, sending  it crawling back inch buy inch and yard by yard all the way to the ashes  and ruins of a ravaged Berlin. My recommendation is to combine this  excellent book with \\"When Titans Clashed\\", a more recent tome, which  provides an amazing nuts and bolts perspective that is even more strictly  written from the Soviet perspective.  With the two books combined, you will  have a much better understanding of the war along the Eastern front and  better appreciated how the Russians did so much to win the European  theater of the Second World War. Enjoy!	2000-07-30
2346603:US	52447634	R16TVK1QJ193JL	0679448705	347483630	Cold New World: Growing Up in a Harder Country	Books	5	20	21	N	N	A Startling, Hard-Edged Look At The &quot;Other America&quot;	In the midst of all the self-congratulatory celebrations marking the closing of the millennium, few affluent Americans seem aware or concerned of the innate contradictions and dysfunctions associated with the  circumstances of their own affluence, or of the associated disparities,  disjunctions, and despair of millions of younger Americans who are not  fortunate  enough, affluent enough, or politically-enfranchised enough to  gain a technical or college education, and are nowhere to be found in the  minions of highly paid and technicolored attired young nerds and nerdettes  now running amok in the suburban malls and internet sites of mainstream  America. This superbly written book by noted journalist William Finnegan  details the dark side of the American Dream as we proceed into the new  century.<br />Finnegan does not deny that a conspicuous minority of our  younger citizens are finding themselves fabulously fortunate, preoccupied  with drowning themselves in the material excesses too many of us wallow in,  but it is to the other, less-chronicled segment of the twenty-something  generation that he brings his considerable talents and insights, and he  weaves a fascinating, fulsome, and frightening narrative around a series of  personal anecdotes and experiences of teenageers and young adults trapped  by life circumstances and poverty into lives  that give the thoughtful  reader pause. According to the author, a new, more rigid, and less fluid  socioeconomic class system is emerging that makes the old and more  tradition notions of rugged individualism look like a overly generous  social welfare state. And we all know it was hardly that.<br />Finnegan spent  a great deal of time with families in a number of different communities  across the country, and became an intimate observer to the kinds of futile  and often desperate attempts to become participating card-carrying members  of the increasingly elusive American Dream. His is a terrific and absorbing  look at the issues of race, ethnicity, social class, and social change as  it is rapidly evolving in contemporary American culture, and the author  never loses sight of the basic humanity of each of his subjects or their  struggles to gain the material success and security so often portrayed in  the electronic media they watch incessantly. Those he writes about are  always dealt with in compassionate terms, recognizing individual  complexities and talents that belie their poor educational experiences and  lack of opportunities. We recognize the subjects as intelligent and  multi-faceted people, and empathize with their frustrating existential  situations.<br />This is a book one finds fascinating to read, in spite of  its gloomy assessment of the reality of life in the \\"not-so-toni\\" barrios  and exurbs surrounding the cities. It is an extremely entertaining and  edifying book, a poignant and intelligent excursion into the heart of  America's expanding impoverished underclass, and a well-focused peer into  the unpromising future for millions of youngsters and twenty-something  adults just now entering the job market with so few skills and very little  hope of climbing out of their own desperate life circumstances. The book is  a must-read for anyone thinking that Michael Harrington's \\"Other America\\"  has melted away in under the prevailing influence of the financially sunny  1990s, and I recommend it as a book representing a more comprehensive  national perspective regarding the need for government action to provide  more opportunities and a variety of appropriate training programs for such  disenfranchised Americans. As John Kennedy once said, if we cannot reach  out to help the most humble and wretched among us, then there is little  hope to save the fortunate few.issues of race, ethnicity, social class, and social change as  it is rapidly evolving in contemporary American culture, and the author  never loses sight of the basic humanity of each of his subjects or their  struggles to gain the material success and security so often portrayed in  the electronic media they watch incessantly. Those he writes about are  always dealt with in compassionate terms, recognizing individual  complexities and talents that belie their poor educational experiences and  lack of opportunities. We recognize the subjects as intelligent and  multi-faceted people, and empathize with their frustrating existential  situations. <br />This is a book one finds fascinating to read, in spite of  its gloomy assessment of the reality of life in the \\"not-so-toni\\" barrios  and exurbs surrounding the cities. It is an extremely entertaining and  edifying book, a poignant and intelligent excursion into the heart of  America's expanding impoverished underclass, and a well-focused peer into  the unpromising future for millions of youngsters and twenty-something  adults just now entering the job market with so few skills and very little  hope of climbing out of their own desperate life circumstances. The book is  a must-read for anyone thinking that Michael Harrington's \\"Other America\\"  has melted away in under the prevailing influence of the financially sunny  1990s, and I recommend it as a book representing a more comprehensive  national perspective regarding the need for government action to provide  more opportunities and a variety of appropriate training programs for such  disenfranchised Americans. As John Kennedy once said, if we cannot reach  out to help the most humble and wretched among us, then there is little  hope to save the fortunate few.	2000-07-30
2346638:US	52447634	R3GBDLBH8K2ECR	0553345893	624658181	The Glory and the Dream: A Narrative History of America, 1932-1972	Books	5	36	36	N	Y	Superb Treatment of Mid 20th Century America!	Anyone fortunate enough to read the first few chapters of this terrific work by William Manchester will no longer wonder why he is considered one of the finest historians writing about the 20th century. From the opening  description of the tensions in Washington in the early 1930s with the  conflict over the so-called &quot;bonus marchers&quot; to the ending essay  on the removal of Richard Nixon from the Presidency in disgrace in 1974,  there simply isn't a dull page in the book. As for anyone who hasn't  experienced this author and his superb prose style, there is no time to  waste!<br />This truly is a masterful and magisterial historical narrative of  the period of time from the onset of the Depression to the climax of the  Watergate scandal; all the color and detail one would want from a work  purporting to cover such a momentous time span in our recent national  melodrama is here in spades. His prose style is at once both erudite and  immensely readable, and he always seems conversational even when discussing  matters that are delicate or controversial. Whether discussing the  momentous details of FDR's &quot;New Deal&quot;, the daring and cunning of  the Japanese in carrying out the attack on Pearl Harbor, the sad and  sorrowful political potshots taken by scurrilous swine like Joe McCarthy  during the House Un-American Activities Committee or the quizzically  vengeful approach taken by insiders during the Nixon years, Manchester  consistently steers us knowingly and safely through the rocks and shoals of  domestic history, avoiding veering into the controversial reefs and coral  that can rip us to shreds with partisan political revisionism and  politically-correct views.<br />As he does in other books such as  &quot;American Caesar&quot; and &quot;The Death Of A President&quot;,  Manchester always satisfies the reader's curiosity without being salacious,  gossipy, or unfair. He takes great pains to be objective and as thorough as  possible, and the sources he cites are always impeccable. If I have any  criticism of the book at all, it relates to its long length, as I read the  two-volume hard cover version a friend gave me as a birthday present. It is  really a small quibble, however, for though it was along read I came away  from the several week reading adventure feeling much better informed, and  with a much better perspective on many of the troubling issues that have  transpired in the fabled years since the Depression. I heartily recommend  this book, but advise you to find yourself a comfortable armchair to escape  to with book in hand. You are going to want to devour it. Enjoy!he cites are always impeccable. If I have any  criticism of the book at all, it relates to its long length, as I read the  two-volume hard cover version a friend gave me as a birthday present. It is  really a small quibble, however, for though it was along read I came away  from the several week reading adventure feeling much better informed, and  with a much better perspective on many of the troubling issues that have  transpired in the fabled years since the Depression. I heartily recommend  this book, but advise you to find yourself a comfortable armchair to escape  to with book in hand. You are going to want to devour it. Enjoy!	2000-07-30
2346843:US	52447634	R3R90ZPYH0MOOQ	0395599245	192902317	Tennozan: The Battle of Okinawa and the Atomic Bomb	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Penetrating Treatment of Fearsome Battle For Okinawa	Wow! This is a truly magnificent piece of historical scholarship as well as a fascinating example of how entertaining and riveting a well-written recounting of the events of the war in the Pacific can be. The author  presents an absolutely gripping account of the Allied assault on Okinawa,  the last necessary step in the island hopping strategy of the American  drive toward final victory against the Japanese. All this is done in a  carefully researched and quite well documented account of the day-to-day  details of the siege of the island.<br />Okinawa absolutely had to be taken  in order to have a point for both staging and launching an invasion of the  home islands, and both sides recognized the value of this piece of real  estate in strategic terms. Thus the struggle over it was the most ferocious  and bloody of the entire 44 month-long war in the Pacific, with over 91,000  Japanese, 23,000 Americans, and 150,000 Okinawans killed in the three-month  long battle. It was also significant in that it served as a key indicator  to the Allied command structure of just how tenacious Japanese defense of  their home islands was likely to be.<br />In this sense, it acted as an  extremely persuasive supporting argument in the highest circles of the  American government for the use of the atomic bomb to bring Imperial Japan  to the negotiating table and thereby avoid hundreds of thousands or even  millions of Allied casualties. Revisionist arguments to the contrary, the  author offers compelling evidence that the cultural tenets of Japanese  culture, including those of emphasizing national honor, avoiding the loss  of face, and including \\"kamikaze\\" type ritual suicide, led not only to the  horrors of what happened at Okinawa but were also leading to fervent and  desperate preparations for a ferocious,  &quot;to the death&quot; type  defense of the home islands.<br />This book is important, then, not only for  its contribution to helping us better understand the last and most hotly  contested battle in the Pacific campaign, but also for providing a much  clearer understanding of the cultural context in which the decision to use  the atomic bomb was made. Disregarding this evidence leads one to  underestimate just how savage that invasion would have been, and how many  Allied and Japanese lives were saved by use of the bomb. This book is an  essential read for anyone who wants to understand the last several months  of the war, and how those events influenced the decision to use the bomb.ost hotly  contested battle in the Pacific campaign, but also for providing a much  clearer understanding of the cultural context in which the decision to use  the atomic bomb was made. Disregarding this evidence leads one to  underestimate just how savage that invasion would have been, and how many  Allied and Japanese lives were saved by use of the bomb. This book is an  essential read for anyone who wants to understand the last several months  of the war, and how those events influenced the decision to use the bomb.	2000-07-30
2346969:US	52447634	RITCR1O6RC5F7	0195117972	287039647	Grand Expectations: The United States, 1945-1974 (Oxford History of the United States)	Books	4	58	61	N	Y	A Wonderful Addition To The Oxford American History Series	The fascinating difference in Brown history professor James T. Patterson's approach to the twenty years after the end of World War Two is in his daring to approach the subject  thematically rather than chronologically,  which gives both cause for celebration as well as some moments of  frustration. While this excellent, literate, and quite readable book is  intended for a general audience as an integral part of the so far  impeccable Oxford History of the United States series of monographs,  including such notable others as the outstanding recent \\"Freedom From Fear\\"  by Stanford professor David Kennedy (see my review of it), it is not, in my  view, a book for the uninitiated or novice history buff.<br />This much said  in way of qualification, I found it to be a wonderful and scholarly book,  organized quite usefully and thematically along several critical historical  issues unfolding during this time. First, it covers the rise of civil  rights consciousness and the subsequent struggle for equality by American  minorities; second, it describes in detail the historical phenomenon of the  cold war and its concomitant policies and its consequences for Americans in  graphic social, economic and political terms; and finally, it explains how  the changing demographic composition of the country in both geographic and  economic terms changed the nature of economic and political life in  America.<br />All of this is seen through the prism of a change of unequalled  economic prosperity and growing disparities between the affluent and those  the economic engine driving the country left behind. At the end of WWII,  many in this country foresaw a time of burgeoning opportunities and  unequalled economic, social, and political growth and movement toward the  great American society. Moving from a society that was largely still rural,  un-electrified, and agrarian, the post-war boom of the late forties and  fifties saw a virtual cultural transformation in the country into one  largely urban and suburban, affluent, and industrially employed.  Indeed,  the fifties represent a watershed period in American history, a time of  unequalled wealth and new prosperity for a majority of its citizens.<br />Yet  the America of this period also had more discouraging and less wholesome  aspects to it, and these are described and explained in a thoughtful,  erudite, and comprehensive narrative that helps one to better understand  how this period in American history made us what we are today. Trudging  purposefully through a colorful panorama that makes the incredible journey  all the way from Harry Truman to Richard Nixon, this culturally astute,  insightful &amp; memorable book covers the waterfront of a tumultuous,  fractious, &amp; endlessly exciting period of American history. It is truly  a book belonging on every purported 20th century history buff's bookshelf.  Enjoy!argely urban and suburban, affluent, and industrially employed.  Indeed,  the fifties represent a watershed period in American history, a time of  unequalled wealth and new prosperity for a majority of its citizens. <br />Yet  the America of this period also had more discouraging and less wholesome  aspects to it, and these are described and explained in a thoughtful,  erudite, and comprehensive narrative that helps one to better understand  how this period in American history made us what we are today. Trudging  purposefully through a colorful panorama that makes the incredible journey  all the way from Harry Truman to Richard Nixon, this culturally astute,  insightful &amp; memorable book covers the waterfront of a tumultuous,  fractious, &amp; endlessly exciting period of American history. It is truly  a book belonging on every purported 20th century history buff's bookshelf.   Enjoy!	2000-07-30
2346980:US	52447634	R2DAFAKHZX3E9E	0195133730	131201595	The Sociological Imagination	Books	5	59	64	N	Y	Masterful and Imaginative Look at The Value Of Sociology!	No one has written with more verve and authority about the awesome and frightening capabilities of man than the late C. Wright Mills, a prominent and controversial sociologist who wrote such memorable tomes as &quot;White  Collar&quot;, an exploration of the emerging American Middle class in the  early 1950s, and The Power Elite&quot;, a provocative examination of the  nature of power, privilege, and status in the United States, and how each  of these three critical elements of power and property in this country are  irrevocably connected to each other. At last look, both books were still in  print and are still used in both undergraduate and graduate sociology  courses throughout the world. After fifty years, that in and of itself is  powerful testimony to his enduring value as a scholar and an original  thinker.<br />Here Mills focuses memorably on the qualities and uses of the  sociological perspective in modern life, how such a scientifically based  way of looking at, interpreting, and interacting with the larger world  invests its user with a better, more accurate, and quite instrumental  picture of what is happening meaningfully around him. For Mills, the key to  understanding the value in such a perspective is in appreciating that one  can only understand the motives, behavior, and actions of others by  locating them within a wider and more meaningful context that connects  their personal biographies with the large social circumstances that  surround, direct, and propel them at any given historical moment. For  Mills, for example, trying to understand the reasoning behind the sometimes  desperate actions of Jews in Nazi Germany without appreciating the  horrifyingly unique existential circumstances they found themselves in is  hopelessly anachronistic and limited.<br />On the other hand, one invested  with such an appreciation for how biography and history interact to create  the meaningful social circumstances of any situation finds himself better  able to understand the fact that when in a country of one hundred million  employed, one man's singular lack of employment might be due to his  persoanl deficiencies or lack of a work ethic, and be laid at his feet as a  personal trouble, it is also true that when twenty million individuals out  of that one hundred million figure suddenly find themselves  so disposed  and unemployed, that situation is due to something beyond the control of  those many individuals and is best described in socioeconomic terms as a  social problem to be laid at the feet of the government and industry to  resolve. To Mills, it is critical to understand the inherant differences  between personal troubles on the one hand, which an individual has the  responsibity to resolve and overcome, and social ills, which are beyond  both his ken or control. Indeed, according to Mills, increasingly in the  20th century one finds himself trapped by social circumstance into dilemmas  he is absolutely unable to resolve without significant help from the wider  social community.<br />Thus, for both psychological as well as social  reasons, a person using the sociological perspective, or invested with what  he called the &quot;sociological imagination&quot;, is more able to think  and act critically in accordance with the evidence both outside his door  and beyond himself. Fifty years later, such a recognition of &quot;what's  what&quot; and &quot;who's who&quot; based on the ability to judge the  information within the social environment is as valuable as ever. This is a  wonderful book, written in a very accessible and entertaining style, meant  both for an intellectual audience and for the scholastic community as well.  While it may not be for &quot;everyman&quot;, any person wanting to better  understand and more fully appreciate how individual biography and social  history meaningfully interact to create the realities we live in will enjoy  and appreciate this legendary sociological critique and invitation tothe  pleasures of a sociological perspective by one of its most remarkable  proponents some half century ago.the  pleasures of a sociological perspective by one of its most remarkable  proponents some half century ago.	2000-07-30
2348663:US	52447634	RCM2MPXZQIYHU	014016622X	546056497	Nuremberg : Infamy on Trial	Books	4	41	43	N	N	Quite Well Written Look At Nuremberg Trials!	Nothing so defines the differences separating the Third Reich from the Allies as the way in which the defendants of the trials at Nuremberg were handled. With painstaking precision and at extraordinary cost in terms of  international arm-twisting and back-door deals, the proponents of a  judicial proceeding designed to illustrate the manifest individual guilt of  the various Nazi officials forged a result that still stands today as a  model of a non-retributive effort in the face of extraordinary pressure. In  this book author Joseph Persico offers a ground-level introduction to the  motley cast of characters on trial as well as the collection of interested  others who gathered to oversee the proceedings.<br />Achieving the result of  fair trials that would literally change the perspective of the world toward  participants in war was anything but easy, and moving toward that  deliberate goal is a theme providing an interesting theme punctuating the  pace of the book. Churchill wanted revenge by way of summary trials and  quick retribution, while the Russians just wanted to string up the whole  group in a mass hanging. Yet American Supreme Court Justice Robert Jackson  was able to resolve the differences well enough to proceed, although at  times the reader wonders if the trials will be anything like the  fair-minded judicial event he has in mind. Indeed, the back-stabbing,  personal ambitions, and petty jealousies of the various factions, trial  officials, and individual defendants becomes a kind of political circus  that sometimes resembles nothing so much as vaudevillian  showboating.<br />Still, the efforts at conducting a fair and open forum for  the world to watch as the prosecution and defense teams clashed before the  international tribunal prevailed, and the trials concluded with mixed  results in terms of the results. Most of the defendants were found guilty,  and many were hanged. Yet few observers doubted that the defendants had had  their day in court along with and adequate opportunity to defend their  actions to a watching world. Given how little justice and liberty they  collectively allowed for their tens of millions of victims, it is  remarkable just how civilized and dignified a proceeding the Nuremberg  trials were, with all their theatrics and subterranean undercurrents.  One  marvels at the fact that after fifty years the world still stands in awe at  the deliberate, careful, and methodical way in which the Allies achieved  the result of a rational and fair trial of the defendants in history's most  horrific modern nightmare, the terror of the Third Reich.<br />This is an  interesting and absorbing book, and a fascinating and entertaining book to  read. It was also particularly interesting to me since I had recently  viewed the telecast by TNT based on this book which covered the trials, and  the book served to fill out a lot of the remaining questions I had  regarding the nature of the individual personalities from Truman to  Churchill to Jackson to Biddle and the others. This is a worthwhile book,  and I recommend it to anyone interested in learning more about these  singular trials and their impact on history.long with and adequate opportunity to defend their  actions to a watching world. Given how little justice and liberty they  collectively allowed for their tens of millions of victims, it is  remarkable just how civilized and dignified a proceeding the Nuremberg  trials were, with all their theatrics and subterranean undercurrents.  One  marvels at the fact that after fifty years the world still stands in awe at  the deliberate, careful, and methodical way in which the Allies achieved  the result of a rational and fair trial of the defendants in history's most  horrific modern nightmare, the terror of the Third Reich. <br />This is an  interesting and absorbing book, and a fascinating and entertaining book to  read. It was also particularly interesting to me since I had recently  viewed the telecast by TNT based on this book which covered the trials, and  the book served to fill out a lot of the remaining questions I had  regarding the nature of the individual personalities from Truman to  Churchill to Jackson to Biddle and the others. This is a worthwhile book,  and I recommend it to anyone interested in learning more about these  singular trials and their impact on history.	2000-07-28
2349370:US	52447634	R32OG3ZYYN5J3E	0140122648	697462394	008: Redeeming the Time: A People's History of the 1920s and the New Deal (People's History of the USA)	Books	5	31	32	N	N	Wonderful, Insightful, &amp; Erudite Tome On This Period!	It is a sad commentary on public literacy and civic awareness when a whole series of books so splendid, educational, and damned readable is allowed to go out of print, such as has the quite literate eight book series by noted  historian Page Smith. This massive and spectacularly executed series is  organized around the continuing themes of American History, and centers on  our emergence into the larger world as a main player in the world  community. This is modern history at its best; masterfully retold,  entertaining and edifying to read, and organized around central themes that  make the subject both approachable and more understandable.<br />The present  volume, &quot;Redeeming The Time: A People's History Of The 1920s And The  New Deal&quot;, is the final of the eight volumes in the series Professor  Smith published, and represents the culmination of a decade's work  threading through the mass of American history. Dr. Smith begins here with  the Roaring Twenties, a time of such notables as Charles Lindbergh, F.  Scott Fitzgerald, and the uproar over Sacco and Vanzetti, setting the stage  for the cataclysmic onset of the Depression and its massive dislocations,  an event so devastating and catastrophic that it nearly led to a political  revolution. Of course, the central figures in all this are the political  leaders, especially Franklin Delano Roosevelt, whose implementation of the  New Deal offered ordinary citizens a modicum of hope, purpose, and  eventually the resolve to face the emanating threat from international  fascism.<br />  As with his previous seven volumes, Professor Smith guides us  masterfully through the particulars of the lives of a stream of  extraordinary people, individuals who rose to the manifest challenges of  the era with energy, imagination, and selfless enthusiasm. In so doing,  they reshaped and redefined the meaning and possibilities for America, and  eventually helped in the effort to transform the world in the process. As  with each of his previous volumes, the author uses his narrative to tell  the story of individuals both famous and anonymous, and in so doing helps  the reader to better appreciate what it meant to be alive and involved in  one of the most amazing periods in modern history, when America rose  mightily and purposefully from the ashes of its own collapse to a new  prominence, political vibrancy, and prosperity.<br />In sum, this is a work  of a great and singular historian, one which offers a unique perspective on  a most momentous, dangerous, and exciting times in our history. It is the  story of two decades which did so much to define and forge the nation we  have today, and gives the reader great cause for celebration and concern. I  highly recommend you search out this book as a used commodity and then hang  onto it for dear life. I do. Enjoy!h of his previous volumes, the author uses his narrative to tell  the story of individuals both famous and anonymous, and in so doing helps  the reader to better appreciate what it meant to be alive and involved in  one of the most amazing periods in modern history, when America rose  mightily and purposefully from the ashes of its own collapse to a new  prominence, political vibrancy, and prosperity.<br />In sum, this is a work  of a great and singular historian, one which offers a unique perspective on  a most momentous, dangerous, and exciting times in our history. It is the  story of two decades which did so much to define and forge the nation we  have today, and gives the reader great cause for celebration and concern. I  highly recommend you search out this book as a used commodity and then hang  onto it for dear life. I do. Enjoy!	2000-07-28
2349417:US	52447634	R2F6YLPB7NW0HN	0070585733	881478918	007: America Enters the World: A People's History of the Progressive Era and World War I  (Volume Seven)	Books	5	24	24	N	N	A Wonderful Depiction of Early 20th Century America!	It is a sad commentary on public literacy and civic awareness when a whole series of books so splendid, educational, and damned readable is allowed to go out of print, such as has the quite literate eight book series by noted  historian Page Smith. This massive and spectacularly executed series is  organized around the continuing themes of American History, and centers on  our emergence into the larger world as a main player in the world  community. This is modern history at its best; masterfully retold,  entertaining and edifying to read, and organized around central themes that  make the subject both approachable and more understandable.<br />The present  volume, &quot;America Enters The World: A People's History Of The  Progressive Era and World War I&quot;, is the seventh of an eight volume  series Professor Smith published, and represents the culmination of the  series in approaching the entry into the 20th century and the modern era  after masterfully threading through the mass of American history. Dr. Smith  begins here focuses on two key figures, a dynamic and energetic Theodore  Roosevelt, on the one hand, and an austere, professorial, and intellectual  Woodrow Wilson, on the other.  With Roosevelt's gravitation to the Oval  Office, an incredibly turbulent and event-packed two decades of momentous  change commences, marked for such tumultuous struggles as the battle  between management and labor, and the emerging progressive political  movement.<br />This was also the period of international reawakening that  found the United States increasingly drawn into world events, culminating  in our reluctant and begrudging participation in the First World War.  Of  course, initially it was Roosevelt swinging that `big stick' of power and  enthusiastic involvement, swaggering confidently onto the world stage that  first opened our doors to increasing involvement in international affairs.  Yet, it was much more Woodrow Wilson's intellectual thoughtfulness that led  directly to our enthusiastic flag-waving yet fateful entry into the growing  darkness of the world war. In due time, the enthusiasm flagged, turning to  disillusionment and an increased national mood of isolationism. In twenty  short years, we had seemingly come full circle. Yet things had changed,  changed utterly, and would never be the same again.<br />  As with his  previous volumes, Professor Smith guides us masterfully through the  particulars of the lives of a stream of extraordinary people, individuals  who rose to the manifest challenges of the era with energy, imagination,  and selfless enthusiasm. In so doing, they reshaped and redefined the  meaning and possibilities for America, and eventually helped in the effort  to transform the world in the process. As with each of his previous  volumes, the author uses his narrative to tell the story of individuals  both famous and anonymous, and in so doing helps the reader to better  appreciate what it meant to be alive and involved in one of the most  amazing periods in modern history, when America rose mightily and  purposefully from the obscurity of provincial isolationism to greater  international responsibility and involvement, spurring America onto the  stage for the events of the twentieth century, where she has remained  since.<br />In sum, this is a work of a great and singular historian,  one offering a unique perspective on a most momentous, dangerous, and  exciting time in our history, a period during which America came of age  internationally. It is the story of two decades that did so much to define  and forge the modern nation we are all so familiar with, and helps to  explain how it is we have come to arrive at our present destination, and in  the process gives the reader great cause for celebration and concern. I  highly recommend you search out this book as a used commodity and then hang  onto it for dear life. I do. Enjoy!irectly to our enthusiastic flag-waving yet fateful entry into the growing  darkness of the world war. In due time, the enthusiasm flagged, turning to  disillusionment and an increased national mood of isolationism. In twenty  short years, we had seemingly come full circle. Yet things had changed,  changed utterly, and would never be the same again. <br />  As with his  previous volumes, Professor Smith guides us masterfully through the  particulars of the lives of a stream of extraordinary people, individuals  who rose to the manifest challenges of the era with energy, imagination,  and selfless enthusiasm. In so doing, they reshaped and redefined the  meaning and possibilities for America, and eventually helped in the effort  to transform the world in the process. As with each of his previous  volumes, the author uses his narrative to tell the story of individuals  both famous and anonymous, and in so doing helps the reader to better  appreciate what it meant to be alive and involved in one of the most  amazing periods in modern history, when America rose mightily and  purposefully from the obscurity of provincial isolationism to greater  international responsibility and involvement, spurring America onto the  stage for the events of the twentieth century, where she has remained  since.      <br />In sum, this is a work of a great and singular historian,  one offering a unique perspective on a most momentous, dangerous, and  exciting time in our history, a period during which America came of age  internationally. It is the story of two decades that did so much to define  and forge the modern nation we are all so familiar with, and helps to  explain how it is we have come to arrive at our present destination, and in  the process gives the reader great cause for celebration and concern. I  highly recommend you search out this book as a used commodity and then hang  onto it for dear life. I do. Enjoy!	2000-07-28
2351395:US	52447634	R3LADSTG3PQRBD	0449909336	378723538	The Fifties	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Wonderful Overview of  an Underappreciated Decade	I first encountered a healthy dose of David Halberstam's prose while in graduate school in the early 1970s when I read the \\"Best and the Brightest\\", and I have read a number of his books since. His approach is  appealing here, doling out a dollop of contemporary history along with  goodly portions of personal character investigation, celebrity coverage,  and cultural commentary. Somehow, regardless of the particular subject, his  unique and somewhat unorthodox approach seems to work quite well. Here he  focuses on what he argues is a pivotal decade in explaining what it is we  Americans have become in the half-century  Since World War Two. It was in  the depths of the seemingly placid fifties that many of the changes to  modern society first appeared, from the introduction of mass-produced  televisions to the Kefauver congressional hearings, from the gyrating  pulses of rock &amp; roll and the controversial and provocative antics of  Elvis Presley to the painful and dramatic beginnings of the civil rights  movement, it is all here portrayed lovingly, accurately, and with sustained  good humor.<br />Halberstam excels at mixing complex subjects with interesting  personalities, showing how individuals in the act of being who they are  influences the course of events, trends and the course of history. He  masterfully guides us through the ways in which the country began to emerge  from the shadowy constraints and privations of the wartime years to a new,  brighter and more affluent material future with the burgeoning boom of the  fifties, chronicling a plethora of ways in which this massive cultural  change in circumstances and material means influenced the society itself.  It was a time of superficial numbing conformity for many while a time of  startling experimentation for others, like the Beats. And everywhere,  things seemed to be rapidly changing, from tastes in food, music and  entertainment to ways in which people became educated and found useful  employment.<br />Underneath the surface of all this conformity and  innovation was a pulsing impetus to change, a curious openness to novelty  and difference, to a more abundant and material definition of the good life  for the average American. Yet there was also some ugly and negative aspects  to the subterranean impulse of American society in the fifties, from Joe  McCarthy to the race riots in the South, from our hysterical preoccupation  with the &quot;red menace&quot; to our own social intolerances, and the  author places these in the context of a decade caught in the divergent  currents of two quite oppositional streams of change; from a more  monolithic mainstream conservativism to a more open-minded and pluralistic  social liberalism on the one hand, and from a small-town and  family-oriented orientation to a much more individualistic and urban scheme  of existence.<br />This is a wonderful book, one providing an excellent  panoramic perspective of a decade that saw the withering away of the old  and more simple America of the first half century to one becoming more  progressive, more affluent, and much more pluralistic and open to change.  While those of us reading these things may not embrace the notion that most  of this is necessarily for the betterment of society or the ultimate  progress of mankind, it is hard to quibble with such an eloquent,  articulate, and entertaining portrait of America in transition. I highly  recommend this book, and hope it is even more widely read. Enjoy!<br />Underneath the surface of all this conformity and  innovation was a pulsing impetus to change, a curious openness to novelty  and difference, to a more abundant and material definition of the good life  for the average American. Yet there was also some ugly and negative aspects  to the subterranean impulse of American society in the fifties, from Joe  McCarthy to the race riots in the South, from our hysterical preoccupation  with the &quot;red menace&quot; to our own social intolerances, and the  author places these in the context of a decade caught in the divergent  currents of two quite oppositional streams of change; from a more  monolithic mainstream conservativism to a more open-minded and pluralistic  social liberalism on the one hand, and from a small-town and  family-oriented orientation to a much more individualistic and urban scheme  of existence.       <br />This is a wonderful book, one providing an excellent  panoramic perspective of a decade that saw the withering away of the old  and more simple America of the first half century to one becoming more  progressive, more affluent, and much more pluralistic and open to change.  While those of us reading these things may not embrace the notion that most  of this is necessarily for the betterment of society or the ultimate  progress of mankind, it is hard to quibble with such an eloquent,  articulate, and entertaining portrait of America in transition. I highly  recommend this book, and hope it is even more widely read. Enjoy!	2000-07-27
2353127:US	52447634	R39GD2GF4K62KH	0811825558	979162178	The Worst-Case Scenario Survival Handbook	Books	1	20	50	N	N	Buyer Beware	Let the buyer beware! Anyone silly and naive enough to think that there is actually anything practical enough to warrant them shelling out their hard earned cash for this thin volume deserves to be rid of their excess money. By the way, I have some prime real estate in coastal Florida I could sell  you on the sly; just drain the  (sea0 water and you'll have a terrific  view. Of course, you could always save the planet's bulk paper supply by  just throwing the money you're willing to spend for this thin tome into the  latrine, and with about the same effect as bothering with this trite,  silly, and absolutely ridiculous book. PT Barnum once said that no one ever  lost a single dollar underestimating the intellectual tastes of the  American consumer, and this book is proof of that. You are better off to  watch old MacGiver episodes than to read this nonsense. You are much more  likely to get hit by lightning than you are to find yourself in any of  these situations, especially if you don't live in a mountainous area (for  avalanches) etc. I rated this a &quot;one&quot; because the Amazon rating  system doesn't allow negative numbers. Beware!	2000-07-26
2353331:US	52447634	R271AVI7KLT0MB	0374157065	503232720	Flu: The Story of the Great Influenza Pandemic of 1918 and the Search for the Virus That Caused It	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Fascinating, Riveting Cautionary Story About The Flu of 1918	I happened upon this intriguing well-written book after finishing Laurie Garrett's wonderful exploration of the emerging microbiological threat in \\"The Coming Plague\\", and was fascinated by what I discovered in this book  regarding the specifics of the most famous flu outbreak in modern times,  the great world-wide flu epidemic of 1918. Nothing in recent experience,  not even the AIDS epidemic, has prepared the American people for the  awe-inspiring possibilities that such a rapid and devastatingly virulent  flu outbreak could present to us in the new millennium, and the author  details the terrifying consequences of the outbreak of influenza in the  months after the end of World War One that left over forty million people  and traumatized the nation.<br />Indeed, according to author Gina Bari Kolata,  the flu of 1918 was the single most dangerous flu epidemic of the 20th  century, a plague so virulent it literally boggles the imagination of  anyone more familiar with the yearly onset of Asian influenzas, which we  may consider to be annoying, off-putting, and sometimes reason for  hospitalization, but hardly the stuff of widespread death and disability.  Yet in a single year it struck down more people world-wide than any known  before it or since, and scientists now believe it had an usually  provocative combination of natural properties in terms of its DNA that made  it uniquely dangerous in terms of its threat to human beings.<br />Yet, in  spite of its historical dimensions, relatively little is known about it,  and it is a little discussed and curiously mysterious area of modern  history. It is only within the recent past that a dedicated team of  biological scientists have been able to attempt to unlock the secrets  associated with this influenza breakout by researching the influenza's DNA  sequences and associated biological properties using tissue samples  recovered from victims and preserved over the decades since. The author  describes this attempt to uncover the truth about the 1918 flu epidemic in  terms of a riveting detective story, at the same time masterfully weaving  the details of the pathology of the disease itself and the devastating  impact of the killer epidemic into the narrative.<br />Included here is an  absorbing and personalizing discussion of the social, economic and cultural  effects of the epidemic, told in a compassionate and quite humane fashion,  and it composes a disheartening look at the facts surrounding the way the  influenza struck otherwise healthy twenty to forty year old citizens with  such devastating results. People getting on the New York City subway at one  end feeling slightly under the weather actually transpired on board before  being able to reach their chosen destinations.<br /> What is truly  frightening about this well-told cautionary tale is that both the author as  well as public health officials warn that another such appearance of a  similarly virulent pandemic flu outbreak is not only possible but is in  fact probable. Such an outbreak could appear, literally without warning, in  any given year. Moreover, the resources needed to successfully combat  another such influenza outbreak are not immediately available. Indeed,  without a massive change in public policy and a quite rapid public health  effort to develop the capability to isolate initial victims as well as to  innoculate the population at large with a hastily conjured vaccine, the  disastrous history of the 1918 epidemic could well be repeated with  horrific results in our lifetime.over the truth about the 1918 flu epidemic in  terms of a riveting detective story, at the same time masterfully weaving  the details of the pathology of the disease itself and the devastating  impact of the killer epidemic into the narrative. <br />Included here is an  absorbing and personalizing discussion of the social, economic and cultural  effects of the epidemic, told in a compassionate and quite humane fashion,  and it composes a disheartening look at the facts surrounding the way the  influenza struck otherwise healthy twenty to forty year old citizens with  such devastating results. People getting on the New York City subway at one  end feeling slightly under the weather actually transpired on board before  being able to reach their chosen destinations. <br /> What is truly  frightening about this well-told cautionary tale is that both the author as  well as public health officials warn that another such appearance of a  similarly virulent pandemic flu outbreak is not only possible but is in  fact probable. Such an outbreak could appear, literally without warning, in  any given year. Moreover, the resources needed to successfully combat  another such influenza outbreak are not immediately available. Indeed,  without a massive change in public policy and a quite rapid public health  effort to develop the capability to isolate initial victims as well as to  innoculate the population at large with a hastily conjured vaccine, the  disastrous history of the 1918 epidemic could well be repeated with  horrific results in our lifetime.	2000-07-26
2353386:US	52447634	R2QHD0K8YX8UVF	0700608990	535506720	When Titans Clashed: How the Red Army Stopped Hitler (Modern War Studies)	Books	5	23	28	N	Y	Outstanding, Detailed, Concise History of &quot;Russia's War&quot;!	I recently read this terrific paperback in a weekend, and found it to be a wonderfully concise introduction to the subject of the war between Germany and Russia during the Second World War. Unlike most accounts of the  struggle between Nazi Germany and communist Russia, this very detailed  account of what began as Hitler's \\"Operation Barbarossa\\" and ended with a  vengeful Russian siege of Berlin, is rendered from a Soviet perspective.  Using recently declassified and newly available information, the authors  provide a relatively concise (less than 400 pages), authoritative, and  comprehensive account of the great patriotic struggle against the Germans,  successfully placing the war in its proper context in terms of related  social, economic, and political circumstances.<br />Too many Americans  familiar only with the Cold War aspects of Russian history tend to be  ignorant of the critical contribution the Soviets made in winning a war so  essential to the survival of democracy. It is an uneasy truth that without  the Russian contribution in battling up to 200 divisions of German  Wehrmacht troops for over four years, our entry onto the continent in  France would not have been possible in 1944. Indeed, risking such a large  sea borne assault would have been problematic against a force of the  magnitude which would have been available had it not been otherwise  preoccupied and engaged in an epic effort attempting to stem the terrible  onslaught they were receiving at the hands of a resurgent Soviet Army.<br />The Russians entered the war unwillingly, woefully unprepared, and  ravaged by the results of Stalin's paranoia through his insane political  purges sweeping most of the experienced and capable officers from the upper  echelons of the army and air force. Individual units were significantly  under-trained, under-armed, and undermanned, and were not fielded with any  real appreciation for the nature of the threat to come. And to top all this  off, they were facing the best-trained, equipped and fearsome opponent in  the world, the German Wehrmacht, fresh from its blitzkrieg victory over  Western Europe. Yet within this terrifying context also lay the seeds of a  possible Russian triumph, for the German army had to win very quickly and  quite decisively in smashing the huge Russian army before it could withdraw  over the vast expanses of the homeland to regroup, rearm, and reenter the  fray with a home-court advantage. And in the end, it was this inability to  deliver a decisively smashing death blow to the Russian army that doomed  the Wehrmacht to eventual total defeat.<br />When the Germans did invade in  June 1941, they indeed smashed the Russian army, which promptly collapsed  into chaos and disarray, but because of logistic deficiencies and a general  level of inappropriate caution, the Nazis allowed remnants of retreating  Russian forces to escape. The Germans were also surprised by the ferocity  with which Soviet soldiers fought, usually to the death. Thus, in spite of  the hundreds of thousands of Soviet casualties and a similar number of  prisoners, the German soldiers on the ground soon realized this was not  going to be an easy or quick victory. Moreover, Hitler frequently changed  objectives and troop disposition, and each time this change allowed Russian  forces time to marshal forces and make preparations for a more determined  and forceful defense. At this point both weather and Soviet resistance  changed to intervene in the German advance.<br />The Germans, unprepared the  extreme cold and snow of a Soviet winter, soon ground to a halt when faced  with the frigid conditions and a tenacious defense effort all along the  stagnating front. Literally in view of Moscow, the Nazi juggernaut ground  to a halt.  Soon, the Russians began to turn the tide with critical  exchanges illustrating they had recovered from the initial invasion  disasters. At Stalingrad, they delivered such a punishing blow to the  Wehrmacht that they literally pushed the German army over the edge to  eventual defeat. Yet defeat of the Germans and victory for the Russians was  still forty-five months away, and the series of exchanges in battles like  that at Kursk, the Soviets showed Germany and the world that the fortunes  of war had turned, and that it was the Wehrmacht that was on the ropes now.  This is a wonderfully written book that provides an essentially 'nuts and  bolts' approach to the war along the Eastern front, and one required for  anyone seriously interested in knowing the facts surrounding this most  critical of elements in the Allied campaign during WWII. I highly recommend  it.cht that they literally pushed the German army over the edge to  eventual defeat. Yet defeat of the Germans and victory for the Russians was  still forty-five months away, and the series of exchanges in battles like  that at Kursk, the Soviets showed Germany and the world that the fortunes  of war had turned, and that it was the Wehrmacht that was on the ropes now.  This is a wonderfully written book that provides an essentially 'nuts and  bolts' approach to the war along the Eastern front, and one required for  anyone seriously interested in knowing the facts surrounding this most  critical of elements in the Allied campaign during WWII. I highly recommend  it.	2000-07-26
2355045:US	52447634	R1DZGTPOXHHVPR	1891620789	530612786	Cyberselfish	Books	5	40	64	N	N	Provocative Broad-Side at the Dark Side of Cyberculture	In this absorbing and thoughtful book, the author takes on the new \\"Bobos in the promised land\\" of high technology, and finds their overall grasp on reality and worldview selfish, superficial, and self-absorbed. As is becoming more and more common for those living super-affluent lifestyles in  our society, well-educated and technologically educated people are now  enjoy lifestyles so pampered and isolated from the basic realities of life  on Planet Earth that they actually believe their own unusual and privileged  experiences to be the experience of everyone else walking the globe. This  extremely wrong-headed notion leads to a string of dangerously myopic ideas  of what the world is like and how to view others not so fortunate...Unfortunately, they have confused craven  marketing and propagandizing with truth, and this is always a dangerous  enterprise to engage in....This is an  interesting, provocative, and worthwhile book. I highly recommend it.	2000-07-25
2357703:US	52447634	R11S3LTTPAGZM7	0789304090	477026743	Never Again: The History of the Holocaust	Books	5	25	25	N	Y	Wonderful Book On A Horrific Period in 20th Century History!	When one of the world's most eminent historians takes on the single most amazing phenomenon of the century, the Holocaust, it gives one pause for thought. So here we have Sir Martin Gilbert, a noted Holocaust authority,  writing masterfully about the events leading up to and including the  systematic persecution, deportation and murder of the Jews of Europe.  His  stirring and singular narrative is regularly punctuated by a number of  poignant and shocking eyewitness accounts of many who lived through those  numbing events. The test is extremely approachable and easy to read, so  that the non-historian can appreciate the breadth and scope of his  recounting of the events during the 12-year reign of terror levied by the  National Socialists in Nazi Germany.<br />His approach is chronological, much  like that employed in his best-selling three volume series on the 20th  century. While he relies heavily on established secondary sources for his  documentation, the power of his prose and his well-organized approach makes  this an entertaining and educational tome to venture into. Although nowhere  near as comprehensive as some other tomes such as Klaus Fischer's \\"History  Of An Obsession\\", he does trace the centuries' long tradition of  anti-Semitism culminating in the official state sanctioned approach  codified in the institutionalized Nuremberg laws. In all this, Gilbert  brilliantly employs survivor's recollections to paint the atrocities in the  hues and colors of real human beings, ordinary and identifiable individuals  caught in the insanity of the Third Reich. Furthermore, he pursues their  individual identities and humanity by giving the reader information on the  postwar futures of these people.<br />So much has been written about the  Holocaust that it is difficult to imagine much new or novel to arise some  fifty years after the end of the war. Yet the stage always remains open for  the unusual display of finely crafted historical perspectives and  brilliantly executed prose. The brilliance in this dazzling book is, as  Oscar Schindler would have said, in the presentation. Although I have read  a number of other books about these times and events that were more  detailed, more graphic, or more comprehensive, this is without a doubt the  single most impressive, cohesive, and authoritative volume I have read to  date regarding the Holocaust in its enormity, and placed in an  understandable and comprehensible context. I highly recommend this book to  anyone interested in owning the single best one-volume book summarizing and  explaining the realities of the Holocaust.ly executed prose. The brilliance in this dazzling book is, as  Oscar Schindler would have said, in the presentation. Although I have read  a number of other books about these times and events that were more  detailed, more graphic, or more comprehensive, this is without a doubt the  single most impressive, cohesive, and authoritative volume I have read to  date regarding the Holocaust in its enormity, and placed in an  understandable and comprehensible context. I highly recommend this book to  anyone interested in owning the single best one-volume book summarizing and  explaining the realities of the Holocaust.	2000-07-23
2357826:US	52447634	R3S0CWP91AOYPO	0826410898	881511056	The History of an Obsession: German Judeophobia and the Holocaust	Books	5	41	42	N	Y	Intelligent &amp; Provocative Look At Causes of The Holocaust	This is an interesting and quite diverting study of the Holocaust in terms of what the author describes as a pathological, irrational fear of and prejudice toward Jews which he argues quite convincingly characterized the  German people in the decades leading up to the Second World War. Rather  than refer to this syndrome as a virulent form of anti-Semitism, he calls  it \\"Judeophobia\\", maintaining it constitutes a culturally unique  psychodynamic form of such prejudice and fear found most profoundly  affecting the worldview and general attitudes of the Germans of the early  20th century. Of course, no other phenomenon in this century had been so  psychologized as the Holocaust, yet one finds much to learn from this  latest effort to understand how an otherwise culturally advanced and  civilized society such as Germany could have participated so willingly in  the horrific torture and murder of the Jews.<br />He easily illustrates (long  before Daniel Goldhagen, by the way) the logical fallacy involved in  subscribing to the self-serving \\"I didn't know what was going on\\" excuses  that attribute sole blame for the events in Germany to the National  Socialists and the exclusive egregious excesses of the fabled Nazi  organizations such as the SS or Gestapo.  According to Fischer, there were  far too many people involved in the activities collectively referred to as  the Holocaust to take such protests of individual benign ignorance of the  systematic collection, deportation, and murder of the Jews seriously.  One  would have had to be deaf, dumb, and blind not to recognize what was  happening all around them. As others have argued since, the truth of the  events seem to be a complex web of fear, cowardice and opportunism in a  society in which all norms of civilized behavior had suddenly vanished in  favor of terror, intimidation, and a feeling it was \\"every creep for  himself\\". Under such circumstances, it is no surprise to see so many of  these cretins then drift out of the woodwork and into public and political  prominence. Fortunes were made and careers established at the expense of  the Jews.<br />The author also covers a lot of historical ground in tracing  the origins and promulgation of \\"Judeophobia\\", going back literally into  antiquity to discover and analyze its roots in Christian doctrine as early  as St. Paul, and ascribing early forms of virulent \\"Jew-hatred\\" in vestiges  of the Crusades, and an element of such anti-Semitic attitudes in  Torquemada and the first Grand Inquisition. Yet, while the fortunes of the  European Jews rose and fell with some gravity over the centuries, nothing  approaching the level of systematic persecution, displacement, and murder  of the Third Reich can be found in history. He also argues quite eloquently  that the ideological impetus for the Holocaust was located in the ordinary  German's propensity for easy answers and convenient self-delusion.  Associated with this, of course, are the wicked excesses resulting from  such tendencies to project blame to innocent others who can subsequently be  handily scapegoated. Also associated with such tendencies are a whole  rafter of psychological constructs, such as fear, paranoia, and projection,  which inevitably lead to aggression and violence.<br />Finally, in dealing  with the issue of how wide the participation in the persecution, violence  and murder of the Jews was in Nazi Germany, he believes that while this  cannot be conclusively determined, it can be said with great certainty that  in sowing the harvest of the crop of ritual Jew hatred and \\"Judeophobia\\"  fomented so recklessly and fatefully by the Nazis in their rise to  prominence and power, the final result was a quite calculated spilling of  cauldrons of Jewish blood in which millions of willing hands were stained  but for which no one was willing to take the blame. This is obviously a  difficult book, but it is also a literate, well-written and painstakingly  documented one, a book anyone seriously interested in trying to better  understand what within the German culture made the Holocaust possible will  be interested in reading. I strongly recommend it.k anyone seriously interested in trying to better  understand what within the German culture made the Holocaust possible will  be interested in reading. I strongly recommend it.	2000-07-22
2358334:US	52447634	R2TXFR1XE290AG	0670853380	442684524	The Balkans: Nationalism, War and the Great Powers, 1804-1999	Books	5	51	55	N	N	Penetrating, Clarifying &amp; Edifying Survey of Troubled Area!	In a literate, knowledgeable, and comprehensive monograph that accomplishes the incredible feat of clarifying and organizing the seemingly endless complexities of the region, Misha Glenny sets the record straight  regarding the history and prospects for the Balkans.  In a history going  back two hundred years, Glenny illustrates how the current miasma of  internecine violence, endless distrust, and legendary duplicity arose out  of the mix and conflicts of ethnicities as well as the gross intermittent  interference of the great powers.  Far from flying with the angels, efforts  by other nations such as Germany, NATO, and especially the United States  have intensified and exacerbated the region's tensions and proclivities  toward murderous intramural conflicts.<br />While to the casual foreign  observer the region has long been a source of mysterious political  arrangements and impenetrable complexities, the author lays to waste all of  the West's convenient and self-serving notions describing the inhabitants  of the Balkans as less than civilized, and shows how the nature of the  troubles in the region can be traced to the arbitrary and capricious  meddling foisted onto the residents from outside, usually by international  agencies ignorant of the various ethnic mixes and profound historical  connections standing in the way.  Probably the single best example of this  often well intentioned ignorance is the Dayton Peace Accords, which the  author claims effectively partitioned Bosnia and Herzegovina without  adequately solving any of the core problems underlying the ethnic unrest in  the area.  As a consequence, Glenny states, peace will reign in Bosnia only  as long as the UN troops remain.<br />The author pulls few punches,  describing recent American policies as cowardly and selfish, fashioned more  to attempt to meet their obligations without risking troops and the  concomitant domestic political trouble the probable loss of American  servicemen would mean. Indeed, he describes the colossal blunder of NATO in  stating that there would be no engagement of ground troops in Kosovo as  flashing a green light for Serbian troops to have their indiscriminate  bloodbath and deny it too. In a chilling extraordinary passage describing  recent international attitudes dominated by short-term political  convenience and its consequences for the region, Glenny quotes Swedish  mediator Carl Bildt as prophetically asking that if the world chose to  ignore the atrocities of the incumbent and did not prosecute Croatian  President Tudjman for ethnic cleansing, \\"how on earth can we object if one  day Milosevic sends his army to clean out the Albanians from Kosovo?\\"<br />The  author's narrative is immensely educational and useful for those of us less  than fully familiar with the region, tracing the progress of each national  group amid the ongoing struggles for statehood. His description is  punctuated with provocative and fascinating stories illustrating the rich  variety of peoples and cultures inhabiting the area. At the same time, he  interweaves these anecdotes with a sharply focused narrative that succeeds  marvelously in threading together the key events in the context of  international affairs, and shows how powerfully these interactions have  influenced the emergence of the different national groups and the explosive  amalgams of the 1990s.<br />It is this key relationship between the  interference of other countries and international agencies that Glenny has  been so catastrophic for the region, and often the ethnic and regional  enmities and hatreds have been intensified and magnified by the actions of  these outsiders. In a stirring warning at the end of the epilogue, he warns  \\"if the great powers fail to seize the present opportunity by investing  heavily in the region, the suffering of the Balkans will surely continue  for several decades into the new millennium\\". This is an important and  seminal book, one that should be required reading for anyone trying to  understand this area of the world, and a great introduction into the  history of the region. Enjoy!ired reading for anyone trying to  understand this area of the world, and a great introduction into the  history of the region. Enjoy!	2000-07-22
2359370:US	52447634	R3K0MO5ZZBNRXI	0684869306	571309436	FINEST HOUR : The Battle of Britain	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Spellbinding Book Wonderfully Covering The Battle of Britain	In one of the darkest moments of modern history, the British people stood isolated and alone against the bulwark of the fabulously successfully forces of the Third Reich, who had just finished \\"blitkreiging\\" their way  across Western Europe, forcing the desperate evacuation of the battered  English army from the shores of Dunkirk to save them from certain slaughter  at the hands of a rampaging Wehrmacht. In this absolutely riveting book,  the authors describe the extraordinary effort of the Brits in fending off  the vastly superior numbers of Luftwaffe aircraft soon invading the  airspace over the English countryside. As Churchill said so memorably at  the time, this attempt to beat back the Nazis might well become Britain's  \\"finest hour\\".<br />It is a tale well told, one most Americans of a certain  age are familiar with. But our mere familiarity should not deter us from  enjoying this endlessly entertaining and well-narrated tale, which is both  extremely approachable and understandable on the one hand for the first  time student, and also immensely informative and detailed regarding  Churchill's knack for popular leadership and the ways in which he bedeviled  his countryman into rising to the their \\"finest hour\\". It may come as a  surprise to some to discover that up to the moment of defeat in France,  there were still efforts at appeasement of the Nazis being bandied about  within the marbled halls of Parliament. Yet the British quickly rallied  round the flagpole that Winston Churchill raised on high, and he urged them  on provocatively and memorably time after time.<br />The book also excels  at telling this story from the viewpoint of eye-witness participants, and  the reader is whisked memorably along by machine-gun rapid-fire of personal  eyewitness testimonies that succeed brilliantly in bringing the drama into  bold relief and focus, breathing life into this otherwise `oft told tale'.  It is hard for one to commit the most grievous crime of hyperbole when  speaking of this particular event and time in history, when the Third Reich  had quickly and massively crushed all opposition against it, and the  Wehrmacht swept west all the way to the English Channel. In this moment of  fear, terror and expectation, the world literally held its breath as the  fateful and bloody contest began. The Brits stood alone, the only obstacle  to Hitler's determination to end all opposition in the west so he could  concentrate on his real objective, \\"living space\\" in the east in the  breadbasket region of the Soviet Union, the Ukraine.  And the British,  having the undivided attention of the Luftwaffe, were indeed badly  outnumbered.<br />The reader will soon find himself glued to his armchair,  unable to resist continuing as the pages resound quickly past one with a  myriad of colorful details and discussions about how the defense of the  home island and all that involved. Whether it be a discussion of how the  Americans participated, the German views and expectations, or the  experiences of a British submariner telling his sobering story, this is a  book one has to put to the top of his or her reading list. I spent the  weekend reading it, and my brother immediately grabbed the book away for  himself to pore through in the next several days. It is indeed a wonderful  book offering the reader an expansive, entertaining, and ground level view  of perhaps the most celebrated time of peril and derring-do in the history  of the 20th century. Truly, this was their finest hour. Enjoy!when  speaking of this particular event and time in history, when the Third Reich  had quickly and massively crushed all opposition against it, and the  Wehrmacht swept west all the way to the English Channel. In this moment of  fear, terror and expectation, the world literally held its breath as the  fateful and bloody contest began. The Brits stood alone, the only obstacle  to Hitler's determination to end all opposition in the west so he could  concentrate on his real objective, \\"living space\\" in the east in the  breadbasket region of the Soviet Union, the Ukraine.  And the British,  having the undivided attention of the Luftwaffe, were indeed badly  outnumbered.<br />The reader will soon find himself glued to his armchair,  unable to resist continuing as the pages resound quickly past one with a  myriad of colorful details and discussions about how the defense of the  home island and all that involved. Whether it be a discussion of how the  Americans participated, the German views and expectations, or the  experiences of a British submariner telling his sobering story, this is a  book one has to put to the top of his or her reading list. I spent the  weekend reading it, and my brother immediately grabbed the book away for  himself to pore through in the next several days. It is indeed a wonderful  book offering the reader an expansive, entertaining, and ground level view  of perhaps the most celebrated time of peril and derring-do in the history  of the 20th century. Truly, this was their finest hour. Enjoy!	2000-07-21
2359539:US	52447634	R12933346334EI	0871138034	324607158	Victory 1918	Books	5	37	38	N	N	Terrific & Comprehensive Textbook on the First World War!	In this sobering, comprehensive, and highly detailed account of the war he claims determined the social and political direction of the 20th century, acclaimed author Alan Palmer leads the reader through the incredibly bloody  trench warfare of the First World War with an authority and informed  discussion of the causes, battles, and results of this long, disastrous,  and momentous conflict. Unlike previous efforts by other authors, Palmer  does not neglect the many fronts other than the well-discussed European  theater of operations. Rather, he weaves a wide-ranging discussion  successfully linking the conflicts along the eastern \\"Russian\\" front as  well as in the Balkan area (where the initial tripwire was pulled by the  assassination in Sarajevo) were an integral part of this first world war,  and also discusses the significance of the Middle Eastern and African  theaters of operation to the progress and complications of the overall  conflict.<br /><br />This is indeed a serious, objective, and detailed look at the  morass the civilized world slipped into as the chaos began in August of  1914. The author takes a country by country, front by front approach that  illuminates and de-romanticizes the nature of the conflict, which according  to the author was a blunt, indifferent and murderous affair, and one reads  through pages of terrible detail full of hand to hand combat, the endless  mud, virtual seas of rats and other vermin, and the sometimes overwhelming  stench of decaying corpses. Palmer weaves the fact-rich text with a sense  of the crushing ordeal for the men in the trenches, trapped by geography,  terrain, climate and circumstance into a years-long stagnant war of  attrition that was far more horrific than any large-scale warfare of the  past. Of course, one of the key elements making it so terrible was the new  weaponry developed with such precision in the new manufacturing facilities  all over the otherwise  \\"civilized\\" Europe. In this sense it was a  frightening preview of what lay ahead for all the wars of the 20th century.<br /><br />Palmer also carves out some controversial territory for himself by  handily challenging conventional wisdom on a number of issues, such as the  notion that it was the final desperate surge toward Paris late in the war  that tipped the balance in favor of the Allies and against France. The  author argues that it was in fact the global nature of the war and the fact  that the Allies had so critically damaged the ability of the Germans to  sustain its far-flung empire that kicked the chair out from under the  Germans. There is also a lot of interesting and relevant information  provided concerning the diplomatic and political efforts of Britain, France  and Germany in the months leading up to the onset of the war that I read  here for the first time. This is a wonderful book, and while I am not  entirely convinced by some of the author's arguments for a few of the  controversial positions, I have to applaud the extremely comprehensive,  well-organized, and terrifically integrated account he provides of the war  that has cast the terrible blood-filled cauldron for everything that  followed so fatefully in its wake. Enjoy.ng preview of what lay ahead for all the wars of the 20th century.    Palmer also carves out some controversial territory for himself by  handily challenging conventional wisdom on a number of issues, such as the  notion that it was the final desperate surge toward Paris late in the war  that tipped the balance in favor of the Allies and against France. The  author argues that it was in fact the global nature of the war and the fact  that the Allies had so critically damaged the ability of the Germans to  sustain its far-flung empire that kicked the chair out from under the  Germans. There is also a lot of interesting and relevant information  provided concerning the diplomatic and political efforts of Britain, France  and Germany in the months leading up to the onset of the war that I read  here for the first time. This is a wonderful book, and while I am not  entirely convinced by some of the author's arguments for a few of the  controversial positions, I have to applaud the extremely comprehensive,  well-organized, and terrifically integrated account he provides of the war  that has cast the terrible blood-filled cauldron for everything that  followed so fatefully in its wake. Enjoy.	2000-07-21
2361780:US	52447634	RB7GDFL6C3TJK	0684849569	185008673	The War Against Boys: How Misguided Feminism Is Harming Our Young Men	Books	5	19	26	N	N	Corrected, Uncensored Full Text Of My Review Of This Book	While there is precious little in this interesting book that is genuinely new, it is a singular book in the fact that a thoughtful, articulate, and open-minded woman is the author of such clinical observations. This is also  a well-researched, impeccably documented, and very readable effort that  marshals an impressive argument regarding the continuing damage our  politically-correct social institutions (especially those like universities  and colleges in which women are now in the ascendancy) are visiting onto  males of the species simply for being normal males.<br />I must admit that  like most other adult males with a functioning brain, I have long since  taken quiet umbrage (silent since I discovered along the way that many  feminists will brook no dissent regarding their loudly argued  pronouncements about the ways things are, and that nothing is gained in  shouting matches that degenerate into name-calling) with the laundry list  of particulars feminists drag out as evidence of male \\"problems\\" needing to  be solved, since often these so-termed `problems' consist in the main of a  plethora of ways in which males either do not conform to female standards  or expectations. In each case, the norm for females is being superimposed  on males in the way of appropriate standards, and the males are expected to  perform accordingly. Thus, discussions regarding male exhibitions of either  aggression or physical violence are always based on the (female)  presumption such behavior is innately abnormal, anti-social, and  unacceptable; thus such behavior constitutes a key social problem requiring  active intervention and change.<br />It is through the systematic  institutionalization of such notions into the various organizations  associated with socializing our young that boys find themselves trapped  into enduring, and it is these associated wrong-headed and unrealistic  ideas that propel boys into increasing difficulties within the system. To  deny the status of these activities as problems would mean redefining a  whole range of social definitions that the feminists just cannot bear to  admit, for it would mean risking the carefully constructed house of cards  they have constructed with such effort might suddenly topple under the  influence of the influence of sudden gust of truth underneath its  individual members.<br />Out here in the less rarified world of experience,  male behavior is recognized to be characteristically different from that of  females. Given this observation, it would be far preferable to recognize  this, reconstruct and reorganize our social institutions based on this  recognition, and proceed toward a more equitable future that recognizes  that while males and females are strikingly different based on both  phenotype and genotype, there can be an informed sensitivity to this fact  that makes allowance for these differences while ensuring a consistently  applied code of ethics giving equity between the sexes. Until we understand  this basic truth and employ this knowledge in the socialization of our  children, we do them a serious disservice and indemnify the future with our  ridiculously anachronistic social baggage.ivities as problems would mean redefining a  whole range of social definitions that the feminists just cannot bear to  admit, for it would mean risking the carefully constructed house of cards  they have constructed with such effort might suddenly topple under the  influence of the influence of sudden gust of truth underneath its  individual members. <br />Out here in the less rarified world of experience,  male behavior is recognized to be characteristically different from that of  females. Given this observation, it would be far preferable to recognize  this, reconstruct and reorganize our social institutions based on this  recognition, and proceed toward a more equitable future that recognizes  that while males and females are strikingly different based on both  phenotype and genotype, there can be an informed sensitivity to this fact  that makes allowance for these differences while ensuring a consistently  applied code of ethics giving equity between the sexes. Until we understand  this basic truth and employ this knowledge in the socialization of our  children, we do them a serious disservice and indemnify the future with our  ridiculously anachronistic social baggage.	2000-07-19
2361892:US	52447634	R3O4ASBK6ONPH6	0140068147	725749247	Miracle at Midway	Books	4	65	69	N	N	Terrific &amp; Entertaining Narrative of The Midway 'Miracle'!	Just how fortunate the United States was in winning the closely contested navy engagement at Midway in the central Pacific in mid 1942 is evident to any reader of  this very well documented and quite balanced account of  one of the largest and most famous exchanges between the US navy and their  Japanese counterparts during the course of World War Two. By using  extensive inputs from both Japanese and American participants and observers  of the sea battle, the authors thread together a memorable and engaging  narrative of the events leading up to and involving both sides during the  summer months of that fateful year. It was one for the record books, and  one that demonstrated conclusively that the rules of war at sea had changed  forever from one dominated by capital ships like battleships and cruisers  to one dominated by aircraft carriers and attack airplanes.<br />In the  devastating aftermath of Pearl Harbor, the American Navy was looking for an  opportunity to engage the Japanese in a \\"mano-a-mano\\" confrontation, hoping  to even the odds and shorten the war by using what we felt would be  surprise and tactics to overcome the numerical advantage the Japanese  enjoyed in numbers of both ships (especially in terms of aircraft carriers)  and launchable aircraft.  Even though the Japanese had blundered badly at  the battle of the Coral Sea, they left the scene believing the fracas had  been won, and that they had further damaged the American fleet by sinking  three carriers. And though the U.S. Navy did in fact limp away having lost  some of its few carriers either through sinking or damage, in actuality  they had inflicted more damage than they had incurred. Furthermore, soon  one of the badly damaged U. S. Navy carriers (the Yorktown) would be  repaired and ready to sail in support of the Midway engagement.<br />Also, by cracking certain aspects of the Japanese Navy's wireless  communication codes, the Americans were able to determine not only what the  Japanese were ostensibly planning in terms of a strategy to take Midway,  but also what the specific positioning and disposition of the various  aspects of the Japanese naval force would be. Obviously, this information  added to the element of surprise gave the Americans a huge tactical  advantage, and made victory much more possible. Yet it did not guarantee  anything. It was the tactical brilliance and contemporaneous innovation of  the on-site commanders in the American force that won the day.  In a series  of engagements that did not change the course of the battle until the last  few remaining waves of American aircraft suddenly sank or damaged the  majority of the Japanese carriers, the Americans succeeded both through  their own daring and a few fatal tactical errors on the part of the  Japanese commanders.<br />The results were devastating for the Japanese, who  never again could muster the kind of raw carrier power, or just as  importantly, ever replace the huge number of experienced carrier-based  aircraft pilots needed to successfully engage and threaten the expanding  American task forces that within another 12 to 18 months would virtually  transform the character of the war in the Pacific, leading the Japanese  into waging an almost suicidal war of attrition which they had no chance to  win. This is a well-written, well-documented, and entertaining book that  helps the reader to understand just how critical to both the Americans and  the Japanese the fateful naval engagement at Midway was, and how the  results determined the course of the rest of the war in the Pacific. Enjoy!e  Japanese were ostensibly planning in terms of a strategy to take Midway,  but also what the specific positioning and disposition of the various  aspects of the Japanese naval force would be. Obviously, this information  added to the element of surprise gave the Americans a huge tactical  advantage, and made victory much more possible. Yet it did not guarantee  anything. It was the tactical brilliance and contemporaneous innovation of  the on-site commanders in the American force that won the day.  In a series  of engagements that did not change the course of the battle until the last  few remaining waves of American aircraft suddenly sank or damaged the  majority of the Japanese carriers, the Americans succeeded both through  their own daring and a few fatal tactical errors on the part of the  Japanese commanders.<br />The results were devastating for the Japanese, who  never again could muster the kind of raw carrier power, or just as  importantly, ever replace the huge number of experienced carrier-based  aircraft pilots needed to successfully engage and threaten the expanding  American task forces that within another 12 to 18 months would virtually  transform the character of the war in the Pacific, leading the Japanese  into waging an almost suicidal war of attrition which they had no chance to  win. This is a well-written, well-documented, and entertaining book that  helps the reader to understand just how critical to both the Americans and  the Japanese the fateful naval engagement at Midway was, and how the  results determined the course of the rest of the war in the Pacific. Enjoy!	2000-07-19
2362347:US	52447634	R3I6JT5O7HEGCD	0812840178	347147981	Warlord	Books	4	22	25	N	N	Absorbing &amp; Provocative Look At Imperial Japan's Bad Boy!	It is a curious truth that while much is popularly known about Hitler, Mussolini, Stalin, and other European \\"bad boy\\" potentates, little if anything is popularly known about the architect and antagonist of the  Japanese military state, Hideki Tojo. Yet he was Japan's premier for the  greater part of World War Two, the front man for the militarists who had  seized real control of the government in the mid 1930s. Unlike either  Hitler or Mussolini, Tojo did not escape the judgment of the victorious  allies, for he was one of the relatively few Japanese tried for war crimes  after the war, and was hanged in disgrace and humiliation.  This, then, is  an absorbing story of the ultimate true believer hung on the petard of his  own fanaticism.<br />Renowned historian Edwin P. Hoyt does an admirable job  detailing the rise and corruption of this enigmatic and often phlegmatic  leader, a modern day samurai who simply did not understand the tenor of his  times, and who was instrumental in ushering Japan into a disastrous and  suicidal conflict with the United States, even though a number of  authorities with Japan such as Yamamoto warned an all-out war with the  Americans would not likely be successful. Hoyt draws from an impressive  array of little known documents from Japanese military archives, and from a  number of recorded interviews with Japanese-American guards who came to  know Tojo quite well during his captivity and trial at the infamous Sagumo  Prison just outside Tokyo.<br />Hoyt takes incredible care detailing Tojo's  rapid rise to become the outspoken and imperious front-man for the  militarists within the Army, those young but career-oriented officers  seeking the rapid expansion of the burgeoning Japanese empire throughout  Asia to fulfill what they felt to be Japan's destiny based on their own  racist and fascist notions about the Japanese being a master race naturally  destined to rule their part of the world. Hoyt describes the early  successes in the first few months of the war, when Tojo's stock was rising  and his prestige was rising as well. The book also details his hopes and  tentative operational plans regarding an eventual invasion of the American  mainland, and this more than anything indicates just how provincial and  misinformed he was regarding the power, strengths, and capabilities of his  opponents.<br />Soon, however, the victories turned to defeats, and in a  stunning string of setbacks and losses the course of the war changed  fatefully, as did Japan's dreams of empire and future fortune. Eventually  all this caught up with Tojo, and he was forced from power in the summer of  1944. Eventually, he was arrested by the Allies, tried, and hanged. This is  an provocative look at a man who balanced the surging forces of the Army,  Navy and civil authorities during the war, but who profoundly and fatefully  misunderstood the nature of the forces of the 20th century, and so was  personally responsible for the death of millions of combatants and  noncombatants, and who by prosecuting the war in such a savage way also  played a key role in bringing the sting of the Allies wrath home to the  people to Japan.  I recommend this book for anyone interested in learning  more about this tragic and misguided figure that was so instrumental in the  unfolding of the Pacific part of the Second World War.first few months of the war, when Tojo's stock was rising  and his prestige was rising as well. The book also details his hopes and  tentative operational plans regarding an eventual invasion of the American  mainland, and this more than anything indicates just how provincial and  misinformed he was regarding the power, strengths, and capabilities of his  opponents. <br />Soon, however, the victories turned to defeats, and in a  stunning string of setbacks and losses the course of the war changed  fatefully, as did Japan's dreams of empire and future fortune. Eventually  all this caught up with Tojo, and he was forced from power in the summer of  1944. Eventually, he was arrested by the Allies, tried, and hanged. This is  an provocative look at a man who balanced the surging forces of the Army,  Navy and civil authorities during the war, but who profoundly and fatefully  misunderstood the nature of the forces of the 20th century, and so was  personally responsible for the death of millions of combatants and  noncombatants, and who by prosecuting the war in such a savage way also  played a key role in bringing the sting of the Allies wrath home to the  people to Japan.  I recommend this book for anyone interested in learning  more about this tragic and misguided figure that was so instrumental in the  unfolding of the Pacific part of the Second World War.	2000-07-19
2369532:US	52447634	RLTZ47CNETHDN	0449912604	463000180	The First Sex: The Natural Talents of Women and How They Are Changing the World	Books	1	118	161	N	N	I Am Woman (Hear Me Roar)!	Reading this self-congratulatory feminist manifesto, one gets the impression the author would have us believe women of the species have just parachuted into our midst rather than being our long-time companions down  here on the planet of the (male) apes. Given their complicity in all the  wonders &amp; woes through recorded time, it's only logical to attribute at  least half-credit (and blame) for what humankind is and is becoming as due  to their persisting and enduring influence over the eons. Yet here we find  no such admissions of female culpability in the sorry state of the species.  Instead, it seems to be exclusively males who have royally mucked things up  so far. Yet, in the world according to Ms. Fisher, one must not despair,  for all that will be changed as soon as women (the super sex) begin to come  into their own. The reader is left with an uneasy impression this is all  another thinly veiled sexist and virulently anti-male argument parading as  social science a la Susan Faludi (\\"Backlash\\" and \\"Stiffed\\").<br />In all this  heady prose of feminist celebration one can almost hear the faint echoes of  Helen Reddy's feminist paean \\"I Am Woman' (Hear her roar!). Yet there is  only anecdotal proof that any of what she purports is accurate or true of  women in general, never mind that it will somehow ineluctably come to pass.  For example, she boasts that women have \\"natural\\" talents males do not, and  therefore are \\"better suited\\" biologically to excel at a whole range of  complex social tasks than are males. This isn't a carefully couched  scientific argument framed in terms of recognizing much wider individual  variations within the female population itself than between males and  females generally. Rather, it is argued as if it were a general sex-linked  intellectual trait.<br />Were I to argue the same thing about male math  skills, natural aggression and violent tendencies, or leadership skills, I  would be summarily shouted down and denounced as a reactionary sexist. Yet  one finds no such recognition by the author that she is skating on the  paper-thin ice of anecdotal supposition rather than on established  scientific fact. Instead, she twists and turns her way through this  hodge-podge of psychological, sociological, and biological data as though  it were the dawning of the Age of Aquarius suddenly realized. A few  sobering facts; males behave the way they do at least partially because of  the way they are raised, and women are largely in control of this  socialization process. Have we seen much in the way of sensitivity, wisdom,  or \\"win-win\\" success displayed here? Hardly. If men are insensitive, unable  to openly display their emotions, and distantly angry, women who raise  them, sleep with them, and love them must share part of the blame.<br />Judging by the performance of women in institutions where they are in  the ascendency, such as at universities and medicine, emotionally-based  political correct behavior has become the rule of the day. I was recently  advised by a tenured female professor at a famous liberal arts college in  western Massachusetts that the female caucus in her department was told to  privately counsel any potential male PhD. candidates to refrain from  wasting their time applying for teaching openings. Is this not blatant sex  discrimination, deliberate prejudice of the first magnitude? Evidently not,  my friend explained lamely that the ladies just want more time to 'season'  the new female majority position within the department. And on and on.<br />Furthermore, the evidence from the past indicates that omen throughout  history like Cleopatra, Catherine the Great or Queen Elizabeth who have  gained and wielded power have been quite as abusive in the use of that  power as are men.  This is not to suggest that women are any worst than  men, or even the same as their male counterparts. But there is little proof  that any of the giddy stuff she is supposing to be the wave of the futurehas any basis anywhere other than in her feminist fantasies. Thus, to  suppose women are naturally superior healers, thinkers, communicators, and  negotiators is just so much hot air escaping into the already  supersaturated ozone layer.<br />Men who have worked with women find them  individually to be quite as arbitrary, capricious, selfish, and petty as  the men they have labored under. Women who work for women are no more eager  to celebrate their feminine superiors, but rather fear the personal  consequences that the social, cultural, and politically-correct agendas  many of their female supervisors harbor and use to separate the working  wheat from the chaff.  Like \\"Backlash\\" and \\"Stiffed\\", this is a silly,  superficial, and self-interested gambit to further a feminist agenda by  trying to foist the intrinsically sexist notion that there are such  well-defined and momentously broad-based gender differences so critical to  the way we humans interact socially, economically, and politically as to  portend the dawning of some hopped-up revolutionary situation. Avoid this  book; it is a waste of your time, energy, and money.e future  has any basis anywhere other than in her feminist fantasies. Thus, to  suppose women are naturally superior healers, thinkers, communicators, and  negotiators is just so much hot air escaping into the already  supersaturated ozone layer.<br />Men who have worked with women find them  individually to be quite as arbitrary, capricious, selfish, and petty as  the men they have labored under. Women who work for women are no more eager  to celebrate their feminine superiors, but rather fear the personal  consequences that the social, cultural, and politically-correct agendas  many of their female supervisors harbor and use to separate the working  wheat from the chaff.  Like \\"Backlash\\" and \\"Stiffed\\", this is a silly,  superficial, and self-interested gambit to further a feminist agenda by  trying to foist the intrinsically sexist notion that there are such  well-defined and momentously broad-based gender differences so critical to  the way we humans interact socially, economically, and politically as to  portend the dawning of some hopped-up revolutionary situation. Avoid this  book; it is a waste of your time, energy, and money.	2000-07-15
2370797:US	52447634	R23NWSJR62BMAL	0198204280	184550212	The Oxford History of the Twentieth Century	Books	5	31	31	N	Y	Wonderful, Concise, &amp; Thematically Organized Reference Book!	I enjoyed reading this one-volume survey of the events of the 20th century, whose stated editorial objective was to provide a literate and understandable survey of the panorama of change and tumult that so  characterized these last hundred years.  Given these very real limitations,  this essay-driven approach featuring a whole drawer full of celebrated  historians is a very satisfying and entertaining way for a reader to gain  an interesting, thematic, and absorbing overview of the events of our  century. This is a useful reference book that provides authoritative  historical sources describing the momentous events as well as significant  themes of the 20th century.<br />It is organized both by period and by  geographical areas, and commences with an excellent social, economic, and  political snapshot of the world as the new century dawns. By employing a  number of different essayists to describe various aspects of the unfolding  drama, it provides the reader with relatively concise overviews of salient  topics without having to muck about in the mind-boggling details some more  expansive histories would. In essence, the text neatly describes the major  events and phenomena of the century, discussing the various aspects of  each, and analyzing the particulars of both social disruptions via shifts  of power as well as the remaining elements of social cohesion and  continuity. As the reader soon discovers, however, the former far outweigh  the latter in the events and trends characterizing the times.<br />Indeed,  when one considers the radical departure between what existed throughout  the world at the onset of the century as opposed to what prevails at its  close, one is moved by the sense that the world had been literally  transformed over the hundred-year span. Where once proud and autocratic  kings, tyrants and potentates ruled with despotic indifference, now  indifferent democracies, uncertain dictatorships, and benignly ignorant  despots rule the stage.  We've moved from unreliable telegraphs to instant  wireless phones, from horse and buggy to space travel, and from death to an  early age to whole societies of seniors planning to live well into their  eighties and nineties. Where once people lived in splendid isolation from  the outside world in a sphere only painfully connected from one community  to another by mail, telegraph, and slow travel, we now have instant  awareness of all that happens around the globe. So, if some of us are not  entirely convinced of the progressive nature of this change, even we have  to admit that W. B. Yeats captured the kernel of the times by warning  things had \\"changed utterly\\".<br />As I mentioned above, this book provides  the reader with a quite handy reference tool and a terrific overview, and  is organized both in terms of time periods, geographical area, and also  thematically around several key master processes that were instrumental  influences in the century. It is expressly not the sort of expansive,  detailed, and authoritative source for understanding or researching  particular events such as the Depression or the Cold War. For those kinds  of discussions one must turn elsewhere.  But for its intended purpose of  providing the serious student with an approachable, readable, and useful  guide to understanding the main currents and highlights (or perhaps low  points) of this explosive century, this is a wonderful book that belongs on  every 20th century history student's bookshelf. Enjoy!'ve moved from unreliable telegraphs to instant  wireless phones, from horse and buggy to space travel, and from death to an  early age to whole societies of seniors planning to live well into their  eighties and nineties. Where once people lived in splendid isolation from  the outside world in a sphere only painfully connected from one community  to another by mail, telegraph, and slow travel, we now have instant  awareness of all that happens around the globe. So, if some of us are not  entirely convinced of the progressive nature of this change, even we have  to admit that W. B. Yeats captured the kernel of the times by warning  things had \\"changed utterly\\".<br />As I mentioned above, this book provides  the reader with a quite handy reference tool and a terrific overview, and  is organized both in terms of time periods, geographical area, and also  thematically around several key master processes that were instrumental  influences in the century. It is expressly not the sort of expansive,  detailed, and authoritative source for understanding or researching  particular events such as the Depression or the Cold War. For those kinds  of discussions one must turn elsewhere.   But for its intended purpose of  providing the serious student with an approachable, readable, and useful  guide to understanding the main currents and highlights (or perhaps low  points) of this explosive century, this is a wonderful book that belongs on  every 20th century history student's bookshelf. Enjoy!	2000-07-14
2372729:US	52447634	R2K51SOD0OWFO0	0029149703	742368601	C, WRIGHT MILLS: AN AMERICAN UTOPIAN	Books	4	29	31	N	N	Insightful &amp; Absorbing Biography of Great American Academic	I happened upon this wonderful biography and overview of sociologist C. Wright Mills written by the eminent sociologist Irving L. Horowitz several years ago while browsing through the stacks in a Cambridge book store, and  spent the next weekend glued to my easy chair reading this quite  interesting, sympathetic, yet still very objective biography of a very  controversial academic. Mills was a towering, even legendary  figure in  American academic sociology at mid-century, and just about everything he  did was provocative, trend setting, and often downright outrageous.<br />This  iconoclastic motorcycle-riding monster of a man (he was well over six feet  and quite imposing physically) refused to be typecast, constrained, or  politically correct even in the depths of the straight-laced '50s. There is  an amusing story about him most graduate students have heard various  versions of regarding Columbia University's vain attempts to get him into  line. Mills love to teach sans tie or suit coat in an open white collared  shirt and slacks. Evidently someone complained he was not meeting  professional dress standards, and the Dean told him he must henceforth  always wear a coat and tie in classroom. Sure enough the next day Mills  showed up to teach class attired in a suit with tie dutifully tied around  his neck, but with no shirt on!<br />Mills' prolific published work was also  very controversial, from &quot;White Collar&quot;, a well documented  description of the nature of the emerging affluent American middle class,  to &quot;The Power Elite&quot;, a hard-hitting critique of the nature of  wealth, status and power in the United States, to &quot;The Sociological  Imagination&quot;, an articulate and approachable appeal to a return to  classic sociological perspectives and avoiding the twin horns of what he  termed to be a foolish and pointless excessive focus on either \\"high  theory\\" or \\"research methods\\" rather than on important and cogent  sociological analysis.<br />Horowitz threads through Mills extraordinary life  and times, and paints a not altogether glowing personality behind the  bravado, brilliance, and boldness. Mills sometimes was thoughtless,  tactless, and cruel to those around him, and could be close to egomaniacal  about getting what he felt was his share of the credit. Yet no one can deny  the sheer laser power of his piercing intellect, or his willingness to take  on the establishment and tell things the way he saw them, often to the  great detriment of his academic career. This is a worthwhile, carefully  researched, and absolutely entertaining biography and overview of a man and  his work. Enjoy.r />Horowitz threads through Mills extraordinary life  and times, and paints a not altogether glowing personality behind the  bravado, brilliance, and boldness. Mills sometimes was thoughtless,  tactless, and cruel to those around him, and could be close to egomaniacal  about getting what he felt was his share of the credit. Yet no one can deny  the sheer laser power of his piercing intellect, or his willingness to take  on the establishment and tell things the way he saw them, often to the  great detriment of his academic career. This is a worthwhile, carefully  researched, and absolutely entertaining biography and overview of a man and  his work. Enjoy.	2000-07-13
2372878:US	52447634	R1FV6FLOBIN9UX	0684804484	22414532	No Ordinary Time: Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt: The Home Front in World War II	Books	5	33	35	N	N	A Fascinating Portrait of FDR &amp; Eleanor and Their Times!	Once again Doris Kearns Goodwin pulls the elusive hare from the historical hat! I have been a fan of hers since reading \\"Lyndon Johnson and the American Dream\\" well over twenty years ago, and after all this time and  reading a number of her books, I never cease to wonder at her incredible  creative abilities, at her sheer profundity with language, nuance, and  always choosing the right word to cast her narrative into exactly the right  mode and string the reader along the trail of her entertaining and  informative story line. This time out she tackles the single most  fascinating period of modern American history, those critical years between  the onset of the Depression and the end of World War Two.<br />Here she has  chosen to thread her way through both the public and private lives and  times of the Roosevelts in the throes of their four successive  administrations between 1932 and 1945, in the throes of what was  undoubtedly the most momentous and critical period in modern American  history. Her powerful prose style lends itself magnificently to the task at  hand in terms of describing the principals and the social surround  masterfully, and the reader is swept into the waves and eddies of the  period, sitting in the catbird's seat as Goodwin describes both the  intricacies of FDR's administration and their uneasy, unconventional, and  unusual marriage. This is an extremely well researched, insightful and  thoughtful study of two enormously complex people at the peaks of the  intellectual, social, and political powers, in the midst of a  socio-political maelstrom of historical proportions.<br />As described by  Goodwin, both Eleanor and FDR become figures of almost Biblical  proportions; modern titans committed both to the nation as well as to each  other.  Yet these two were in many ways living separate lies, and one  marvels and the degree of maturity, selflessness, and composure each had to  face the issues of both their public and private obligations in the manner  they apparently did. Her emerging portrait of FDR is that of a brilliant,  charismatic, endlessly witty and wise patrician who steeled himself to the  notion of \\"noblesse oblige\\", while Eleanor is painted in what is in many  ways a much more sympathetic light, as a long-suffering, patient, loving  and ultimately independent woman no longer content to stand quietly in the  shadows.<br />This is a very comprehensive, compassionate, and compelling  historical biography of the Roosevelts in the context of their times, and  is an admirable addition to the growing body of scholarly yet popular works  so many recently active American historians like Goodwin, Ambrose, David  Kennedy, James Patterson, and Taylor Branch have contributed to our  understanding of the United States in the 20th century. I really enjoyed  reading this magnificent book by Ms. Goodwin, and recommend it for your  history bookshelf. Enjoy!e manner  they apparently did. Her emerging portrait of FDR is that of a brilliant,  charismatic, endlessly witty and wise patrician who steeled himself to the  notion of \\"noblesse oblige\\", while Eleanor is painted in what is in many  ways a much more sympathetic light, as a long-suffering, patient, loving  and ultimately independent woman no longer content to stand quietly in the  shadows. <br />This is a very comprehensive, compassionate, and compelling  historical biography of the Roosevelts in the context of their times, and  is an admirable addition to the growing body of scholarly yet popular works  so many recently active American historians like Goodwin, Ambrose, David  Kennedy, James Patterson, and Taylor Branch have contributed to our  understanding of the United States in the 20th century. I really enjoyed  reading this magnificent book by Ms. Goodwin, and recommend it for your  history bookshelf. Enjoy!	2000-07-13
2374893:US	52447634	R24M8QP730K28B	1582340404	169166623	After Progress: Finding the Old Way Forward	Books	5	20	21	N	Y	Rave On, John Donne!	The title above is stolen from a rap-like Van Morrison song by the same name; and refers to ways in which our pilgrim's progress has gone so badly astray in the last hundred years or so. So does the author of this book,  Anthony O'Hear, rave on, rather eloquently, I might add, regarding the ways  in which we have collectively transmogrified, vulgarized, and corrupted  what was originally considered man's progressive search for the truth and  enlightenment into a mere free for all for material goods and personal  pleasures. Thus far have we gone astray that we think we have reached the  final stages in man's progress when in fact we have so narrowed, lowered,  and reduced both our strivings and the meaning of the notion of progress  into superficial and mere material terms that our quest is now a mere  shadow of anything like its originally rich, universal, and varied  meanings.<br />It is more than coincidental, according to the author, that  with the rise of science and technological innovation a new, much more  limited and \\"operationally (read superficially here) defined\\" notion of  progress means has for all intensive purposes diminished it, for science  and its accompanying rationalistic ethos can only address certain aspects  of a quite limited range of questions and issues of all those concerning  mankind, and not necessarily the most cogent or meaningful at that.  Indeed, our forbearers much better appreciated and understood that  scientific technique itself could never meaningfully address moral,  ethical, or philosophical issues, for these are by their very nature beyond  the scope of such a rationally limited enterprise as science. Instead of  recognizing the limitations of science however, we seem to have redefined  progress in such a venial fashion as to make it virtually meaningless.  O'Hear believes that our age is one devoted almost exclusively to a  revolution of technological innovation and serving narrowly defined human  rights and needs, and he argues that most of us find ourselves profoundly  limited in terms of the scope of our own lives to ones characterized by  material striving for individual comfort and happiness.<br />Yet through the  very act of defining our notion of progress so narrowly and superficially,  their utility in terms of providing any satisfaction or meaning to the  individual is systematically frustrated, and seems rather meaninglessly  channeled into a characteristically trivial pursuit for more material  goods. Until we learn to redefine the nature of our quest into a world-view  better invested by a reinvigorated appreciation for a more aware,  introspective and characteristically moral and ethical standards, our  progress will tend to be limited to the pettiness of material acquisition.  Under such circumstances, our chances for achieving any true and  substantial progress on the road to the traditional meanings of progress  are poor. So long as we continue to view progress in such an impoverished,  limited and superficial way as to limit it to material comfort and greater  personal wealth, we will likely go no further in any meaningful way. This  is an interesting book, one that substantiates the same kinds of  traditional arguments that traditional scholars have made regarding the  nature of contemporary society and the dangers associated with our  increasingly exclusive scientific and rational orientation toward each  other and the world.argues that most of us find ourselves profoundly  limited in terms of the scope of our own lives to ones characterized by  material striving for individual comfort and happiness. <br />Yet through the  very act of defining our notion of progress so narrowly and superficially,  their utility in terms of providing any satisfaction or meaning to the  individual is systematically frustrated, and seems rather meaninglessly  channeled into a characteristically trivial pursuit for more material  goods. Until we learn to redefine the nature of our quest into a world-view  better invested by a reinvigorated appreciation for a more aware,  introspective and characteristically moral and ethical standards, our  progress will tend to be limited to the pettiness of material acquisition.  Under such circumstances, our chances for achieving any true and  substantial progress on the road to the traditional meanings of progress  are poor. So long as we continue to view progress in such an impoverished,  limited and superficial way as to limit it to material comfort and greater  personal wealth, we will likely go no further in any meaningful way. This  is an interesting book, one that substantiates the same kinds of  traditional arguments that traditional scholars have made regarding the  nature of contemporary society and the dangers associated with our  increasingly exclusive scientific and rational orientation toward each  other and the world.	2000-07-12
2374918:US	52447634	RHNACZ1HF1U5L	0195125568	253492645	The Nazi Persecution of the Gypsies	Books	4	37	45	N	Y	A Frightening Account of Germany's Extermination of Gypsies	This is an absorbing, well-written and quite readable text book by a noted 20th century historian, Guenter Lewy, and it constitutes a disturbing, graphic and poignant overview of the Nazi campaign against the gypsy  population of central Europe. The German national socialist regime, always  in search for helpless, infirm and unwell sectors of the population to  scapegoat and persecute, found in the gypsies an ideal target by way of a  collection of powerless, rootless, and socio-politically unsavory groups of  individuals to prey upon. Yet this persecution has not been widely publized  or recognized until now largely because of the nature of the gypsy  population, i.e. due to their own lack of social and political visibility,  no one has paid a lot of attention to their plight or to the multitude of  ways in which they were persecuted, along with Jews and other political  groups by the Nazis.<br />This book remedies that egregious oversight,  painting a vivid, quite compassionate picture of the gypsies' dilemma, and  at the same time marshaling a damning indictment of the general campaign of  mistreatment, disenfranchisement, torture, and murder conducted by the  Third Reich against all subjugated peoples both in greater Germany and also  in the countries conquered as they pushed both east and west during the  prosecution of the war. According to the author, the policy seemed to  evolve as the Nazis encountered such groups in their conquests, and  whatever policies as emerged did so more in relation to the local  officials' negative views of the gypsies as being thieves, trouble-makers  and undesirables than due to any overall pre-planned approach.<br />Of  course, this sort of insight shouldn't come as a total surprise to students  of Third Reich social policies. Even Himmler's well-documented plan for the  \\"Final Solution\\" is now considered by a number of noted historians to owe  more to the requirements of exigent circumstance that evolved as the  Wehrmacht rolled through Poland during Operation Barbarossa than from any  long-term plan to systematically exterminate all European Jews. The Nazis  realized they could not feed or shelter the Jews and maintain their  schedule for populating the hinterlands, and the extermination program was  conceived of as a way out of that dilemma.<br />It should also be noted that  the Nazi bureaucracy was rife with duplications and redundancies, and that  this led to disorganization and confusion. As a result, it was exceedingly  ineffective and inefficient. The history associated with the conduct of the  army and its special branches toward extermination also reflects this  disorganization and amateurish, rigid and unfocused leadership and  direction. In spite of this lack of leadership or any clear and unambiguous  policy, the local officials often improvised, with gruesome effect. As  history shows, they were a deadly, murderous crew.<br />The campaign as  described in this well-documented and painstakingly researched book  reflects that lack of coherent policy and disorganization in the actions  taken against the gypsies. However, this lack of specific focus does not  mean they were not massively and negatively affected by government  policies. On the contrary, from the inception of programs against the  gypsies began in 1938 to the bitter end, they suffered the fates of so many  others; deportation to concentration camps, exclusion from school, work and  social life, slave labor, involuntary sterilization, torture, medical  experimentation, and extermination. This book fully documents the place of  the gypsies as a class of victims in the Holocaust, and fills a void too  long left vacant by scholarship and public recognition. This is an  excellent book, carefully researched, well documented, and compassionate in  its comprehensive consideration of the plight of European gypsies at the  hands of the Third Reich.led through Poland during Operation Barbarossa than from any  long-term plan to systematically exterminate all European Jews. The Nazis  realized they could not feed or shelter the Jews and maintain their  schedule for populating the hinterlands, and the extermination program was  conceived of as a way out of that dilemma. <br />It should also be noted that  the Nazi bureaucracy was rife with duplications and redundancies, and that  this led to disorganization and confusion. As a result, it was exceedingly  ineffective and inefficient. The history associated with the conduct of the  army and its special branches toward extermination also reflects this  disorganization and amateurish, rigid and unfocused leadership and  direction. In spite of this lack of leadership or any clear and unambiguous  policy, the local officials often improvised, with gruesome effect. As  history shows, they were a deadly, murderous crew. <br />The campaign as  described in this well-documented and painstakingly researched book  reflects that lack of coherent policy and disorganization in the actions  taken against the gypsies. However, this lack of specific focus does not  mean they were not massively and negatively affected by government  policies. On the contrary, from the inception of programs against the  gypsies began in 1938 to the bitter end, they suffered the fates of so many  others; deportation to concentration camps, exclusion from school, work and  social life, slave labor, involuntary sterilization, torture, medical  experimentation, and extermination. This book fully documents the place of  the gypsies as a class of victims in the Holocaust, and fills a void too  long left vacant by scholarship and public recognition. This is an  excellent book, carefully researched, well documented, and compassionate in  its comprehensive consideration of the plight of European gypsies at the  hands of the Third Reich.	2000-07-12
2377970:US	52447634	R1ABFM91S9ZAR8	0553323350	76257226	William L. Shirer : 20th Century Journey, a Memoir of a Life and the Times : The Start : 1904-1930/the Nightmare Years : 1930-1940	Books	4	19	19	N	N	An Absorbing Look At The Origins and Early Career Of Shirer!	Anyone familiar with William Shirer's spectacular and varied career as an international journalist, war correspondent, radio commentator, and best-selling author of such tomes as &quot;Berlin Diary&quot;, &quot;The  Rise &amp; fall Of The Third Reich&quot;, &quot;The Nightmare Years&quot;  and many others will appreciate this interesting and down-to-earth  autobiographical effort covering Shirer's formative years. It includes the  obligatory starving young newspaper correspondent phase, lived on the run  as a poor but socially active and well-fed expatriate dwelling on Paris's  famed Left Bank just after WWI in the early 1920s, rubbing shoulders with a  young and unknown Ernest Hemingway, interviewing literary maven Gertrude  Stein, or chatting with James Joyce.<br />This is fascinating stuff, a tale  heartily told by Shirer, who originally wanted to follow in Hemingway's  illustrious footsteps but soon recognized his own talents lay in reporting  and non-fiction rather than with creative fiction writing. Soon he was of  to India, Pakistan, and China, and by the early 30s had earned a reputation  for reporting that eventually led to his assignment for a Chicago paper in  Berlin in the mid 1930s. So strategically placed, it was inevitable that a  man of his talents and gifts for writing would find himself famously  chronically the rise of Hitler and the National Socialists with verve,  clarity, and an uncommon gift for recognizing where all this was going. AS  the book closes, he is leaving Berlin by express invitation of the nazis,  and goes home to write his first tome, &quot;Berlin Diary&quot;.<br />I must  confess to being a Shirer addict, having read just about everything he has  published. Now that he is finally gone (having died within the last few  years), we are left with few of the brilliant cast of WWII alumni like John  Toland, William Manchester, Cornelius Ryan, and William Shirer that so  often illuminated us with their native intellect, writing skills, and sheer  presence. But be of good cheer; they each have left us with a treasure  trove of literary gifts we can enjoy at our leisure. Read this and  remember., and sheer  presence. But be of good cheer; they each have left us with a treasure  trove of literary gifts we can enjoy at our leisure. Read this and  remember.	2000-07-10
2378580:US	52447634	R165JKJ0KSJ8WW	0688171664	340684550	Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance: An Inquiry into Values	Books	5	24	31	N	N	One Of The Best Nonfiction Books Written In the 20th Century	Robert Pirsig's incredible tour-de-force in this book is literally the  intellectual adventure of a lifetime, and one that still leaves me shaking  my head in wonder after thirty years and a number of readings of it. I was  introduced to \\"Zen\\" by my brother in law, who promised me that I would  enjoy it. By now I must admit to now having several short quotes from it  framed under glass at various spots in the house, because I was so taken by  the gravity of what he has to say, and the disarmingly simple way he  usually chooses to say it. Pirsig is a man with a lot to say, and a lot of  wisdom in what he has to offer.<br />Although I must admit that I do not agree  with certain key aspects of his argument regarding the way the ancient  bifurcation between what he calls romantic and classic perceptive  orientations can at last be repaired and restored to cognitive and  intellectual unity, I stand in utter awe at the quality of mind any human  being must have to marshal such a breath-taking effort as this, at the  accomplishment of conceiving and articulating the philosophical treatise  described in such loving and painstaking detail here. His grasp of such  eclectic, obscure and philosophically central notions truly is a feat quite  the equal of the ascent of Everest in terms of the levels of concentration,  mental endurance, and simple cognitive acumen necessary to muster this kind  of argument.<br />The book works on two levels that both assist and  complement each other. First, the story narrative, which he uses both to  illustrate ideas he is talking about and to introduce ideas he wants to  discuss, also acts to bring us back to &quot;normal everyday reality' after  spinning high in the thin cold air of his theorizing. Second, the  philosophical story becomes a kind of sophisticated detective story for  curious intellectuals, as Pirsig's alter ego, Phaedrus, searches deeper and  deeper into the mysteries that once led him into insanity because of the  sheer intensity of his efforts to solve the riddle of the difference  between the two seemingly irreconcilable aspects of reality (the romantic  and the classic).<br />The book is an awe-inspiring trip into a discovery of  the nature of reality, contemporary society, and yourself. It has led to  study groups, study guides, and a whole cult of Pirsig watchers who  consider him the functional equivalent of the wise seer. The wildly  best-selling book also led Pirsig deeper into a life of isolation,  eschewing publicity and seeking greater introspection. There is a sequel,  called &quot;Lila&quot;, which also enjoyed a best-selling run on the  charts in the early 1990s. This is a book that is quite unlike anything  else you have ever read, and is something you have to experience to  understand in its full impact. It is also a book I can recommend with a  smile, knowing with confidence you will be glad you finally decided to buy  it and read it. Enjoy!nsity of his efforts to solve the riddle of the difference  between the two seemingly irreconcilable aspects of reality (the romantic  and the classic).<br />The book is an awe-inspiring trip into a discovery of  the nature of reality, contemporary society, and yourself. It has led to  study groups, study guides, and a whole cult of Pirsig watchers who  consider him the functional equivalent of the wise seer. The wildly  best-selling book also led Pirsig deeper into a life of isolation,  eschewing publicity and seeking greater introspection. There is a sequel,  called &quot;Lila&quot;, which also enjoyed a best-selling run on the  charts in the early 1990s. This is a book that is quite unlike anything  else you have ever read, and is something you have to experience to  understand in its full impact. It is also a book I can recommend with a  smile, knowing with confidence you will be glad you finally decided to buy  it and read it. Enjoy!	2000-07-10
2380072:US	52447634	R26U2GKP6S9VIK	0670870951	436220225	Stalingrad: The Fateful Siege, 1942-1943	Books	5	44	54	N	Y	The Definitive Study of the Seige At Stalingrad!	Ask any serious student of World War Two about the tide that turned the European theater of the war, and two momentous battles immediately come to mind; the first, the Battle of the Bulge, because it was in many ways both  the American army's finest moment and at the same time the ruin of any hope  for winning the war by Hitler. Second, of course, is Stalingrad, the epic  battle smashing Hitler's planned empire comprised by the heartland of the  Ukraine to smithereens and demonstrated how fatefully Hitler had  underestimated the capabilities &amp; indomitable spirit of the Soviet  army. In an extremely well written book, Antony Beevor offers a definitive  history of the siege &amp; battles of Stalingrad.<br />As the author argues  from the beginning, Operation Barbarossa was fatally flawed from the outset  because of its underestimation of the capability, size, and resolve of the  Russian forces massed against Germany. Yet, based on all the information  Hitler had at hand, and considering his handy defeat of everything anyone  else had thrown at him, he had every reasonable expectation that the  Russian campaign would be yet another blitzkrieg success, and that the  Soviet army that had been handily whipped into an embarrassing stalemate by  the much smaller Finn army the year before would fall like so many  candlepins when hit by the bowling ball of the Wehrmacht strike force, some  two million men strong. In fact, as Beevor points out, the Soviets were  indeed woefully unprepared to face the German onslaught, both because of  ineptitude and due to the wide-ranging military purges Stalin had  perpetrated on the officer corps of the Russian army.<br />Based on the  initial success of the operation, many German soldiers believed the fight  for Russia had been won by late autumn, until the tide began to show signs  that there was still too much active resistance to hold with that idea. Yet  the Germans continued to enjoy success and drive even deeper into the  Soviet heartland, murdering, raping, and destroying everything and everyone  in their path as they went. Suddenly winter settled in, and as it did, more  changed abut the campaign than just the brutally cold and snowy weather  condition they now had to contend with.  Soviet forces began to take more  offensive action, and nowhere was this change more noticeable than in the  key southern area around Stalingrad, where German forces were dangerously  over-extended and under-supplied.<br />The battle for Stalingrad was long and  drawn out, lasting almost two years. Hitler's mistake was in allowing  himself and his forces to be drawn into a devastating war of attrition, one  that had murderous numbers of casualties on both sides. This book reveals  it all, from the strategic match poof the century between Hitler and  Stalin, to the blow-by-blow account of how egomaniacal General Paulus, the  Wehrmacht's most impressive `man of destiny' foolishly allowed his troops  to be slowly drawn into what would become one of the biggest and most  costly traps in modern battle.  He uses an immensely documented and  researched body of data to marshal a formidable argument that in choosing  to stay and fight at Stalingrad, Hitler made critical mistakes that would  directly lead to his defeat all along the Eastern front, and therefore  eventually lose the war.<br />This is one of the best books on the war  along the Eastern fronts, and likely the single best book on Stalingrad yet  written. Beevor's style is compelling, entertaining, and quite literate,  and the reader will find himself transported effortlessly into the bloody,  cold and wintry montage the author conjures for him again and again. This,  then, is a wonderful, magisterial, and authoritative look at one of the  most momentous battles of modern warfare, told with presence, style, and  verve by an important modern historian.t heartland, murdering, raping, and destroying everything and everyone  in their path as they went. Suddenly winter settled in, and as it did, more  changed abut the campaign than just the brutally cold and snowy weather  condition they now had to contend with.  Soviet forces began to take more  offensive action, and nowhere was this change more noticeable than in the  key southern area around Stalingrad, where German forces were dangerously  over-extended and under-supplied.<br />The battle for Stalingrad was long and  drawn out, lasting almost two years. Hitler's mistake was in allowing  himself and his forces to be drawn into a devastating war of attrition, one  that had murderous numbers of casualties on both sides. This book reveals  it all, from the strategic match poof the century between Hitler and  Stalin, to the blow-by-blow account of how egomaniacal General Paulus, the  Wehrmacht's most impressive `man of destiny' foolishly allowed his troops  to be slowly drawn into what would become one of the biggest and most  costly traps in modern battle.  He uses an immensely documented and  researched body of data to marshal a formidable argument that in choosing  to stay and fight at Stalingrad, Hitler made critical mistakes that would  directly lead to his defeat all along the Eastern front, and therefore  eventually lose the war.    <br />This is one of the best books on the war  along the Eastern fronts, and likely the single best book on Stalingrad yet  written. Beevor's style is compelling, entertaining, and quite literate,  and the reader will find himself transported effortlessly into the bloody,  cold and wintry montage the author conjures for him again and again. This,  then, is a wonderful, magisterial, and authoritative look at one of the  most momentous battles of modern warfare, told with presence, style, and  verve by an important modern historian.	2000-07-09
2380430:US	52447634	RPHYFPGI38BEV	0520216121	865947898	Denying History: Who Says the Holocaust Never Happened and Why Do They Say It?	Books	5	65	89	N	N	A Penetrating &amp; Frightening Look At Holocaust Deniers!	It is both puzzling and painful to recognize that there are still serious(?) people abroad in the world who loudly deny the veracity of the historical record concerning the Holocaust. As if to extend the  unconscionable cruelty of the world yet longer for the millions of victims  of this century's most heinous and tragic phenomenon, some actually  continue to claim that either the Holocaust never happened, or that its  dimensions and scope were much more limited and constrained that so-called  Jewish revisionist historians would like the public to believe.  This book  puts the lie to all this nonsense, giving those who would deny the truth  and accuracy of the history of the Holocaust an exceptionally thorough trip  to the intellectual back shed to give them the whipping of their cranial  careers.<br />With this volume, historians Michael Shermier and Alex Grobman  have presented a virtual tidal wave of substantiating evidence of the  nature of the complex social movement that the Holocaust deniers comprise.  The authors trudge through a depressing tour of every aspect of this social  movement, and go deeper into every aspect of the deniers and their social  network in an effort to both better understand what motivates them as well  as how to finally and authoritatively refute their claims.  In so doing,  they not only illustrate how shallow, self-serving, disingenuous, and  disreputable these claims and positions are, but also provide much more  substantial proof of the existence of the Holocaust.<br />In some ways this  tour into the deep underbelly of continuing hate, bigotry, and ignorance is  a descent into a Dante-like inferno, one the reader tends to recoil from  because of its `in-your-face' portrayal of such rampant and continuing  racial hate and conflict. In other ways it seems more like an impromptu  visit to the comical land of the Keystone cops, or the gang who couldn't  shoot straight. Anyone falling for this grab-bag crack-pot mixture of  conspiracy theories, racial suspicions, and social paranoia isn't likely to  be sitting next to anyone in a graduate course in history, anyway. Still,  one must remember that Hitler graduated from the ranks of the likes of  these cretins.<br />This is a profoundly disturbing but altogether necessary  book. To suggest that after fifty years serious people could still question  the historical record regarding the savage and murderous events  collectively referred to as the Holocaust is but one more painful indicator  of how far the world must go to reach any kind of intellectual maturity or  cosmopolitan compassion. One of the most interesting sidelights of the book  is the fact that the authors have devised an ingenious framework that both  contemporary and future historians and social scientists can employ to  verify and virtually any historical event. I highly recommend it for anyone  who has ever had someone say (as I have heard a number of times), \\"The  Holocaust never happened.\\"y theories, racial suspicions, and social paranoia isn't likely to  be sitting next to anyone in a graduate course in history, anyway. Still,  one must remember that Hitler graduated from the ranks of the likes of  these cretins. <br />This is a profoundly disturbing but altogether necessary  book. To suggest that after fifty years serious people could still question  the historical record regarding the savage and murderous events  collectively referred to as the Holocaust is but one more painful indicator  of how far the world must go to reach any kind of intellectual maturity or  cosmopolitan compassion. One of the most interesting sidelights of the book  is the fact that the authors have devised an ingenious framework that both  contemporary and future historians and social scientists can employ to  verify and virtually any historical event. I highly recommend it for anyone  who has ever had someone say (as I have heard a number of times), \\"The  Holocaust never happened.\\"	2000-07-09
2381443:US	52447634	RB694HH4UOI9A	0306803488	235848374	Japan's War	Books	4	22	23	N	Y	Interesting &amp; Comprehensive Overview Of War In The Pacific!	One interesting aspect to this book is the fact that it traces Japanese  military history back to the mid 19th century, which provides the reader  with a better historical perspective to understand the rampant militarism  and unbridled war fever characterizing that country at the outset of WWII.  Author Edwin Hoyt does an impressive job covering the details of the war,  and brings some provocative and fresh insights into several issues  concerning the war as to why Japan decided to initiate it, why we were so  unprepared to meet the challenge in 1941, and why they so fatefully  misunderstood American character and behavior so badly to not understand  that the US would enter the fray with a &quot;terrible vengeance and  resolve&quot;.<br />The author provides a lot of interesting data for the  reader's consideration along the way. For example, he introduces the  strategic notion held by the Japanese of the &quot;eight corners of the  world under one roof&quot;, or 'hakko ichiu'. This, according to the  author, is key in understanding their military preparations for the war,  and why their historical rivalry with the United States made them believe  war was quite likely, if not inevitable, between the two countries.  This  is something the Japanese seemed to understand much better than did most  Americans, who never saw the conflict as either likely or inevitable. Of  course, given American tendencies toward international isolation, it isn't  surprising we were caught so unaware.<br />The book is impeccably researched  and documented, and the writing style is literate yet not to scholarly to  be off-putting. While it certainly doesn't read like a novel, it is very  entertaining to read. The author gives credence to the notion that the war  in the Pacific was a quite complicated and intricately interwoven series of  events that takes some deliberate effort to understand in context. Thus,  his approach is painstakingly deliberate, detailed, and comprehensive. This  is an excellent one-volume study of WWII in the Pacific theater of  operations, and I recommend it to anyone seriously inclined to learn as  much as possible about the history of the Japanese so as to better  understand what happened that led to the decision to attack Pearl Harbor as  well as an excellent overview of the conduct of the war itself.an excellent one-volume study of WWII in the Pacific theater of  operations, and I recommend it to anyone seriously inclined to learn as  much as possible about the history of the Japanese so as to better  understand what happened that led to the decision to attack Pearl Harbor as  well as an excellent overview of the conduct of the war itself.	2000-07-09
2382475:US	52447634	R3OJIWVAFNZZEI	0930031636	370416040	Loving and Leaving the Good Life (Good Life Series)	Books	5	92	94	N	N	A Wonderful &amp; Memorable Recollection By Helen Nearing!	In today's youth-obsessed contemporary culture, it is a rare treat to be  able to find a book so full of loving wisdom written by someone so involved  socially, politically, and spiritually in the events of the 20th century.  Therefore, I was enthralled in reading Helen Nearing's moving, absorbing  and often quite disarming recollections and reflections on her life, both  as an individual and as the lifetime partner of one of the most celebrated  critics, iconoclasts and individualists of our time, economist, philosopher  and social critic Scott Nearing.<br />The two lived lives singularly devoid of  apologies, half-efforts, or excuses, living it largely on their own terms,  based on their own labors and ingenuity. Early in the 1930s they struck out  from New York City to escape the Depression and social convention by  starting a revolutionary experiment in rural Vermont. In many respects the  experiment succeeded, yet they were never able to transform it from a  personal adventure to one more largely social and community-based in the  Vermont setting. With the coming of ski resorts and encroaching exurbia in  the early 1950s, the Nearings moved once again to rural Penobscot Bay in  Maine to start again.<br />Of course, in due time they were suddenly  \\"discovered\\" by the baby boomers and the counterculture in the late 1960s,  and became the elder statesmen of the `back-to-the-land' movement of the  late sixties and early seventies.  In all this, Scott and Helen continued  in their commitment to a socially aware, civically responsible, and  environmentally sustainable way of living. By the time Scott died at age  100 in the early 1980s, thousands of curious counterculture hopefuls made  the pilgrimage to visit with the Nearings at their celebrated farm in rural  coastal Maine.<br />This is a lovely, thoughtful, and wise book, full of the  almost endless love and care and compassion Helen Nearing brought to all of  her endeavors for her many decades of purposeful and socially responsible  living.  This book is no small treasure; it looms large and lovely for  those who are aware of the incredible journey the Nearings made as fellow  citizens, and also of the loving and special relationship these two rugged  individualists shared.  I have read it several times, and love having it on  my bookshelf. I suspect you will too.d socially responsible  living.  This book is no small treasure; it looms large and lovely for  those who are aware of the incredible journey the Nearings made as fellow  citizens, and also of the loving and special relationship these two rugged  individualists shared.  I have read it several times, and love having it on  my bookshelf. I suspect you will too.	2000-07-08
2382612:US	52447634	R2G8LALKQC4EOB	0688151574	62608090	A Time for Trumpets: The Untold Story of the Battle of the Bulge	Books	5	43	47	N	N	A Superb Field-Level Description Of The Battle Of the Bulge!	One of the most impressive aspects of Charles B. MacDonald's terrific book on the Battle of the Bulge is the fact that it so vividly and accurately addresses each sector of the battle cohesively and coherently, without  confusing the reader with a jumble of confusing different events at a  particular time so that one is unable to thread together what was happening  along a timeline in a specific place without undue difficulty. This said,  it's also the only criticism I have of what's otherwise a wonderful,  well-written, exciting, and thoroughly researched work. Although this may  sound contradictory, it really is not.<br />Unlike \\"Battle\\" by John Toland or  \\"Citizen Soldiers\\" by Stephen Ambrose, one sometimes loses the overall  perspective these books provide in concentrating on a particular location  without understanding other concurrent events and activities. SO, while I  enjoyed the fact that his approach allows greater understanding of  particular events in their entirety, I was occasionally frustrated in  trying to figure out  (without flipping through other sections) what was  also going on at the time. I hasten to add that this is an unavoidable  situation; one can't have it both ways at once. So while it does detract  slightly from the book's overall account of the Battle of the Bulge in  total, I appreciate and love the final work the author has given us.<br />Therefore I want to emphasize what a unique book this is, and what an  outstanding job MacDonald has done in depicting the on-the scene  descriptions of various units in action. Of course, given the fact that he  was a field commander on the scene as the battle progressed, he indeed has  a unique contribution to offer in way of eye-witness testimony as well as  wonderful natural access to others who were there as well. He uses these  resources along with a gripping ability to tell the story in a well-written  and entertaining way that makes the book unforgettable.<br />Using \\"A Time For  Trumpets\\" along with Toland's \\"Battle\\", Ambrose's \\"Citizen Soldiers\\", and  John Eisenhower's \\"The Bitter Woods\\", the serious reader can much better  appreciate and understand, at almost every level, how the madness of that  several week period unfolded in mid-December 1944 during the worst winter  weather of some fifty years in Europe. Hitler's strike with 1400 tanks and  over a quarter million troops into the heart of the Ardennes at the Allies  single weakest point came with complete surprise, and stunned, re-awakened  and alarmed an overconfident, over-extended, and under-supported Allied  command structure who thought they already had practically whipped the  German Wehrmacht into submission. This is a terrific book and a wonderfully  written and documented work of modern war history, and I recommend it to  anyone who really wants to understand what unfolded in those fateful weeks  in France.s\\" along with Toland's \\"Battle\\", Ambrose's \\"Citizen Soldiers\\", and  John Eisenhower's \\"The Bitter Woods\\", the serious reader can much better  appreciate and understand, at almost every level, how the madness of that  several week period unfolded in mid-December 1944 during the worst winter  weather of some fifty years in Europe. Hitler's strike with 1400 tanks and  over a quarter million troops into the heart of the Ardennes at the Allies  single weakest point came with complete surprise, and stunned, re-awakened  and alarmed an overconfident, over-extended, and under-supported Allied  command structure who thought they already had practically whipped the  German Wehrmacht into submission. This is a terrific book and a wonderfully  written and documented work of modern war history, and I recommend it to  anyone who really wants to understand what unfolded in those fateful weeks  in France.	2000-07-08
2383419:US	52447634	RMKHCVZ3W2RKD	0393317552	733405472	Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies	Books	2	35	62	N	N	An Entertaining But Superficial &amp; MIsleading Work!	This book provides graphic illustration why academics write outside their field of expertise at their own peril. Of course, while one could argue persuasively that Jared Diamond has done so quite well, given the fact the  book has become an overwhelming best-seller, some of us old enough to  recognize that public success and popular recognition do not necessarily  equal objective merit could poke a large number of painful holes in such an  argument. There is precious little that is new, startling, or noteworthy  about Diamond's thesis; indeed much of it has been argued by a number of  historians for generations. The only real contribution I see in all this  long-winded narrative is that he has succeeded in catching the elusive  kernel of public imagination about the issues of history in general, and  that is truly an admirable and noteworthy achievement.<br />Other than  that, the book is actually quite pedestrian, predictable, and prosaic. Of  course geography is an essential factor in determining any society's  potential for survival and/or success in competition with other societies.  Having natural and easy access to the sea and all its products, for  example, can lessen the otherwise considerable load on the populace for  hunting, food gathering, and other requirements for the society's continued  subsistence. Likewise, more temperate climates (neither too hot nor too  frigid) give a substantial natural advantage to human societies intent on  expansion, trade, and war. Yet, while such geographic factors are salient  and helpful, they provide critical but insufficient means to explain human  history. This is as true of the other factors he argues on behalf.<br />To  argue on behalf of demographics as an essential ingredient in the unfolding  of human history is a commonplace. To do so is neither profound nor useful.  Instead, it is the mark of an idiographic academic so insulated from and  evidently ignorant of the established verities and scholarship of another  discipline that he is unable to recognize his own logical errors. Here too  it is highly reductionistic to suppose that demography plays a central role  in the unfolding of history any more than does geography. In anticipation  of the next idea, let me hastily add that the same is obviously true for  biology. To argue otherwise is make Herr Hitler's fascist argument on  behalf of racial eugenics and a super race. Gee, I thought all that  nonsense about racial purity and destiny ended in the smoke and ruins of  post-war Berlin.<br />In essence, the author's painfully stated \\"logical\\"  theories of `guns, germs and steel' are actually anything but logical, and  are more likely merely graphic instances of biological reductionism, which  attempt to oversimplify the actual verifiable recorded complexities of  history over with the faint pastels of more consistent, coherent, and  centrist notions of a theoretical academic. Were he better grounded in  world history and less anxious to take us on a quick and global tour, he  might find that beneath those clear deep waters he has sailed over so  quickly are the murky and muddy truths of actual history, which is nowhere  near as consistent or as singularly pointed in a particular progressive  direction as he would have us believe.  This book is entertaining, well  written, and easy to read. If you bother to read it, do it for those  reasons, and not for edification. In my opinion it falls far too short in  that dimension to be useful or believable.ther  discipline that he is unable to recognize his own logical errors. Here too  it is highly reductionistic to suppose that demography plays a central role  in the unfolding of history any more than does geography. In anticipation  of the next idea, let me hastily add that the same is obviously true for  biology. To argue otherwise is make Herr Hitler's fascist argument on  behalf of racial eugenics and a super race. Gee, I thought all that  nonsense about racial purity and destiny ended in the smoke and ruins of  post-war Berlin. <br />In essence, the author's painfully stated \\"logical\\"  theories of `guns, germs and steel' are actually anything but logical, and  are more likely merely graphic instances of biological reductionism, which  attempt to oversimplify the actual verifiable recorded complexities of  history over with the faint pastels of more consistent, coherent, and  centrist notions of a theoretical academic. Were he better grounded in  world history and less anxious to take us on a quick and global tour, he  might find that beneath those clear deep waters he has sailed over so  quickly are the murky and muddy truths of actual history, which is nowhere  near as consistent or as singularly pointed in a particular progressive  direction as he would have us believe.  This book is entertaining, well  written, and easy to read. If you bother to read it, do it for those  reasons, and not for edification. In my opinion it falls far too short in  that dimension to be useful or believable.	2000-07-07
2383490:US	52447634	R176WBD7YX2JSR	0848810562	949556910	Brave New World	Books	5	650	729	N	N	Chillingly Prescient Satire On What We Are Becoming!	As critic and best-selling author Neil Postman points out so well in the introduction to his book \\"Amusing Ourselves To Death\\", we have congratulated ourselves prematurely by figuring we made it past the  totalitarian nightmare state depicted in George Orwell's gripping  cautionary tale \\"1984\\". Perhaps, Postman suggests, we should  remember another visionary totalitarian nightmare scenario and use it to  critically examine the contemporary state of social and psychological  well-being. Of course he was referring to Aldous Huxley's \\"Brave New  World, written before Orwell's by 15 or so years, and even more frightening  in its own way in the world it describes. More and more, that frightening  vision looks like our contemporary world.<br /><br />Picture his ironic portrait of  a populace doped into Nirvana on \\"soma\\" (read Prozac and Zoloft),  isolated and diverted by petty preoccupations in mindless trivial pursuits  (read video games and internet surfing to all the porno sites), oblivious  to anything not directly pertaining to themselves and totally unaware of  the degree to which they are being socially, economically, and politically  co-opted. Beginning to sound more familiar? Remember, says Huxley, brute  force is not the only method an oligarchy can use to influence, manage, and  finally control our hard-won freedoms and liberties; it can be done with  over-indulgence and the deliberate fertilization and promulgation of apathy  through self-absorption, as well.<br /><br />Even Huxley says (circa 1960, almost  30 years after the original publication) in the preface of the revised  version of the book that he is alarmed as to how quickly the sort of events  he figured might take a hundred years such as the appearance of political  internationalism and transnational corporate entities are already arising  and beginning to control more and more of the substance of our social,  economic, and political lives. Just how much do we know other than what we  hear and see on television, for example? Yet the electronic media is owned  and managed by transnational corporations. Ever wonder why we never heard  much muckraking news coverage of the NAFTA or GATT deals even though many  recogized the two bills would radically change the nature of international  trade? Perhaps the transnationals didn't want too much hype or fuss.  Starting to feel uncomfortable yet? Still, people keep insisting this was  just a whimsical work of fiction, that it was a parable, that he really  wasn't serious.<br /><br />Want to find out more? Read this book, but do so slowly,  taking notes, recognizing how many contemporary  parallels there are to  each of the \\"whimsical details\\" he conjures up, and then figure  out in your own mind how very close he was to prognosticating just how far  we have come toward the \\"Brave New World\\" in which everyone's  soul and awareness is for sale. The kids are wowed by the recent movie The  Matrix\\", yet few appreciate just how much of a fabled existence we are  already living in.  No pain, no sorrow, no trouble of any kind. Instead, we  have our individual and collective consciousness \\"managed\\"  pharmaceutically; our psyches eased into blithering bliss with  \\"soma\\", our diminishing attention spans sidetracked and occupied  by petty diversions and endless entertainments. Pass me the corndogs,  honey!<br /><br />But, hey! Don't touch that dial; Regis is on! They may retry OJ!  What did Bill Clinton really do with that cigar? Have you seen the latest  news about the stock market? Did you get any of that new beer they're  advertising? it's supposed to make me a real ladies man....What's the  latest gadget? Can I buy one on-line? By the way, where are the kids? Hell,  never mind, just turn up the volume; I think I know the answer to that  question Regis just asked... Meanwhile, folks, our awareness of what is going  on around us, our rights and our liberties are being power-washed away,  obliterated, and we cannot even see it happening in front of us. We are  diverted, distracted, content in our own little worlds.  So welcome to our  nightmare. Better beware; it just looks like Nirvana. It's really another  \\"Brave New World\\".ning in front of us. We are  diverted, distracted, content in our own little worlds.  So welcome to our  nightmare. Better beware; it just looks like Nirvana. It's really another  \\"Brave New World\\".	2000-07-07
2383975:US	52447634	R2ZNEZIGZJE1G0	052177490X	131614405	Nazi Policy, Jewish Workers, German Killers	Books	5	41	43	N	N	Startling Look At The Men Who Accomplished The Holocaust!	In a six-essay series originally devised as lectures, the author takes the reader deep into the hearts and minds of the men who engineered the Holocaust. As in his earlier work, he argues persuasively and with an army  of facts and figures that the decision to eradicate all of Europe's Jews  from the face of the planet was an incrementally derived decision. This  argument is very much like that made by Gerhard Weinberg in his massively  documented history of WWII, \\"A World At Arms\\", although Browning's argument  is much more detailed and substantiated. Weinberg posited that it wasn't  until the Wehrmacht began to have horrendous logistics problems early in  the occupation of Poland, Latvia, and Estonia during Operation Barbarossa  that they began to think in terms of a systematic and deliberate program of  extermination of the Jews.<br />Until that point the Nazi command had been  more favorably disposed toward using indigenous populations as slave labor  and working and/or starving them to death, rather than killing them  outright. Here too Browning argues about three key issues surrounding the  decision to proceed with the Holocaust; first, that the Nazi hierarchy  itself was divided in terms of strategy and objectives about the resolution  of the \\"Jewish Question\\"; second, that it was seen as highly advantageous  to the national socialist cause to employ their skills and labor as long as  possible in support of the war effort, and finally, that the actual  implementation of the fragmented policy was further fragmented and  &quot;ad-libbed&quot; at the field level by local commanders or police  authorities.<br />Browning uses a virtual flood of documentation and data to  substantiate his various positions, and marshals a convincing argument on  behalf of the notion that indeed the resulting mass murders of the  Holocaust were more likely the production of a series of small but fateful  conclusions made incrementally to solve immediate and pressing logistical  and tactical situations the Nazi hierarchy faced at particular moments than  it was the result of some long-standing grand and evil scheme to  systematically annihilate the Jews. Of course, it is in one very real sense  an academic issue, since all of the indigenous Jews (as well as everyone  else in the areas of interest to the Nazis along the eastern front in  Poland and the Ukraine already pre-designated as new settlement areas for  Germans would die at the hands of the Nazi regime. The question at hand is  whether it would be through slave labor, starvation, and exposure to the  elements, or through more active and murderous intervention by way of the  death camps.<br />One must also remember that there were also large numbers  of German Jews being transported both within and without the country to  concentration camps. The same issues of intent apply to them, as well.  Certainly Browning's efforts here will not end the long-standing debate. It  is, however, a critical contribution to informing the direction and future  tenor of that argument. This is an important, provocative, and worthwhile  book, and one anyone interested in understanding the details of the  \\"natural history' of how the Holocaust actually came to transpire must read  to understand the complexities, contradictions, and confusions abounding in  both the record and in individual recollections about the time. I recommend  this book, and hope it is much more widely read and appreciated.nd tactical situations the Nazi hierarchy faced at particular moments than  it was the result of some long-standing grand and evil scheme to  systematically annihilate the Jews. Of course, it is in one very real sense  an academic issue, since all of the indigenous Jews (as well as everyone  else in the areas of interest to the Nazis along the eastern front in  Poland and the Ukraine already pre-designated as new settlement areas for  Germans would die at the hands of the Nazi regime. The question at hand is  whether it would be through slave labor, starvation, and exposure to the  elements, or through more active and murderous intervention by way of the  death camps. <br />One must also remember that there were also large numbers  of German Jews being transported both within and without the country to  concentration camps. The same issues of intent apply to them, as well.  Certainly Browning's efforts here will not end the long-standing debate. It  is, however, a critical contribution to informing the direction and future  tenor of that argument. This is an important, provocative, and worthwhile  book, and one anyone interested in understanding the details of the  \\"natural history' of how the Holocaust actually came to transpire must read  to understand the complexities, contradictions, and confusions abounding in  both the record and in individual recollections about the time. I recommend  this book, and hope it is much more widely read and appreciated.	2000-07-07
2384229:US	52447634	R26N1DSYCICUU	0300053878	137033657	Hitler's Professors: The Part of Scholarship in Germany's Crimes Against the Jewish People	Books	4	59	63	N	N	An Absorbing and Intriguing Indictment of German Academics!	Interestingly enough, I came across this book just after finishing Victor Klemperer's wonderful two-volume work on life in Nazi Germany as a forcibly retired German Jewish professor. All I read here made more convinced of the  wisdom in Klemperer's lasting bitterness over the co-option and  collaboration by many non-Jewish academics by the national Socialists. In  fact, he says at one point that he can forgive almost everyone but the  academic fellow-travelers of the Third Reich, who in Klemperer's mind had  succumbed too easily to their cowardice, their fears, and their ambitions  rather than listen to their hearts, their morals, and their intellects, for  they knew better and should have acted better.<br />This is an interesting  if somewhat limited book, one that gives example after example of  individuals so frightened by the &quot;thumbscrews in the basement&quot; of  the Nazi headquarters that they jumped voluntarily into compliance with a  whole range of horrific and hideous affronts on knowledge, truth, and  acceptable behavior to either save their own skin, or even worst, to  advance in the coming Nazi thousand-year Reich. Yet, as despicable as such  instances are (and there were a lot of them), one must also remind oneself  of the terrible existential crisis such circumstances force on frail,  limited, and ordinary human beings, many of whom had the same kinds of  vulnerabilities and human weaknesses as the rest of us. It is easy to  condemn them, but much harder to look away.<br />However, none of this is  meant to suggest that any of these cretins should be forgiven or that  anything they did was less than immoral and inhumane; instead it is to  suggest that the real crime lay in allowing these horrific circumstances to  arise in the first place. When citizens let apathy and inconvenience get in  the way of taking the trouble of safeguarding their society's rules of law,  liberties, and acceptable ways of behaving, this is what inevitably occurs,  whether in Nazi Germany, Bosnia, or Kosovo. This book's true message is a  timeless one; each of us must act as responsible citizens to safeguard the  rights, freedoms and privileges of all. For whenever anyone, even the least  of us, is allowed to suffer outside the law, we all, regardless of our  position, our influence, or our wealth, are in danger.her in Nazi Germany, Bosnia, or Kosovo. This book's true message is a  timeless one; each of us must act as responsible citizens to safeguard the  rights, freedoms and privileges of all. For whenever anyone, even the least  of us, is allowed to suffer outside the law, we all, regardless of our  position, our influence, or our wealth, are in danger.	2000-07-07
2384986:US	52447634	RGN4BEDYB7I0A	034540047X	388275186	The Hotel New Hampshire	Books	4	117	126	N	N	Welcome To John Irving's Hospitality Suite!	I have really puzzled over some of the comments other reviewers have made about this book, and wonder if they read the same one I have read (and reread several times). First of all, Irving is known for his strange,  evocative and surreal sensibilities; witness the bee sting killing in  \\"Setting Free the Bears\\" or the ritual tongue-surgeries in  \\"The World According to Garp\\". Criticizing him on that level  means the reviewer is really not too familiar with the corpus of Irving's  work, so probably doesn't \\"get\\" what it is Irving is saying. Also, it is in  the face of such absurdities that all of us must, at least according to  Irving, try to find the meaning and purpose of our own lives, like Garp or  any of the other figures on the proverbial journeys he sets them on.  Finally, Irving's duty isn't to just entertain the reader in a predictable  way, but rather to play artfully with the notion that he can create a  surreal world that in its own fashion represents a truer & more  understandable world than the one we so drunkenly and absent-mindedly  habituate every day. That's what some folks call art.<br /><br />Given all that,  perhaps it is more useful to try to discern what it is Irving is trying to  say so artfully and colorfully in each of his novels, rather than compare  one to another or make comparisons among them. I remember reading once that  great novels were like fantastic gems, many of them flawed, but all of them  brilliant, colorful, and beautiful to the well-trained eye. So viewed, so  is this book brilliant, colorful, and beautiful. This is the tragicomic  story of a family trying again and again, regardless of the personal  consequences or absurdities of fate, to get it right, attempting to live  one after another of their father's fatally flawed dreams, and finally  coming to terms with what it most important, most lasting, and singularly  true for them as people and as a family.<br /><br />In my humble opinion, the last  few pages of this novel read as poignantly, as meaningfully, and as  beautifully as anything anyone has been writing for the last half century  in so-called contemporary fiction. Who but John Irving could essay with  such whimsy and wile to invoke the strange totem powers of his ever-present  bears to conjure up whatever magic it takes for each of us to be kind and  strong and present for each other in our mutual times of need, to ask each  of us to care? What he has to say about the contemporary state of  relationships in our times, and about the obligations, joys and pains of  living purposefully, meaningfully, and for the long haul as a loving and  understanding family is as dead-on inspiring as I have ever read. How do  you live meaningfully in a world full of horror, unexpected tragedy, and  overwhelming purposelessness? Perhaps in the world according to John  Irving, as a loving family. Enjoy.as meaningfully, and as  beautifully as anything anyone has been writing for the last half century  in so-called contemporary fiction. Who but John Irving could essay with  such whimsy and wile to invoke the strange totem powers of his ever-present  bears to conjure up whatever magic it takes for each of us to be kind and  strong and present for each other in our mutual times of need, to ask each  of us to care? What he has to say about the contemporary state of  relationships in our times, and about the obligations, joys and pains of  living purposefully, meaningfully, and for the long haul as a loving and  understanding family is as dead-on inspiring as I have ever read. How do  you live meaningfully in a world full of horror, unexpected tragedy, and  overwhelming purposelessness? Perhaps in the world according to John  Irving, as a loving family. Enjoy.	2000-07-07
2386842:US	52447634	RQPTIFPQUPH2Y	0803294379	281428091	Battle: The Story of the Bulge	Books	5	125	136	N	Y	The SIngle Best Book About The Battle Of the Bulge!	John Toland's work on this absolutely fantastic book is simply superlative. Critical acclaim is nearly universal for this gripping, accurate, and well-told story of the greatest American victory over the  Germans during WWII and the only large-scale offensive battle ever fought  during the winter, the worst in Europe is some fifty years. Toland veers  from the usual historian's path by telling the story in terms of the foot  soldier both on the ground and on the defensive against the final  counterattack of the Wehrmacht with over a thousand tanks (including many  of the new tougher Tiger and Panther models) and more than 250,000  battle-hardened soldiers.<br />Against them were just three full strength  (and very green and inexperienced) American divisions with some reserves  regiments composed of more experienced soldiers in the heavily wooded and  almost impassable woods of the Ardennes forest area. Eisenhower's logistics  support was strung out and unable to adequately supply the broad-based  front that had evolved after the initial breakout from D-Day. Consequently,  it was difficult to arm and support all the troops, and amazingly, Hitler's  masterful attack struck exactly at the single weakest point along the line.  The result was a complete but temporary disaster, but one that pitted  poorly equipped, armed, and clothed U.S. Army troops against a much larger,  better armed, clothed and equipped enemy who was striking with blitzkrieg  speed and effectiveness.<br />What happened in those woods is the stuff of  history, and is commonly referred to as the Battle of the Bulge.  The  simple truth of the matter is that American troops simply outfought,  outlasted, and outsmarted their German opponents in a deadly game of  attrition and standoffs in the worst possible weather and cold conditions.  Those who like to say the Americans (along with the Allies) won the war  largely because we simply out manned and out supplied tour opponents had  better take a good look at how well we also outfought them in the Ardennes  generally and at Bastogen in particular when we had none of those  advantages. Outgunned, out manned, and outflanked, the Americans simply  fought back with murderous ferocity and beat the Germans to a bloody pulp.<br />This is truly a great book; it is easily the best single volume yet  published covering the Battle of the Bulge in detail. I must admit that I  do also like John Eisenhower's &quot;The Bitter Woods&quot; and Stephen  Ambrose's &quot;Citizen Soldiers&quot; as well. Both of these are excellent  books, built neither measures up to the sheer brilliance of \\"Battle\\". So,  amigo, for the one most exciting, best reading, and painfully accurate and  detailed account of the single greatest successful encounter of the U.S.  Army against the might of the Wehrmacht during World War Two, I recommend  this book. In my humble opinion no one really has a complete WWII library  without it.k at how well we also outfought them in the Ardennes  generally and at Bastogen in particular when we had none of those  advantages. Outgunned, out manned, and outflanked, the Americans simply  fought back with murderous ferocity and beat the Germans to a bloody pulp.  <br />This is truly a great book; it is easily the best single volume yet  published covering the Battle of the Bulge in detail. I must admit that I  do also like John Eisenhower's &quot;The Bitter Woods&quot; and Stephen  Ambrose's &quot;Citizen Soldiers&quot; as well. Both of these are excellent  books, built neither measures up to the sheer brilliance of \\"Battle\\". So,  amigo, for the one most exciting, best reading, and painfully accurate and  detailed account of the single greatest successful encounter of the U.S.  Army against the might of the Wehrmacht during World War Two, I recommend  this book. In my humble opinion no one really has a complete WWII library  without it.	2000-07-06
2387374:US	52447634	R1WG7IZZX9R42P	0312265115	339865797	The Coldest War: A Memoir of Korea	Books	4	40	41	N	N	A Seductive &amp; Absorbing Description Of Life On The Ground!	For anyone interested in learning more about the human experience of war, this is an unforgettable book. Expecting to avoid the futility of the draft by joining the Marine Corps right out of college, the author finds himself  a young officer in Korea as a field officer commanding a rifle platoon.  This memoir details what it is like to be a young, inexperienced, and  frightened soldier on the ground when all Hell breaks loose. Like many of  his generation, Brady discovers that time spent in trenches between  episodes in combat are quite as burdensome as the firefights themselves,  with too much time, too little comfort, and endless seas of ceaseless rain,  snow, mud, and exposure to the elements for the uninitiated to wallow  in.<br />Brady's account of the rapid education a nave and untried young  officer has to learn and  accomplish to stay alive and in command as the  fight erupts, evolves, and subsides. His description of the day-to-day  experience of war in Korea is quite evocative, and he succeeds in spinning  a very readable and entertaining introduction to the realities of life as a  foot soldier. Defense of fixed-line trenches in a deadly barrage of enemy  artillery is absolutely terrifying to the young marines, as are the long  still nights, filled with a deceptive calm. The quick-changing extremes in  Korean weather often provided additional challenges to the young marines,  and he explains how the combination of sustained periods of cold with an  eerie pregnant silence sometimes lulled the troopers into sometimes-deadly  states of inattention. If war can be described as long periods of boredom  punctuated by sudden explosions of murder and mayhem, then this book is a  deadly accurate portrayal of the experience of war.<br />Too many of our  contemporary citizens lack an understanding of the extreme nature of the  experience of combat, and that periods of actual combat are usually short  and staccato experiences that come with absolute surprise and subside just  as suddenly. As important in understanding the enormity of the experience  of war are the other elements; loneliness, boredom, and exposure to the  elements. Under the most difficult of circumstances, ordinary human beings  are called upon to make the most solemn and extreme sacrifices, and this  book details the terrifying context in which all this unfolded in Korea  better than anything else I have read on the subject. I heartily recommend  this book, and  hope it will be widely read.ide just  as suddenly. As important in understanding the enormity of the experience  of war are the other elements; loneliness, boredom, and exposure to the  elements. Under the most difficult of circumstances, ordinary human beings  are called upon to make the most solemn and extreme sacrifices, and this  book details the terrifying context in which all this unfolded in Korea  better than anything else I have read on the subject. I heartily recommend  this book, and  hope it will be widely read.	2000-07-05
2388550:US	52447634	R26NC67TU8KWW3	0684832836	22408140	Bowling Alone: The Collapse and Revival of American Community	Books	4	56	63	N	Y	All In All, Another Brick In The Wall!	Wow! Once again an academic with an important piece of the truth about the nature of contemporary social reality has become embroiled in an avalanche of escalating public expectations and hyperbole until suddenly he is  expected to be some kind of social prophet who's singularly able to  explain, detail and unravel the heretofore-mysterious elements of our  dilemma. Such is the case here with Professor Putnam's provocative findings  regarding social disintegration in the America of the `90s.<br />This is an  absorbing book, the result of Putnam's efforts to expand a short article  Putnam had written regarding the observable facts of increasing social  isolation and personal disconnection within our culture. Here he employs  new data substantiating and extending the details of his original thesis,  indicating that on almost every measure investigated, individual Americans  are less likely to regularly socialize with their peers, becoming more  isolated, more fractious, and less friendly to others than they have been  in the recent past. The book is written in an engaging way, and entertains  and seduces the reader with amusing (as well as frightening) facts and  figures regarding the degree of animosity and alienation individual  citizens feel. <br />Of course, it is easy to become so enthralled with  reading through the entertaining list of particulars he enumerates than to  pay heed to the burgeoning shapes and images lurking beneath the data;  i.e., concerned readers should engage themselves in locating all this  information usefully within a meaningful social context. Increasing social  isolation and the progressive breakdown in what sociologists call social  cohesion are not new phenomena, but have been steadily eroding the social  fabric and our feelings of connectedness to one another for over a century.  In fact, at the turn of the 20th century both Emile Durkheim and Max Weber  were warning of the social dangers associated with the rise of a rational,  secular and materialistic social milieu. Reading other recent books such as  Sales Kirkpatrick's \\"Rebels Against The Future\\" or Philip Slater's classic  1970 book \\"Pursuit of Loneliness\\" give one a much better grounding in how  the degree of social isolation and civil alienation are related to what is  happening in the larger social surround individuals find themselves in.  <br />In essence, the kinds of isolation detailed so well in this tome are the  result of the long-term corrosive effects of materialism, with  concentration on capital acquisition and gaining more wealth and more  affluent lifestyles. Indeed, if one reads the recent book \\"The Overworked  American\\" by Juliet Schor, one gets the distinct impression that many  Americans are so focused on \\"getting ahead' that anything interfering with  this obsessive reach for greater material security gets short shrift in  contemporary society. There should be no confusion about the nature of the  problem that confronts us; we have no community because we have no culture  left. The revolution of scientific change and technical innovation has  systematically swept away the web of meanings we once had to integrate and  make sense of all this. All we really have today is a mutual acquisition  society, based primarily on our mutual lust for material goods and  minimally constrained by the skeletal rules and regulations civil society  sets for the nature of the material quest. This is a terrific book. Read  it.	2000-07-05
2389769:US	52447634	R1TI8PX9CL1P64	1891620096	605752005	Fortress America: The American Military And The Consequences Of Peace	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Surprisingly lnsightful Expose of Our Military Conundrum!	As a recent refugee from a career spent as a civilian `foot soldier' in the midst of the military's war against itself that Greider describes in this book, it is interesting and surprising that someone so singularly  uninvolved with this country's long-term weapon acquisition system can  catch so precisely the malady that confronts us. Greider's analysis  captures the horns on which the dilemma is caught quite well, although I  must admit to being disappointed to notice he downplays the way in which  rampant military careerism plays into this disastrous recent history of  misappropriation and wasting of billions of dollars in military funding.   <br />Officers are so intent on practicing self-advancement that they confuse  personal success with accomplishing the mission. Thus, when forced to  decide between making difficult decisions regarding allowing troubled  acquisition programs to proceed, they invariably choose to paper over the  problems so as to substantially enhance their own chances of getting  promoted and moved to their next assignment before the deck of cards fall  for their successor. The sucessor must then ask the contractor to help him  rebuild the deck of cards, which means the military inevitably become  ethically and legally compromised fellow-travelers in the nonperformance  and endless technical shortcomings the contractor incurs. In short, they  lose thier effective management by unwitting or unethical collusion with  contractors who deliberately underbid for contracts knowing they will never  have to produce a contract meeting the stated competitive requirements  because of the insidious and self-defeating corruption within the  professional military acquisition corps. <br />Also, Greider's take on the way  in which short-term tactical thinking is endangering the long-term force  readiness is illuminating. The truth of the matter is that one does much  better assuming the reasons we buy certain weapon systems in various  numbers has more to dowith Congressional prerogatives and rampant  corruption than it does with any sort of objective force structure  analysis. Contractors bypass the military by influencing Congressional  representatives and their staffers. Thus, even if a military program  manager does attempt to steer the straight and narrow course by trying to  force the contractor to conform to contract requirements, he often finds  himself outgunned and outmaneuvered by Contractors influencing his  superiors and other federal officials. <br />Another way in which the current  crisis manifests itself is through the militarization of civil service  responsibilities, under which hundreds of thousands of Department of  Defense civilians (most citizens do not realize that over ninety percent of  all federal downsizing since 1990 has been accomplished within the several  services comprising the DOD) have been laid off or forced out in favor of  contracting the work out to contractors (read retiring military officers  here) who will conform to do the bidding of their military employers  without ever raising the kinds of knowing and informed ethical and legal  objections a professionally-trained civilian acquisition corps does.  <br />Since it is certainly a commonplace observation that military  preparedness and internal corruption are historically found to be an  endemic problem for peacetime professional military forces in all  industrial deomocracies,  there may in fect be no useful way to constrain  the negative influence careerism has on our country's force readiness. But  there is much we can do to limit the negative influence the military has on  weapon system acquisition and wiser use of federal tax dollars in support  of national defense policy. We must remove the exclusive program management  prerogative we have given them in favor of enpowering a resurgent  professional civilian acquisition corps. Yet  Greider's analysis is a start  in the right direction in terms of initiating a more vigorous national  debate regarding how that money is allocated and subsequently obligated and  spent by the several branches of the military. I recommend this book to  anyone interested in how those several trillion dollars are spent over the  next ten years.	2000-07-04
2390221:US	52447634	R4TCQWKXCUOK	1891620096	605752005	Fortress America: The American Military And The Consequences Of Peace	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Surprisingly lnsightful Expose of Our Military Conundrum!	As a recent refugee from a career spent as a civilian `foot soldier' in the midst of the military's war against itself that Greider describes in this book, it is interesting and surprising that someone so singularly  uninvolved with this country's long-term weapon acquisition system can  catch so precisely the malady that confronts us. Greider's analysis  captures the horns on which the dilemma is caught quite well, although I  must admit to being disappointed to notice he downplays the way in which  rampant military careerism plays into this disastrous recent history of  misappropriation and wasting of billions of dollars in military funding.<br />Officers are so intent on practicing self-advancement that they confuse  personal success with accomplishing the mission. Thus, when forced to  decide between making difficult decisions regarding allowing troubled  acquisition programs to proceed, they invariably choose to paper over the  problems so as to substantially enhance their own chances of getting  promoted and moved to their next assignment before the deck of cards fall  for their successor. The successor must then ask the contractor to help him  rebuild the deck of cards, which means the military inevitably become  ethically and legally compromised fellow-travelers in the nonperformance  and endless technical shortcomings the contractor incurs. In short, they  lose their effective management by unwitting or unethical collusion with  contractors who deliberately underbid for contracts knowing they will never  have to produce a contract meeting the stated competitive requirements  because of the insidious and self-defeating corruption within the  professional military acquisition corps.<br />Also, Greider's take on the way  in which short-term tactical thinking is endangering the long-term force  readiness is illuminating. The truth of the matter is that one does much  better assuming the reasons we buy certain weapon systems in various  numbers has more to do with Congressional prerogatives and rampant  corruption than it does with any sort of objective force structure  analysis. Contractors bypass the military by influencing Congressional  representatives and their staffers. Thus, even if a military program  manager does attempt to steer the straight and narrow course by trying to  force the contractor to conform to contract requirements, he often finds  himself outgunned and outmaneuvered by Contractors influencing his  superiors and other federal officials.<br />Another way in which the current  crisis manifests itself is through the militarization of civil service  responsibilities, under which hundreds of thousands of Department of  Defense civilians (most citizens do not realize that over ninety percent of  all federal downsizing since 1990 has been accomplished within the several  services comprising the DOD) have been laid off or forced out in favor of  contracting the work out to contractors (read retiring military officers  here) who will conform to do the bidding of their military employers  without ever raising the kinds of knowing and informed ethical and legal  objections a professionally-trained civilian acquisition corps does.<br />Since it is certainly a commonplace observation that military  preparedness and internal corruption are historically found to be an  endemic problem for peacetime professional military forces in all  industrial democracies,  there may in fact be no useful way to constrain  the negative influence careerism has on our country's force readiness. But  there is much we can do to limit the negative influence the military has on  weapon system acquisition and wiser use of federal tax dollars in support  of national defense policy. We must remove the exclusive program management  prerogative we have given them in favor of empowering a resurgent  professional civilian acquisition corps. Yet  Greider's analysis is a start  in the right direction in terms of initiating a more vigorous national  debate regarding how that money is allocated and subsequently obligated and  spent by the several branches of the military. I recommend this book to  anyone interested in how those several trillion dollars are spent over the  next ten years.s national  debate regarding how that money is allocated and subsequently obligated and  spent by the several branches of the military. I recommend this book to  anyone interested in how those several trillion dollars are spent over the  next ten years.	2000-07-04
2390753:US	52447634	R3GRXTJXXTY7SD	1890132217	411374040	Scott Nearing: The Making of a Homesteader (Good Life Series)	Books	5	41	42	N	N	A Wonderful Inroduction To An Unknown Giant of A Man!	What does one say about a book that details the life and thoughts of a man who was one of the last of a breed of lions? That this is a wonderful biography, full of fresh impressions of a man who typified what the word  &quot;character&quot; means. These days we have plenty of celebrities who  are characters, but Scott Nearing had character. Scott Nearing was that  rare and precious kind of man who actually stood by what he believed in,  making his actions consistent with his beliefs, and doing so paid a  terrible price for shouting against the insanity of the 20th century. Were  we ever to look for good models to socialize our young with, Scott Nearing  would be at the head of the line, standing shoulder to shoulder with other  better known men like Gandhi, as wonderful models of what meaningful  adulthood can look like.<br />I first learned about Scott and Helen Nearing  in the late 1960s from a friend who was interested in learning more about  the back-to-the-land movement of subsistence farming. Like many of the  other baby boomers infatuated with anything different and unusual, I  quickly steeped myself in the lore of the Nearings. What I found has long  since fascinated and amazed me. Scott Nearing was an idealistic and  outspoken reformer teaching at the University of Pennsylvania before the  First World War who was suddenly removed from his position because of his  strong and public opposition to the shames of child labor. His long and  tortured personal odyssey from the moment of that removal seemed destined  to cast him further and further from the center of the political firestorm  raging in this country and closer and closer to nature and an alternative  lifestyle. Finally by the early 1930s, in the midst of the Depression, he  and his young wife Helen arrived in rural Vermont to buy a ramshackle old  farm and attempt to live a more deliberative, purposeful, and balanced  lifestyle that was consistent with their philosophy and social politics.<br />This is a well-written, accessible and eminently readable book by an  academic who has done all of his homework. From interviews not only with  Nearing late in his life, but also with many other contacts with everyone  from his wife Helen to his sons from his first marriage to a staggering  list of luminaries who knew Nearing and his work, Mr. Saltmarsh weaves a  substantial and comforting country quilt of a portrait of a man who lived a  life of principle with integrity, good humor, and compassion. Scott Nearing  stands as a modern American icon from whom we can all learn a better and  more satisfying way to approach our own lives and our won personal  responsibilities to the wider community surrounding us. This is an  absorbing and worthwhile boo, and one many of your friends would come to  treasure after being introduced to this Spencer Tracy look-alike who so  influenced a whole generation of younger Americans now living the 'good  life'. Enjoy.s is a well-written, accessible and eminently readable book by an  academic who has done all of his homework. From interviews not only with  Nearing late in his life, but also with many other contacts with everyone  from his wife Helen to his sons from his first marriage to a staggering  list of luminaries who knew Nearing and his work, Mr. Saltmarsh weaves a  substantial and comforting country quilt of a portrait of a man who lived a  life of principle with integrity, good humor, and compassion. Scott Nearing  stands as a modern American icon from whom we can all learn a better and  more satisfying way to approach our own lives and our won personal  responsibilities to the wider community surrounding us. This is an  absorbing and worthwhile boo, and one many of your friends would come to  treasure after being introduced to this Spencer Tracy look-alike who so  influenced a whole generation of younger Americans now living the 'good  life'. Enjoy.	2000-07-03
2391612:US	52447634	R3NN1K5FZD4ZSE	0060928786	824344751	Nazi Germany and the Jews: Volume 1: The Years of Persecution 1933-1939	Books	5	84	85	N	Y	Intriguing Study Of Nazi Persecution of Jews 1933-1939	This first in a two volume work by acclaimed historian is a remarkably objective, comprehensive and scrupulously scholarly work and represents a very critical contribution to historians' efforts to comprehend just how  and why one of the most civilized and sophisticated countries in Europe  descended into the systematic attempt to exterminate the Jews. The book  proceeds along a chronological axis in recounting the slow but inexorably  tightening of restrictions on the Jewish population within Germany during  the years of the mid to late 1930s.<br /><br />While centering his account of what  went wrong in Nazi Germany during the pre-war years, he also humanizes his  narrative considerably by interspersing individual accounts of people  caught confused and unaware of what was really occurring in the crucible of  cultural change. As substantiated in other recent accounts such as Victor  Klemperer's \\"I Shall Bear Witness\\", Jews were very slow to recognize just  how malevolent and serious the national Socialists were about ridding  Germany of its Jewish population and also nationalizing and \\"Aryanizing\\"  their resources and assets.<br /><br />It is important to note that the author  does not overlay any overall interpretive spin of his  own, intent more on  presenting the best evidence of what was going on than in coming to any  premature general interpretation of what the mass of evidence in total  might mean. This is not to suggest he offers no interpretation; on the  contrary, he offers a series of brilliant insights in various aspects of  the evidence. But unlike other recent authors like Goldhagen, he makes no  sweeping interpretative conclusions based on all of the evidence he  presents. Also, one must remember that this is the first of two volumes,  and one would expect that he intends to fully conclude his systematic and  chronological presentation of all of the available evidence before engaging  in that sort of interpretative analysis.<br /><br />In sum, I find this work to be  an excellent book that is engaging, well-written and argued, and a joy to  read despite its tragic and dispiriting subject matter, and a book that  offers an amazing look at a wide variety of different perspectives and  social situations within the Third Reich as it descended into the abyss.  After finishing this volume I immediately ordered the second volume, which  is slated for formal publication release later this year. This is a work  that belongs on the bookshelf of any serious student of the Holocaust.d this work to be  an excellent book that is engaging, well-written and argued, and a joy to  read despite its tragic and dispiriting subject matter, and a book that  offers an amazing look at a wide variety of different perspectives and  social situations within the Third Reich as it descended into the abyss.  After finishing this volume I immediately ordered the second volume, which  is slated for formal publication release later this year. This is a work  that belongs on the bookshelf of any serious student of the Holocaust.	2000-07-03
2391990:US	52447634	R3SEMS1N6772CZ	014011341X	243604121	The Second World War	Books	5	97	108	N	Y	A Terrific Thematic Approach to Understanding WWII!	While I do not agree that this is the single best one-volume treatment of World War Two available, I do agree it is a wonderful, eminently readable, and fascinating thematic approach that helps the reader look at the basic  overarching themes to found in WWII. The introduction explaining how and  why world wars became possible and attractive is worth the price of the  book alone. Only Keegan could bring so much style, verve, and new  perspective to such a widely covered subject as the Second World War.  Therefore, understanding that the book is not an exhaustive and  comprehensive history of the war on a battle by battle, theater by theater  approach as one can find in other excellent one volume books such as  Gerhard Weinberg's \\"A World At Arm\\" or Williamson Murray and Allan R.  Millett's \\"A War To Be Won\\", it is still a singular tome with a unique and  valuable perspective on the war that any self-respecting student of the war  will not want to miss.<br />Also, given Mr. Keegan's mastery of the written  word and his way with a phrase, this is a book one lets drag on as you read  it slowly, stopping to think about what he has just written in a particular  paragraph and what it means. This is indeed great stuff! The book is  organized chronologically but devotes specific chapters in the general  narrative to particular important factors influencing the progress and  direction of the war effort, such as the nazi bombing campaigns, the Allied  war air over Germany, war production, organized resistance in occupied  countries, and the various types and relative successes associated with  espionage.<br />Keegan's ability to marshal a stirring and articulate  argument is unparalleled, and he relates the opposing forces' war  strategies with an authority no one else can match. He also appreciates the  many different levels of  contribution to the overall war efforts ranging  from unique leadership characteristics of specific individuals such as  Montgomery, Patton, Eisenhower, and Marshall, but also pays attention to  the massive contributions of ordinary soldiers, sailors, and war production  civilians who made important efforts aiding ultimate victory. This is a  very well-written and meticulously researched and documented book, and one  I am glad to have on my World War Two bookshelf!hower, and Marshall, but also pays attention to  the massive contributions of ordinary soldiers, sailors, and war production  civilians who made important efforts aiding ultimate victory. This is a  very well-written and meticulously researched and documented book, and one  I am glad to have on my World War Two bookshelf!	2000-07-02
2392144:US	52447634	R3FH9C5HSWU6S0	0684859068	302392775	How To Read and Why	Books	4	204	220	N	N	A Thoughtful Critique Of Contemporary America!	Simply said, this is a wonderful and important book. I am not generally a fan of Bloom or his curmudgeonly notions, but in this case I heartily agree with both his diagnosis of our current intellectual dilemma and his  proposed course of palliative intervention; introduce the younger  generation to the depth, breadth and scope of an introspective world open  only to those who love to read. That run-on sentence out of the way, I  musty add that his approach to enticing the reader into initiating the  habit of regular meaningful reading is a joy to behold.<br />Anyone honest  enough to admit our puzzling and debilitating national obsession with the  superficial and intellectually vapid electronic media should also  appreciate what Bloom has to say about the qualities of mind at risk in a  culture so singularly devoted to the superficial, flashy and insubstantial  products emanating from every social orifice; television, movies, radio,  video games. He argues quite persuasively that such devotion to the  superficial products of a shallow and diversion-oriented public is  precisely what is dumbing-down our society.<br />The obvious cure, for Bloom,  is to institute a cultural program of reading, which he feels leads to a  great deal more introspection and independent thought. Of course, those of  us who are peripatetic readers understand how profoundly the qualities of  one's individual consciousness are affected by the kinds of quiet and  personal attention one pays to what is going on in the printed pages we are  so drawn to. Yet we also understand how difficult it is to explain to  non-readers just how much exposure to the panorama of intellectual,  literary, and cultural ideas and conventions affects the way a reader  perceives, interprets, and interacts with the world outside his or her  doors.<br />For Bloom, reading represents the single best hope we have to  wrest the culture away from the intellectually deadening world of  ignorance, blind conformity and indifferent willingness to accept facile  and anti-democratic ideas that equate citizenship with nominal  participation through voting, or success with material acquisition, or  social &amp; cultural contribution with personal career progress. This is a  thoughtful, sometimes wry, &amp; consistently surprising book, one that  each of us can benefit from reading. I recommend it to anyone as concerned  as I am with the all too apparent \\"dumbing-down\\" of America.ifferent willingness to accept facile  and anti-democratic ideas that equate citizenship with nominal  participation through voting, or success with material acquisition, or  social &amp; cultural contribution with personal career progress. This is a  thoughtful, sometimes wry, &amp; consistently surprising book, one that  each of us can benefit from reading. I recommend it to anyone as concerned  as I am with the all too apparent \\"dumbing-down\\" of America.	2000-07-02
2393590:US	52447634	R1KEG2GBM8DIRV	0813333636	335520304	The Buchenwald Report	Books	4	18	19	N	N	A Fascinating Official Documented History of A Death Camp!	With the publication of this official report after some fifty years, the Allied attempt to comprehensively document the damning specifics of life in a German concentration camp has finally reached the public as was  originally intended. Buchenwald was among the first of the camps to be  liberated by the Allies in the final days of the war in Europe, and the  authorities wanted to have firm and indisputable proof of the atrocities  and barbarism perpetrated on the defenseless and noncombatant prisoners of  the camp by the Nazi regime. Thus, an amazing and almost protean attempt  was made by the Allies to capture, for the record, every conceivable aspect  of life within the concentration camp before the prisoners, guards and  other witnesses to the horrors vanished into the mists and confusion of  post-war Germany.<br />This is truly a startling document to read.  There is  frank and open discussion about mind-boggling horrors, from the  crematoriums and execution rooms to gruesome  and bizarre medial  experiments carried out at the medical facility within the confines of the  camp. Treatment of the prisoners by guards, capos and other officials is  described in detail. Little is left to the imagination, for the ultimate  purpose of the documentation was to use as evidence against the Nazis in  the planned war crime trials at Nuremberg. The report is in two principal  parts; Part One presents the findings of the Allied investigation team and  consists of a complete history and description of the camp and its  nefarious activities. Part Two consists of the eye-witness reports of the  prisoners, describing a plethora of experiences ranging from starvation,  slave labor, mistreatment in the way of denial of medical treatment,  exposure to the elements, denial of sleep, torture, medical  experimentation, and wanton murder.<br />The history of the report itself is  also quite interesting. Evidently most of the copies were lost in the chaos  and confusion of Allied postwar activities. Not until the middle 1980s did  one badly faded carbon copy emerge and come to the attention of English  scholar David Hackett, who had it translated, edited, and reorganized to  prepare it for publication. This is not easy reading, and it takes some  effort to exercise the patience required to muddle through some rather dry  and seemingly endless coverage of tangential materials, but it provides the  serious reader an opportunity to take a first-hand look at a quite unique  eye-witness report on absolute madness and insanity as practiced in this  century by a supposedly sane, sophisticated and civilized culture. Truly  this is a look over the edge of the chasm into evil incarnate.ar activities. Not until the middle 1980s did  one badly faded carbon copy emerge and come to the attention of English  scholar David Hackett, who had it translated, edited, and reorganized to  prepare it for publication. This is not easy reading, and it takes some  effort to exercise the patience required to muddle through some rather dry  and seemingly endless coverage of tangential materials, but it provides the  serious reader an opportunity to take a first-hand look at a quite unique  eye-witness report on absolute madness and insanity as practiced in this  century by a supposedly sane, sophisticated and civilized culture. Truly  this is a look over the edge of the chasm into evil incarnate.	2000-07-01
2395805:US	52447634	R1BRX89PA99W6M	0440304245	477593969	American Caesar	Books	5	22	22	N	N	A Illuminating Look At One Of The Century's Military Giants!	\\"American Caesar\\" is the incredible biography of a modern American legend; General of the Army Douglas MacArthur. Certainly no other modern American military leader engenders such controversy and hotly-expressed differences  in opinion than does General MacArthur, and no one does a better job at  providing a definitive historical biography than William Manchester.  This  is truly a magnificent book, a spellbinding story splendidly told by a  master of English prose, rendered in a flawless, comprehensive, and  objective treatment of this complex, often contradictory, and brilliant  leader of men in desperate combat. This is no mean feat, as anyone  venturing to understand the man, his eccentricities, and his actions during  the tenure of his fifty-year career as a virtual American military  institution in the Orient can testify.<br />According to Manchester,  MacArthur was a man of consummate contradictions; vain, mercurial, often  baffling, imperious, childish and unable to admit he erred. Yet he was at  times also iron-willed, charming, and absolutely brilliant. For Manchester,  MacArthur was unquestionably the most gifted military man this country had  ever seen. Indeed, it is undeniable that he was a man of incredible vision,  although he often acted against his own better judgment, and was finally  brought down both by his own demons and his damnable inability to admit he  had made mistakes.  Reading this book, one recognizes what a fascinating  paradox MacArthur actually was.<br />Manchester traces the General's long  and illustrious career, which caught fire and purpose as Commander of the  famed Rainbow Division during the First World War.  Following the war, he  trudged through a myriad of assignments, finally retiring long before the  start of WWII hostilities to become a military advisor (with portfolio) for  the Philippine government. Of course, with the rapid build up of American  forces and the recognition of coming trouble with Japan, he was reinstated  and became the modern day Caesar referred to in the title.  Manchester  argues that MacArthur, like his father before him, had a quite unique  genius for military leadership, and although he barely escaped being sacked  (as both the Army and navy Commanding Generals in Hawaii had been after  Pearl Harbor), he went on to become a rallying point and inspirational  leader throughout the long and difficult Pacific campaign.<br />At the end  of WWII, MacArthur was assigned as the overall Military Governor of Japan,  and served both in this capacity and also as the controversial commander of  American forces in Korea until finally relieved under duress by President  Truman over the question of insubordination that after fifty years cost the  General his career. The circumstances surrounding MacArthur's dismissal are  a story in and of themselves, and Manchester explains them in a  particularly fascinating way, leaving the reader to speculate to himself  regarding the apparent paradoxes and seeming contradictions conflicting  with each other in one singularly remarkable, accomplished, and unique  personality. This book is a remarkable, masterfully written account of the  long and distinguished career of one of the most influential military  leaders in the history of the Republic, and this is also a book that any  self-respecting student of modern history should include prominently in his  personal library. Enjoy!ted  and became the modern day Caesar referred to in the title.  Manchester  argues that MacArthur, like his father before him, had a quite unique  genius for military leadership, and although he barely escaped being sacked  (as both the Army and navy Commanding Generals in Hawaii had been after  Pearl Harbor), he went on to become a rallying point and inspirational  leader throughout the long and difficult Pacific campaign.  <br />At the end  of WWII, MacArthur was assigned as the overall Military Governor of Japan,  and served both in this capacity and also as the controversial commander of  American forces in Korea until finally relieved under duress by President  Truman over the question of insubordination that after fifty years cost the  General his career. The circumstances surrounding MacArthur's dismissal are  a story in and of themselves, and Manchester explains them in a  particularly fascinating way, leaving the reader to speculate to himself  regarding the apparent paradoxes and seeming contradictions conflicting  with each other in one singularly remarkable, accomplished, and unique  personality. This book is a remarkable, masterfully written account of the  long and distinguished career of one of the most influential military  leaders in the history of the Republic, and this is also a book that any  self-respecting student of modern history should include prominently in his  personal library. Enjoy!	2000-06-30
2396580:US	52447634	R4ELAOC46RLHF	0465003109	949106200	The Sword And The Shield: The Mitrokhin Archive And The Secret History Of The KGB	Books	4	76	81	N	N	A Fascinating Look Behind The Closed Doors of the KGB!	From this book we learn of one of the most incredible stories to yet emerge from the history of the Cold War; the tale of this Russian defector who had laboriously hand-scribed an astonishing archive detailing the  history of hundreds of thousands of secret KGB files. One is breathlessly  swept along by two elements in this true story; first, by the tale of the  defector himself, who calmly, deliberately and systematically copied the  records of so many cases of surveillance, mistreatment, harassment,  torture, and murder by KGB agents over the decades at great personal risk  to himself and his family, and second, by the tales of horror these files  contain.<br />The defector himself worked for decades as the chief archivist  for the foreign intelligence division of the KGB. Part of his duties was to  extensively check and then seal each of the hundreds of thousands of cases  on file, which gave him unhindered access to all of the secrets of the  decades of KGB activity. Of course, one has to ask oneself the most  important question; why? Apparently the defector had long ago become badly  disillusioned by the nature of the Soviet government and its ritualistic  suppression of human rights, especially by its record of systematic  silencing of both domestic and international dissidents. Faced with a  series of decisions about what to do, he eventually drifted into copying  the records as a quiet act of protest, soon the records, smuggled out in  his clothing, pockets, inside his socks,shoes, or his underwear, soon grew  to fantastic proportions.<br />The tales of KGB abuse and excess are  horrifying to read about, staggering the imagination both in terms of the  extent they reached, and also in terms of the absolute lunacy of much of  it. It extended from assassination attempts to infiltration of civil rights  leader's entourages, from tales of murder and mayhem in the days of the  Bolsheviks to stories of deep-cover agents still active when the book was  published, from secretly booby-trapped arm caches to hate mail and bomb  campaigns in the United States. As amazing as the laundry list of misdeeds  may be, what is so incredible is that most of it was so singularly  unsuccessful in both conception and execution, illustrating just how  culturally inept the KGB was, and how badly misconceived most of this  mayhem was.<br />This is a fascinating book, written in a very readable and  entertaining fashion. The difficulties in writing it and the risks  associated with smugglingit out of the Soviet Union read like something out  of a John LeCarre novel. Yet because of its considerable length and its  subject matter, it is a slow and time-consuming read.  I enjoyed reading  it, and recommend it for anyone interested in just how energetic and  devilishly inspired yet motley cast of KGB characters were over a period of  almost eighty years., from secretly booby-trapped arm caches to hate mail and bomb  campaigns in the United States. As amazing as the laundry list of misdeeds  may be, what is so incredible is that most of it was so singularly  unsuccessful in both conception and execution, illustrating just how  culturally inept the KGB was, and how badly misconceived most of this  mayhem was. <br />This is a fascinating book, written in a very readable and  entertaining fashion. The difficulties in writing it and the risks  associated with smugglingit out of the Soviet Union read like something out  of a John LeCarre novel. Yet because of its considerable length and its  subject matter, it is a slow and time-consuming read.  I enjoyed reading  it, and recommend it for anyone interested in just how energetic and  devilishly inspired yet motley cast of KGB characters were over a period of  almost eighty years.	2000-06-29
2396868:US	52447634	R2FPSUOQRCCG7S	0684852918	130426091	The Kinder, Gentler Military: Can America's Gender-Neutral Fighting Force Still Win Wars (Lisa Drew Books)	Books	4	14	16	N	N	A Stinging Indictment of the Military's Contemporary Policy	As someone who recently retired from a 25 year career working closely with the military as a civil servant, I can testify as to the veracity of much of what author Stephanie Gutmann has to say; today's military officer is an  amalgam of politically correct, criticism-sensitive, and new-age thinking  that has little or nothing to do with the basics of military duties. Or, as  a recent USMC commandant allegedly testified to Congress, he was more  interested in people that could throw a grenade fifty yards than in a  sexually integrated combat force.<br />Even someone as far removed from the  field as myself can tell tales of Air Force Academy engineering officers  boasting of being warriors, people who don't know the business end of an  attack airplane from a dress cummerbund, of young female Air Force officers  approaching an informal dining out with water pistols for an impromptu  \\"shoot-out\\". The profession of arms is a serious business, a business too  often ending in unspeakable violence and murder; therefore such benign and  good-natured frolicking around the edges of it robs the profession of its  proper solemnity and seriousness.<br />This isn't a professional military  elite so much as it's an undisciplined bunch of nerdy, technically  well-educated kids who think that all you need to do to be a warrior is put  on a uniform, salute smartly and act appropriately macho.  This is a  generation of kids raised on reruns of Rambo, who are more media friendly  than combat familiar, who literally cringe at the mention of how marines  are specifically trained to kill people, learning to twist an enemy's  windpipe until it breaks, or how to effectively use a bayonet, a rifle or a  grenade, who know the difference between canines and K-rations.<br />If one  scratches beneath the surface of many senior commanders, one finds a decent  understanding of the nature of the horns of the dilemma they face; the  relentless agenda associated with feminism and political correctness has  demonstrably compromised and weakened military readiness. The author's  example of females unwilling or unable to handl;e the rigors of tough  conditions during the war in the Gulf is well taken. This isn't to say  there is no substantial role for women in the armed forces; some of the  finest and best officers I have known were females. But we do ourselves and  the profession of arms when we allow ourselves to be blinded as to how the  needs of an effective military force and the maintenance of good discipline  require much greater segregation of the sexes and more bifurcation in the  particular tasks each gender is allowed to participate in.<br />This is an  important book and hopefully it will spark a wide-ranging public debate.  What it is important for the public at large and Congress in particular to  recognize is that there are some aspects of the profession of arms that are  too important to be influenced or decided by what is chic and politically  correct. This book examines the nature of this dilemma superbly.ctness has  demonstrably compromised and weakened military readiness. The author's  example of females unwilling or unable to handl;e the rigors of tough  conditions during the war in the Gulf is well taken. This isn't to say  there is no substantial role for women in the armed forces; some of the  finest and best officers I have known were females. But we do ourselves and  the profession of arms when we allow ourselves to be blinded as to how the  needs of an effective military force and the maintenance of good discipline  require much greater segregation of the sexes and more bifurcation in the  particular tasks each gender is allowed to participate in. <br />This is an  important book and hopefully it will spark a wide-ranging public debate.  What it is important for the public at large and Congress in particular to  recognize is that there are some aspects of the profession of arms that are  too important to be influenced or decided by what is chic and politically  correct. This book examines the nature of this dilemma superbly.	2000-06-29
2397124:US	52447634	R7440FOM2MMAF	0312154909	819975792	Captured by History: One Man's Vision of Our Tumultuous Century	Books	4	16	17	N	Y	Fascinating Look At One Of The Century's Most Famous Authors	From his humble origins to his current status as an elder statesman of contemporary historians, any student of life and history has to stand in awe of John Toland's life and accomplishments. Here is the incredibly  interesting story of a self-made man, someone who rose to the top based on  native ability, sheer guts and talent, and who admits to having had the  fates shine their collective everlasting lights on him. \\"Captured By  History\\" is a very entertaining and quite fascinating book!<br />No one  would have suspected that this quiet and unassuming boy would turn out to  be one of the best-loved and widely read popular historians of the century;  Toland has little or no formal training as a historian. In this  autobiographical journey he evolves from being an amateur writer fortunate  enough to graduate in the depths of the Depression from Williams College, a  small but exclusive college in western Massachusetts to a vagabond  lifestyle of riding the rails during the Depression and attempting to start  a life as a professional playwright.<br />But the intervention of fate in the  way of World War two and his experiences led to him to attempt to tell the  stories of the men and women he had served with, and as a result he became  one of several outstanding popular historians like William Shirer and  Cornelius Ryan who enjoyed the wide readership and popular support for  thirty or forty years after the war. Toland wrote about aspects of the war  after painstaking research on each subject, spending years traveling,  interviewing, and documenting before finally writing a particular book. And  the books sold, from \\"Infamy\\" to \\"Rising Sun\\" to \\"The Last Hundred Days\\" to  \\"battle\\" to his phenomenal best seller, \\"Adolph Hitler\\".<br />Toland's style  was always unorthodox to most historians, since he did not attempt to make  his own 'objectively based' judgments of what had happened in any  particular set of historical circumstances, but rather would exhaustively  interviewed eye-witnesses and actual participants of events and let them  tell the story in their own words, with him acting brilliantly as an  integrating narrator to string the story together as non-judgmentally as  possible. He trusted the reader's native intelligence and ability to screen  out the garbage from the flowers of the truth, and evidently the readers  loved the approach, for he was phenomenally successful in his long and  distinguished writing career.<br />This, therefore, is an unusual chronicle  of a most singular life spent in fascinating obsession by a rather  unorthodox and quite different sort of person. Yet the spellbinding stories  revealed here about everyone from Adolph Hitler to the Emperor of Japan  make this a spellbinding experience to read, and an objective lesson as to  how a person with determination, some native talent and a lot of gumption  can come to fashion and hew a life of his own making in his own terms. This  is a great book for the lover of biographies and for anyone titillated by  an endless scurry of inside stories about the people who made the history  of the 20th century what it is.rviewed eye-witnesses and actual participants of events and let them  tell the story in their own words, with him acting brilliantly as an  integrating narrator to string the story together as non-judgmentally as  possible. He trusted the reader's native intelligence and ability to screen  out the garbage from the flowers of the truth, and evidently the readers  loved the approach, for he was phenomenally successful in his long and  distinguished writing career.  <br />This, therefore, is an unusual chronicle  of a most singular life spent in fascinating obsession by a rather  unorthodox and quite different sort of person. Yet the spellbinding stories  revealed here about everyone from Adolph Hitler to the Emperor of Japan  make this a spellbinding experience to read, and an objective lesson as to  how a person with determination, some native talent and a lot of gumption  can come to fashion and hew a life of his own making in his own terms. This  is a great book for the lover of biographies and for anyone titillated by  an endless scurry of inside stories about the people who made the history  of the 20th century what it is.	2000-06-29
2397308:US	52447634	R2H2QXW0ZYJODF	0312154909	819975792	Captured by History: One Man's Vision of Our Tumultuous Century	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Fascinating Look At One Of The Century's Most Famous Authors	From his humble origins to his current status as an elder statesman of contemporary historians, any student of life and history has to stand in awe of John Toland's life and accomplishments. Here is the incredibly  interesting story of a self-made man, someone who rose to the top based on  native ability, sheer guts and talent, and who admits to having had the  fates shine their collective everlasting lights on him. \\"Captured By  History\\" is a very entertaining and quite fascinating book!  <br />No one  would have suspected that this quiet and unassuming boy would turn out to  be one of the best-loved and widely read popular historians of the century;  Toland has little or no formal training as a historian. In this  autobiographical journey he evolves from being an amateur writer fortunate  enough to graduate in the depths of the Depression from Williams College, a  small but exclusive college in western Massachusetts to a vagabond  lifestyle of riding the rails during the Depression and attempting to start  a life as a professional playwright. <br />But the intervention of fate in the  way of World War two and his experiences led to him to attempt to tell the  stories of the men and women he had served with, and as a result he became  one of several outstanding popular historians like William Shirer and  Cornelius Ryan who enjoyed the wide readership and popular support for  thirty or forty years after the war. Toland wrote about aspects of the war  after painstaking research on each subject, spending years traveling,  interviewing, and documenting before finally writing a particular book. And  the books sold, from \\"Infamy\\" to \\"Rising Sun\\" to \\"The Last Hundred Days\\" to  \\"battle\\" to his phenomenal best seller, \\"Adolph Hitler\\".<br />Toland's style  was always unorthodox to most historians, since he did not attempt to make  his own 'objectively based' judgments of what had happened in any  particular set of historical circumstances, but rather would exhaustively  interviewed eye-witnesses and actual participants of events and let them  tell the story in their own words, with him acting brilliantly as an  integrating narrator to string the story together as non-judgmentally as  possible. He trusted the reader's native intelligence and ability to screen  out the garbage from the flowers of the truth, and evidently the readers  loved the approach, for he was phenomenally successful in his long and  distinguished writing career.  <br />This, therefore, is an unusual chronicle  of a most singular life spent in fascinating obsession by a rather  unorthodox and quite different sort of person. Yet the spellbinding stories  revealed here about everyone from Adolph Hitler to the Emperor of Japan  make this a spellbinding experience to read, and an objective lesson as to  how a person with determination, some native talent and a lot of gumption  can come to fashion and hew a life of his own making in his own terms. This  is a great book for the lover of biographies and for anyone titillated by  an endless scurry of inside stories about the people who made the history  of the 20th century what it is.	2000-06-29
2397574:US	52447634	R18U0YH9QFQAMK	0688121195	955912499	Voluntary Simplicity: Toward a Way of Life That Is Outwardly Simple, Inwardly Rich (Revised edition)	Books	5	28	29	N	N	A Wonderful,Thoughtful, And  Illuminating Work!	If the singular word \\"visionary\\" is one that can be used to describe such a popular and overwhelming bestseller as this book has become, then that is best word I can conjure up out of my subconscious to describe it in a word.  In a time when the material excesses of our civilization are spinning out  of control, Duane Elgin writes with passion and clarity about the costs of  such materialistic strivings. He believes that to work for a sustainable  future is not just a pipedream, but an achievable goal reached through a  reorientation and enlightenment on the part of the postindustrial world  that mere material goods cannot ever truly make us happy.<br />In fact, he  argues, it is our love affair with acquiring more and more `things' that  enslaves us and makes us quite the opposite. Thus, he writes with  apassionate and informed concern for the disastrous consequences of our  endless addiction to acquisition and ownership of more and more material  goods. Yet such acquisition is a dead end street from which little can be  gained. The author hopes to enlighten the reader into recognizing that it  is in his or her interest to become less acquisitive, to simplify his or  her own life and regain the balance that is missing from his or her own  life.<br />He argues persuasively on behalf of living of life with greater  balance and freedom, one in which the individual is more a person who is  much than one who has much. For him voluntary simplicity supposes both an  inner and outer condition requiring a singleness of purpose, sincerity and  honesty within, a purposeful avoidance of exterior clutter. He recognizes  that having many possessions is not only irrelevant to what most of us want  from life, it is quite often the chief obstacle standing in the  individual's way.  Thus, voluntary simplicity means a purposeful focusing  of our energy and desires, recognizing we have limited energies and  capabilities and that we must exercise some control over our endless  desires in order to live a life of higher quality and purpose.<br />For the  author, many of the problems of life in today's society are related to our  trivial diversions into mass consumerism and all that such diversions  entail. What better recommendation can one make for a book than to say that  reading it will likely enlighten you and profoundly change the way you look  at, interact with, and proceed in the world around you? This is truly,  without resorting unnecessarily to hyperbole, a powerful and visionary  work, and one that should be on every thoughtful reader's bookshelf.s in order to live a life of higher quality and purpose. <br />For the  author, many of the problems of life in today's society are related to our  trivial diversions into mass consumerism and all that such diversions  entail. What better recommendation can one make for a book than to say that  reading it will likely enlighten you and profoundly change the way you look  at, interact with, and proceed in the world around you? This is truly,  without resorting unnecessarily to hyperbole, a powerful and visionary  work, and one that should be on every thoughtful reader's bookshelf.	2000-06-29
2398167:US	52447634	R23K5UA9RNINJN	0691006652	616304685	Nurses in Nazi Germany	Books	4	22	22	N	N	A Coherent, Frightening, &amp; Vivid Look At Nazi Euthanasia!	Nowhere is the collective madness that Nazi Germany descended into better documented than in this story of its policy of euthanasia of its own infirm citizens. Although it is just an overview, it does provide the reader with  an excellent starting point in learning about just how comprehensive and  ambitious was this \\"ethnic cleansing\\" effort on the part of the National  Socialists.  Author Bronwyn Rebekah McFarland-Icke surveys the wide range  of Nazi extermination programs as visited by the government on the mentally  and physically handicapped based on their medically based crackpot theories  associated with more positive programs of eugenics. It's a little known  fact, for example, that physician and medical researcher Josef Mengele,  later the Auschwitz \\"Angel of Death&quot;, was a respected member of the  greater European medical research community in the late 1920s-1930s.<br />This work is frightening in its examination of how easily these ideas  and medical practices were incorporated into everyday practice, so that  doctors, nurses and other medical personnel adopted and practiced them with  little or no immediate feelings of either guilt or shame over the  collective practice of eugenic ritual murder they were introducing into  society.  Interestingly, although this is a sensational subject, the author  does not dwell on these elements so much as she asks some penetrating and  intriguing questions regarding how easily and universally the German  medical community adopted such practices starting in 1939 without asking  any questions. Of course, while it is easy in retrospect to see how  horrific these policies were, the social, political, and cultural situation  in the Third Reich were hardly tolerant of such questioning attitudes or  inconvenient questioning.<br />Most fascinating is the systematic denial of  knowledge or culpability on the part of the psychiatric nurses involved in  the euthanasia programs. Rather, their responses suggest the same kind of  ritual denial; of the \\"I only work here\\" sort of cultural excuses that one  must recognize the degree to which such individuals were subjected to the  extraordinary cultural pressures and collective denials that the National  Socialists used throughout Germany to such chilling advantage. This is not,  of course, to suggest a lack of personal responsibility or culpability for  their collaboration and criminal involvement in the euthanasia programs,  but rather to recognize how powerful a social force the kind of cultural  pressures of living in Nazi Germany can be. It is a damning indictment of  all of us who shun our own moral responsibilities in what happens around  us. Indeed, the true legacy of the Nazi experience is the degree to which  we must all accept responsibility for the moral choices we either make or  avoid by our actions and inaction.<br />This is a worthwhile, well-written if  difficult book, one written on a specialized and quite specific aspect of  the experience of the Holocaust, yet one reverberating with the murderous  potential of the Nazis so early in their tenure in Germany. After all, had  the world known how ready ordinary Germans were to kill their own mentally  ill, physically handicapped, and inconvenient older and chronically sick  citizens, perhaps we would have acted differently in accepting much larger  number of Jewish and other expatriated Germans than we did.  Such is our  own American complicity in this legacy of human shame.d of  ritual denial; of the \\"I only work here\\" sort of cultural excuses that one  must recognize the degree to which such individuals were subjected to the  extraordinary cultural pressures and collective denials that the National  Socialists used throughout Germany to such chilling advantage. This is not,  of course, to suggest a lack of personal responsibility or culpability for  their collaboration and criminal involvement in the euthanasia programs,  but rather to recognize how powerful a social force the kind of cultural  pressures of living in Nazi Germany can be. It is a damning indictment of  all of us who shun our own moral responsibilities in what happens around  us. Indeed, the true legacy of the Nazi experience is the degree to which  we must all accept responsibility for the moral choices we either make or  avoid by our actions and inaction. <br />This is a worthwhile, well-written if  difficult book, one written on a specialized and quite specific aspect of  the experience of the Holocaust, yet one reverberating with the murderous  potential of the Nazis so early in their tenure in Germany. After all, had  the world known how ready ordinary Germans were to kill their own mentally  ill, physically handicapped, and inconvenient older and chronically sick  citizens, perhaps we would have acted differently in accepting much larger  number of Jewish and other expatriated Germans than we did.  Such is our  own American complicity in this legacy of human shame.	2000-06-28
2398259:US	52447634	R2CKSQQ60Q4Z15	046505434X	392727517	The Overworked American: The Unexpected Decline Of Leisure	Books	4	42	43	N	N	Trouble In Our Worker's Paradise!	America is the fabled land of plenty, and according to Juliet Schor, most of us seem to be lining up for more than our share of work hours. In our unabated obsession to get more than our fair share of the virtual  cornucopia of goods and services out there in the marketplace, we seem to  have become collectively addicted to working more and more hours in a  devil's bargain with our employers. This book is a wonderful overview of  this long-term trend toward overwork, where the average American now works  the equivalent of an extra month a year. Since it is cheaper to pay someone  overtime than it is to hire new workers and pay the associated benefits,  corporations gladly ante up to pay for our increasing presence at work. Yet  this mysterious and unexpected contemporary American addiction to being on  the job has its associated costs (as well as causes).<br />Harvard professor  Juliet Schor spins a convincing and disturbing tale regarding the  increasing numbers of hours we spend each week at work rather than leisure.  This is a historical surprise, since most baby boomers emerged from the  colleges and universities convinced we would have more leisure time and  better ways to pursue our many avocational interests than any generation in  the past. In this entertaining, topical, and quite readable book, the  author surveys a plethora of reasons for the surprising trend toward  overwork. The principal dynamic she pinpoints in influencing this trend is  an economy that literally demands extra effort and time from its employees,  an economy which until quite recently had a chronic shortage of available  jobs and \\"surplus\\" labor pool of potential workers. Under such  circumstances, anyone lacking the requisite willingness to work extra hours  was indeed dispensable.  Thus one becomes a careerist in an effort to  survive. She also details how our culturally conditioned goal-oriented  attitude toward time as a resource to be used effectively and efficiently  rather than as a precious resource to be used to increase the quality of  our own lives plays into the situation.<br />For Schor, we are on a  treadmill, if not to oblivion, then to an impoverished cultural life where  we are what we do occupationally rather than what we do and what we become  in our leisure hours pursuing our avocations and our personal lives with  family and friends. This is an important and path breaking book, one that  we should find especially relevant given the fact that many of the jobs we  are so seemingly addicted to will soon fade away in the new markets and new  economies of the so-called \\"Third Wave\\".  Anyone who has experienced  &quot;downsizing&quot; at the hands of a large and impersonal corporation  can tell you how quickly all those sacrifices and long hours are  disregarded and forgotten by your employer. The emotional and economic  impacts of such events can be devastating to the individual and his or her  family. As a friend said to me recently, anyone who is what they do really  isn't very much at all. Read and heed.s a precious resource to be used to increase the quality of  our own lives plays into the situation. <br />For Schor, we are on a  treadmill, if not to oblivion, then to an impoverished cultural life where  we are what we do occupationally rather than what we do and what we become  in our leisure hours pursuing our avocations and our personal lives with  family and friends. This is an important and path breaking book, one that  we should find especially relevant given the fact that many of the jobs we  are so seemingly addicted to will soon fade away in the new markets and new  economies of the so-called \\"Third Wave\\".  Anyone who has experienced  &quot;downsizing&quot; at the hands of a large and impersonal corporation  can tell you how quickly all those sacrifices and long hours are  disregarded and forgotten by your employer. The emotional and economic  impacts of such events can be devastating to the individual and his or her  family. As a friend said to me recently, anyone who is what they do really  isn't very much at all. Read and heed.	2000-06-28
2398528:US	52447634	R2ZBBDT0MIXCKN	0671042793	533745123	The Russia House	Books	5	19	23	N	N	A Telling Fable Of The Human Costs Of The Cold War!	Like most of the best-selling works that came before this one from the unchallenged master of the intelligent spy thriller John LeCarre, this is a treatise on the hidden and conflicted corners of the human heart.  It is  said that \\"The Russia House\\" represented a formidable new challenge for the  author, so quickly and unexpectedly deprived of the forty year-old cold war  he had built his career so deftly and memorably describing. Yet the author  mines new tunnels of cunning, deceit, and betrayal, and at the same time  weaves a quite memorable love story in the spaces squeezed between the two  sides.<br />Barley Blair, the failing boozehound scion of a collapsing  British publishing house with a love for everything Russian, happens by  drunken though eloquent happenstance to inspire a famous Soviet scientist  into attempting to sneak his manuscript detailing the real sorry state of  Russian ICBM capabilities into the hands of the West in order to foster a  recognition of the folly of the arms race and to end what he calls \\"the  great lie\\". The scientist attempts to contact Blair, but through a series  of mishaps rivaling the deeds of the keystone cops winds up landing the  manuscript in the hands of the British Secret Service. So they soon want  Barley to intercede with the Russian contact point to find out who the  author of the manuscript is and thus determine its authenticity.  So Barley  pursues the beautiful but conflicted contact, an idealistic angel of mercy  who soon sparks Barley's love interest and paternal concern. The game is  afoot.<br />  With his usual style, suspenseful prose, and intellectual  gamesmanship, LeCarre stirs the reader's interest and dismay as we see the  deadly games set into motion with deadly earnest by the Brits, the  Americans, and the Russians, none of whom give a rattler's damn about  Barley, the contact, or the scientist.  This is a stunning, suspenseful,  and somewhat rueful tale of what unfolds when we discover that there is a  real possibility that the so-called Soviet ICBM threat is a sham, that the  missiles cannot escape their silos, that their ability to achieve  trajectory or destroy targets with any accuracy is vastly over-rated. And  as one can expect from the shadowy and complex geopolitical world of  espionage and power that LeCarre writes so brilliantly and unforgettably  about, there are no simple answers or easy foregone conclusions. This is a  wonderful read and a marvelous book, and has the ring of more real-life  veracity and worldly wisdom than one can easily find on the non-fiction  side of the bookstore aisle. Enjoy!a  real possibility that the so-called Soviet ICBM threat is a sham, that the  missiles cannot escape their silos, that their ability to achieve  trajectory or destroy targets with any accuracy is vastly over-rated. And  as one can expect from the shadowy and complex geopolitical world of  espionage and power that LeCarre writes so brilliantly and unforgettably  about, there are no simple answers or easy foregone conclusions. This is a  wonderful read and a marvelous book, and has the ring of more real-life  veracity and worldly wisdom than one can easily find on the non-fiction  side of the bookstore aisle. Enjoy!	2000-06-28
2404838:US	52447634	R3KT72FKHB9S1G	0671867407	328842679	Who Will Tell The People? : The Betrayal Of American Democracy	Books	4	28	28	N	N	Penetrating Analysis Of Federal Political Corruption!	Ah, once more into the breach, dear friends. Like Shakespeare's goode King, Rolling Stone editor and contributor William Greider is once more up in arms, and in this powerful and provocative book takes thoughtful aim  against the bloodied and crippled state of the contemporary American  polity. Greider convincingly details the many ways in which the democratic  process has been compromised, corrupted and co-opted by the powerful  economic influences of corporate America. In doing so, he focuses on the  actual process of how the federal government works, and illustrates in  shocking fashion with a number of specific anecdotes the degree to which  the political system has been bought off by transnational corporations and  the media.<br />The author's list of un-indicted co-conspirators is long and  illustrious; transnational corporations, the electronic media, the  political parties, so-called interest groups like the NRA and the Milk  Lobby, and an occasional populist group, all trying to foist their narrowly  focused interests into self-serving legislation and regulation against the  much broader interest and liberties of the citizenry at large. The fact  that they consistenly succeed to our detriment is powerful testimony as to  the accuracy of this analysis. The author reserves special vile for the  activities of the two political parties, who he contends are more aptly  described as the power-drunk fraternal twin children of the wealthy power  elite than they are a responsive and representative force out to accomplish  the messy business of democratic governance.  Acting in the elite's  perceived social, economic, and political interests, the federal government  manages the tax structure, social benefits, and economic policies in ways  that ensure the rich and powerful gain further advantage at the cost of the  rest of the populace.<br />Yet Greider sees a unique opportunity in the  brave new world of post-cold war conditions to right the existing wrongs of  the present situation. Through a re-energized populist political movement,  he argues, the people could seize control of the process and demonstrate  the continuing power of the citizenry to manage and control their  collective destinies. By such practical means as organizing boycotts of  errant transnational corporations to bring them into line in order to  continue benefiting in our domestic marketplace (the largest single economy  in the world), the people could bargain by using the power of their purse  strings.<br />As much as I like Greider and enjoy his critical skills and  analysis, even I have to admit that such a social revolution is an unlikely  event; anyone aware of the degree to which our citizenry are politically  apathetic, and who recognizes  that the only energy an average middle class  American expends is usually associated with an self-absorbed pursuit of  video games and backyard barbecues, also realizes that they are unlikely to  be the nucleus of any kind of meaningful social revolution. Viewed in such  circumspect terms, it is hard to picture the citizens of contemporary  society gaining anything like that sort of enlightened self-awareness or  concerted political action in the near future. Yet despite his unrealistic  hopes for such an unlikely change in the present arrangements, this is a  good book, and has a worthwhile and penetrating analysis that quite  specifically blueprints the nature of the corruption and co-option of the  federal government by the transnational corporations.  I enjoyed reading  it, and plan to read sections of it again because of its powerful analysis.  Enjoy.the present situation. Through a re-energized populist political movement,  he argues, the people could seize control of the process and demonstrate  the continuing power of the citizenry to manage and control their  collective destinies. By such practical means as organizing boycotts of  errant transnational corporations to bring them into line in order to  continue benefiting in our domestic marketplace (the largest single economy  in the world), the people could bargain by using the power of their purse  strings. <br />As much as I like Greider and enjoy his critical skills and  analysis, even I have to admit that such a social revolution is an unlikely  event; anyone aware of the degree to which our citizenry are politically  apathetic, and who recognizes  that the only energy an average middle class  American expends is usually associated with an self-absorbed pursuit of  video games and backyard barbecues, also realizes that they are unlikely to  be the nucleus of any kind of meaningful social revolution. Viewed in such  circumspect terms, it is hard to picture the citizens of contemporary  society gaining anything like that sort of enlightened self-awareness or  concerted political action in the near future. Yet despite his unrealistic  hopes for such an unlikely change in the present arrangements, this is a  good book, and has a worthwhile and penetrating analysis that quite  specifically blueprints the nature of the corruption and co-option of the  federal government by the transnational corporations.  I enjoyed reading  it, and plan to read sections of it again because of its powerful analysis.  Enjoy.	2000-06-25
2407889:US	52447634	R6HBE6UVCJFL0	0395599245	192902317	Tennozan: The Battle of Okinawa and the Atomic Bomb	Books	5	25	27	N	N	A Spell-Binding Account of the Last Battle of the War!	Wow! This is a truly magnificent piece of historical scholarship as well as a fascinating example of how entertaining and riveting a well-written recounting of the events of the war in the Pacific can be. The author  presents an absolutely gripping account of the Allied assault on Okinawa,  the last necessary step in the island hopping strategy of the American  drive toward final victory against the Japanese. All this is done in a  carefully researched and quite well documented account of the day-to-day  details of the siege of the island. <br />Okinawa absolutely had to be taken  in order to have a point for both staging and launching an invasion of the  home islands, and both sides recognized the value of this piece of real  estate in strategic terms. Thus the struggle over it was the most ferocious  and bloody of the entire 44 month-long war in the Pacific, with over 91,000  Japanese, 23,000 Americans, and 150,000 Okinawans killed in the three-month  long battle. It was also significant in that it served as a key indicator  to the Allied command structure of just how tenacious Japanese defense of  their home islands was likely to be. <br />In this sense, it acted as an  extremely persuasive supporting argument in the highest circles of the  American government for the use of the atomic bomb to bring Imperial Japan  to the negotiating table and thereby avoid hundreds of thousands or even  millions of Allied casualties. Revisionist arguments to the contrary, the  author offers compelling evidence that the cultural tenets of Japanese  culture, including those of emphasizing national honor, avoiding the loss  of face, and including \\"kamikaze\\" type ritual suicide, led not only to the  horrors of what happened at Okinawa but were also leading to fervent and  desperate preparations for a ferocious,  &quot;to the death&quot; type  defense of the home islands. <br />This book is important, then, not only for  its contribution to helping us better understand the last and most hotly  contested battle in the Pacific campaign, but also for providing a much  clearer understanding of the cultural context in which the decision to use  the atomic bomb was made. Disregarding this evidence leads one to  underestimate just how savage that invasion would have been, and how many  Allied and Japanese lives were saved by use of the bomb. This book is an  essential read for anyone who wants to understand the last several months  of the war, and how those events influenced the decision to use the bomb.	2000-06-23
2408668:US	52447634	R3K9F0UL00XKWY	0684803291	320650512	Last Battle: The Classic History of the Battle for Berlin	Books	5	79	83	N	N	A Fantastic Read About The Final Battle For Berlin!	Few battles in history have been waged with greater ferocity, desperation, bravery, and atrocity than the battle for Berlin at the end of the Second World War. No one can tell a story better than Ryan, and he is at his very  best here. In this book Cornelius Ryan brings his masterful powers of  description and discerning eye for extraordinary detail to bear with force  and elegance. This is a wonderful book, immensely informative, densely  packed with facts and figures, and told in a compelling way by a  best-selling author who can vividly recount seemingly countless tales of  the most ordinary of individuals caught in the unforgiving and often deadly  embrace of total war.<br />By this stage Hitler had begun to withdraw farther  into the recesses of the fabled German Chancellery complex, while around  and above him raged an endless barrage by Soviet artillery, British,  American and Canadian bombs, and the clashes of German and Russian tanks  and armor. This then, is the final epic struggle amid the ashes and ruins  of a once proud and great metropolis, the chaotic and blood-curdling death  throes of the Nazi regime. Fearing the terrible wrath and ritual rape and  murder of rampaging Russians, German forces tended to withdraw from the  western front in an attempt to either surrender outright to the Americans  or British, or to let these more \\"civilized\\" western forces take Berlin  before capitulating the hated Russians. Hitler had expressly forbidden any  kind of surrender, intending this to be a fight to the death. Indeed, the  stage was set for some of the most horrific excesses of the war.<br /> This,  then, is a riveting and well-told story told down to the final exciting  detail of how this battle of titans was fought, with an amazing degree of  description of the &quot;on the ground, as it is happening&quot; kind of  story telling. Of course, Ryan excels at this, as proven with not only this  book but by his other best sellers, as well. Written with compassion, it  recognizes and empathizes with a sensitivity for the terrible ordeal faced  by individual civilians who through bad luck and circumstance happened to  be standing in the path of an oncoming maelstrom.  The pages are filled  with the struggle of all to survive, sometimes quite against the odds, and  the pages gleam with example after example of single acts of defiance and  courage, acts to help to save someone else, often at great personal risk.<br />The narrative of the book dramatizes the catastrophic and irreversible  consequences of war, for both combatants and noncombatants alike, and helps  the reader to appreciate the ways in which the events as they unfolded in  the battle for Berlin, the stage of European and world history were both  positively and negatively affected. This is a book all students of modern  history should read, and one I highly recommend for your bookshelf.n, it  recognizes and empathizes with a sensitivity for the terrible ordeal faced  by individual civilians who through bad luck and circumstance happened to  be standing in the path of an oncoming maelstrom.  The pages are filled  with the struggle of all to survive, sometimes quite against the odds, and  the pages gleam with example after example of single acts of defiance and  courage, acts to help to save someone else, often at great personal risk.  <br />The narrative of the book dramatizes the catastrophic and irreversible  consequences of war, for both combatants and noncombatants alike, and helps  the reader to appreciate the ways in which the events as they unfolded in  the battle for Berlin, the stage of European and world history were both  positively and negatively affected. This is a book all students of modern  history should read, and one I highly recommend for your bookshelf.	2000-06-22
2408736:US	52447634	R3RVJVWPUO2I0P	0201534193	908125703	The Resurgence Of The Real: Body, Nature, And Place In A Hypermodern World	Books	5	31	32	N	N	A Beautiful &amp; Elegant Critique of the Post-Modern Mystique!	In \\"Resurgence of the Real\\", Author Charlene Spretnak takes accurate aim at the pandemic, negative and deadening global aspects of the hyper-rationalized social, economic, and political environment of the  postindustrial world, diagnosing its ills, and proposing a quite realistic,  attainable, and more organic alternative to our misguided ways.  In this  elegantly written and argued neo-Luddite thesis, Spretnak passionately  speaks on behalf of a more enlightened post modern ecology that actively  eschews the deadening embrace of 20th century scientism and technological  industrialism and recognizes the basic human connection to nature and the  environment.<br />This is a book with a mission and a message. On the one  hand, she offers an impressive critique of how our blind fascination with  rationalism, science, and technological innovation has strangled out of  consciousness any appreciation or awareness of the natural world around us,  and has led us into a ritual denial of our fundamental connection to  nature. On the other hand, showing how illusory and simplistic our  intellectual categories seem to be, she argues for a recovery effort in  order to actively regain our individual and collective awareness of our  natural context, our relationships to other human beings, and to our basic  grounding in the ecology of the real world around us.<br />But the leap toward  such critical awareness eludes many of our contemporaries, who are locked  into such a modernistic, mechanistic and rational worldview that they tend  to view themselves as bio-machines requiring external interventions when  malfunctioning. Every thing about our artificially created and sustained  human environment holds us within this kind of faulty and dangerous  world-view. Instead, she argues, we need to recognize that we are  self-correcting energy systems operating within nature, which she defines  as a dynamic and self-regulating cosmos. This is heady and quite  intellectually stimulating stuff, and requires a close reading and a  requisite ability to think, as they say, \\"outside the box\\" of conventional  thought.<br />The author faces the issues of our time with eloquence,  clarity, and a keen intellectual acumen. The book is obviously written with  great care, passion, and unimpeachable intellectual clarity. Spretnak  offers a stinging and accurate diagnosis of what has gone wrong in the  post-modern world, and presents, with great lucidity and careful thought, a  look at the emerging postmodern ecological world-view we need to overcome  the ecological, social, and political problems confronting us. This is a  very special, passionate, and wonderful book, and is one offering hope for  the future.  I hope you enjoy it.f, and requires a close reading and a  requisite ability to think, as they say, \\"outside the box\\" of conventional  thought. <br />The author faces the issues of our time with eloquence,  clarity, and a keen intellectual acumen. The book is obviously written with  great care, passion, and unimpeachable intellectual clarity. Spretnak  offers a stinging and accurate diagnosis of what has gone wrong in the  post-modern world, and presents, with great lucidity and careful thought, a  look at the emerging postmodern ecological world-view we need to overcome  the ecological, social, and political problems confronting us. This is a  very special, passionate, and wonderful book, and is one offering hope for  the future.  I hope you enjoy it.	2000-06-22
2410599:US	52447634	R1RKHRZGW6KCQZ	0394741013	110293853	Eagle Against the Sun: The American War With Japan	Books	5	135	136	N	Y	SImply The Best Single-Volume Book About Japan's War!	Good books devoting themselves to the overall scope and breadth of Pacific campaign against the Japanese during World War Two are hard to find, but this book solves the reader's problem nicely. It is a comprehensive,  entertaining, and fair-minded book that careful details both Japanese and  Allied perspectives before, during, and at the conclusion of the war. This  book is truly a carefully constructed, exhaustively researched and quite  well documented one-volume history that everyone should love. I first  discovered it on the syllabus of a graduate-level Harvard history course,  and have had it on my shelf ever since.  Written in a very accessible style  that allows the reader to stream through as though one is  reading a novel,  and it is filled with interesting anecdotes and new insights that keep the  reader entertained and interested throughout the nearly 600 pages of the  book. My own personal favorite was an actual complaint filed immediately  after the attack at Pearl Harbor by a Hawaiian resident of a dog who was  allegedly barking in Morse code to the Japanese ships offshore. It is also  offers a number of new thought provoking and intriguing ideas about aspects  of the war against Japan for the reader.<br />The author engages in an active  reinterpretation of the war based on declassified intelligence files,  archival material, Japanese documents and an impressive collection of  interviews with principals involved in the almost five year struggle to  defeat the Japanese after the events at Pearl Harbor. It is interesting to  learn that the U.S. planned to wage a wide-ranging campaign of submarine  attacks against enemy shipping even before the start of the war, and also  indicates that MacArthur was lucky not to be unceremoniously dumped after  his bad bungling of the defense of the Philippines and also because of his  active disregard for a number of important intercepts of Japanese messages  that could have saved literally thousands of American and other lives.  Spector also reveals that U.S. decisions were often more influenced by the  nature of our stormy relationship with our British allies and our own  inter-service rivalries than by strategic concerns.<br />The author vividly  conjures up accurate and spell-binding accounts of the major battles of the  war, and provides a number of intriguing descriptions of lesser known  aspects of the Pacific campaign, as well.  He takes the reader on a  fascinating whirlwind tour of the war, leaping from details of critical  meetings between war planners in the Pentagon to social, economic, and  political aspects of the engagement to excellent on-the-scene coverage of  the battlegrounds. He shows us how the war against the Japanese was  different from that being waged in Europe, and how this intensely naval  type of conflict was in a number of ways much more risky and innovative on  our part than its European counterpart. I was particularly fascinated by  his interesting argument that the most critical Japanese mistake of the war  was in allowing itself to be drawn into fighting the war of attrition we  had always preferred to wage based on its defeat at Midway.  This is an  important, magisterial, and comprehensive book that is undoubtedly the  single best one-volume treatment of the war against Japan and it belongs on  every serious World War Two student's bookshelf. Enjoy!her lives.  Spector also reveals that U.S. decisions were often more influenced by the  nature of our stormy relationship with our British allies and our own  inter-service rivalries than by strategic concerns.<br />The author vividly  conjures up accurate and spell-binding accounts of the major battles of the  war, and provides a number of intriguing descriptions of lesser known  aspects of the Pacific campaign, as well.  He takes the reader on a  fascinating whirlwind tour of the war, leaping from details of critical  meetings between war planners in the Pentagon to social, economic, and  political aspects of the engagement to excellent on-the-scene coverage of  the battlegrounds. He shows us how the war against the Japanese was  different from that being waged in Europe, and how this intensely naval  type of conflict was in a number of ways much more risky and innovative on  our part than its European counterpart. I was particularly fascinated by  his interesting argument that the most critical Japanese mistake of the war  was in allowing itself to be drawn into fighting the war of attrition we  had always preferred to wage based on its defeat at Midway.  This is an  important, magisterial, and comprehensive book that is undoubtedly the  single best one-volume treatment of the war against Japan and it belongs on  every serious World War Two student's bookshelf. Enjoy!	2000-06-21
2411242:US	52447634	R2APHBPE5SEJ00	031225461X	356807907	Corporation Nation: How Corporations are Taking Over Our Lives -- and What We Can Do About It	Books	5	79	82	N	N	Penetrating Look At Multi-National Corporations' Influence	Like another recent book, \\"Opposing The System\\" by Charles Reich, this effort by sociologist Charles Derber takes aim against the elitist and anti-democratic influence of contemporary multi-national corporations.  Noting that corporations have so invaded the social, economic and political  arenas of life in modern postindustrial societies that it is problematic  for an individual to live a free and meaningful lifestyle without  surrendering vital parts of his liberty and free choice to the whims and  caprices of corporate policy. Thus, Derber claims, corporations have  transformed the meaning of citizenship into a silent euphemism for  corporate membership, and the society tends to identify loyalty to these  organizations as a sort of patriotism (buy American).<br />This is an  interesting and entertaining reading experience, and Derber's thesis is  similar to and compatible with a number of other contemporary social  critics like Reich, Neil Postman, Bill McKibben, and Kirkpatrick Sales.  To  the extent the rise of multinational corporation to a position of nearly  exclusive domination of world markets with the new \\"global capitalism\\"  (touted by politicians as the best thing since sliced bread) continues and  endures, to that extent will our lives be increasingly influenced and  characterized the kinds of choice these corporate entities view to be in  their own narrowly conceived and fundamentally anti-democratic goals and  objectives. Thus, to an ever-greater extent, these corporate entities are  empowered at our expense to influence, manipulate, and even dictate the  specific terms of social, economic and even political transactions within  and without our borders.<br />Probably this single greatest recent example of  this trend were the actions by the U.S Congress to ratify both the NAFTA  and GATT trade treaties, whose main beneficiaries were multinational  corporate entities. There was little or no meaningful national debate,  And most Americans were so distracted by their petty personal pursuits of  money, material goods, and the good life that they hardly paid any  attention to all this happening under their noses. Rather than focusing on  these issues, the national electronic media chose to cover other non-news  events like the Michael Jackson child molestation charge, the OJ Simpson  trial, the Louise Woodward trial, the Monica Lewinsky scandal, etc.  Meanwhile, the corporations achieved their goals, and the future of  American worker was sealed. All this transpired without any meaningful or  informed public debate. And isn't it quite a coincidence that the  electronic media in this country is owned, lock, stock, and barrel by  several different multinational corporations.<br />The author offers an  alternative by way of what he terms \\"positive populism\\", by which he then  outlines an alternative approach to re-engaging the American public in a  self-enlightened attempt to regain control of their lives and future  through the available political process. This is an interesting,  provocative, and often entertaining book, well written and well argued, and  one which will engage the reader in a thoughtful process regarding the  nature of our contemporary situation vis-&agrave;-vis the powers that be. I highly  recommend it. Enjoystracted by their petty personal pursuits of  money, material goods, and the good life that they hardly paid any  attention to all this happening under their noses. Rather than focusing on  these issues, the national electronic media chose to cover other non-news  events like the Michael Jackson child molestation charge, the OJ Simpson  trial, the Louise Woodward trial, the Monica Lewinsky scandal, etc.  Meanwhile, the corporations achieved their goals, and the future of  American worker was sealed. All this transpired without any meaningful or  informed public debate. And isn't it quite a coincidence that the  electronic media in this country is owned, lock, stock, and barrel by  several different multinational corporations.   <br />The author offers an  alternative by way of what he terms \\"positive populism\\", by which he then  outlines an alternative approach to re-engaging the American public in a  self-enlightened attempt to regain control of their lives and future  through the available political process. This is an interesting,  provocative, and often entertaining book, well written and well argued, and  one which will engage the reader in a thoughtful process regarding the  nature of our contemporary situation vis--vis the powers that be. I highly  recommend it. Enjoy	2000-06-21
2412052:US	52447634	R1UWAS4FE3M2SE	0201407183	732353032	Rebels Against The Future: The Luddites And Their War On The Industrial Revolution: Lessons For The Computer Age	Books	5	15	16	N	Y	Insightful, Interesting &amp; Thoughtful Look At The Luddites!	\\"Rebels Against The Future\\" is a book with an important, relevant, and timely message. Written by Sales Kirkpatrick, long-time editor of \\"The Nation\\", who describes the historical struggle for human rights against the  forces of technological innovation by way of the saga of Ned Ludd &amp; his  followers. By detailing this example, the author illustrates how difficult  it is, both historically and culturally, for individual workers &amp;  ordinary people to successfully come to terms with the anonymous and often  overwhelming forces of an intractable and self-propelled technical dynamic;  industrial progress.<br />I first came across this book last year by  way of the internet; an excerpt of it was posted on a neo-Luddite site I  was browsing through. Reading this short portion hooked me on Mr.  Kirkpatrick's writing style and substance. This is a book ostensibly  devoted to the iconoclastic revolt by a small but determined group of  nineteenth century English cottage workers against the hurtful introduction  of new machines that, in essence, deprived them of an opportunity to make a  living and support themselves and their families.  It was the first  documented account of a group rebelling against the enforced imposition by  industrialists of new technology that was contrary to their own social and  economic interests.  It was not all machinery that the so-called \\"Luddites\\"  rebelled against; it was only those technological innovations \\"but all  Machinery hurtful to Commonality\\".  He<br />forwards an impressive,  multi-faceted argument; each facet of the argument bearing on various  aspects of what the author associates with various characteristics of  technologies.<br />Thus, Kirkpatrick ascribes a \\"motif industriale\\" on such  technologically-based innovation such that; first, technologies are never  neutral, &amp; some are hurtful; second, industrialism is always a  cataclysmic process, destroying the past, roiling the present, making the  future uncertain; third, only those serving an apprenticeship to nature can  be trusted with machines, fourth; the nation-state, synergistically  intertwined with industrialism, will always come to its aid and defense,  making revolts futile and reform ineffectual; fifth, that resistance to the  industrial system, based on moral principles and rooted in some sense of  moral revulsion, is not only possible but necessary; sixth, that resistance  to industrialism must force not only &quot;the machine question&quot; but  the viability of industrial society into public consciousness and debate;  seventh, philosophically, resistance to industrialism has to be embedded in  an  ideology that is morally informed, carefully articulated, and widely  shared; and eighth,  if industrial civilization does not eventually crumble  from determined resistance within its walls, it seems certain to eventually  crumble of its accumulated excesses and instabilities.<br />Of course, the  lessons from the experience of the Luddites are central to the issues of  our own time. Everywhere in the burgeoning postindustrial world citizens  face the same hurtful, impersonal, dehumanizing, and disenfranchising  effects of the rapidly changing technological landscape.  The central issue  of runaway technological progress is the degree to which it determines the  nature of the society it constantly interrupts, disrupts, and alters  through its ceaseless dynamic of industrial innovation. There is no human  face to this process, and it seems to be unresponsive, insensitive, and  totally indifferent to the dehumanizing effect on the individual human  beings who are so profoundly and negatively affected by its alterations,  wrenching changes, and undemocratically derived consequences. This is an  important and thought-provoking book, and one every concerned citizen  should take the time and energy to read.ain; third, only those serving an apprenticeship to nature can  be trusted with machines, fourth; the nation-state, synergistically  intertwined with industrialism, will always come to its aid and defense,  making revolts futile and reform ineffectual; fifth, that resistance to the  industrial system, based on moral principles and rooted in some sense of  moral revulsion, is not only possible but necessary; sixth, that resistance  to industrialism must force not only &quot;the machine question&quot; but  the viability of industrial society into public consciousness and debate;  seventh, philosophically, resistance to industrialism has to be embedded in  an  ideology that is morally informed, carefully articulated, and widely  shared; and eighth,  if industrial civilization does not eventually crumble  from determined resistance within its walls, it seems certain to eventually  crumble of its accumulated excesses and instabilities.<br />Of course, the  lessons from the experience of the Luddites are central to the issues of  our own time. Everywhere in the burgeoning postindustrial world citizens  face the same hurtful, impersonal, dehumanizing, and disenfranchising  effects of the rapidly changing technological landscape.  The central issue  of runaway technological progress is the degree to which it determines the  nature of the society it constantly interrupts, disrupts, and alters  through its ceaseless dynamic of industrial innovation. There is no human  face to this process, and it seems to be unresponsive, insensitive, and  totally indifferent to the dehumanizing effect on the individual human  beings who are so profoundly and negatively affected by its alterations,  wrenching changes, and undemocratically derived consequences. This is an  important and thought-provoking book, and one every concerned citizen  should take the time and energy to read.	2000-06-21
2412115:US	52447634	R2FN7NSQWJ0Y7Q	0452269806	359387335	The Age of Missing Information (Plume)	Books	5	28	29	N	N	A Thoughtful, Imaginative &amp; Scarey look At Media's Effect!	Welcome to our teletronic nightmare! &quot;The Age of Missing Information&quot; is an intriguing book that covers an interesting and diverting subject; the human effects of sustained exposure to the seductive  silver images flowing from our TV sets. As a people, we Americans are  increasingly spending more time immersing ourselves in these unnatural,  artificially generated, and carefully maintained environments, in what the  author describes as the dangerously seductive throes of a quite strange  (and unrepresentative) version of reality. This fascinating book cleverly  illustrates how we are negatively affected by such massive (and more and  more predominating) exposure to media-generated artifice.<br />Although the  immediate focus of the book revolves around comparing what he learns as a  result of a random 24 hour period in front of his boob tube as opposed to  another day spent out in the natural world, what he really seems to be  questioning is the electronic media's subtle but significant effect on our  consciousness, on the way we perceive, interpret, and interact with the  world outside our doors. It is chilling to recognize the degree to which  sustained congress with the electronic media negatively paints, influences,  and organizes our conscious perspectives on all we see and do. One of the  most dangerous results seems to be a receding appreciation for and  familiarity with the natural world. This can lead to some dangerous  confusion about what is and is not real.<br />For people habitually  electronically connected, the world of artifice &amp; entertainment becomes  the predominating influence on conscious awareness. What is the result of  sustained exposure to the electronic equivalent of junk food? No one seems  to know, but it can't be too great. The problem is that for a growing  number of young people, this is the life style of preference, one that  makes its devotees creatures drawn more to the flashy and entertaining  artificial images flashing on their TV screens than to more natural  features of the world outside the family den.  Like Chauncy Gardener, the  fictitious anti-hero of the movie \\"Being There\\", such individuals can  believe anything and know nothing because all they appreciate and have any  experience with is the sort of specious nonsense flooding out of their  televisions. Next time you wonder why an impressionable 11-year-old kid can  grab a pistol and shoot his teacher for little or no reason, ask yourself  how much TV violence he has been exposed to. Although this book constitutes  a chilling wake-up call, it is delivered in an humorous, entertaining, and  quite readable narrative, and is a book I would recommend that any  concerned adult read before letting Junior sit enraptured for hours by the  TV set as a surrogate babysitter. Enjoy!ing on their TV screens than to more natural  features of the world outside the family den.  Like Chauncy Gardener, the  fictitious anti-hero of the movie \\"Being There\\", such individuals can  believe anything and know nothing because all they appreciate and have any  experience with is the sort of specious nonsense flooding out of their  televisions. Next time you wonder why an impressionable 11-year-old kid can  grab a pistol and shoot his teacher for little or no reason, ask yourself  how much TV violence he has been exposed to. Although this book constitutes  a chilling wake-up call, it is delivered in an humorous, entertaining, and  quite readable narrative, and is a book I would recommend that any  concerned adult read before letting Junior sit enraptured for hours by the  TV set as a surrogate babysitter. Enjoy!	2000-06-21
2412232:US	52447634	RSTCLUAS1D132	0385420536	626095980	Adolf Hitler: The Definitive Biography	Books	5	177	190	N	N	The Single Best Biography of Hitler Yet Written!	For anyone truly interested in finding and reading a definitive biography of Adolph Hitler, this is the book.  This work is at once carefully documented and scholarly yet is also eminently readable and entertaining.  Although there is no single volume that adequately explains the mysterious  truth of Adolph Hitler the phenomenon, author John Toland delivers a most  informative and exhaustively researched manuscript that does help us to  understand Adolph Hitler the man. Toland spent several years researching  this book with intensive interviews by surviving principals, and had access  to a wide range of archival data and previously unpublished data and facts.  The result is this magisterial work.<br /><br />This is a book much like Toland's  previous efforts in that it concentrates heavily on interviews with a  literal torrent of people who had significant contact and knowledge of  Hitler, from those who surrounded him in his rise to power, and who  followed him into the ash and ruins of the embattled and besieged Third  Reich. From his early days in Austria, to his school boy experiences and  the discouraging failures of his early adulthood, through the heady but  painful days as a volunteer in the front lines during World War I, Toland  faithfully traces the rise and growth of this strange young man as he falls  prey to a variety of venomous and unfortunate ideas and prejudices that  mark him for life, and set the path to the kind of pathological aberrances  that characterized his beliefs and behaviors from that point on.<br /><br />Yet  Toland makes a painful effort to be non-judgmental, and carefully presents  all the facts as he can best determine them. This sometimes makes him err  on the side of presenting personal and perhaps subjective opinions of  others as fact, and this is typical of the Toland approach. While  recognizing the dangers in presenting a lot of information into the record  that might be inaccurate, twisted, or fanciful, he also wants us to hear  the whole story from all of the participant's viewpoints so we can make our  own informed judgment. In this sense Toland has a somewhat archaic belief  in the historical reader's critical skills and to be well-enough formed as  thinkers that he lets us judge for ourselves based on our interpretation of  the `facts' he presents rather than pre-digesting and coming to his own  conclusions for us.<br /><br />The busman's tour he takes through pre-war Germany,  observing and describing the collection of rag-tag malcontents accompanying  Hitler in his rise to power is quite interesting, as is his casual and  matter-of-fact presentation of what is certainly a horrifying plethora of  unbelievably provocative, ruthless and despicable acts on the parts of  Hitler and the national Socialists. Yet this is also history at its best,  unblinking, without comment or sentiment, and in-your-face. Much of what  you will read you can find elsewhere, but nowhere else can you find it  presented in the style and grace that Toland brings to the printed page.  Simply stated, this is an outstanding piece of historical biography, and is  also truly the standard against which all other, more recent works on Herr Hitler must be judged.  Enjoy!ear  the whole story from all of the participant's viewpoints so we can make our  own informed judgment. In this sense Toland has a somewhat archaic belief  in the historical reader's critical skills and to be well-enough formed as  thinkers that he lets us judge for ourselves based on our interpretation of  the `facts' he presents rather than pre-digesting and coming to his own  conclusions for us.<br /><br />The busman's tour he takes through pre-war Germany,  observing and describing the collection of rag-tag malcontents accompanying  Hitler in his rise to power is quite interesting, as is his casual and  matter-of-fact presentation of what is certainly a horrifying plethora of  unbelievably provocative, ruthless and despicable acts on the parts of  Hitler and the national Socialists. Yet this is also history at its best,  unblinking, without comment or sentiment, and in-your-face. Much of what  you will read you can find elsewhere, but nowhere else can you find it  presented in the style and grace that Toland brings to the printed page.  Simply stated, this is an outstanding piece of historical biography, and is  also truly the standard against which all other, more recent works on Herr Hitler must be judged.  Enjoy!	2000-06-21
2416555:US	52447634	R3FF46QD822QSR	0688143709	43563172	Prisoners of the Japanese: POWs of World War II in the Pacific	Books	5	56	60	N	N	A Comprehensive &amp; Penetrating Look At Japanese Atrocities!	While the number of books exploring the depths of Nazi depravity and mistreatment of Allied prisoners of war number in the hundreds, fewer books have given similar coverage to Japanese mistreatment of both combatant and  noncombatant Allied war prisoners during World War Two. This book remedies  that situation by carefully documenting and describing, quite often in the  testimony of eyewitnesses and survivors, both the scope and breath of this  absolutely unconscionable mistreatment, which included systematic denial of  medical treatment, widespread starvation, overwork, torture, and subjection  to medical experimentation. Yet fifty years later the government and people  of Japan still refuse to acknowledge responsibility or offer compensation  for a stream of atrocities committed against Allied prisoners. Indeed, they  seem more concerned and centered on seeking formal apologies from the  United States for having used the atomic bomb to end the war than with  atoning with their own trail of misdeed and atrocities.<br />This book also  raises profound and provocative questions about the way that Allied  prisoners were viewed by their own supreme commanders, who by some  estimates are complicit in the deaths (primarily through shelling and  bombing) of as many of 25 percent of all such prisoner casualties. This is  a well-written book, full not only of the horror stories of war as an  Allied prisoner subjected to atrocious mistreatment, but of individual  courage, selflessness, &amp; compassion among prisoners &amp; other  non-combatants, as well. His narrative style is compelling, eloquent, and  moving, with a well-honed eye for details, a good ear for idioms, and a  sense for the truly ironic. One walks away from this book feeling that the  prisoners also showed a rare kind of courage under fire.<br />I suggest those  who believe we visited an injustice on the Japanese by employing the atom  bomb to end the war read both this book and also \\"Tennozan\\", about the  bloody battle for Okinawa at the end of the Pacific war, where in 3 months  of fighting 23,000 Americans, 91,000 Japanese, and 150,000 Okinawans lost  their lives. Once one gains an informed perspective gained by understanding  both the sustained campaign of barbaric treatment by the Japanese of  combatants &amp; non-combatants, and also understands how the historical  and cultural roots of the Japanese toward combat in general and war in  particular informed their attitudes and battle-planning toward continuing  the war with the fervently expressed goal of making it as costly as  possible for the Allied invaders, it is difficult to avoid the wisdom  associated with dropping the bomb. I highly recommend this book.loody battle for Okinawa at the end of the Pacific war, where in 3 months  of fighting 23,000 Americans, 91,000 Japanese, and 150,000 Okinawans lost  their lives. Once one gains an informed perspective gained by understanding  both the sustained campaign of barbaric treatment by the Japanese of  combatants &amp; non-combatants, and also understands how the historical  and cultural roots of the Japanese toward combat in general and war in  particular informed their attitudes and battle-planning toward continuing  the war with the fervently expressed goal of making it as costly as  possible for the Allied invaders, it is difficult to avoid the wisdom  associated with dropping the bomb. I highly recommend this book.	2000-06-19
2416647:US	52447634	R14HW4RPNUNHJK	1565844459	942807016	The Nazis: A Warning from History	Books	4	35	35	N	N	A Photographic Journey Into The Hell Of Nazi Atrocities!	For the serious history student interested in a quick cold-water style immersion in an excellent though disturbing look at the murderous excesses of the Nazi years, this startling book provides a sanguine, surprising, and  totally readable overview of the brutalities, torturous acts, and murder  accomplished by the Germans during their 12-year reign of terror, complete  with hundreds of compelling photographs. Generated as a companion tome to a  History Channel documentary, this is a good introduction to the scope and  breadth of a mind-boggling range of Nazi atrocities perpetrated not only on  European Jews, but also to the infirm, mentally impaired, and to anyone  else they had motivation to exterminate. From the early acts of euthanasia  of its own `infirm' and \\"undesirables\\" to the systeamtic and publicly  witnessed clubbing murder of hundreds of Jews in the streets of 'liberated'  Latvian villages, this is a journey into the belly of the fascist  beast.<br />This is a cautionary (and absolutely historically accurate) tale,  made especially relevant in the year 2000 by the recent \\"ethnic cleansing\\"  barbarism in Bosnia and Kosovo, of what can happen when people begin to  surrender to the worst impulses of the social realm, and decide to ignore,  or stand aside, or to pretend they just don't see where it is all leading.  It has something to teach us about the very real dangers associated with  unleashing the politics of hate, of what happens when ordinary citizens let  other groups break the law to bully and terrorize minorities, when we let  the central Government get out of control. History, as told in this  excellent book, can teach us about how easily we humans succumb to  subconscious evil, and seem to passively slip, almost without really  deciding to, down the social and political slope to easy excuses and  euphemisms, toward depravity, torture, and genocide. This is a book I  highly recommend, although given its provocative and graphic photographic  contents I would use caution about limiting its viewing by younger readers.nts I would use caution about limiting its viewing by younger readers.	2000-06-19
2417275:US	52447634	RR52WOJTQ5KRU	1565845250	418448255	The German Army and Genocide: Crimes Against War Prisoners, Jews, and Other Civilians in the East, 1939-1944	Books	4	33	37	N	Y	A Shocking Portfolio of Evil Incarnate In the Wehrmacht!	No one who views this book can any longer doubt the complicity and cooperation of the general German armed forces, or Wehrmacht, in the murderous acts of Germany's ignominious Third Reich. Literally hundreds of  graphic and horrific photographs show average German soldiers shooting,  hanging, bludgeoning, or otherwise mistreating, torturing, and murdering  helpless civilian men, women and children during operations on the eastern  front. This is a grim but necessary book.<br />Most surprising is the fact  that the photographs were originally part of a German exhibition held in  commemoration of the 50th anniversary of the end of World War Two, and  constitute a damning condemnation of the role of the average German soldier  (as opposed to other specialized Waffen SS or Einsatzgruppe SS units) in  visiting the whole panoply of horrors of egregious war crimes on the native  populations of the subjugated countries during Operation Barbarossa. These  were not crimes committed against opposing military forces, but were rather  crimes committed against war prisoners, Jews, and other civilian segments  of the subjugated regions.<br />This is, by its very nature, not an easy or  pleasant book to view or read. One does so reluctantly and only in an  effort to learn more about the demons that ultimately threaten each of us,  as we face personal responsibility for all of our acts as individuals. The  conclusion one reaches after viewing these photographs and reading the  accompanying text is humbling, shocking, and intensely relevant, even  though some fifty years have passed.  With similar shocking events  composing the headlines and bylines of contemporary news casts, the most  shocking thing one realizes is that the world evidently has not yet learned  from its past, as events in Bosnia, Rwanda, Kosovo, and Somalia make  perfectly clear. Human life is still held in little regard, and everywhere  the ceremony of innocence is drowned in the blood and hate of ethnic,  tribal, or national pedigrees.<br />One problem with the book is that many of  the photographs are small and difficult to appreciate in their full impact  without a magnifying device. This, however, is a small quibble with a  brave, terrible, and significant book such as this one. This is a book we  should share with all those cynics who doubt that the Holocaust happened.  Perhaps they can explain the hundreds of photos of ordinary German soldiers  committing mayhem and murder in some clever fashion. Of course, the debate  over what happened is not over. But this book and the documentation it  constitutes makes understanding of the Holocaust and how it happened more  possible.or national pedigrees.<br />One problem with the book is that many of  the photographs are small and difficult to appreciate in their full impact  without a magnifying device. This, however, is a small quibble with a  brave, terrible, and significant book such as this one. This is a book we  should share with all those cynics who doubt that the Holocaust happened.  Perhaps they can explain the hundreds of photos of ordinary German soldiers  committing mayhem and murder in some clever fashion. Of course, the debate  over what happened is not over. But this book and the documentation it  constitutes makes understanding of the Holocaust and how it happened more  possible.	2000-06-18
2419379:US	52447634	R407TEHXDHBL6	1565845498	362038042	The Social History of the Third Reich, 1933-1945	Books	5	23	25	N	Y	A Compelling &amp; Rigorous Study of the Nazi Regime!	With this scholarly &amp; carefully researched book, author Pierre Aycoberry weighs once more into the ongoing debate concerning &quot;who&quot; within the National Socialist German state of the 1930s-40s  participated in the Holocaust, &amp; with as much import and significance,  also details the &quot;hows&quot; &amp; &quot;whys&quot;. In a previous  book, &quot;The Nazi Question&quot;, the author examined the scope &amp;  breadth of Nazi violence &amp; genocide, and described the participation of  the populace in terms of both active involvement &amp; passive  acquiescence. Here he approaches the issues by systematically cataloguing  the people, institutions, and individual events to see who actively  participated, who didn't, and why.<br />This is an exhaustive, rigorous, and  carefully documented academic study, and Aycoberry obviously has taken care  to be as deliberate and detailed as possible in grounding his assertions in  the substantive facts he can marshal to support them. What results from  this scrupulous approach is an illuminating look at who within the Nazi  regime participated, who didn't, as well as the respective rewards and  punishments or consequences associated with such individual choices. The  comprehensive picture that emerges is one of a complex modern industrial  state in which some segments of the population perceived the social  circumstances as offering opportunities for personal gain and took them,  while others resisted such temptations consistently, often to their own  disadvantage, detriment, and ultimate danger.<br />Of course, in all of this  is an implicit understanding that in modern societies the average man tends  to simply try to survive in whatever prevailing social and cultural  conditions he may find himself located within. What is more difficult to  piece together is the often puzzling question as to why so many seemed to  just go on with the growing violence with apparent indifference, willing to  acquiesce with whatever madness is presented as long as it doesn't  personally affect them or their loved ones. Such mass evidence of moral  cowardice is likely at the seat of the so-called &quot;German  question&quot;; i.e., how could a civilized, cultured people countenance or  participate in this kind of violence &amp; genocide?<br />One must consider  the author's findings in terms of recent tomes by authors such as Daniel  Goldhagen and Eric Johnson, each of whom interprets the answers to the  &quot;German Question&quot; in terms of active and willing mass  participation in the violence and genocidal activities of the regime.  Aycoberry is more circumspect, and much more specifically locates pockets  of both active participation and passive resistance. Thus, Germany did  become 'Nazified' through all its institutions; the military, churches,  schools, industry, and within the bureaucracies as well. In this sense, it  is difficult to deny the complicity of the people in the criminal actions  of the state. However, one must also recognize the frailties of millions of  ordinary people caught in extraordinary circumstances, trapped in an  oppressive society with a cultural history compelling obedience and  requiring passive acquiescence to its rules. Certainly this book will not  end the debate regarding who, how, and why, but does add important new  evidence more specifically locating pockets of participation and resistance  within the regime, and adding a scholarly thoughtfulness to the issue of  the complexity of the cultural situation leading to the Holocaust. This is  an important book, and one I would heartily recommend to all serious  students of 20th century history.ver madness is presented as long as it doesn't  personally affect them or their loved ones. Such mass evidence of moral  cowardice is likely at the seat of the so-called &quot;German  question&quot;; i.e., how could a civilized, cultured people countenance or  participate in this kind of violence &amp; genocide?<br />One must consider  the author's findings in terms of recent tomes by authors such as Daniel  Goldhagen and Eric Johnson, each of whom interprets the answers to the  &quot;German Question&quot; in terms of active and willing mass  participation in the violence and genocidal activities of the regime.  Aycoberry is more circumspect, and much more specifically locates pockets  of both active participation and passive resistance. Thus, Germany did  become 'Nazified' through all its institutions; the military, churches,  schools, industry, and within the bureaucracies as well. In this sense, it  is difficult to deny the complicity of the people in the criminal actions  of the state. However, one must also recognize the frailties of millions of  ordinary people caught in extraordinary circumstances, trapped in an  oppressive society with a cultural history compelling obedience and  requiring passive acquiescence to its rules. Certainly this book will not  end the debate regarding who, how, and why, but does add important new  evidence more specifically locating pockets of participation and resistance  within the regime, and adding a scholarly thoughtfulness to the issue of  the complexity of the cultural situation leading to the Holocaust. This is  an important book, and one I would heartily recommend to all serious  students of 20th century history.	2000-06-17
2419836:US	52447634	R3RDXF1V5JZ1NG	0446674710	823593231	The Year the Dream Died: Revisiting 1968 in America	Books	5	35	38	N	Y	A Perceptive, Insightful &amp; Entertaining Book About 1968!	This book is a must-read for anyone who lived through these fabled and troubled times and is willing to endure Witcover's often emotional and always gripping recreation of the events of that fateful year. For those of  us who were involved and are nostalgic about the people, hopes, and  aspirations we remember from those times, it is difficult to resist peeking  between the covers of any book written by Jules Witcover, a well-noted  journalist and author who was on-the-scene as a national correspondent as  the cataclysmic events of the sixties in general (and 1968 in particular)  transpired. Although it was sometimes personally painful to re-experience  by way of Witcover's Technicolor prose style about events that I either  participated in or was acutely associated with, it is also humbling and  encouraging to discover the degree to which he has accomplished this effort  with such terrific accuracy, verve, and perspective.<br />Too often today one  reads neo-conservative revisionist accounts of the sixties written by  bow-tied authors who were likely so busy squeezing prepubescent pimples in  the boys' room mirror of their local junior high schools in 1968 to really  have understood what was going on or what it meant.  Thus, they write  essays simple-mindedly equating 50s style bohemianism with the beliefs,  lifestyles, and perspectives of the counterculture, or promulgate the  erroneous notion that the sixties youth revolution was a simple coda of  sex, drugs, and rock &amp; roll, or that it's the aftermath of the  so-called \\"new-left\\" cult of permissiveness that is primarily responsible  for the breakdown in contemporary American culture.  Such silly,  superficial &amp; self-serving analysts of the sixties social scene would  do well to immerse themselves in tomes such as this to gain a better sense  of the times before launching into ignorant and self-serving diatribes.<br />The sixties defy such easy, unsophisticated, and facile explanations,  and it is difficult to now faithfully recollect the various individual  elements of those fractious times without a quite careful, deliberate,  &amp; objective search.  Many of the conditions for better understanding  are present in this book.  Witcover describes the month-by-month progress  of the year with excruciating detail and a unique sense for how to mix  various seemingly unrelated events and characteristics of a particular  moment to engender the faithful recall of its tone and flavor. He slowly  &amp; carefully recreates the stage for our understanding of how the  social, economic, and political sensitivities of millions of Americans with  different perspectives &amp; beliefs collided into cultural conflict, and  how the collective hopes &amp; dreams of many Americans for a better nation  were nearly destroyed beneath a flood of violence, deception and trauma  associated with the events of the year.<br />1968 was a year of great pitch  and moment for this country, a moment in time when the social fabric of the  country was nearly torn apart, and it was indeed a tragic year in the sense  that so much of what started out as positive, hopeful, and energetic ended  as being negative, discouraging, and dissolving. It was, as Charles Dickens  observed about a different revolutionary period, \\"the best of times and the  worst of times\\", it was a time when, for even the briefest of moments, the  social, economic and human possibilities of this country hung in the  balance, when a certain indescribable electricity hung in the air, and when  we thought we might just be able to turn this troubled and troubling world  around. Then it crashed back to earth. Jules Witcover describes this year  of such hope and despair as well as I have read to date. Read it and enjoy!icult to now faithfully recollect the various individual  elements of those fractious times without a quite careful, deliberate,  &amp; objective search.  Many of the conditions for better understanding  are present in this book.  Witcover describes the month-by-month progress  of the year with excruciating detail and a unique sense for how to mix  various seemingly unrelated events and characteristics of a particular  moment to engender the faithful recall of its tone and flavor. He slowly  &amp; carefully recreates the stage for our understanding of how the  social, economic, and political sensitivities of millions of Americans with  different perspectives &amp; beliefs collided into cultural conflict, and  how the collective hopes &amp; dreams of many Americans for a better nation  were nearly destroyed beneath a flood of violence, deception and trauma  associated with the events of the year. <br />1968 was a year of great pitch  and moment for this country, a moment in time when the social fabric of the  country was nearly torn apart, and it was indeed a tragic year in the sense  that so much of what started out as positive, hopeful, and energetic ended  as being negative, discouraging, and dissolving. It was, as Charles Dickens  observed about a different revolutionary period, \\"the best of times and the  worst of times\\", it was a time when, for even the briefest of moments, the  social, economic and human possibilities of this country hung in the  balance, when a certain indescribable electricity hung in the air, and when  we thought we might just be able to turn this troubled and troubling world  around. Then it crashed back to earth. Jules Witcover describes this year  of such hope and despair as well as I have read to date. Read it and enjoy!	2000-06-16
2420364:US	52447634	R31GPDPS46GZ6O	0201407183	732353032	Rebels Against The Future: The Luddites And Their War On The Industrial Revolution: Lessons For The Computer Age	Books	5	27	28	N	N	An Eloquent, Provocative & Thoughtful Critique !	\\"Rebels Against The Future\\" is a book with an important, relevant, and timely message. Written by Kirkpatrick Sale, a long-time editor of \\"The Nation\\", the book describes the historical struggle for human rights  against the forces of technological innovation by way of the saga of Ned  Ludd & his followers. By detailing this example, the author illustrates  how difficult it is, both historically and culturally, for individual  workers & ordinary people to successfully come to terms with the  anonymous and often overwhelming forces of an intractable and  self-propelled technical dynamic; industrial progress.    I first  came across this book last year by way of the internet; an excerpt of it  was posted on a neo-Luddite site I was browsing through. Reading this short portion hooked me on Mr. Sale's writing style and substance. This is  a book ostensibly devoted to the iconoclastic revolt by a small but  determined group of nineteenth century English cottage workers against the  hurtful introduction of new machines that, in essence, deprived them of an  opportunity to make a living and support themselves and their families.  It  was the first documented account of a group rebelling against the enforced  imposition by industrialists of new technology that was contrary to their  own social and economic interests.  It was not all machinery that the  so-called \\"Luddites\\" rebelled against; it was only those technological  innovations \\"but all Machinery hurtful to Commonality\\".  He forwards an  impressive, multi-faceted argument; each facet of the argument bearing on  various aspects of what the author associates with various characteristics  of technologies.    Thus, Sale ascribes a \\"motif industriale\\" on  such technologically-based innovation such that; first, technologies are  never neutral, & some are hurtful; second, industrialism is always a  cataclysmic process, destroying the past, roiling the present, making the  future uncertain; third, only those serving an apprenticeship to nature can  be trusted with machines, fourth; the nation-state, synergistically  intertwined with industrialism, will always come to its aid and defense,  making revolts futile and reform ineffectual; fifth, that resistance to the  industrial system, based on moral principles and rooted in some sense of  moral revulsion, is not only possible but necessary; sixth, that resistance  to industrialism must force not only \\"the machine question\\" but  the viability of industrial society into public consciousness and debate;  seventh, philosophically, resistance to industrialism has to be embedded in  an  ideology that is morally informed, carefully articulated, and widely  shared; and eighth, if industrial civilization does not eventually crumble  from determined resistance within its walls, it seems certain to eventually  crumble of its own accumulated excesses and instabilities.    Of course, the  lessons from the experience of the Luddites are central to the issues of  our own time. Everywhere in the burgeoning postindustrial world citizens  face the same hurtful, impersonal, dehumanizing, and disenfranchising  effects of the rapidly changing technological landscape.  The central issue  of runaway technological progress is the degree to which it acts without  meaningful citizen input to determine the nature of the society it  increasingly interrupts, disrupts, and alters through a ceaseless and  seemingly unmanaged and undirected dynamic of industrial innovation. There  seems to be no human face to this process, and it appears to be  unresponsive, insensitive, and totally indifferent to its  dehumanizing  effect on the millions of individual human beings who are so profoundly and  negatively affected by its ministrations. This is an important and  thought-provoking book, and one every concerned citizen should take the  time and energy to read.	2000-06-16
2421353:US	52447634	RHQK8TJRBIGQV	0812931955	784490193	Gray Dawn	Books	1	30	72	N	Y	This Book Is Silly, Superficial, &amp; Politically-Motivated!	This book is chock-full of speciousnonsense,employingsuperficial and misleading use of statistics,worst-case scenarios, and outright horror stories more designed to frighten and divide different elements of the American electorate for crass conservative political purposes than it is an objective and useful text about the subject at hand. What neo-conservative apologist Mr. Pete Petersen and the think-tank (isn't that an absolute oxymoron?) he's associated with doesn't want you to know is that our heroes in the U.S. Congress have been systematically frittering away the 'surplus' money all we aging soon-to-be-seniors have been contributing since the late 1960s in order to hide their own profligate and irresponsible spending agendas like STAR WARS and the new missile defense system that can't tell a warhead from a drone. Hey, guys! Have a bake-sale instead.<br />In essence, the only reason social security is potentially underfunded in the long-term is because of their ( ), waste, and abuse. A small corrective action taken now by Congress can correct an imbalance. Yeah, I know, congressional action is another oxymoron, but a fellow has to have some hope. Hey! Why don't we curtail the Congress's retirement program instead? Not in this life. More seriously, Mr Petersen uses the worst possible case scenario to build his case, assuming all seniors will stop working, that the economy will not contiue to grow, and ignoring the fact that all the money given to seniors by way of social security and medicare go back into the economy and is not &quot;lost&quot; at all, any more than money spent on defense or agriculture by the Congress is lost. Only in Mr. Petersen's neighborhood.<br />The bottom line in all this is that there are obviously a number of much better, clearer, and smarter books that make much more sense about the prospects associated with the aging babyboomer population as well as covering the welter of issues associated with the long-term social, economic, and political impacts one can reasonably associate with a gradually aging population. Try &quot;America The Wise&quot; by Theodore Roszak out instead, and consign this gloomy, silly, superficial and self-serving piece of neo-conservative political ( ) for the dustbin of history, where it rightly belongs.  ENDlitical impacts one can reasonably associate with a gradually aging population. Try &quot;America The Wise&quot; by Theodore Roszak out instead, and consign this gloomy, silly, superficial and self-serving piece of neo-conservative political ( ) for the dustbin of history, where it rightly belongs.  END	2000-06-16
2422716:US	52447634	R3Q9EDVTT161TN	0684834197	499613390	MacArthur's War : Korea and the Undoing of an American Hero	Books	4	42	45	N	Y	An Intriguing  Book About a Mesmerizing &amp; Enigmatic Subject!	No other modern American military leader engenders such controversy and hotly-expressed differences in opinion than General Douglas MacArthur. Certainly, there can be no argument against the fact that his previous  treatment by other authors such as William Manchester (\\"American Caesar\\")  etc. does a much more comprehensive and objective service than does this  book to anyone attempting to understand the man, his eccentricities, and  his actions during the tenure of his fifty-year career as a virtual  American military institution in the Orient. Yet, it should also be noted  that this volume adds considerably to our understanding of MacArthur the  man, the general, and the legend in an intriguing, unique, and somewhat  different take on Macarthur, his character, vanity, conduct, and a  blow-by-blow account of his prosecution of the Korean campaign.<br />At the  outbreak of the Korean conflict MacArthur was preoccupied as the  Governor-General of Japan with overseeing the reconstruction and  rehabilitation of the defeated nation, and his first efforts to conduct the  Korean campaign were through an attempt at long-distance management of the  actions &amp; ministrations of his field commanders. Of course, MacArthur  couldn't stay out of the action long, &amp; soon began actively interfering  with command decisions from afar, and this led to a number of strains,  breakdowns in communication, and military setbacks.  The miscommunications  and lack of clear and achievable military objective resulting from this  situation soon turned into a both a political and military debacle, and  according to Weintraub it was clear that MacArthur's fingerprints were all  over the place in terms of poor planning, strategy, and tactics.<br />Moreover, given MacArthur's legendary self-absorption and his ego-driven  association with Asian political potentates like national China's Chiang,  his approach toward the military campaign in Korea often seemed less  oriented to the stated and quite limited military goals of the Truman  administration than it was an effort to achieve his own set of political  objectives based on his own assessment of what the situation required, and  these were possibly tied to his own aspirations for the 1952 Republican  Presidential nomination, which he had reason to believe he could expect to  come his way.<br />However, it should also be said that no one could lead a  military action like MacArthur, and he was quite able, effective, and often  brilliant in eventually pushing the Chinese back to the 38th Parallel.  The  problem was that he just would not yield to the chain of command, and  through his campaign of sustained insubordination to President Truman  forced his own recall and dismissal. Talk about being your own worst  enemy!<br />In &quot;MacArthur's War&quot; author Weintraub treats us to a  massively documented and carefully detailed yet quite readable and entirely  entertaining view of the war in Korea. It is a blow-by-blow account of  this, the bloodiest, fiercest, and most hotly contested military engagement  since the Second World War. Told by way of the participants, and often in  their own words, this is an engaging, entertaining, and scrupulously  well-told history of a terrible conflict that cost 35,000 American lives  and still, after almost fifty years, has over 6,000 American MIAs  associated with it. This book should be read by anyone interested in  military history, or with anyone who just loves a terrific story well told.quite limited military goals of the Truman  administration than it was an effort to achieve his own set of political  objectives based on his own assessment of what the situation required, and  these were possibly tied to his own aspirations for the 1952 Republican  Presidential nomination, which he had reason to believe he could expect to  come his way.<br />However, it should also be said that no one could lead a  military action like MacArthur, and he was quite able, effective, and often  brilliant in eventually pushing the Chinese back to the 38th Parallel.  The  problem was that he just would not yield to the chain of command, and  through his campaign of sustained insubordination to President Truman  forced his own recall and dismissal. Talk about being your own worst  enemy!<br />In &quot;MacArthur's War&quot; author Weintraub treats us to a  massively documented and carefully detailed yet quite readable and entirely  entertaining view of the war in Korea. It is a blow-by-blow account of  this, the bloodiest, fiercest, and most hotly contested military engagement  since the Second World War. Told by way of the participants, and often in  their own words, this is an engaging, entertaining, and scrupulously  well-told history of a terrible conflict that cost 35,000 American lives  and still, after almost fifty years, has over 6,000 American MIAs  associated with it. This book should be read by anyone interested in  military history, or with anyone who just loves a terrific story well told.	2000-06-15
2424361:US	52447634	R1LD6WME604396	0684811413	155478329	One World Ready or Not: The Manic Logic of Global Capitalism	Books	5	59	69	N	N	Provocative, Insightful, Compassionate Look at the 3rd Wave	No one writes with more verve, insight, and human compassion than long-time Rolling Stone contributor and Editor William Greider. His perspective always centers on the human cost of social phenomena, and is  always heartfelt, compassionate, and extremely well focused. In this book  he centers in brilliantly on the ways in which the so-called &quot;Third  Wave&quot; of global trading and commerce is poised to transform the  social, economic, and political landscape of the countries in which it is  being introduced. His writing skills are superb, and the ordinarily dry and  stuffy stuff of economics come alive in this highly readable and quite  entertaining work. In fact, reviewer Brink Lindsey of the Kirkus Review  called this book &quot;the best-written book on the global economy&quot; he  had ever read. Ditto, Mr. Lindsey, ditto.<br />I also agree with his  observations calling the prose energized, clear, and sharp. However, I  disagree with the negative criticism many other critics and reviewers have  voiced concerning Mr. Greider's conclusions herein, which seem to center on  the fact that he is not an apologist, fellow-traveler, or celebrant of the  new global forces. Indeed, Mr. Greider's perspective is more sanguine,  expressing concern of the many ways in which this fundamentally  anti-democratic new commerce tends toward becoming a revolutionary &amp;  extraordinarily well-focused force literally power-hosing the new wealth  generated by this commerce in the direction of the rich and well placed at  the expense of almost everyone else.<br />Who can argue against the  observation that we increasingly face an amazing conundrum when in face of  the greatest sustained period of prosperity in the last forty years many  people at the lower reaches of the socioeconomic spectrum are slipping  farther and farther behind, that this prosperity is not acting to level the  playing field, but, on the contrary is intensifying the distances and  qualitative life styles of the affluent and the poor, or with the  observation that consistently the indifferent, selfish and affluent  conservative Republicans, ignoring the needs and problems of a majority of  others, still demand  a substantial tax refund for themselves at the  expense of the rest of the populace?  The truth speaks for itself in the  sense that the governments of the world seem either uninterested or unable  to regulate, limit, or meaningfully constrain the powers, policies, or  dispositions of the multi-national corporations who now produce,  distribute, and control the majority of the world's commercial efforts.<br />These corporations seem to be primarily motivated by motives much less  socially responsive or oriented than they are profit-centered. Unless one  actually believes in the silly, self-serving and patently ridiculous  nonsense about Adam Smith's `invisible hand' of the market place, believing  that somehow an unregulated and unconstrained world economy will  automatically and magically manage and self-corrrect itself through the  countervailing forces of the marketplace (can I sell you some of my old  lottery tickets?), one must take heed of the plethora of examples one can  readily observe concerning the changes in our social, economic, and  political environment that stem from the effects of this new `global  economy'.<br />In summary, Greider argues that the world is headed for a  difficult &amp; chaotic set of social &amp; economic circumstances;  disastrous levels of industrial plant overcapacity, unmanageable surplus  goods, unemployable labor pools, frantic &amp; often irrational stock  speculation, unserviceable debts, and chronic massive unemployment.  While  all may seem to be wonderful to a casual observer watching along the  surface, we are in fact skating bravely over the very thin ice of a totally  new and revolutionary set of socioeconomic circumstances, and we should  hardly be racing across this fragile and frozen expanse so quickly or so  recklessly, trusting so blindly in so many anonymous corporate forces that  historically have never bothered to concern themselves with the social,  economic or political consequences following in the wake of their  profit-oriented activities. Given the increasingly random &amp;  uncontrollable flow &amp; use of capital, coming to terms with this  emerging bulwark of the `new world order' will be increasingly problematic.  His conclusions are similar to those of neo-Luddite authors like Sales  Kirkpatrick and Theodore Roszak, who have come to similar conclusions about  the increasingly serious situation emerging concerning a technical,  commercial, and economic world spiraling out of control. In my opinion,  Greider's book is a heaven-sent call to arms; the first issued by a  mainstream social critic whose argument we would all do well to consider.recklessly, trusting so blindly in so many anonymous corporate forces that  historically have never bothered to concern themselves with the social,  economic or political consequences following in the wake of their  profit-oriented activities. Given the increasingly random &amp;  uncontrollable flow &amp; use of capital, coming to terms with this  emerging bulwark of the `new world order' will be increasingly problematic.  His conclusions are similar to those of neo-Luddite authors like Sales  Kirkpatrick and Theodore Roszak, who have come to similar conclusions about  the increasingly serious situation emerging concerning a technical,  commercial, and economic world spiraling out of control. In my opinion,  Greider's book is a heaven-sent call to arms; the first issued by a  mainstream social critic whose argument we would all do well to consider.	2000-06-14
2425596:US	52447634	R3UA8J86SGNRJQ	0195083989	368769477	The Unreality Industry: The Deliberate Manufacturing of Falsehood and What It Is Doing to Our Lives	Books	4	28	30	N	N	A Penetrating &amp; Disturbing Look At The Electronic Media	I was literally blown away by this remarkable book and its well-argued and carefully documented thesis regarding the ways in which contemporary Americans are victimized and manipulated into a kind of strange, conjured,  and artificial perspective of the world around them through the rise and  active ministrations of the &quot;unreality industry&quot;. Here is an  eye-opening expose on the specific ways in which we are being influenced,  entertained, and carefully manipulated even as we strive to learn more  about the world around us. Reading this remarkable book helped me to better  understand the ways in which the rise of the electronic media to a position  of prominence (if not complete domination) of the promulgation,  interpretation, and dissemination of information has profoundly changed the  way we have come to view, interpret and understand the world around us.<br />  The authors carefully describe, articulate and identify those  characteristics of the media that cause many of us such vague unease  regarding the way the media increasingly seems to focus on provocative,  entertaining and diverting news stories which often are of only tangential  import to us as citizens or individuals. We're subjected to obligatory  overdoses on petty, arcane and distracting stores about Michael Jackson, OJ  Simpson, Susan Smith, Bill Clinton's cigar fetishes, and the vagaries of  the stock market, while vital and critical issues of importance and  relevance to us as individuals or as citizens are systematically ignored.  According to Mitroff and Bennis, everything about the way the news programs  are organized and presented leads us to increasingly view the news more as  a vehicle for entertainment than as a method of informing ourselves to be  involved citizens, so we come to expect ever-greater levels of stimulation  and excitement by virtue of this stylized approach to what is important  enough to report and present over the airwaves.  Slowly we come to forget  the critical differences between entertainment and information.<br />For the  authors, as for an increasingly alarmed number of academics and social  critics, the basic dialectic at hand revolves between objective and  discernable \\"reality\\", on the on hand, and this artificially-generated,  diverting, entertaining, but basically incorrect version of it called  \\"unreality\\", a dialectic which more and more favors the organized  collective forces of the media, who present such entertaining and stylized  notions of what is relevant, cogent and important for us to pay attention  to is not necessarily as accurate or as objectively disinterested as it may  seem to be on the surface. We would do well to remember that the outcome of  this struggle to correctly understand the world and how it operates is of  desperate importance, and our eagerness to be entertained and diverted from  the most egregious and disagreeable aspects of the modern environment must  not allowed to become an addiction to fantasy, growing ignorance, and  critical stupidity.l differences between entertainment and information.<br />For the  authors, as for an increasingly alarmed number of academics and social  critics, the basic dialectic at hand revolves between objective and  discernable \\"reality\\", on the on hand, and this artificially-generated,  diverting, entertaining, but basically incorrect version of it called  \\"unreality\\", a dialectic which more and more favors the organized  collective forces of the media, who present such entertaining and stylized  notions of what is relevant, cogent and important for us to pay attention  to is not necessarily as accurate or as objectively disinterested as it may  seem to be on the surface. We would do well to remember that the outcome of  this struggle to correctly understand the world and how it operates is of  desperate importance, and our eagerness to be entertained and diverted from  the most egregious and disagreeable aspects of the modern environment must  not allowed to become an addiction to fantasy, growing ignorance, and  critical stupidity.	2000-06-14
2426010:US	52447634	R3TA4A4CLKJ7YS	0393046710	46961500	Hitler: 1889-1936 Hubris	Books	5	112	124	N	Y	A Superb Biographical Treatment of Hitler's &amp; The Times!	This superb book draws the reader closer to understanding this historically enigmatic and often bizarre human being who so changed the world of the 20th century.  Although there are a myriad of such books that  have appeared in the half-century since Hitler's demise in the dust and  rubble of Berlin, this particular effort, which draws from hundreds of  secondary sources, many of which have never before been cited, paints an  authentic and masterful portrait of Hitler as an individual.  This is an  absolutely singular historical work; and it will almost certainly displace  other, older tomes as the standard text on the early life and rise of  Adolph Hitler.<br />Although I must confess that I intensely dislike reading  through the early years of most biographies as depicted in so many other  treatments of famous individuals, I loved reading this particular book.  Kershaw takes a quite different and novel approach, and it is one I  enjoyed. Here, by carefully locating and fixing the individual in the  context and welter of his times, it yields a much more enlightening  approach toward painting a meaningful comprehensive picture of how a  neglected and conflicted boy meaningfully became such a terribly flawed and  troubled man. Thus, we see the boy grow and change in whatever fashion into  a man, tracing the rise of this troubled malcontent from the anonymity of  Viennese shelters to a fiery and meteoric rise into politics, culminating  in his ascent to rule Germany.  Kershaw memorably recreates the social,  economic, and political circumstances that bent and twisted Hitler so  fatefully for the history of the world.<br />Hitler was, in Kershaw's  estimation, a man most representative of his times, reflecting a widespread  disaffection with democratic politics, steeped in the virulent  anti-Semitism of his Viennese environment, twisted and experienced in the  cruelties and absurdities of the First World War, thrust by circumstance  and disposition into the sectarian, dyspeptic, and rough &amp; tumble  politics of the 1920s, and rising by finding himself the most unlikely of  politicians with an unusual ability to orate and emote. It is also  interesting to discover that Hitler had an unusually acute (though uneven)  intellect, is rumored to have possesed a 'photographic memory', and was  said to have an amazing ability to discuss and quote facts and figures and  then subsequently casually weave them into a conversation that witnesses  found spellbinding and convincing. He was also unquestionably quite  charismatic and charming.<br />From the beginning Kershaw argues it is  impossible to understand `why' Hitler without understanding this extremely  toxic and strange combination of social, economic, and cultural factors  that characterized Germany in the post-war era.  Thus, by the time he  begins his ineluctable rise to power, we much better understand both `how'  and `why' such a seemingly unlikely cast of characters as the Nazis  succeeded so wildly beyond what one would expect to be possible in a sane  and sophisticated modern industrial state.<br />This is fascinating stuff,  as is his treatment of the concomitant rise of the slugs, thugs, and  under-life accompanying him into the corridors of power and influence.  Here is the world's greatest single collection of otherwise underachieving  bullies, fanatics, pseudo-intellectuals, and fellow travelers, who clashed  into an uneasy coalescence that formed the nucleus of the single greatest  force for collective evil seen in the modern world.  One's mind reels at  the scene at the book's conclusion, as the newly formed Nazi power  structure begins applying the progressively strangulating neck-lock on  Germany's Jews, religious leaders, and other `malcontents'. I await the  publication of volume two of this effort with eager anticipation. Enjoy!n, dyspeptic, and rough &amp; tumble  politics of the 1920s, and rising by finding himself the most unlikely of  politicians with an unusual ability to orate and emote. It is also  interesting to discover that Hitler had an unusually acute (though uneven)  intellect, is rumored to have possesed a 'photographic memory', and was  said to have an amazing ability to discuss and quote facts and figures and  then subsequently casually weave them into a conversation that witnesses  found spellbinding and convincing. He was also unquestionably quite  charismatic and charming. <br />From the beginning Kershaw argues it is  impossible to understand `why' Hitler without understanding this extremely  toxic and strange combination of social, economic, and cultural factors  that characterized Germany in the post-war era.  Thus, by the time he  begins his ineluctable rise to power, we much better understand both `how'  and `why' such a seemingly unlikely cast of characters as the Nazis  succeeded so wildly beyond what one would expect to be possible in a sane  and sophisticated modern industrial state.   <br />This is fascinating stuff,  as is his treatment of the concomitant rise of the slugs, thugs, and  under-life accompanying him into the corridors of power and influence.   Here is the world's greatest single collection of otherwise underachieving  bullies, fanatics, pseudo-intellectuals, and fellow travelers, who clashed  into an uneasy coalescence that formed the nucleus of the single greatest  force for collective evil seen in the modern world.  One's mind reels at  the scene at the book's conclusion, as the newly formed Nazi power  structure begins applying the progressively strangulating neck-lock on  Germany's Jews, religious leaders, and other `malcontents'. I await the  publication of volume two of this effort with eager anticipation. Enjoy!	2000-06-13
2426707:US	52447634	R24YVVXJMYB5ST	0765804360	52822048	Main Currents in Sociological Thought: Durkheim, Pareto, Weber	Books	5	28	29	N	Y	Volume Two of THE  Textbook On Classical Social Theory!	This is the second of the superb two-volume treatment of classical social theory written by the famous French Professor and philosopher Raymond Aron. This volume centers around the theories of French sociologist Emile  Durkheim, Italian theorist Vilfredo Pareto, and German sociologist Max  Weber, all of whom examined the social and cultural tendencies of modern  industrial societies. This is a masterful treatment not only of each  theorist's ideas but also how each fits into the overall growth in  understanding the structure and function of modern industrial society and  what makes it work. Thus, his text strings together the various aspects of  each theorist's work into a common thread that links them to their  predecessors like Auguste Comte and Karl Marx, on the one hand, and later  theorists like Sorokin, C. Wright Mills, and Talcott Parsons, on the other.<br />This approach works brilliantly, largely because of Aron's  contribution. His treatment of Durkheim and Weber are simply the standard  against which other, and much more detailed treatments are judged. The same  is true of his treatment of Karl Marx in Volume One. The two books, which  originally were created as part of a yearlong graduate seminar Aron taught  at the University of Paris, are an artful combination of scholarship and  repartee. Aron's tone is suitable scholarly and thoughtful, and yet is also  eminently readable and accessible to the average reader. This two volume  set, first printed in hardcover in the mid 1960s, has never been long out  of print in the forty years since, and has long been the standard text for  use in graduate courses in classical sociological theory.<br />One caution is  appropriate, however. These books are not for Everyman, although they are  written in a style and a language that makes them quite accessible and easy  to comprehend and understand. Rather, the two volume set is more apt  reading material for those readers who are seriously interested in the  western tradition of classical social thought, and it acts as a suitable  introduction to the heritage of critical thought and intellectual insight  extending back hundreds of years in western thought. Enjoy!adition of classical social thought, and it acts as a suitable  introduction to the heritage of critical thought and intellectual insight  extending back hundreds of years in western thought. Enjoy!	2000-06-13
2428149:US	52447634	R14NH4GF8XPPPL	0385080042	455416551	001: Main Currents in Sociological Thought: Montesquieu, Comte, Marx, Tocqueville, the Sociologists, and the Revolution of 1848 (English and French Edition)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Volume One of THE Text of Classical Sociological Theory!	This is the first of the superb two-volume treatment of classical social theory written by the famous French Professor and philosopher Raymond Aron. This first volume centers around the theories of a number of early  sociological theorist, ranging from the eccentric theorist and philosopher  Auguste Comte, to Alexis deToqueville, to Montesquieu, and finally to Karl  Marx. Professor Aron traces how the contribution of each helped to create  the foundation of modern social theory, and he masterfully threads these  collective contributions together into a narrative of theory that later  masters of sociological thought like Durkheim, Pareto, and Max Weber then  built upon. This is an acclaimed and masterful treatment not only of each  theorist's ideas but also how each fits into the overall growth in  understanding the structure and function of modern industrial society and  what makes it work. Thus, his text strings together the various aspects of  each theorist's work into a common thread that links them to their  successors.<br />This approach works brilliantly, largely because of Aron's  contribution. His treatment of Karl Marx is particularly masterful, and is  perhaps the standard against which other, and much more detailed treatments  are judged. The same is true of his treatment Durkheim and Max Weber in the  second volume. The two books, which originally were created as part of a  yearlong graduate seminar Aron taught at the University of Paris, are an  artful combination of scholarship and repartee. Aron's tone is suitable  scholarly and thoughtful, and yet is also eminently readable and accessible  to the average reader. This two volume set, first printed in hardcover in  the mid 1960s, has never been long out of print in the forty years since,  and has long been the standard text for use in graduate courses in  classical sociological theory.<br />One caution is appropriate, however.  These books are not for Everyman, although they are written in a style and  a language that makes them quite accessible and easy to comprehend and  understand. Rather, the two volume set is more apt reading material for  those readers who are seriously interested in the western tradition of  classical social thought, and it acts as a suitable introduction to the  heritage of critical thought and intellectual insight extending back  hundreds of years in western thought. Enjoy!d  a language that makes them quite accessible and easy to comprehend and  understand. Rather, the two volume set is more apt reading material for  those readers who are seriously interested in the western tradition of  classical social thought, and it acts as a suitable introduction to the  heritage of critical thought and intellectual insight extending back  hundreds of years in western thought. Enjoy!	2000-06-13
2429016:US	52447634	R27NDFR5NPIKBC	0670886939	928300055	Hitler's Pope: The Secret History of Pius XII	Books	5	88	129	N	N	A Fascinating and Very Human Look At Pope Pius XII	Although the title may be somewhat sensational and a bit misleading, this is an absorbing and disturbing book that ultimately questions the degree to which Pope Pius XII suffered from a number of worldly ambitions and  perceptions that actively interfered with his prosecution of the Lord's  work during the beginning of his own papacy during World War Two. I  personally found it fascinating to read about the pre-papal life of a man  who obviously was ambitious, extremely intelligent and almost  pathologically focused on his own career contribution to the Catholic  Church.  For those of us non-Catholics so impressed and convinced by the  holy examples and lifelong dedication of the current pope, it is hard to  recall or understand the degree to which the papacy has been the locus of  historical intrigue and ecumenical politics.  This book does so  impressively.<br />After all, the Catholic Church is one of the most durable  and influential political institutions of the last two millennia, so it  shouldn't be hard to appreciate the degree to which its influence and  resources make it an institution to be reckoned with. Like any such  institution, it takes considerable political finesse to steer its way into  the long-distance future, and this takes politically savvy and worldly men  with an ability to operate and interact successfully with the powers that  be in the world outside the walls  of the Vatican.  Although never so  framed, the real question the author asks is if such men so disposed make  good religious leaders as well.  Certainly, the devastating account  detailed here of the ecclesiastical and then papal career of Eugenio  Pacelli (1876-1958), who became Pope Pius XII in 1939, offers the reader  ample proof that the kind of man who excels at papal intrigue in service of  papal objectives beyond the sacred confines of Vatican City does so at the  risk of his mortal soul.<br />To be more specific, in his congress with the  emerging evil of fascism in Italy and with Germany's National Socialism,  Pacelli the strategist, church official, Arch-Bishop, and Cardinal seems to  lose sight of his own humanity by way of his service and almost fanatical  dedication to the policies of Church. From his involvement in the early  1920s with the notion of papal absolutism, Pacelli consistently makes the  correct politically expedient compromises with worldly agencies and  governments in service to the progress and acceptance of this papal  doctrine. The future pope seems to become so exclusively ensnared in the  dictates of the long-term political needs of the Church that he  conveniently ignores and neglects the fine details in this growing trail of  diabolical compromises with a series of devils. As one reads this, the  picture progressively painted of the future Pope Pius XII is not that of an  evil or mendacious man, but rather an altogether too empathetic, fatally  flawed, and human one, reminding us that even Christ's Vicar on earth must  deal on a personal level with the devils in his life.<br />It is saddening to  learn of his growing tendencies to collaborate and compromise with the  Fascists and Nazis, &amp; how his own views of the Catholic Church's role  weakened the Church's moral role &amp; voice for reason and tolerance  during the Holocaust. Yet it is hard to interpret Pacelli's acts in the  1930s and his deafening silence and virtual abdication of any substantive  moral role as Pope Pius XII in any alternative way. The Church remained  curiously silent about the early excesses of Hitler &amp; the Nazis, and in  doing so neglected the use of the moral voice of the Church both within  &amp; without Germany to stem the tide the Nazis then rode to a tragic  conclusion. It is one of the ironies of history that such should be the  case, and that recognizing &amp; admitting should taken fifty years. This  is an intriguing, important, &amp; thoughtfully written book, &amp; one I  personally appreciated having an opportunityto read.y to read.	2000-06-12
2430459:US	52447634	R299JFUIUVV4IM	0785793399	753226033	Coming Plague : Newly Emerging Diseases in a World Out of Balance	Books	5	62	64	N	N	Critically Important Book On Emerging Public Health Issues	With recent news blurbs concerning the possible threat from strains of the West Nile virus in the northeastern part of the country this summer, the urgent importance of this book is quietly being reinforced. This important  effort by journalist Laurie Garrett is a whopper; a long, carefully  documented and quite readable text giving an overview of the worldwide  efforts of the \\"insect fighters' at the Center for Disease Control (CDC) of  the U.S. Public Health Service and other agencies ranging from the U.N to  state, university and local agencies to combat a panoply of both new  biological agents like HIV, Ebola, and the West Nile virus as well as new  and much more virulent and drug-resistant strains of old enemies like  tuberculosis, bubonic plague, a number of venereal diseases, and complex  new public health concerns like Toxic Shock Syndrome.<br />Ms Garrett's  highly detailed and exhaustively documented thesis, written while on a  graduate fellowship at Harvard, is both frightening and hard to ignore. She  posits that through our environmental arrogance and stupidity, the general  medical strategies of the western societies, and our consistent overuse of  antibiotics, we are quickly losing the continuing fight to keep the general  public of both the postindustrial nations and the less developed world safe  from the wild panoply of microbiological agents that are out there in the  environment, and we are, through our encroachment on wilderness areas never  before populated by humans, unnecessarily introducing segments of the  population to new microbiological agents who then find a vector or path  into human habitation and resultant infection. Moreover, the increasing  levels of world commerce and concomitant travel among the nations of the  world mean that someone infected in the jungles of South America or  equatorial Africa can be in a restaurant in New York City or at the beach  on Martha's Vineyard several days later as the agent starts its formidable  and often highly contagious microbiological attack. This is truly scary  stuff.<br />One becomes increasingly concerned about the safety of the general  public and for our relative lack of public health preparedness as one winds  through the pages of this long book. The approach is one of individual  story telling, and while this makes the book much more readable and  entertaining, it also tends to repeat a lot of information that one could  otherwise avoid. Yet this is truly a minor quibble with a facintaing and  fact-packed book that often made me feel like I was taking a graduate  seminar in \\"Current Issues in Infectious Epidemiology\\". It's tone is both  approachable and yet scholarly, a rare treat to enjoy, and Ms Garrett's  obvious intelligence and ability to communicate shines here, as she makes  complex environmental, infectious disease, and human issues converge in an  understandable and compelling way.<br />Finally, she makes an excellent case  for increased public awareness as well as immediate political action to  restore and reinvigorate the vitality and capability of our local, state,  and national public health agencies, and certainly has increased my own  awareness and concern for the ongoing scientific effort to battle the  microbes. If her argument that many of the gains of the 20th century in  public health (and the healthy longevity we enjoy as a result) are  increasingly at risk is correct, we must take action to combat the wide  range of problems she discusses to avoid a serious long-term breakdown in  our public health system.  This is an important book that has sparked a  serious national and international public debate about some critically  important issues that could literally potentially affect billions of people  across the globe. I recommend it, hope it will be even more widely read,  and hope you read it, too.nd often highly contagious microbiological attack. This is truly scary  stuff.<br />One becomes increasingly concerned about the safety of the general  public and for our relative lack of public health preparedness as one winds  through the pages of this long book. The approach is one of individual  story telling, and while this makes the book much more readable and  entertaining, it also tends to repeat a lot of information that one could  otherwise avoid. Yet this is truly a minor quibble with a facintaing and  fact-packed book that often made me feel like I was taking a graduate  seminar in \\"Current Issues in Infectious Epidemiology\\". It's tone is both  approachable and yet scholarly, a rare treat to enjoy, and Ms Garrett's  obvious intelligence and ability to communicate shines here, as she makes  complex environmental, infectious disease, and human issues converge in an  understandable and compelling way. <br />Finally, she makes an excellent case  for increased public awareness as well as immediate political action to  restore and reinvigorate the vitality and capability of our local, state,  and national public health agencies, and certainly has increased my own  awareness and concern for the ongoing scientific effort to battle the  microbes. If her argument that many of the gains of the 20th century in  public health (and the healthy longevity we enjoy as a result) are  increasingly at risk is correct, we must take action to combat the wide  range of problems she discusses to avoid a serious long-term breakdown in  our public health system.  This is an important book that has sparked a  serious national and international public debate about some critically  important issues that could literally potentially affect billions of people  across the globe. I recommend it, hope it will be even more widely read,  and hope you read it, too.	2000-06-12
2430775:US	52447634	R3UH95OMF00RVY	039585699X	108825282	America the Wise: Longevity, Revolution and the True Wealth of Nations	Books	5	17	17	N	Y	A Great Introduction To The Graying Of America!	This is bound to become a provocative &amp; well-debated title; Roszak takes a broad-based series of well-aimed salvos at the conservative \\"Cassandras\\" who seem to be confusing the historical elderly dependencies  of the past as indicative of what the new elderly composed of the aging  baby-boomer generation will become.  Nonsense, says Roszak, who argues  persuasively that unlike their parents and grandparents, the baby-boomers  will compose a revolutionary new social, economic and political force to be  reckoned with in their seniority.<br />Given the considerable evidence of the  new prosperity the \\"sixties\\" generation enjoys, and the likelihood that  they will increasingly enjoy better health, more free time, and better  opportunities to energetically express themselves than any previous elderly  population in history, Roszak sees them as becoming a potent new force in  American society, a force that can be usefully harnessed to the benefit of  contemporary culture.  Given the sheer numbers of the \\"new\\" elderly posed  to find themselves at loose ends in the next 20 years, and the fact that  the demographics of contemporary society are being altered in favor of  greater proportions of older citizens (the so-called \\"graying of America\\"),  it is hard to argue with much of what Roszak describes.<br />Certainly, as a  recent early retiree myself, I can attest to the veracity of many of the  points he makes in terms of my own situation. At age 53, I hardly see  myself as slowing down, or as continuing my former ways in terms of  concentrating on a career based primarily on what one ordinarily refers to  as economic considerations. In short, I am looking forward to greater  involvement in the community, in making substantial personal contributions  in terms of time and energy to social issues I am concerned with, and to  being more of a resource for family and friends. According to the author, I  will not be alone.  Tens of millions of my post-war baby-boom generation  will soon be smiling beside me.<br />Of course, many critics point out that  Roszak has made a long, illustrious career out of chronicling the  baby-boomer generation, and that many of his previous notions weren't  accurate. Yet for anyone taking the time &amp; energy to read either \\"The  Making of a Counterculture\\" or \\"Where the Wasteland Ends\\" will find that  his writing was perceptive, prescient, &amp; insightful.  Here, too, he  debunks the ideas of conservative nay-sayers like Peter Peterson (\\"Gray  Dawn\\"), who claim the coming crush of retiring baby-boomers will mean hard  times for younger Americans in particular &amp; a troubled economic burden  for America in general.<br />\\"Bosh!\\" claims Roszak, who points out that the  new elderly have more material resources, are better educated, &amp; are  much more likely to continue to be gainfully employed after retirement than  were their parents or grandparents.  Indeed, given the booming economy  associated with the digital revolution &amp; the fact that many  baby-boomers have unique expertise in the information industry, the  \\"sixties\\" generation is much more likely to be in a favorable economic  situation that any preceding generation of elder citizens. In fact, Roszak  believes that they will be of continuing assistance to their children and  grandchildren in helping them to continue to live the `good life' they have  become accustomed to.<br />Finally, the author provides a great deal of  evidence and logic in arguing that the coming new generation swell of  elderly citizens will be potentially the single most positive social,  political, and economic force of the new millennium. This is a slim but  significant book, one that provides a number of perceptive cultural  insights (e.g. Roszak's description of contemporary youth lost to apathetic  and petty diversions in the electronic arcades our culture is devolving  into is terrific), &amp; offers a number of ideas for serious discussion  &amp; contemplation. Iheartily recommend it for any serious student of the  social scene. Enjoy!lation. I heartily recommend it for any serious student of the  social scene. Enjoy!	2000-06-11
2431968:US	52447634	RIGA0I768L2IZ	0306806525	17683357	The Bitter Woods: The Battle of the Bulge	Books	5	114	117	N	N	Stirring &amp; Interesting Look At The Battle of The Bulge	There is certainly no shortage of excellent and detailed titles dealing with this subject, from Stephen Ambrose's own &quot;Citizen Soldiers&quot; to John Toland's &quot;Battle&quot; to Charles B. MacDonald's &quot;A Time  For Trumpets&quot;, yet this, too, is an excellent and inspiring cover of  the events leading up to and including the Battle of the Bulge.  This book  follows in the vein of detailing at the unit level what the war was like  for the man on the ground, and incorporates a lot of first person testimony  a la Stephen Ambrose.<br />Thus, the reader is treated to a very thorough  look at what the moment-to-moment experience was like from a number of the  men who were there to fight it. As Col. Eisenhower was also a career  military man following in his famous father's footsteps, he speaks with  obvious authority and knowledge about the multitude of factors leading to  the engagement on both sides, and one gains an appreciation for his  expertise if not for his somewhat pedantic and limited writing skills.  Still, the book is an interesting and accessible reading experience.<br />Of  course, since I had already read a number of other titles covering the same  ground, much of the material was repetitive, but my impression after  finishing it was that &quot;The Bitter Woods&quot; is a very authoritative  single volume on the campaign, and that it competes favorably with all the  others, although I should not want to so limit myself to a single such  source for this, one of the finest moments in American war history. It is  stirring to read about the first hand experiences of the tired,  overextended, and under armed units of the American forces as they first  engage the overwhelming German juggernaut. Beaten to a pulp, they regroup,  and surrounded, outnumbered, outgunned, and outmaneuvered, in a desperate  hand to hand combat, fight back with hellish ferocity and beat the German  forces back.<br />This account puts to the lie the idea that the only  reason we won the war was superior number and endless logistics. Deprived  of those two advantages during the extremely bad weather during the worst  part of the battle, the U.S. Army simply outfought their German attackers.  I personally would recommend you read this book hand in hand with the  Toland book (&quot;Battle&quot;), for together they provide a really  complete and quite varied look at all of the aspects of one of the most  tenaciously fought battles on the western front of the European theater of  the Second World War. Enjoy!reason we won the war was superior number and endless logistics. Deprived  of those two advantages during the extremely bad weather during the worst  part of the battle, the U.S. Army simply outfought their German attackers.   I personally would recommend you read this book hand in hand with the  Toland book (&quot;Battle&quot;), for together they provide a really  complete and quite varied look at all of the aspects of one of the most  tenaciously fought battles on the western front of the European theater of  the Second World War. Enjoy!	2000-06-11
2432657:US	52447634	R1GGB4EPOM5KT2	0679745408	117088007	Technopoly: The Surrender of Culture to Technology	Books	5	43	47	N	Y	This is a Provocative, Informative, and Disturbing Book!	There is much to learn from this important book. Over the last two hundred years, both science &amp; technology have rapidly &amp; irrevocably changed the face of the earth. In the postindustrial world, we've banished  infectious diseases from our midst (at least temporarily), have instituted  public health &amp; sanitation measures, and have made creature comfort a  part of everyman's lifestyle. Yet, there is profound and widespread concern  regarding exactly where technological innovation is taking us, what this  mysterious journey will cost us in terms of a sustainable and palatable  ecosystem, and exactly who (if anyone) is driving this huge and anonymous  innovative juggernaut. This book deals provocatively with this issue; i.e.  the promulgation of a culture in which science and technology have come to  assume the pivotal role in our society.<br />Sociologist Max Weber warned  almost 100 years ago of an alarming tendency in western civilization to  displace our tradition-based religious cultural ethos with a dangerously  superficial \\"faux\\" rationality in which all decisions and all measures  would come to be made more and more exclusively by scientific and logical  means. Yet science by its very nature cannot answer questions dealing with  values, advising us as to what is right, or good, or best. It can only  speak to us in terms of effective and efficient means to achieve such  cultural values and social ends. It is this tension between a  human-oriented cultural ethos, on the one hand, and scientific progress  through technological innovation not so oriented on the other that is Mr.  Postman's real subject.<br />Mr. Postman understands that science and  technology are both our friends and our antagonists, and as our amigo the  Unabomber has pointed out, what technical innovation introduces as  \\"voluntary and optional\\" soon becomes \\"compulsory and obligatory\\", as did  the introduction of automobiles and traffic regulation. In this fashion, by  flooding our social, economic, and political environment with items and  objects that drive the nature of society as much as enhance it (can anyone  now doubt that the introduction of personal computers poses such a  double-bind?), we are radically changing the nature of our society and its  culture without benefit of any guiding values, precepts, or notions as to  what is best for our people and our community other than to allow frenzied  competition between technological rivals to see who can unlease the  latest/neatest technological innovation to make our lives easier or  entertain us more cleverly. Our direction in terms of progress seems to be  random, at best, and Postman argues most persuasively that there are hidden  dangers to our freedoms, our prosperity, and even our awareness that result  from this surrender to the indifferent impulses of technological  innovation. We best recognize this indifference and the dangers it poses  for a free and open society.<br />As author Sales Kirkpatrick notes in his  wonderful book \\"Rebels Against the Future\\", \\"technology is never neutral\\";  it carries out its exclusively rational and logical intent to its  conclusion. Yet often the fact that this conclusion is not necessarily in  the public interest or consistent with the long-term goals and aspirations  of our culture seems somehow irrelevant. Yet it is anything but irrelevant;  it is central to the question as to how critically important decisions  regarding our future and well-being are to be made, and on what basis. Will  we have a society in which such decisions are made through open debate in a  public forum, or one in which the decisions are made for us, based on  market projections, what can be sold and distributed, researched based on  its sales potential in anonymous test tubes and clinical labs, where the  latest in scientific certainty is readied for pandemic public introduction?  Time is growing short and we must soon decide.  This is a fascinating,  provocative, and important book. Read it!important book. Read it!	2000-06-10
2434574:US	52447634	R3M58C6XV8U2AC	0385487630	886896197	Pack of Thieves: How Hitler and Europe Plundered the Jews and Committed the Greatest Theft in History	Books	5	47	51	N	Y	Disturbing, Disquieting, &amp; Discouraging Look At Man's Greed	I literally shuddered from a combination of amazement, disgust, and anger after reading this well-written and quite readable overview of the plundering of the European Jews by Hitler and others starting in the 1930s  and continuing to the present day. This book by Richard Chesnoff carefully  details the scope and depth of the continuing final financial insult to  those who suffered the &quot;Final Solution&quot; at Hitler's hand in the  Second World War. Even after fifty years, the lies, dissembling, vile  deceptions and equivocations continue, for literally tens of billions of  dollars of gold, valuables, and money plundered as a result of the  so-called &quot;Final Solution&quot; are still unaccounted for. For anyone  old enough to have fifty such years of conscious experience in the world,  it's difficult to actually be moved to disgust, to be amazed by anything  people do, but the bold, shameless ways in which Europe's thugs, slugs and  other lowlife cowards came slithering out of their damp and furtive hiding  places to take full and open advantage of the Jews' persecution before,  during and even after WWII is enough to wrench the most strong-stomached  among us.<br />Although this line of investigation is by its very nature  disturbing stuff, it is well handled by the author, and his even,  professional journalistic tone is solid, seldom bitter or vengeful.  Instead, his forte is his ability to systematically describe, detail, and  document the multifarious ways in which the Jews were ritually stripped of  anything of value by their friends, neighbors, and countrymen, and how so  many of those of whom so much better should have been expected used their  positions of relative advantage to exploit, extort, and even help to  exterminate them. From outright expropriation of rugs, art, and valuables  by the Nazis to a plethora of scams, false promises, and ultimate  betrayals, the bottom line in case after case is personal enrichment at the  extraordinary expense of the victims. Were I not also aware of countless  stories of so many others who risked and often sacrificed themselves to  save Jews,  I would be ashamed to be a human being. It is difficult to  understand how so many fellows human beings could continue be so cravenly  covetous and so heartless as to perpetrate such a campaign of dispossession  against those who were so helpless, impotent, and so needing of compassion.<br />The number of ways in which the Jews were exploited and extorted is  numbing; from life insurance scams to funds transfer to numbered Swiss  accounts to offers to help individual Jews escape to offers to hide them  and spirit them to safety, the various permutations seem endless, and often  quite ingenious. Yet one cannot help but be appalled by neighbors calmly  expropriating clothing, cars, furniture, apartments, homes, and farms from  Jews who were being systematically displaced. There are accounts of  individuals coming home from the camps to find neighbors firmly ensconced  in the homes, using their home goods, and totally oblivious to the  possibility they would have to give it all up to the returning survivors.  Many Jews returning to their former homes were threatened, scared away,  beaten, or even murdered upon their return.<br />Of course, the most  systematic exploitation was by social institutions; governments, banks,  insurance companies, art museums. The degree to which these organized  interests have systematically delayed, stonewalled, and denied any access  to their records for all these decades is scandalous and disheartening to  learn about. While the original impetus was to \\"Aryanize\\" the wealth of  Germany's Jews to help finance the goals of the Third Reich, the explosion  of avarice and greed soon spread throughout the Reich and beyond. What is  truly disheartening is the widespread degree to which economic, social and  political institutions we would otherwise consider respectable and  honorable have participated in the plunder taking. This book is a most  provocative reading experience, and one anyone interested in the  curiosities and unintended ironies of history can play out their games  should read. I highly recommend it, and hope it will be widely read and  appreciated.n the plunder taking. This book is a most  provocative reading experience, and one anyone interested in the  curiosities and unintended ironies of history can play out their games  should read. I highly recommend it, and hope it will be widely read and  appreciated.	2000-06-09
2435926:US	52447634	R2CJBOOVA3BDLJ	0805015752	696590484	Edges of the Earth: A Man, a Woman, a Child in the Alaskan Wilderness	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	A Truly Unique Adventure in the Alaskan Wilderness!	This is a wonderful book, a true tale of the ultimate daydreamer's adventure taking on flesh and bones through the personal experiences of the young author, Richard Leo. In many ways the effort is a foolhardy and dangerous ones, and one comes to points of exasperation with his arrogance,  frenzies, and almost mystical sensibilities as he turns from a 20's  something Harvard-educated urban dweller with less than $1,000 to his name  into some kind of hopped-up Alaskan mountain man. This guy actually drags  his girl friend deep into the Alaskan wilderness to begin a life of what he  hopes will be the real sensations and genuine life experiences of someone  unfettered by civilization, and succeeds almost beyond belief. They  single-handedly construct a log cabin good enough to live in, forage for  food, and finds a way to eke out a living as they struggle to survive.  Along the way they have a son, who the author feels he must give the  opportunity to grow up naturally, without all the cultural distractions of  the modern world.  <br />Of course, there is a price to pay for such bold and  foolhardy adventurism, and Leo pays it by way of isolation, deprivation,  and dealing with the elements. Before the smoke clears, his girlfriend/wife  has exhausted her patience and tolerance for the difficult living  conditions and the incredible isolation, and flees in desperation back to  something better approximating normal human contact and civilization. Thus  Leo and son are left to find their own truths and their own future in the  splendid isolation of the Alaskan tundra in sight of Mount McKinley. This  is a remarkable tale, told in brash but sometimes soaring prose by a gifted  young writer, and I soon recognized that often my frustration was with the  fact that he kept succeeding at things I thought were dangerously foolish  to attempt. <br />Finally I realized somewhere along the way that my concern  was exactly the reason I am sitting in this armchair reading the book  instead of following in his footsteps. I am too settled and \\"civilized' to  try to do what he does with fervor and enthusiasm, and it is this  remarkable quality of his, his zany and almost mystical faith in himself  that makes the book so interesting and so easy to read. One caution; he is  not an easy guy to empathize with, and he sometimes has an annoying  arrogance, self-absorption and a tendency toward self-righteousness that is  hard to bear, but you will enjoy his tale and all the strange and off-beat  characters he bumps into, interacts with, and  includes in this superbly  well-written voyage of self-realization and discovery. The book is curently  'out of print', but I trust you can find it through a good search as a used  commodity. By the way, if publishers can find an excuse to put books like  &quot;Running to the Mountain&quot; about a New Jersey suburbanite's silly  attempts to become a &quot;mountain man&quot; in rural New York state into  paperback, they should also be able do so for this real adventure story.  Obviously,I would love to see it come out in paperback, and be much more  widely read! Enjoy!	2000-06-08
2435928:US	52447634	R3F3LRB3AIQOWX	0805015752	696590484	Edges of the Earth: A Man, a Woman, a Child in the Alaskan Wilderness	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A Truly Unique Adventure in the Alaskan Wilderness!	This is a wonderful book, a true tale of the ultimate daydreamer's adventure taking on flesh and bones through the personal experiences of the young author, Richard Leo. In many ways the effort is a foolhardy and  dangerous ones, and one comes to points of exasperation with his arrogance,  frenzies, and almost mystical sensibilities as he turns from a 20's  something Harvard-educated urban dweller with less than $1,000 to his name  into some kind of hopped-up Alaskan mountain man. This guy actually drags  his girl friend deep into the Alaskan wilderness to begin a life of what he  hopes will be the real sensations and genuine life experiences of someone  unfettered by civilization, and succeeds almost beyond belief. They  single-handedly construct a log cabin good enough to live in, forage for  food, and finds a way to eke out a living as they struggle to survive.  Along the way they have a son, who the author feels he must give the  opportunity to grow up naturally, without all the cultural distractions of  the modern world.<br />Of course, there is a price to pay for such bold and  foolhardy adventurism, and Leo pays it by way of isolation, deprivation,  and dealing with the elements. Before the smoke clears, his girlfriend/wife  has exhausted her patience and tolerance for the difficult living  conditions and the incredible isolation, and flees in desperation back to  something better approximating normal human contact and civilization. Thus  Leo and son are left to find their own truths and their own future in the  splendid isolation of the Alaskan tundra in sight of Mount McKinley. This  is a remarkable tale, told in brash but sometimes soaring prose by a gifted  young writer, and I soon recognized that often my frustration was with the  fact that he kept succeeding at things I thought were dangerously foolish  to attempt.<br />Finally I realized somewhere along the way that my concern  was exactly the reason I am sitting in this armchair reading the book  instead of following in his footsteps. I am too settled and \\"civilized' to  try to do what he does with fervor and enthusiasm, and it is this  remarkable quality of his, his zany and almost mystical faith in himself  that makes the book so interesting and so easy to read. One caution; he is  not an easy guy to empathize with, and he sometimes has an annoying  arrogance, self-absorption and a tendency toward self-righteousness that is  hard to bear, but you will enjoy his tale and all the strange and off-beat  characters he bumps into, interacts with, and  includes in this superbly  well-written voyage of self-realization and discovery. The book is curently  'out of print', but I trust you can find it through a good search as a used  commodity. By the way, if publishers can find an excuse to put books like  &quot;Running to the Mountain&quot; about a New Jersey suburbanite's silly  attempts to become a &quot;mountain man&quot; in rural New York state into  paperback, they should also be able do so for this real adventure story.  Obviously,I would love to see it come out in paperback, and be much more  widely read! Enjoy!ead of following in his footsteps. I am too settled and \\"civilized' to  try to do what he does with fervor and enthusiasm, and it is this  remarkable quality of his, his zany and almost mystical faith in himself  that makes the book so interesting and so easy to read. One caution; he is  not an easy guy to empathize with, and he sometimes has an annoying  arrogance, self-absorption and a tendency toward self-righteousness that is  hard to bear, but you will enjoy his tale and all the strange and off-beat  characters he bumps into, interacts with, and  includes in this superbly  well-written voyage of self-realization and discovery. The book is curently  'out of print', but I trust you can find it through a good search as a used  commodity. By the way, if publishers can find an excuse to put books like  &quot;Running to the Mountain&quot; about a New Jersey suburbanite's silly  attempts to become a &quot;mountain man&quot; in rural New York state into  paperback, they should also be able do so for this real adventure story.  Obviously,I would love to see it come out in paperback, and be much more  widely read! Enjoy!	2000-06-08
2436080:US	52447634	R3U7COSLHDVOPI	067941424X	474125502	Downfall: The End of the Imperial Japanese Empire	Books	5	52	59	N	N	This Book Ends The Nonsense About Using The Bomb!	This exhaustively-researched and carefully documented book is the necessary slap in the face that a new generation of Americans evidently need in order to  reconcile themselves with the facts surrounding the use  of the atomic bomb in ending the war with Japan in 1945. Too often we hear  criticism of its use as too inhumane, savage, indiscriminate, or as a  racist tool we would only use against Asians (as opposed to other whites,  such as the Germans). This book make shambles of such notions by taking  each in hand and examining all the evidence.<br />First, the Japanese were not  willing to surrender in August 1945, and were in fact preparing for an  invasion of the main islands, which they planned to make as costly and  bloody for the Allies as possible. Estimates of more than a million Allied  killed and wounded are quite conservative, not to mention the devastation  that would have been visited on the entire main island system. All bridges,  reservoirs, industry, highways, hospitals, etc. would have been laid to  waste.  Second, demonstrating the bomb's capabilities wasn't practical, as  the Japanese would have viewed it as propaganda, discounting the threat.  Thus, we would have lost one of only two devices, and could not afford to  take the risk.<br />Thirdly, tactical use of the bomb to end the war was not  indiscriminate, since it was construed by the American military as a quick,  relatively painless, and highly effective way to bring the Japanese to  their senses. While it is true that hundreds of thousands of Japanese  civilians were casualties of the two bombs, there were in fact more German  civilians casualties as a result of the fire bombing of Dresden, a small  and strategically unimportant city in south-central Germany.<br />Finally, if  one takes the fact that the conduct of the Japanese during the war was the  bane of civilized behavior, constituting a deliberate and systematic  program of rape, mistreatment, starvation, and torture of combatants and  noncombatants alike, it's hard to feel much empathy for the fate of the  Japanese at the end of the war.  One does well to recall that the Japanese  never complied with the articles of the Geneva Conventions, and routinely  murdered, raped, and pillaged without regard for human life. They started a  war then conducted with murderous ferocity, and they ended it eating their  own swords. Such is the fortune of war; those who live by it, die by it.  Too bad.<br />As a final note, one should remind the nattering nabobs of  negativity that the Atomic Bomb was developed specifically as a device to  be used against the Germans, not the Japanese. The fact that it was not  ready to so deploy is one of the ironies of history. This is a great book,  and one that one hopes will end this self-flagellation we seem to be  involved in. It's just too bad we didn't have the bomb in 1941. Perhaps  then, if we had dropped two on Tokyo Bay and Berlin in mid-December 0f '41,  a whole generation of young Americans wouldn't have had to fight and die in  the rotting stink-holes of the south Pacific or the foxholes of France to  save the world for their soul-searching and self-doubting and perhaps  ungrateful grandsons and granddaughters. Read the book, which is bound to  become the standard text on the use of the bomb in ending the war.and  noncombatants alike, it's hard to feel much empathy for the fate of the  Japanese at the end of the war.  One does well to recall that the Japanese  never complied with the articles of the Geneva Conventions, and routinely  murdered, raped, and pillaged without regard for human life. They started a  war then conducted with murderous ferocity, and they ended it eating their  own swords. Such is the fortune of war; those who live by it, die by it.  Too bad.<br />As a final note, one should remind the nattering nabobs of  negativity that the Atomic Bomb was developed specifically as a device to  be used against the Germans, not the Japanese. The fact that it was not  ready to so deploy is one of the ironies of history. This is a great book,  and one that one hopes will end this self-flagellation we seem to be  involved in. It's just too bad we didn't have the bomb in 1941. Perhaps  then, if we had dropped two on Tokyo Bay and Berlin in mid-December 0f '41,  a whole generation of young Americans wouldn't have had to fight and die in  the rotting stink-holes of the south Pacific or the foxholes of France to  save the world for their soul-searching and self-doubting and perhaps  ungrateful grandsons and granddaughters. Read the book, which is bound to  become the standard text on the use of the bomb in ending the war.	2000-06-08
2437244:US	52447634	R9L3BK058H64W	034538623X	484061988	The Guns of August (Modern Library 100 Best Nonfiction Books)	Books	5	29	31	N	N	A Wonderful Look At  A Moment in 20th Century History	Europe in the late summer of 1914 was more than a powderkeg poised to go off; it was prewired and preset demolition awaiting the excuse of a match. According to Barbara Tuchman in this insightful and descriptive period  piece of history, each of the potentates involved in the coming world war  had a battle plan, a series of objectives, and a relatively good sense of  what the other powers would do in the conduct of hostilities. Yet each  disregarded the potential contingencies that might arise from the efforts  of opposing forces, and descended pell-mell in the unbelievable madness of  total war based on a combination of factors ranging from arrogance,  overestimation of capability, personal animosities, ambition, lack of  imagination of what could happen as a result, and of course, sheer  ignorance.<br /><br />Tuchman's magic in employing the written word to advantage  shines here, as her narrative weaves together the elements of a world in  transition,  empires ruled by Kings, Queens and Kaisers living in the past,  out of touch with what advances in technology and tactics meant, and not  recognizing that these revolutionary changes in technology, demography, and  battle techniques would plunge the world into a nightmare conflict that  none of them could foresee, contain, or manage, once it started.<br /><br />In many  ways the first world war marks the true demarcation point between the old  European world of tradition, chivalry, and empires, on the one hand, and  the frightening new world of tanks, machine guns and mass exterminations.  Prepared and propelled by visions of glorious conquest in a battlefield  characterized by Kipling and \\"the charge of the light brigade\\",  what they got in its place was the horrifying nightmare war of  extermination in trench warfare, infantry slaughtered anonymously by  artillary, tanks and rapid fire weapons the troops had no effective tactics  to protect against. So much for the old glory.<br /><br />Yet all that lay ahead,  in the weeks, months and years of bloody battle, of the excruciatingly  costly struggle for new territory turned into a useless bloodbath for mere  feet and yards. Here we are dipped deep into the boiling cauldron of people  steeped in the mystique of the past, trying to win glory and fortune  through warfare, and never understanding that the very attempt itself would  result in the ruin of everything they knew and treasured, for the nature of  the protracted conflict did indeed change everything, and Tuchman winds her  way through the book with dazzling description and highly readable prose.<br /><br />This is a wonderful and memorable book, typical of Tuchman's engaging  and often humourous writing style, detailing as it does the ways in which  old and outdated perspectives try ruinously to force themselves and their  designs into an abrasive future, at the expense of everything traditional,  local, and familiar. It is a valuable snapshot of a moment suspended in  time, lovingly restored, taken of a world in violent transition at that  very moment as we first stepped off the threshold of the past into the  bloody abyss of the 20th century. Enjoy!n the weeks, months and years of bloody battle, of the excruciatingly  costly struggle for new territory turned into a useless bloodbath for mere  feet and yards. Here we are dipped deep into the boiling cauldron of people  steeped in the mystique of the past, trying to win glory and fortune  through warfare, and never understanding that the very attempt itself would  result in the ruin of everything they knew and treasured, for the nature of  the protracted conflict did indeed change everything, and Tuchman winds her  way through the book with dazzling description and highly readable prose.<br /><br />This is a wonderful and memorable book, typical of Tuchman's engaging  and often humourous writing style, detailing as it does the ways in which  old and outdated perspectives try ruinously to force themselves and their  designs into an abrasive future, at the expense of everything traditional,  local, and familiar. It is a valuable snapshot of a moment suspended in  time, lovingly restored, taken of a world in violent transition at that  very moment as we first stepped off the threshold of the past into the  bloody abyss of the 20th century. Enjoy!	2000-06-07
2438765:US	52447634	RQ5V7W2JRV9UD	067400163X	797622772	A War To Be Won: Fighting the Second World War	Books	4	62	63	N	Y	A Fact-Packed, Well-Written Overview of World War Two	I enjoyed reading this book, which is a bit off-putting due to its size and breadth. As long as one has a bit of time on his or her hands, this is a useful and entertaining way to spend some quality time with yourself in  the company of two excellent history writers. The book has an amazing  scope, and like Gerhard Weinberg's &quot;A World At Arms&quot; has a  mammoth and daunting job at hand to describe the total scope and  kaleidoscope of activities contained under the rubric of the second world  war.<br />The authors here are much more forthcoming than was Weinhard in  discussing specific battlefield details of particular engagements, and this  adds to the book's considerable value and readability  to history buffs  like myself. I enjoy their liberal employment of relevant economic,  technological, geographical and other factors in describing the whos, hows,  whens, wheres and whys of specific struggles as well as in describing the  nature of the overall socio-political aspects of the war. So, when they  subsequently launch into discussing their uniquely constructed  &quot;standards of military effectiveness&quot;, they add to its value by  buttressing their findings with a wealth of different kinds of supporting  data, information, and background that makes the total overview of the war  much more understandable than it would be otherwise.<br />The book does  suffer from some minor drawbacks, such as the authors' obvious quarrel with  the contributions and strategies of Douglas MacArthur, yet they are also  suitably fastidious in pointing out his many contributions and effective  tactics as well. This drawback is counterbalanced by an outstanding  treatment  covering the Nazi campaign against Russia, and the day to day  details crammed into describing the ill-fated and terribly over-extended  German occupation and troubles in Operation Barbarossa and in the  subsequent crushing defeats at the hands of the Russian armies is worth the  price of the book alone.<br />In summary, I also believe their well-argued  and documented take on the importance and lasting influence of the second  world war is crucial in understanding all that followed in the balance of  the 20th century to be well taken, and to be beyond reasonable dispute. In  some respects (Such as level of detail regarding specific engagements) this  is a better book than Weinberg's, and on other levels it falls short of his  monumental work. Combined, the two books offer one an astounding and quite  rich look at a war that we are just starting to appreciate in all of its  amazing scope, ferocity, and consequence. This book should be required  reading for anyone considering a career in 20th century history, or for all  of us history nuts who just can't get enough of a great thing. Enjoy!<br />In summary, I also believe their well-argued  and documented take on the importance and lasting influence of the second  world war is crucial in understanding all that followed in the balance of  the 20th century to be well taken, and to be beyond reasonable dispute. In  some respects (Such as level of detail regarding specific engagements) this  is a better book than Weinberg's, and on other levels it falls short of his  monumental work. Combined, the two books offer one an astounding and quite  rich look at a war that we are just starting to appreciate in all of its  amazing scope, ferocity, and consequence. This book should be required  reading for anyone considering a career in 20th century history, or for all  of us history nuts who just can't get enough of a great thing. Enjoy!	2000-06-07
2438897:US	52447634	R2FGWZ4OJY6VP1	0553111337	243328997	Flags of Our Fathers	Books	5	39	42	N	Y	A Moving, Impressive and Unforgettable Reading Experience!	Every once in a while, a book comes along that defies easy description, a tome destined to be a smash success and win well deserved praise, precisely because it is written so well, is so accessible and readable, and so  memorably ties together several different elements into a storyline that  makes perfect sense, tells a wonderful and memorable story in a completely  different way, and is also a credible work of descriptive history. This,  friends, is such a memorable book.<br />This book works extremely well at  several levels. First, it is the first-person story behind one of the most  famous battle photographs of world war two, the raising of the flag at Iwo  Jima. It proceeds to tell us the poignant story of the six men in the  photograph and their families from the families' recollections. It also  tells us of the tragedies and later lives of each of the three surviving  Marines, only one of whom survived to live what we could describe as a  normal life. It also gives us insight into what these men were beyond the  headlines, the parades, and the hyperbole, and what participation in the  murderous military campaign in the South Pacific and the later hoopla meant  to them, their families and to the rest of their lives.<br />Finally, it is  an excellent, first-person, man on the ground kind of description of the  day to day battle on Iwo Jima, which was much harder fought and much more  bloody than even the military expected it would be. One stands in awe of  this work based on the simple fact that it has been written fifty years  after the fact, and yet is clearly the book one recognizes to be the  definitive book on a particular subject. From here on, no one who considers  himself or herself a student of the Second World War in the South Pacific  against the Japanese can feel fully educated or properly informed about the  battle for Iwo Jima and its aftermath until they've read &quot;Flags Of Our  Fathers&quot;. This is history come alive, made real, relevant, still  timely and accessible. This is a book for everyone's history book shelves.  Read it now, and savor it forever.nt, still  timely and accessible. This is a book for everyone's history book shelves.  Read it now, and savor it forever.	2000-06-07
2439099:US	52447634	RZXE895JY9OPQ	0880642319	363901167	Breakout: The Chosin Reservoir Campaign, Korea 1950	Books	5	53	57	N	N	A Well-Written Tale of True Heroism!	Seldom does a reader get the opportunity to read a true account of modern battle that is so gripping, so detailed, and so unforgettable as is this story of the attempt by 12,000 American Marines to fight their way out of an encirclement by seven divisions of Chinese and Korean troops at the  Chosin Reservoir in Korea.  Written by an ex-Marine who was himself a  wounded veteran in Korea, its lines wring of the accuracy and poignancy  only eyewitnesses could tell about the plight of the men caught in the  snow, wind, and sub-zero cold to fight off the vastly superior number of  Chinese and Koreans and escape from the trap that had been set for them.  This is a riveting story well told.<br />The situation was bleak; it was  mid-winter, and the Marines were cut off from supply lines and exposed to  the extremes of weather, surrounded by seven divisions of better equipped  and better situated Chinese and Korean troops who were most fanatical in  their pursuit of them, ready to move in and annihilate the whole Marine  force. The Marines, meanwhile, had little or no air support due to the  terrible weather conditions, were relatively low on ammunition and other  supplies, and the terrain was so formidable that they were quite  effectively cut off and isolated and on their own. There could be little or  no help from outside to save them.<br />Yet through all these obstacles  and with the numbers so much against them, the Marines slowly but  methodically fought their way out, hill by hill, bluff by bluff, regiment  to regiment, battalion to battalion, company to company, whatever it took  to inflict such terrible casualties on the Chinese and Koreans as they  went, as they fought, from Division level all the way down to small groups  of 3 or 4 men fighting with unvarnished tenacity to kick ............... out of the opposing force through sheer guts, grit, and courage.<br />This is  a tale that will long be told in beer halls and at all Marine functions  with pride and enthusiasm, for it is truly one of the finest moments for  the Marines in modern combat, detailed here with such verve in the words  and recollections of many who fought there. The reader feels like a member  of the force as he reads through stirring accounts of men who just would  not surrender, retreat, or desert their friends and buddies, who instead  fought back with sustained vitality and surprising tenacity under the worst  conditions imaginable. This was a fighting force that single-handedly  destroyed seven opposing Divisions of enemy forces to walk out of the  Chosin Reservoir under their own power, through the crucible of combat, and  out the other side to a victory so memorable it will love forever wherever  Marines gather. Read it and understand. Enjoy!enthusiasm, for it is truly one of the finest moments for  the Marines in modern combat, detailed here with such verve in the words  and recollections of many who fought there. The reader feels like a member  of the force as he reads through stirring accounts of men who just would  not surrender, retreat, or desert their friends and buddies, who instead  fought back with sustained vitality and surprising tenacity under the worst  conditions imaginable. This was a fighting force that single-handedly  destroyed seven opposing Divisions of enemy forces to walk out of the  Chosin Reservoir under their own power, through the crucible of combat, and  out the other side to a victory so memorable it will love forever wherever  Marines gather. Read it and understand. Enjoy!	2000-06-07
2440203:US	52447634	R152PXGBQMAWUM	0871569531	211201266	Turning Away from Technology: A New Vision for the 21st Century	Books	4	30	31	N	N	An Interesting, Provocative, &amp; Important Book!	This book's point of departure is the widely held notion among many academics and concerned intellectuals that immediate meaningful action must be taken to curb and blunt the massive negative social, economic, and  environmental side-effects of the runaway revolution in  technologically-based innovations. With a impassioned foreward written by  ardent neo-Luddite Theodore Roszak (The Cult of Information), the book is  in substance really the minutes of two separate seminars convened to  discuss the nature and extent of our current technologically-induced  crisis, and a corresponding healing vision for an alternative approach to  using, managing, and controlling such technical innovation in the 21st  century. The collected experts ask key questions regarding the real impact  of technology on our cultural and political lives, and grapple with the  myriad of issues and problems associated with the effects of a  technological revolution gone mad.<br />Editor Stephanie Mills (&quot;In  Praise of Nature&quot;)  masterfully culls the gist of ongoing discussions  in these two seminars into very readable narratives, and one gets the sense  that he or she is sitting through the seminar listening to the various  aademics and intellectuals add to the ongoing discussion. She presents the  ideas and opinions of critics of biotechnology, free trade, corporate  colonialism, the proliferation of military technologies, and technological  means of social control into a very entertaining, provocative, and  educational experience.<br />This book is not for the socially  faint-of-heart, however. Most of the participants represent a fairly  radical but eclectic group of Neo-Luddites and fellow travelers who  understand the critical state the world is reaching in terms of ecological  degradation, human suffering, and social control all at the hands of an  uncaring and out-of control technology, and all speak their minds in terms  of what is wrong and what needs to be done to correct the situation.<br />As far as I am concerned, this book should be required reading for any  concerned citizen because it offers a penetrating description of the many  faces of the problem, provides all the details concerning the current state  of technology in all its permutations and disguises, and describes what  have to be considered as realistic, humane and sustainable alternatives to  such dangerous implementations for the future. Read and enjoy!tuation.<br />As far as I am concerned, this book should be required reading for any  concerned citizen because it offers a penetrating description of the many  faces of the problem, provides all the details concerning the current state  of technology in all its permutations and disguises, and describes what  have to be considered as realistic, humane and sustainable alternatives to  such dangerous implementations for the future. Read and enjoy!	2000-06-06
2442837:US	52447634	R2ETEWIQQUCIUE	0385492936	214439381	The Book of Honor: Covert Lives & Classified Deaths at the CIA	Books	4	47	55	N	N	Another Entry in the &quot;Demystifying the CIA&quot; Book Trade!	This is, on many level, a fascinating book. It is fascinating in terms of the stories it tells, which are often heart-wrenching and difficult to understand. But the real fascination has to be with the reality depicted  herein, which may or may not have much to do with anything like honor. The  author claims in many cases the Agency used and sacrificed the individuals  for the greater good, and did not want to sacrifice others. Perhaps.  Certainly one hopes there was good, defensible reasoning behind the use and  sacrifice, often for decades, of individuals who were loyally serving the  flag.<br />However, it is also true that much of this information could be  construed just as accurately as a portrait of an agency gone corrupt and  self-interested, often sacrificing individuals for what amounts to  political expediency or personal and career advantage, and then quietly  forgotten or sanitized through equivocation, deception, and honorarium. No  one debates as whether clandestine operations are necessary or useful in  terms of furthering our national interests abroad. Yet we seem particularly  sophomoric and unsophisticated in expressing such cries of surprise and  anger when we discover what every school boy learns; power corrupts, and  absolute power corrupts absolutely. Why then are we so outraged to discover  our spymasters sometimes lie, equivocate, and deceive us? Or are we naive  enough to expect that they will each be as chaste as Caeser's wife? Not on  this planet, and not in the 20th century.<br />Any faithful explorer of  John LeCarre's fictional view of the clandestine world is familiar with the  perpetual tensions and pitfalls of a spy organization in service to a  democratic government, and how easily individuals are sacrificed for a  whole range of reasons such as ambition, expediency, to gain advantage,  departmental rilvaries, as well as a whole catalogue of darker purposes  serving the wishes and needs of a particularly dark corner in one human  heart. Here, the reader gains a great deal of compassion and empathy for  the personal and moral and dilemmas which many of these individuals faced,  who were caught while clandestinely engaged (or not) and compromised, and  then were sacrificed by the Agency for its own reasons, which may or may  not have had any legitimacy. Anyone volunteering for such service best heed  the devil's warning to abandon all hope, for they have perhaps struck a  bargain with him.<br />This, of coure, leaves the individual to his or her  fate, a private and painful sacrifice of ignominious death or endless  decades spent withering in some unnamed stinkhole of a prison, and perhaps  sometimes over nothing more than the quibbling differences in political  semantics that only government bureacrats can appreciate or pretend to  understand. Yet the deception and potential for betrayal does not  necessarily end here. What makes any reader at all confident that all that  was written and described here was absolutely true, or accurate, or  necessary?<br />To entitle such a book &quot;The Book Of Honor&quot; may do  credit to brave individuals who perhaps deserve it, but may also be an  attempt to gain undeserved credit and a less blemished new cache for an  agency gone to hayseed. Remember, these are the guys who claim they  couldn't kill Castro! Of course, none of us outside that marbled puzzle  palace can know which (if not both) it is. Much of what has been written  here could still be a subtle form of propaganda that in some fashion serves  the needs of the agency or some departments or individuals within it. Once  deception, equivocation, and lies begin, who knows where they may end?<br />A  particularly acute observation made by another reviewer was that this book  constitutes a history lesson, and I agree with that. But do we all agree  what the lesson was, and what have we really learned from it? The problem  is that we seem to keep learning the same history lesson  over and over  without ever taking its message to heart. It's about time we really started  to mature enough as a people to recognize that the existence of  organizations like the CIA, NSA or  DIA constitute a necessary evil, and  that like any evil this poses certain undefineable risks to the continued  survival of a free and open society. Yet, these agencies will all continue  to do whatever it is they do in the covert world in an absolutely necessary  tension with the continuance of a democratic society. This unavoidable  tension is created by the possibility that the unknown and unfettered  interests, activities, and resources of the clandestine organizations may,  at any time, act to interfere with, or even trump, the general or  particular interests of the democracy it serves.  Yet, short of another  fiasco like the Church investigation in the U.S. Senate, we will not  shed  any additional light on these activities. Moreover, it is hard to argue  that it is in the national interest to engage in another round of domestic  spy-bashing. At any rate, enjoy. It is an interesting book and a  thought-provoking read.without ever taking its message to heart. It's about time we really started  to mature enough as a people to recognize that the existence of  organizations like the CIA, NSA or  DIA constitute a necessary evil, and  that like any evil this poses certain undefineable risks to the continued  survival of a free and open society. Yet, these agencies will all continue  to do whatever it is they do in the covert world in an absolutely necessary  tension with the continuance of a democratic society. This unavoidable  tension is created by the possibility that the unknown and unfettered  interests, activities, and resources of the clandestine organizations may,  at any time, act to interfere with, or even trump, the general or  particular interests of the democracy it serves.  Yet, short of another  fiasco like the Church investigation in the U.S. Senate, we will not  shed  any additional light on these activities. Moreover, it is hard to argue  that it is in the national interest to engage in another round of domestic  spy-bashing. At any rate, enjoy. It is an interesting book and a  thought-provoking read.	2000-06-05
2444888:US	52447634	R3ARC9HOV3PR0W	0465049060	441473878	Nazi Terror: The Gestapo, Jews and Ordinary Germans	Books	4	38	45	N	Y	A Provocative Addition to the &quot;Goldhagen Thesis&quot; Debate!	This interesting book is the latest entry into the ongoing debate regarding the extent of \\"willing' complicity on the part of the average German citizen in the Holocaust. While it claims to settle the issue by  showing the extent to which the terror unleashed by the Gestapo was  selective and relied on the compliance and conformity of the average  German. Yet one is left uneasy with how this interpretation skates so  selectively over the thousands of cases other have cited regarding the  degree to which Aryans risked much to help or save German Jews. I believe  this account is too generalized to be satisfactory.<br />The book is well  written, and the arguments and evidence well presented. I have problems  with the research methods employed and the sampling techniques as  described. My opinion is that this book only fuels the fire, and settles  nothing. The main problem with its argument that ordinary Germans knowingly  and enthusiastically complied with the Nazi policy to systematically  scapegoat and exterminate the Jews, the truth is that there is just too  much contrary evidence to trust such sweeping claims based on the evidence  introduced and cited. Such a generalized argument ignores a lot of  inconvenient evidence as well as a number of other more subtle and less  reassuring conclusions one could also easily reach regarding the degree to  which the ordinary German participated in the extermination of the Jews.<br />It's true that Germany in that period was characterized by a degree of  conformity and adherence to very narrowly and carefully circumscribed rules  of conduct. It's also true, however, that during the 12-year reign of the  Third Reich deviance from these narrowly conceived moral codes was hardly  considered an active or safe option for Germans to openly adopt or publicly  support. Given this conformity and the fabled German awe for authority,  ordinary citizens were ripe targets for the manipulation and propaganda the  Nazis churned out. Properly frightened, chastised, and manipulated, the  ordinary German was so concerned for his own safety and that of his family  that he scarcely had the moral courage to stand up for what he thought was  the unfair treatment of Jews.<br />Of course, this concern for one's own skin  quickly leads to cowardice, and there is no debate over the degree of such  loathsome behavior many (if not most) Germans adopted. My point is  emphatically not meant to excuse the cowardice of the German people, nor to  deny the author's claims that many individual Germans did cooperate  enthusiastically in order to benefit themselves, it is simply not accurate  to say that the German people generally knew of the \\"Final Solution\\" in  advance, nor while it was proceeding until very late in the game. Even Jews  queried do not consistently understand the savage degree to which Hitler  meant to deal with the so-called \\"Jewish Problem\\". In recently published  books like \\"I Shall bear Witness\\" by a German Jew living through the  holocaust in Dresden, it is not until the early 1940s that he and his  fellow Jews seem to recognize the full extent of what is happening. The  author, Victor Klemperer,attributes his own survival  (and that of his  Aryan wife), to the quiet kindness and risky interventions of countless  anonymous Aryans they didn't necessarily even know.<br />Thus I have to  confess that I wasn't convinced by the author's argument or evidence as  presented that things were as clear or as simple as he claims.  It is an  interesting, highly readable, and well-presented book, and certainly an  impressive effort on behalf of a revised version of the so-called Goldhagen  thesis. However, in the real world, one comprised by ordinary, imperfect,  timid, and self-interested individuals, this argument is just too general  and convenient to believe (at least based on the evidence presented). And  so the debate will likely continue. Enjoy!erly frightened, chastised, and manipulated, the  ordinary German was so concerned for his own safety and that of his family  that he scarcely had the moral courage to stand up for what he thought was  the unfair treatment of Jews. <br />Of course, this concern for one's own skin  quickly leads to cowardice, and there is no debate over the degree of such  loathsome behavior many (if not most) Germans adopted. My point is  emphatically not meant to excuse the cowardice of the German people, nor to  deny the author's claims that many individual Germans did cooperate  enthusiastically in order to benefit themselves, it is simply not accurate  to say that the German people generally knew of the \\"Final Solution\\" in  advance, nor while it was proceeding until very late in the game. Even Jews  queried do not consistently understand the savage degree to which Hitler  meant to deal with the so-called \\"Jewish Problem\\". In recently published  books like \\"I Shall bear Witness\\" by a German Jew living through the  holocaust in Dresden, it is not until the early 1940s that he and his  fellow Jews seem to recognize the full extent of what is happening. The  author, Victor Klemperer,attributes his own survival  (and that of his  Aryan wife), to the quiet kindness and risky interventions of countless  anonymous Aryans they didn't necessarily even know. <br />Thus I have to  confess that I wasn't convinced by the author's argument or evidence as  presented that things were as clear or as simple as he claims.  It is an  interesting, highly readable, and well-presented book, and certainly an  impressive effort on behalf of a revised version of the so-called Goldhagen  thesis. However, in the real world, one comprised by ordinary, imperfect,  timid, and self-interested individuals, this argument is just too general  and convenient to believe (at least based on the evidence presented). And  so the debate will likely continue. Enjoy!	2000-06-03
2445678:US	52447634	RGBSWRMA273SH	0375502408	141889925	I Will Bear Witness: A Diary of the Nazi Years, 1942-1945	Books	5	43	45	N	Y	Volume Two Continues This Valuable &amp; Frightening Story	As with Volume One (see my review), the most disarming and appealing feature of this tome is its slow and ineluctable building of suspense and empathy as World War I veteran Klemperer steadily weaves the day to day  details of his life in Nazi Germany in the 12 years of that regime into a  portrait of a rogue state moving irresistably down the path to tyranny and  terror. The reader is sucked into the vortex of what it is like to live  under such circumstances, where an aging Jewish professor who has built a  life of purpose and meaning based on scholarship, hard work, and the belief  in the rationalism of the state begins to understand that it will all  unravel around him.<br />As the story continues here, the years of tyranny of  National Socialism reach their climax, so that Klemperer, a Jew married to  an Aryan woman, increasingly finds solace and relief from the growing  insanity swirling around him by concentrating on his academic writing,  which he continues against all odds. Even the most simple and basic  freedoms are denied them, so his refusal to submit to the progressively  more invective growth of lies, invectives, and accusations of the Nazi  regime build into a quiet resolve to resist in the way he knows best, by  maintaining an intelligent, insightful, and careful witness to the everyday  horrors perpetrated with malice and cunning on the Jews as the scapegoat  for all of Germany's post-WWI social and economic woes.<br />One reads in  horror as Victor and Eva continue to be persecuted and systematically  stripped of everything of meaning to them; their house, car, telephone,  typewriter, even their beloved cat. While he understands all too well the  dangers for him and his family, he consistently resists the increasingly  strident pleas from family members for him to emigrate primarily because he  identifies himself first and foremost as a German, and he refuses to  abandon the Fatherland to the beastial likes of Hitler and the Nazis. One's  sense of horror is magnified by his careful attention to the day to day  details of living in the regime, the difficulties in finding socks, or  clothing, or a cobbler, or vegetables, coffee, tobacco (both he and Eva are  smokers), dealing with increasingly restrictive curfews, the ordeal and  shame associated with the enforced wearing of the yellow star of David, the  progressive acts of enforced segregation from the general populace, the  occasional experiences at degradation at the hands of a youthful crowd of  Hitler Youth.<br />Yet there is great humanity evidenced here, both within  the Jewish community and without it. The pathos of ordinary people caught  in the web of a totalitarian state is made quite clear; unlike other  academics who recently have argued in belief of a generalized and  universalized hate on the part of ordinary Germans leading to their willing  complicity in the persecution of Jews, Klemperer offers almost daily  testimony of the unending acts of kindness, generosity, and personal risks  that everyday citizens take to help and assist Jews to survivie against the  dictates of the totalitarian regime. Again and again he is given free food,  extra provisions, someone looking deliberately the other way when they did  so at personal risk.<br />In sum, Klemperer seems to acknowledge that life in  Nazi Germany was a hell for all of the citizens, Jew and non-Jew alike. He  pointedly gives credit to all the Aryans who assit Eva nd him as they flee  from the Nazis into the more anonymous countryside in the tumult and  confusion caused by the firebombing of Dresden. This, like the first  volume, is a book that should become required reading for college students  in world history.of horror is magnified by his careful attention to the day to day  details of living in the regime, the difficulties in finding socks, or  clothing, or a cobbler, or vegetables, coffee, tobacco (both he and Eva are  smokers), dealing with increasingly restrictive curfews, the ordeal and  shame associated with the enforced wearing of the yellow star of David, the  progressive acts of enforced segregation from the general populace, the  occasional experiences at degradation at the hands of a youthful crowd of  Hitler Youth. <br />Yet there is great humanity evidenced here, both within  the Jewish community and without it. The pathos of ordinary people caught  in the web of a totalitarian state is made quite clear; unlike other  academics who recently have argued in belief of a generalized and  universalized hate on the part of ordinary Germans leading to their willing  complicity in the persecution of Jews, Klemperer offers almost daily  testimony of the unending acts of kindness, generosity, and personal risks  that everyday citizens take to help and assist Jews to survivie against the  dictates of the totalitarian regime. Again and again he is given free food,  extra provisions, someone looking deliberately the other way when they did  so at personal risk. <br />In sum, Klemperer seems to acknowledge that life in  Nazi Germany was a hell for all of the citizens, Jew and non-Jew alike. He  pointedly gives credit to all the Aryans who assit Eva nd him as they flee  from the Nazis into the more anonymous countryside in the tumult and  confusion caused by the firebombing of Dresden. This, like the first  volume, is a book that should become required reading for college students  in world history.	2000-06-03
2445940:US	52447634	R1PFBLP4HKHMU7	0375400524	841119426	The First World War	Books	5	17	18	N	Y	Keegan's Formidable Skills are Focused on World War One!	The most wonderful aspect of John Keegan's impeccable writing style is that it is always used in service to the telling the story at hand, in this case the story of the First World War. As Keegan argues, the combinaion of  influences and social and economic forces leading to the outbreak of the  First World War demark the embarkation point for the onset of the modern  world, so understanding the forces at work in causing it, and in fueling  its progress and conflagration against all logic, rationality and useful  purpose, are critical in attempting to understand the 20th century.<br />World  War One was clearly, from its onset, a war quite unlike all those that had  proceeded it. It was conducted with a intensity and ferocity  unprecedented  in the modern world, largely due to the introduction of the large-scale use  of mechanized implements of war such as the relative wealth of the nations  involved, the more robust health of its average citizens (due to improved  sanitation, food supplies, and public health), and the implementation of  weapons such as tanks and machine guns. This, then, really is a definitive  history of the the First Word War.<br />Keegan's forte, of course, is in  describing and explaining the nature of the military conflict itself. This  he does with precision and a sense of the sweeping panorama on which this  war is being waged. Thus, there are descriptions of activiteis in places as  far flung as Verdun and Gallipoli, and we watch with a mixture of amazement  and horror as we see the murderous stalemate develops along the relatively  stable battle-lines of the fields and forests of the Somme. He also helps  to shed new light on the conduct of the hostilities in terms of the tactics  employed and the way in which the new technolgies were so savagely  employed.<br />As always, Keegan draws out our innate interest in the  individual personalities contributing to the development of the war crisis,  and then in directing and conducting the war, and makes us better  appreciate how their personalities and frailties lead each of them into the  kinds of tragic actions that doom so many to death. For years the daily  &quot;Butcher's Bill&quot; was extracted as wave after wave of infantry  were slaughted with machine guns, mortors, and artillery, and for little or  no substantive gain for either side in terms of miltary advantage. The new  war was a more horrible war from the average citizen's point of view, and  Keegan underscores this, as well.<br />Of course, Keegan points this out  at a number of points quite poignantly; it is the anonymous millions who  lived and died in the trenchs so bravely and yet so uselessly that deserve  our compassion. This, then, is an interesting, well-documented, absorbing,  and worthwhile book and is definitely one any serious student of modern war  and the 20th century will want to read and have in his or her library.war, and makes us better  appreciate how their personalities and frailties lead each of them into the  kinds of tragic actions that doom so many to death. For years the daily  &quot;Butcher's Bill&quot; was extracted as wave after wave of infantry  were slaughted with machine guns, mortors, and artillery, and for little or  no substantive gain for either side in terms of miltary advantage. The new  war was a more horrible war from the average citizen's point of view, and  Keegan underscores this, as well.    <br />Of course, Keegan points this out  at a number of points quite poignantly; it is the anonymous millions who  lived and died in the trenchs so bravely and yet so uselessly that deserve  our compassion. This, then, is an interesting, well-documented, absorbing,  and worthwhile book and is definitely one any serious student of modern war  and the 20th century will want to read and have in his or her library.	2000-06-03
2449386:US	52447634	R35SMYK6KIXDJG	0700610162	416168373	In Deadly Combat: A German Soldier's Memoir of the Eastern Front (Modern War Studies)	Books	4	51	52	N	N	An Engrossing And Valuable Study Of Men In War	This is a very interesting and quite different approach to experiencing the events of the second world war. It is interesting in the fact that it tells the story of a German Division from the perspective of the members of  the Division, and does so primarily for the benefit of those members rather  than for the public at large. So, this then is a fascinating if somewhat  oddly focused study of the war along the eastern front from the viewpoint  of the German foot soldier.<br />It is often frightening and revealing,  especially when one considers the fact that the author actually survived  over five years of combat. So, although the writing style is a bit stiff  and belabored, it is well worth the effort. This is the story of an  \\"average\\" foot soldier involved up to his muddy ankles in the most  outrageous and provocative battles in modern history. This is truly a story  for the record books, one told with honesty (at least from the author's  perspective), and one deserving of your time and study. Imagine slogging  through the heat and rain and mud and snow and ice of the campaign into and  then through Poland and Russia, and retracing mile by mile, yard by yard,  foot by foot as the Russians relentlessly push the 200 divisions of the  German Army slowly and painfully back from all of the gains, inflicting  murderous tolls along the way.  The portrait given is one revealing the  levels of hardship, depravations, depravities, and extreme experiences of a  common soldier involved in the most terrible and hard-fought campaign of  World War Two, Operation Barbarossa.<br />This man was really there and on  the ground throughout it all; the battle experiences, decorations and  wounds suffered rolling through the Crimea, the taking of Sebastopol, the  long and savagely fought campaign in Leningrad, and then later the long,  slow and very costly retreat while trapped in the \\"Courland Pocket\\". The  author obviously matures and changes in the process of these experiences,  although one sometimes wonders how much of this change is the result of  faithful recollection as opposed to selective memory after the fact. But  this is a minor quibble, for it is a story quite well told. One sees the  changes such experiences must make on any ordinary human being; the slow  but inexorable metamorphosis from a sensitive and caring young man to a  battle -hardened survivor who does what he needs to do to protect himself  and his comrades with trained indifference.<br />This is indeed a worthwhile  and well-described (which is not to say easily read) story of the view from  the ground level by someone who was there, and who, while writing  ostensibly for the attention and approval of his comrades, must have been  (at least minimally) accurate in describing the conditions, experiences,  and lessons of war.  Of course, for anyone who has lived through the  crucible of war, whether in WWII or Korea or Vietnam, finally it comes down  to living in the small community of buddies and surviving in that context  that becomes paramount in the day-to-day experiences. This is, in that  sense at least, a very moving and graphic document in describing such  experiences, and should be read and understood by any serious student of  WWII.although one sometimes wonders how much of this change is the result of  faithful recollection as opposed to selective memory after the fact. But  this is a minor quibble, for it is a story quite well told. One sees the  changes such experiences must make on any ordinary human being; the slow  but inexorable metamorphosis from a sensitive and caring young man to a  battle -hardened survivor who does what he needs to do to protect himself  and his comrades with trained indifference. <br />This is indeed a worthwhile  and well-described (which is not to say easily read) story of the view from  the ground level by someone who was there, and who, while writing  ostensibly for the attention and approval of his comrades, must have been  (at least minimally) accurate in describing the conditions, experiences,  and lessons of war.  Of course, for anyone who has lived through the  crucible of war, whether in WWII or Korea or Vietnam, finally it comes down  to living in the small community of buddies and surviving in that context  that becomes paramount in the day-to-day experiences. This is, in that  sense at least, a very moving and graphic document in describing such  experiences, and should be read and understood by any serious student of  WWII.	2000-06-01
2450582:US	52447634	R2R0RJU0DEOKSN	0553103490	562895	The Last 100 Days	Books	4	19	21	N	N	This Book Details the Final Collapse of the Third Reich	This book is a delight to read for any confirmed WWII history buff. It uses a combination of oversight narrative as well as individual recollections and reconstructions from diaries and other historical  documents to provide a highly readable, entertaining and informative look  at the final momentous crush of battle between the western and eastern  fronts of the war against Germany. It is often highly novel, with a  seemingly endless number of humorous and informative anecdotes about the  prosecution of the war.<br />For example, author John Toland describes  Churchill deliberately taking time, along with Generals Montgomery,  Brookes, and Simpson, to publically urinate on a concrete bridge abutment  that comprised part of the frontiers of the so-called Western Wall dividing  Holland from Germany. He also details, with first person reports, the  systematic murderous rampages of the Soviet soldiers, who, unchecked by  their officers, raped and pillaged their way toward Berlin and the final  victory over Germany.<br />The main saving grace of the book is its tone,  which delivers the mountain of information concerning this final  coordinated assault at every level in a very simple, straightforward, and  excellently written expository fashion, and he seldom bores the reader.  Instead, by bringing it down to the level of the individual participants,  he anticipates a whole new wave of later WWII books by highly regarded  authors such as Stephen Ambrose et al that also employ this \\"first person  recollection\\" approach to thread together interesting narratives about  various aspects of the war.<br />Toland's narrative helps us to better  understand the long- debated issues surrounding the curious slow-down of  American, British and other Allied forces on the western front, which  allowed the Soviets to enter Berlin first, but also forced the Soviets to  suffer the brunt of the extremely high casualty rates at the hands of the  fanatically inspired German soldier fighting to save the \\"Fatherland\\" from  the barbarian Russian hordes. It also helps the reader to appreciate the  extent to which the Soviets were, in fact, doing the lion's share of tough  fighting for a number of years, as the casualty figures tend to support.  The numbers of Russians lost dwarfs the losses of Brits, Australians,  Americans, Canadians, French, or any other combatants.<br />This is a  wonderful book, which, although out of print, should be back-ordered, or  sought out as a used book, or lent from the library. It is an easy read,  and well-written and scholarly tome, and yet was light enough to slide  through without any of the ponderous language and endless details of other  books on the war. I recommend it for any serious student of the second  world war, and especially for those that want a wide-ranging narrative  regarding the final days and collapse of the ignominious Third Reich.  Enjoy!g to save the \\"Fatherland\\" from  the barbarian Russian hordes. It also helps the reader to appreciate the  extent to which the Soviets were, in fact, doing the lion's share of tough  fighting for a number of years, as the casualty figures tend to support.  The numbers of Russians lost dwarfs the losses of Brits, Australians,  Americans, Canadians, French, or any other combatants.  <br />This is a  wonderful book, which, although out of print, should be back-ordered, or  sought out as a used book, or lent from the library. It is an easy read,  and well-written and scholarly tome, and yet was light enough to slide  through without any of the ponderous language and endless details of other  books on the war. I recommend it for any serious student of the second  world war, and especially for those that want a wide-ranging narrative  regarding the final days and collapse of the ignominious Third Reich.  Enjoy!	2000-05-31
2454323:US	52447634	RD2U9HE22R1EK	0520085841	526903755	The Cult of Information: A Neo-Luddite Treatise on High-Tech, Artificial Intelligence, and the True Art of Thinking	Books	5	51	52	N	Y	A Full-Broadsided Body Punch To Conventional Wisdom!	This book is a thoughtful and thought-provoking examination of both the meaning of and  the  consequences associated with the rising computer  information cult within contemporary society. Roszak is a skilled writer  and an even more perceptive thinker. He quickly disposes of the  contemporary idea equating data or information, on the one hand, with  knowledge and wisdom, on the other hand. He despairs of the notion that  technological progress is an unalloyed blessing, and provides a lot of  supporting documentation illustrating that for all those capabilities we  gain through the use of digital technology, for example, we also lose  important capabilities and perspectives.<br />According to Roszak, we have  now come to almost rely on exclusively rational,&quot;logical&quot;, and  quantifiable methods of understanding everything around us, often to the  detriment of ignoring more traditional and time-honored methods of knowing.  This, in turn, leads to a very narrow perspective of how it is that the  world operates, one devoid of anything not quantitative, anything comprised  of more &quot;qualitative&quot; means of observation. Thus, to the  digitally oriented logical and rational mind, anything not disposed to  undertanding through calculation and the scientific method simply is not  real. Furthermore, he shows us, such digital computing techniques creates  as many problems as it solves.<br />He fears for good reason that we are  falling into a hyperbolized and superficial culture where we have come to  completely depend on scientific rationalism as it is depicted by the media,  and that this creates a conundrum we cannot escape from, since many of the  problems associated with modern society stem from this increasingly  exlusively scientific and rational approach toward problem-solving.<br />As with other contemporary critics of the new Digital Intelligence cult  like social critic Neil Postman, Roszak argues for a more comprehensive  perspective , one that places the tools of computer technology at the  behest of a more broad-based intelligence, one that recognizes that there  is a whole range of ways of knowing and understanding that those contained  in programming code. This is a provocative and thought-indicing book. I  enjoyed and learned from it, and recommend it to anyone who enjoys watching  a superior intellect at work, and who also appreciated the thread of a  finely-hewn intellectual argument. Enjoy!e that places the tools of computer technology at the  behest of a more broad-based intelligence, one that recognizes that there  is a whole range of ways of knowing and understanding that those contained  in programming code. This is a provocative and thought-indicing book. I  enjoyed and learned from it, and recommend it to anyone who enjoys watching  a superior intellect at work, and who also appreciated the thread of a  finely-hewn intellectual argument. Enjoy!	2000-05-29
2454701:US	52447634	R1RJQR5AMEQRJ7	0520201221	961184180	The Making of a Counter Culture: Reflections on the Technocratic Society and Its Youthful Opposition	Books	5	93	101	N	Y	THE Essential Book For Understanding the 60s Counterculture!	This book is by far the most seminal book one can read in attempting to get an accurate and unvarnished understanding of the sixties counterculture; the social and historical reasons for its rise, its  intellectual underpinnings, and the way in which its actions were informed  and indeed propelled by its unique constellation of integrating values into  a cultural ethos.<br />Recently the counterculture has been viciously  attacked, intellectually trashed and intentionally trivialized by a series  of books and articles by mainstream neoconservatives who wish to discredit  the counterculture once and for all by blaming it and the  &quot;permissiveness&quot; it spawned for the manifest ills the mainstream  society has actually engendered through the evolution of its own corrupted,  nonrepresentative, and nondemocratic political process. Many ignorant  youthful authors have succumbed to attributing fallacious ideas and notions  of this ethos in a way that is not only inaccurate and disingenuous, but  which serves to trivialize the quite serious cultural critique it  comprised.<br />All that is set aside here. Remember, this book was written  more than 30 years ago, even as the counterculture was rising, so it is  very much a observational history, one done at ground zero of the  demonstrations, sit-ins, when the tumult and strident calls for radical new  solutions rang clear, and the heady air of nascent social and intellectual  revolution was in the air.<br />Here one finds the counterculture placed in  its proper context, and not just discussed  'en passant' as the demonized  triage of sex, drugs, and rock and roll'. One can hardly understand the  sixties in such simplistic terms, and Roszak helps one to understand the  complex welter of social, economic, and political factors that led to its  emergence. In its essence the counterculture was a social and political  reaction to the hypocrisy of the mainstream materialistic culture from  which it sprang, and as sociologist Philp Slater has commented elsewhere,  most of the individual elements of the value system of the counterculture  stem from values the mainstream culture in fact claims to hold but actually  does not practice and employ.<br />This, then, is book with remarkable  insight, perspective, and historical verve. Rosazak nails quite accurately  the tensions, problems and contradictions associated with the rise of the  counterculture and the innate problems its continued existence eventually  portended for the materialistic mainstream culture. Of course, as history  shows us, the sixties ethos was flattened by the overwhelming onslaught of  the establishment and the Ohio National Guard, and the political and social  ethos of the counterculture melded into the domain of increasingly isolated  private and personal philosphies of hippies being assimilated into the  mainstream.<br />The fact that its ethos is now blamed for much of the  discontent and confusion of contemporary America is a likely result of what  happens when one tries to merge antagonistic ideas and notions into a  cultural system that is inconsistent with its own. This is a wonderful  book, and one needs to read before the victors of those fractious times so  revise the official version of the history of the 1960s that those of us  who were there will no longer recognize it.logist Philp Slater has commented elsewhere,  most of the individual elements of the value system of the counterculture  stem from values the mainstream culture in fact claims to hold but actually  does not practice and employ. <br />This, then, is book with remarkable  insight, perspective, and historical verve. Rosazak nails quite accurately  the tensions, problems and contradictions associated with the rise of the  counterculture and the innate problems its continued existence eventually  portended for the materialistic mainstream culture. Of course, as history  shows us, the sixties ethos was flattened by the overwhelming onslaught of  the establishment and the Ohio National Guard, and the political and social  ethos of the counterculture melded into the domain of increasingly isolated  private and personal philosphies of hippies being assimilated into the  mainstream. <br />The fact that its ethos is now blamed for much of the  discontent and confusion of contemporary America is a likely result of what  happens when one tries to merge antagonistic ideas and notions into a  cultural system that is inconsistent with its own. This is a wonderful  book, and one needs to read before the victors of those fractious times so  revise the official version of the history of the 1960s that those of us  who were there will no longer recognize it.	2000-05-29
2458635:US	52447634	R3D2KDVAQBMARR	0679767282	86510161	In The Time Of The Americans: FDR, Truman, Eisenhower, Marshall, MacArthur-The Generation That Changed America 's Role in the World	Books	4	17	22	N	N	Captivating Proof that Individuals Help Change the World!	This is a wonderfully written book detailing how five exceptional American individuals literally transformed America from a country characterized by  isolationism and a narrow, parochial perspective into the major player on  the world stage. All five came to age in an America still locked in the  self-absorbed issues of the 19th century, yet each grew with the needs of  the times to become instruments for monumental change.<br />The most  interesting aspect of this book is the fashion in which the author sets out  substantive proof for the &quot;exceptional man&quot; thesis in history. So  here we had five such individuals interacting contemporaneously and  profoundly changing the world as a result. Of course, this isn't to suggest  that they somehow aggressively pounded the world into their chosen image,  for nothing is farther from the truth. This was a time when many titans  strode the stage, men like Hitler, Churchill, Stalin, Mussolini and  Hirohito. Yet the fact that these five succeeded in vanquishing Hitler,  Mussolini and Hirohito demonstrates the extent of their accomplishment.<br />Yet these five men successfully confronted the most urgent and manifest  challenges of their time, from FDR's New Deal and transformation of the  national government into an active instrument for change. It is no accident  that three of the five, Eisenhower, Marshall, and MacArthur, were military  professionals, each of whom played an unique and indispensable role in  defeating the Axis powers. That each then continued to contribute after the  end of the hostilities is more proof of their sense of personal  responsibility and need to serve the nation in whatever manner they could.  each had a sense of time and place, as well as an appreciation for the  unique historical circumstances he found himself in, whether it be  MacArthur in Asia, who over decades became a kind of American Centurion,  or Harry Truman, thrust onto the national and then world stage most  unexpectedly.<br />In a time like ours, when we are surrounded by public  pygmies like Clinton, Gore, the Bushes, Newt Gingrich, and those nine  comedians over in Supreme Court land striving to be giants, it's  instructive to remember that we weren't always hampered by such venal,  self-interested, and morally corrupt leaders. Indeed, it is refreshing,  hopeful, and perhaps even a bit nolstalgic to remember that America is not  necessarily the eternal land of manipulative  mental midgets, and that it  once was a place whose titans strode and literally saved the world. Read  this book and remember.<br />In a time like ours, when we are surrounded by public  pygmies like Clinton, Gore, the Bushes, Newt Gingrich, and those nine  comedians over in Supreme Court land striving to be giants, it's  instructive to remember that we weren't always hampered by such venal,  self-interested, and morally corrupt leaders. Indeed, it is refreshing,  hopeful, and perhaps even a bit nolstalgic to remember that America is not  necessarily the eternal land of manipulative  mental midgets, and that it  once was a place whose titans strode and literally saved the world. Read  this book and remember.	2000-05-26
2459710:US	52447634	R2AA5ZDGRUVIZ8	0679748253	950349469	Beautiful Losers	Books	5	135	138	N	N	A Work Of Poetic Genius By Leonard Cohen	When this book was first published in the mid-sixties, the New York Times reviewer said that he had discovered that James Joyce wasn't dead; he was alive and writing in Montreal under the name of Leonard Cohen. Younger fiction fans are likely ignorant of just how influential and omnipresent Leonard Cohen, a young Canadian Jew living in Montreal was in the late 1960s. He was a novelist/poet/songwriter/folksinger, running with the likes of Dylan, Eric Andersen, Paul Simon, Joni Mitchell, Judy Collins, Lou Reed, Van Morrison, etc. etc. etc. His poetry put to music reamins perhaps the most haunting and beautiful to come out of that fabled time. You've surely heard his work, but may not be aware of just how much he influenced his fellows. Here, however, is the ultimate portable testament to the sheer creative powers Cohen wields; Beautiful Losers.<br /><br />The title comes from one of his earlier poems, which having a mysterious coda of \\"So you're the kind of vegetarian/ Who only eats roses/ Is that what you mean't/ with your beautiful losers?\\". Given that context, this title refers to the cast of incredibly beautiful losers at life's game in this fantastic cruise through Cohen's imagination and a stream of consciousness. I promise, this trip will be quite unlike anything you have ever experienced in print. It revolves around four characters, three of whom are dead, one of whom is a French-Canadian Indian nun who's been dead for over three hundred years, and who's currently being considered for cannonization by the Cathloic Church. From its opening question, \\"Catherine Tekakawitha, who are you?\\" to his final plea to \\"poor men, poor men such as we, they've gone and fled\\", this is a book that will leave you breathless.<br /><br />This is one book you should run out to buy, but also is one for a long and slow reading. On virtually every page is a stream of word pictures best experienced fully and deliberately. Don't pick this one for your book report, kids, it is a four letter word tirade, and an exploration into the grittiest aspects of life. it is at turns hilarious, hysterical, profound, mystical, and absolutely unbelievable. For Cohen, \\"God is alive, and magic is afoot\\", and nowhere is his power of observation moe powerful than in this novel.<br /><br />I remember having read it in hardcover in the mid-sixties and then passed it on to a friend, who of course passed it on and so on. So I lost the hardcover forever, but began a life of loving serious and well-written literature. This is a book for the ages, friend, one you can pick up and read a page at random at any moment and still enjoy completely. At the risk of committing the terrible sin of hyperbole, this is a wonderful work of art, and will last for centuries. Read it now, and then read it later. It ages very well. Like \\"Ulysses\\", or \\"Finnegan's Wake', or \\"Death In Venice\\", it is a one of a kind experience. Enjoy.tter word tirade, and an exploration into the grittiest aspects of life. it is at turns hilarious, hysterical, profound, mystical, and absolutely unbelievable. For Cohen, \\"God is alive, and magic is afoot\\", and nowhere is his power of observation moe powerful than in this novel.<br /><br />I remember having read it in hardcover in the mid-sixties and then passed it on to a friend, who of course passed it on and so on. So I lost the hardcover forever, but began a life of loving serious and well-written literature. This is a book for the ages, friend, one you can pick up and read a page at random at any moment and still enjoy completely. At the risk of committing the terrible sin of hyperbole, this is a wonderful work of art, and will last for centuries. Read it now, and then read it later. It ages very well. Like \\"Ulysses\\", or \\"Finnegan's Wake', or \\"Death In Venice\\", it is a one of a kind experience. Enjoy.	2000-05-26
2459717:US	52447634	R283JD2YA8TRQ9	0140189300	964793034	Been Down So Long It Looks Like Up to Me (Penguin Twentieth-century Classics)	Books	5	41	46	N	N	Farina's Timeless Classic:  A Reflection in a Crystal Dream	Richard Farina was a consummate songerwriter, poet and hopeful novelist, until his first and only novel burst onto the scene. Although a later book was released that was a compilation of some short stories, poems, and  articles about him, this was the only book he had to stretch toward the  literary heavens with. And it was indeed a smash!<br />Unfortunately, Farina,  who was married to Joan Baez' younger sister Mimi, with whom he had forged  a folk duo that played and recorded some of his wonderful poetry put to  music, never lived to experience his own wild success, as he fell off the  back of a motorcycle on the way home from the publication party for this  book, and was killed instantly. But the book lives, indeed it flourishes,  and the paperback version has never been out of print in all this time,  which is ample testimony to its continuing power, verve, and its timeless  message, as well as to its beautifully written story.<br />This is a  wonderful book, one that has grown in reputation and stature over the  intervening decades, and as another, much younger reviewer commented, it is  one for everyone, not just for us greying babyboomers who were lucky enough  to have discovered and experienced Richard in his prime. For all of us who  have read his work, or listened to his music, or experienced his poetry, or  for those of us who were lucky enough to see Mimi and Richard perform at  the Newport Folk Festival, one can still hear the faint echoes of their  haunting guitar harmonies and vocals, and we truly know that he is still  with us. We know that he has truly left us a present, his evocative  &quot;reflections in a crystal dream&quot;.<br />Although set in a time  before the changes of the sixties started to roar, one soon recognizes teh  signs and spirit of the times in his words and the storyline. Enter  Gnossos, soul of the road, keeper of the eternal flame, and a pilgrim on an  endless search for the holy grail of cool, and the college town of Athene  (read Ithaca, NY, home of Cornell) will never be the same. Nor will you  after digesting this wild, extremely readable parable. So, friend, don't  hesitate; buy it, read it, but do so slllllloooooowwwwwllllly, savoring  every gorgeous moment of it. It's all we have left of him, the only legacy  of an incredible talent and a wonderful spokesperson for the otherwise  indescribable sixties.thene  (read Ithaca, NY, home of Cornell) will never be the same. Nor will you  after digesting this wild, extremely readable parable. So, friend, don't  hesitate; buy it, read it, but do so slllllloooooowwwwwllllly, savoring  every gorgeous moment of it. It's all we have left of him, the only legacy  of an incredible talent and a wonderful spokesperson for the otherwise  indescribable sixties.	2000-05-26
2460242:US	52447634	R34DP245546Y4U	0808501526	12279843	Future Shock (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	5	204	211	N	Y	Must Reading For Any Concerned Citizen!	It is a pleasant surprise to see that this book has been reissued as a hardcover. In the thrity years since its original publication, the basic truths and awesome prognositications have largely come to pass. Of course,  in the process Mr. Toffler has become something of a cottage industry  himself, since publishing several sequels (The Third Wave, Power Shift,  etc.). Yet nothing surpasses the sheer magnitude of the argument forwarded  here. Toffler marshalls a virtual mountain of evidence illustrating his  claim of a rising flood of techniological, social, and economic change,  largely emanating from the increasing influence of science and technology  into every area of contemporary life.<br />Toffler's main concern is with the  recognition that while a human being's capacity to adjust physically,  psychologically, and socially to this torrent of change is finite and quite  limited, the pace of change is increasing and expanding into more and more  areas of individuals' lives. Moreover, no one is asking for these profound  and endless changes; they stem more from the economic impulses of the  marketplace than from any kind of consumer demand, and perhaps we should be  asking  to what extent this flood of innovations actually enhances our  lives, and personal convenience associated with all these innovations and  technological improvements are worth the social, economic, and political  change that follows in its wake.<br />The term &quot;future shock&quot; refers  to what happens when people are no longer able to cope with the pace of  change. All sorts of symptoms and maladies results, ranging from depression  to bizarre behavior to increases in susceptability to disease to absolute  emotional breakdown. Thus, Toffler accurately anticipated many of the sorts  of psychological, social, and economic maldies and turbulence of the last  thirty years. Yet, to date literally no one seems to pay much heed to his  thesis, or to ask what it means for the quality of life in our own futures.  This is an important book raising critical and fundamental questions about  the social, economic, and political impacts of technologically-induced  innovations within contemporary society and the way they are flooding  uncontested and unhampered into our social environment. This is a must-read  for any serious student of social science.our own futures.  This is an important book raising critical and fundamental questions about  the social, economic, and political impacts of technologically-induced  innovations within contemporary society and the way they are flooding  uncontested and unhampered into our social environment. This is a must-read  for any serious student of social science.	2000-05-25
2461291:US	52447634	R1IL3VJQQETEXX	0140288503	189891237	Black Hawk Down: A Story of Modern War	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	An Object Lesson About  the Profession of Arms and Politics	This is an interesting, disturbing, and captivating book, and one every American interested in how contemporary foreign policy often injects our armed forces into hostile and violent political situations should read. As someone formally involved with the support of military operations, I found  the situation alarming from the beginning, when these men were sent into an  enemy stronghold without proper support and back up. But then, again, when  the American media's approach to the seriousness of the military campaign  is to be out on the beach filming the landing of American amphibious  troops, one recognizes the absurdity of the situation.  From the outset,  this was hardly a straightforward military operation.<br /> Once the  troops are in place and ready to `rock&amp; roll' in the local environment,  however, the multiple mistakes involved both in military assessment and  then in military reaction slowly suck our troops into an increasingly  unpredictable, dangerous and untenable situation. Of course, with  hindsight, it is easy to second-guess the series of experiences and  decisions made that led to sending 100 troopers into the heavily armed  urban morass they became entwined in, but no one could have guessed how  hostile, energetic, or persistent the heavily armed local thugs would be in  prosecuting the battle. Yet it is precisely this possibility that senior  military officers on the scene must anticipate and appreciate, and it is to  their blood-stained hands (and the hands of civilian policy-makers) that we  must look for the deaths of these fine young men.<br /> On the other  hand, given the mistakes made in establishing the rules of engagement, the  single most striking aspect of this tale is that fact that it has been  painted as a military defeat. Yet in more modest and realistic terms, any  military engagement, which results in 18 dead and dozens, wounded  counter-posed with literally hundreds of dead and wounded Somalis hardly  constitutes an unalloyed defeat. Ambushed, surrounded, and attacked with a  level of unsuspected ferocity, these men fought bravely and well, and  inflicted almost unbelievable damage on an opposing force of overwhelming  numbers and firepower.<br />One chief lesson here is that it was the manner  in which the media portrayed the event that led to the subsequent events,  up to and including the decision to pull American troops out of the region.  Yet, anyone familiar with the nature of war understands it is patently  ridiculous to suppose one can conduct serious military operations involving  the outright use of deadly force without suffering loss of life. Pointing  to situations both before and since only demonstrates our luck, the degree  of caution employed, and the likely enforced timidity of our activities.  Certainly the laughable operations recently conducted in the Balkans  provides proof of this absurd idea. Until we once again have people  experienced in the profession of arms manning decision-making positions in  the Executive branch, people who understand the requirements for successful  military operations, until then we will continue to suffer the slings and  arrows of such outrageous fortune.oyed defeat. Ambushed, surrounded, and attacked with a  level of unsuspected ferocity, these men fought bravely and well, and  inflicted almost unbelievable damage on an opposing force of overwhelming  numbers and firepower. <br />One chief lesson here is that it was the manner  in which the media portrayed the event that led to the subsequent events,  up to and including the decision to pull American troops out of the region.  Yet, anyone familiar with the nature of war understands it is patently  ridiculous to suppose one can conduct serious military operations involving  the outright use of deadly force without suffering loss of life. Pointing  to situations both before and since only demonstrates our luck, the degree  of caution employed, and the likely enforced timidity of our activities.  Certainly the laughable operations recently conducted in the Balkans  provides proof of this absurd idea. Until we once again have people  experienced in the profession of arms manning decision-making positions in  the Executive branch, people who understand the requirements for successful  military operations, until then we will continue to suffer the slings and  arrows of such outrageous fortune.	2000-05-25
2464722:US	52447634	R28XDRZIWK5QXW	1840181249	437815770	John Denver: Mother Nature's Son	Books	1	137	147	N	N	John Denver's Amazing Life Deserves A Better Effort	I was saddened to discover that the so-called biographer of one of this century's most beloved artists, entertainers, conservationists, and  humanists couldn't marshall a more formidable effort on behalf of John  Denver. Why undertake a project like this with such misgivings and such a  lack of appreciation for who Denver was, how much he personally  contributed, or how deeply he affected millions of fans and admirers. While  the author may personally find aspects of John's musical style superficial  or slick, no one delving deeper into John Denver's story can fail to  appreciate his sheer talent, energy, sincerity, and humanity, nor to be  impressed by the energy, talent, or persistence in the plethora of  important projects John threw himself into.<br />Any number of his songs are  quite widely covered, even today, yet no one has ever been more successful  presenting what was basically an extremely popular and easy-to-listen to  (the word beautiful seems descriptively inadequate) country music cross  over into the popular realm than was John Denver. He was indeed a  phenomenon.<br />At a time when singer/songwriters like James Taylor, Van  Morrison, and Elton John were tearing up the charts, Denver effectively  outsold, outwrote, and outperformed them in terms of his public appeal.  This is not intended as a put-down of any of these incredible artists, all  of whom have continued to create and contribute today . It is rather to  emphasize how amazing his continuing success and effective domination of  the popular music charts in the 1970s was. John Denver was THE singular  popular musical superstar  of thee 1970s, and the fact that he was deserves  to be recognized for the phenomenal success it was.<br />His deeply personal  musical voice spoke simply yet eloquently through the vehicle of a unique  perspective on the world, and combined an intensely personal way of  describing himself and  his relationships with a seductively romantic view  of the world. Of course, he quickly became identified with his soaring  paens in praise of the beauty of the natural world, and almost as quickly  became a driving force popularizing the  environmental movement, often  testifying to Congress with great style and verve, often very influential  in the drafting of certain aspects of the clean water and clean air acts.<br />As the years went by became Denver became less and less concerned about  his own career and more and more involved in various environmental and  humanist causes. He was friend and confidant to luminaries, world leaders  and philosophers like Jacques Cousteau and Buckminister &quot;Bucky&quot;  Fuller, and spent time working, covorting and relaxing with a list of  notables that sounds like a who's who list of 20th century luminaries.<br />His personal life was as complex and as full of sadness as often true  of most exceptional people, and no one denies that he had bouts of  depression and tough times over the years. Haven't we all? And isn't that  the price one pays for being a human being in this, the last half of the  20th century? Why dwell on his frailties and vulnerabilities when they pale  in comparison with his accomplishments and contributions? As his brother  commented on suggestions that John's tragic death in a plane crash was a  suicide, anyone knowing how much John loved living and life itself who  could say that he committed sucide must have his head up his ass.<br />Still, with all of this taken into account, nothing can still bring such  a fond smile to millions of babyboomer faces or such a twinkle to many of  our eyes as can the mere mention of John Denver's name. Those of us who  have witnessed the incredible panorama of music in the last thirty years or  so still hold a special place in the valhalla of artistic fame for the  bespectacled kid with a shock of bushy blond hair who walked the frozen  streams and mountain passes of the American Rockies, and sang so simply, so  beautifully, and so eloquentlyto all of us from his heart. These kids  running around the Rockies in their high-tech clothing and glacier boots  haven't got a clue, viewing the wilderness as  another Disneyland, just  another setting for their self-absorbed personal adventures, something to  demonstrate their prowess and flatter their egos. Yet Denver helped a whole  generation discover how much of a world onto itself the wilderness is, and  how much of a gift from Providence such natural wonder is.<br />For Denver  the wilderness presented us with a chance to be fuller, kinder, and better  people, people who cared about all of God's creation and would act as  caretakers for everything in this garden. What we need is a better  biography to help these kids  understand. In essence, Denver wasn't just an  incredibly talented and popular and successful  singer/songwriter/entertainer; he was a very special human being who  reached higher, stronger, and farther than most normal human beings,  someone who opened his heart, head, and spirit to share and guide us with.  He deserves a better biography that appreciates the full story of his  gifts, contributions, and legacy.d so eloquently to all of us from his heart. These kids  running around the Rockies in their high-tech clothing and glacier boots  haven't got a clue, viewing the wilderness as  another Disneyland, just  another setting for their self-absorbed personal adventures, something to  demonstrate their prowess and flatter their egos. Yet Denver helped a whole  generation discover how much of a world onto itself the wilderness is, and  how much of a gift from Providence such natural wonder is. <br />For Denver  the wilderness presented us with a chance to be fuller, kinder, and better  people, people who cared about all of God's creation and would act as  caretakers for everything in this garden. What we need is a better  biography to help these kids  understand. In essence, Denver wasn't just an  incredibly talented and popular and successful  singer/songwriter/entertainer; he was a very special human being who  reached higher, stronger, and farther than most normal human beings,  someone who opened his heart, head, and spirit to share and guide us with.  He deserves a better biography that appreciates the full story of his  gifts, contributions, and legacy.	2000-05-23
2468311:US	52447634	RO5EGS8VV9WI0	0684853779	999464161	Bobos in Paradise: The New Upper Class and How They Got There	Books	3	160	252	N	N	A Funny, Silly, but Seriously Flawed and Misguided Book	If the merit of a book were to be exclusively rated by virtue of readability and entertainment value, then this book is going to be a well-deserved and predictable best-seller. However, if one reads books s to  become a more aware, better informed, and intellectually astute citizen,  then this is a trite, superficial, and absolutely worthless tome. Like  cotton candy, a sweet experience, but almost absolutely devoid of any  substantive nutritional content.<br />Brooks admits in the opening chapter  that he considers his work an exercise in what he refers to as &quot;comic  sociology&quot;. Well, at least he got the comic part right. Please don't  misunderstand me; he is obviously a talented, perceptive, and entertaining  writer, and one finds the text quite readable and easy to follow and  absorb. The problem here is that his analysis is too far  superficial to be  worthwhile. He admits, for example, that he is no Max Weber (a famous turn  of the century sociologist and social theorist who was an astute and  amazingly prescient critic of modern capitalist culture). Perhaps if he had  read Professor Weber more closely (or at all?) he might have recognized the  dangers of placing too much stress on one aspect of a complex social  envionment and then overemphasizing its importance in the overall scheme of  that particular cultural milieiu.<br />This is the theoretical mistake Herr  Weber accuses Karl Marx of making with dialetical materialism; mistaking  the observable fact of the progressive alienation of workers in 19th  century manufacturing factories of being alienated for being the central  motive force in history. What Marx didn't recognize, unfortunately, was  that all participants in large modern industrial societies are by course of  the organization of that society into social institutions ritually  expropriated from the means of participation in it. Thus, individuals can  express their talents and capabilites only though participation and  cooperation with large-scale social institutions (read bureaucracies  here).<br />Moreover, this is exactly what Mr. Brooks does, mistaking some  colorful and paradoxical symptoms of the critical breakdown in the  integrity and cohesiveness of modern society and its accompanying cultural  ethos for a new culture ethos itself. Indeed, his choice of books for  reference here is telling, all dated in the unusual and historically  atypical period of the the Affluent society of the 1950s. He studiously  ignores a plethora of more traditional and more recent and relevant  monographs, such as &quot;Technopoly&quot;, by Neil Postman, &quot;The  Power Elite&quot; by C.Wright Mills, and &quot;The Cult of  Information&quot; by Theodore Roszak.<br />In essence, Brooks seems amazingly  ignorant of the fact that with the rise of a number of related cultural  phenomena in the last forty to fifty years, the majority of urban and  suburban Americans (especially those who are habitually electronically  connected to the media) are deeply confused and disoriented in terms of  their cultural orientation. In fact, most Americans feel no cultural  constraint to be consistent in terms of what they believe in each of the  various aspects of their lives, seeing them as completely disconnected and  absolutely independent phenomena.<br />This is, in fact, the end-point of the  alienation process predicted by Marx, Weber, and Durkheim long agao, and is  often referred to in more recent terms as &quot;individuation&quot;, or  absolute cultural fragmentation, disintegration and dissipation into  irrelevancy. In this manner we can say that these citizens don't have an  integrated cultural ethos so much as they have a grab-bag of ideas,  opinions, and views that they feel no need to better understand and  integrate into anything approaching a coherent and intelligent world -view.<br />The main culprits in this evolution has been 1) the rise and domination  of dissemination of public information by the electronic media, 2) the  segregation of Americans by virtue of income and lifestyles, and 3) the  progressive vitiation of all integration and meaning in our cultural values  with the astounding confusion and disintegration of all our social  institutions as a result of the ongoing changes associated with the  technological revolution.<br />Seen in this way, reading this slim and silly  volume is like spending an afternoon watching old Sylvester Stallone  movies; entertaining but unconsequential in terms of what one learns from  the time so spent. The real danger with watching such movies, of course, is  that one may begin to believe that Sly's problem-solving approach as  depicted in Rambo is an accurate model for how to conduct one's own life.  Here the danger is that too many gullible bozos will read all about bobos  and believe it is an accurate depiction of the cutting edge of America's  upper class.<br />Shake off the demons, friend, and pass this one by. This  book is, in my opinion, silly and specious nonsense written by someone so  insulated in his experience and so lacking in socio-historical perspective  that he has little or no idea of what he is talking about. No doubt,  however that this book will become a smash best-seller and be the talk of  the nation for the next several months. I expect to see Mr. Brooks on Oprah  any day now. But then again, as our old amigo Arlo Guthrie would say,  &quot;That's America&quot;. Go figure!ic media, 2) the  segregation of Americans by virtue of income and lifestyles, and 3) the  progressive vitiation of all integration and meaning in our cultural values  with the astounding confusion and disintegration of all our social  institutions as a result of the ongoing changes associated with the  technological revolution.<br />Seen in this way, reading this slim and silly  volume is like spending an afternoon watching old Sylvester Stallone  movies; entertaining but unconsequential in terms of what one learns from  the time so spent. The real danger with watching such movies, of course, is  that one may begin to believe that Sly's problem-solving approach as  depicted in Rambo is an accurate model for how to conduct one's own life.  Here the danger is that too many gullible bozos will read all about bobos  and believe it is an accurate depiction of the cutting edge of America's  upper class. <br />Shake off the demons, friend, and pass this one by. This  book is, in my opinion, silly and specious nonsense written by someone so  insulated in his experience and so lacking in socio-historical perspective  that he has little or no idea of what he is talking about. No doubt,  however that this book will become a smash best-seller and be the talk of  the nation for the next several months. I expect to see Mr. Brooks on Oprah  any day now. But then again, as our old amigo Arlo Guthrie would say,  &quot;That's America&quot;. Go figure!	2000-05-21
2469436:US	52447634	R1XQOA4ARWQNLO	0767904982	404856428	Running to the Mountain: A Midlife Adventure	Books	4	63	81	N	N	Pudgy Putz Stumbles Round the Mountain As He Comes....	Mr. Katz's book is well written, amusing, entertaining, and occasionally even thought-provoking, but let's be honest- it is also prosaic, pedestrian; hardly a genuine journey toward discovering secular  spirituality based on rural hardship, privation, and isolation it raises  expectations it will be through association with Merton's cache.<br />Yet  armed with armfuls of Merton material, an IBM powerbook, a cellular phone,  100 channels of media noise, and some old Glenlivet, he makes the  astounding discovery that rural life lacks the luxuries, conveniences, and  the kind of instant gratification of life he has come to expect in that  suffocating suburban stalag he's sentenced in by living in New Jersey. Hey,  where's the nearest Starbucks, anyway, buddy?<br />Hey, Jon, that's why  country folk have been fleeing to the city for hundreds of years, to see  them bright city lights! One afternoon lightning strikes a tree near his  house and his neighbor has to call him on the phone to warn him to go  inside! Wow! What an adventure. Wow! What a putz! A strong winter wind  blows and shakes the house and he suddenly discovers the  &quot;MEANING&quot; of his own spirituality. Mother of pearl, give us  pause!  Give me a break.<br />Please don't misunderstand me- I liked the book  for what it is. But, while the book is eminently worth reading, it confuses  mere frustration with painful privation, annoyance with adventure, and  upper middle class financial juggling with fateful personal economic  disaster.<br />It is all too typical of today's confusion among urban  dwellers. Living in the land of hyperbole, they can no longer tell the  difference between superficial experiences and the genuine article. Thus,  they think annoyance is some kind of spiritual tribulation, and that  everything they experience or think or wonder about on the way to the  grocery market is philosophical grist for the world's attention. Does the  phrase pampered self-absorption strike anyone as relevant here?  Most  simply put, this is just another urban book, written by another clever  urban author full of what sometime seem to be arrogant urban assumptions,  someone who is just beginning his journey toward any real country  consciousness.<br />Placing this slim and silly volume alongside real rural  adventures like &quot;Edges of the Earth&quot;, or &quot;Living the Good  Life' makes this painfully obvious. Too bad Jon didn't do some research  before writing about his journey to the center of the void. He is a skilled  and talented writer, and I enjoyed his tall tale. One gets the sense there  is a warm and emotionally valuable human being writing in there.<br />Yet one  finishes the book hoping other urbanites don't mistake this loosely  threaded-together 'adventure' as a Thoreau-like return to nature (although  both Jon and Henry David did return home whenever things got a little rough  in the woods). Rural life is much more complicated and requires a passle  more of self-reliance and endurance than is evidenced here. Most of us  living in the country cannot simply &quot;buy&quot; our way out of our  difficulties the way Mr. Katz describes.<br />The real shortcoming of the  book stems from a shortcoming Mr. Katz cannot avoid; his own urban-based  consciousness. Sadly, though, the danger here is that he is speaking to an  audience even more ignorant and inured to hyperbole than he is, who is  likely to honestly believe that what he describes is some kind of  meaningful adventure  instead of just an impromptu afternoon playing with  his ducky in the neighbor's above-ground pool. Mr Katz no more experienced  the wilderness by his commando raids into upstate New York than I  experienced the spirit of Paris with a two hour layover in Orly airport a  couple of years ago. Some things can't be rushed or experienced on the fly.<br />After fifteen years spent living on the cusp between the urban and rural  worlds and learning the lessons of how to live a rural lifestyle, I  understand it takes years to drown out one's need for constant, anxious  busyness and goal-orientation that one carries around as a result of  lonmg-term immersion in an urban environment. Mr. Katz just doen't allow  enough time to lose all the noise before whipping out his power book to  describe the life and times abroad in the wild wilderness. Natty Bumpo,  stand aside. No time to waste. Print out the manuscript and mail it off to  meet the schedule. Rural life should be so easy to understand and  capture...<br />Buy the book, by all means. Read it. But don't mistake it for  anything like a return to nature or an effort to seriously get back to the  kind of spiritual simplicity a meaningful rural life requires. It's just an  inside joke, like the New Yorkers that come up here looking for true  wilderness and not understanding why it isn't right off the freeway.  Straight Ahead! Wilderness and the scary dark woods! Button up your  woolies. Natty Bumpo has arrived. Hope you continue to season in your  country skills, as well, Jon. Glad you survived your first year or so, and  good luck in your further adventures. Anyone reading your book will agree  you've got a lot of heart, and a lot of gumption. Just not much country  sense.al lifestyle, I  understand it takes years to drown out one's need for constant, anxious  busyness and goal-orientation that one carries around as a result of  lonmg-term immersion in an urban environment. Mr. Katz just doen't allow  enough time to lose all the noise before whipping out his power book to  describe the life and times abroad in the wild wilderness. Natty Bumpo,  stand aside. No time to waste. Print out the manuscript and mail it off to  meet the schedule. Rural life should be so easy to understand and  capture... <br />Buy the book, by all means. Read it. But don't mistake it for  anything like a return to nature or an effort to seriously get back to the  kind of spiritual simplicity a meaningful rural life requires. It's just an  inside joke, like the New Yorkers that come up here looking for true  wilderness and not understanding why it isn't right off the freeway.  Straight Ahead! Wilderness and the scary dark woods! Button up your  woolies. Natty Bumpo has arrived. Hope you continue to season in your  country skills, as well, Jon. Glad you survived your first year or so, and  good luck in your further adventures. Anyone reading your book will agree  you've got a lot of heart, and a lot of gumption. Just not much country  sense.	2000-05-20
2469874:US	52447634	RK81QLN4CSDPC	0060194995	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A Book To Savor For  A Lifetime	I first read this wonderful novel as a teenager while waiting for the movie starring Gregory Peck to be released that same summer. Again and again over the intervening decades since have I pulled down my hard-bound  copy to read in whole or in part on a rainy afternoon because of its sheer  drawing power. In today's complex world one tends to lose perspective as to  how explosive, provocative, and sensational the issues of cross-race rape  was in the early 1960s when Miss Lee's novel was originally published. Yet  despite the sizzling if subdued sexual content and the divisive issues  surrounding the book, it quickly rose to best-seller status and easily  delivered the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction for Harper Lee with this, her  first novel.<br />  It is probably the character of Atticus Finch who  deserves most of the credit for the novel's enduring popularity. Seldom has  such a quietly heroic figure been so favorably and memorably described in  such loving detail in an American novel as is fortyish Atticus Finch, the  highly principled and somewhat befuddled widower-lawyer trying his level  best to raise his two young children alone in the midst of the deep South  during the early years of the Depression. As daughter Scout remembers,  there was little that Atticus couldn't charm or talk his way out of. And,  as played by Gregory Peck in the memorable movie, this thoughtful, moral,  and courageous man became a model of modern American manhood for all who  read or watched his story unfold.<br />  Of course, the other characters  are also lovingly and carefully drawn and described, and the way in which  the importance and relevance of the mockingbird parable is sown at a number  of different levels with a number of different characters is also one of  the enduring treasures  found within the pages of this book. Whether  considering Tom Robinson, Boo Radley, Scout, Jem, or Atticus himself, we  all come to better understand the ways in which all the individuals'  stories and fate are intricately and inextricably interwoven with each  other and into the fabric of a particular time and place.<br />  Thus, we  see the degree to which Atticus  relies and depends on their black  governess, and the degree to which he is concerned for her welfare as well.  On the other hand, we watch as  Bob Ewell acts despicably to mistreat  people of color. There are volumes of wisdom herein regarding the treatment  of human beings and the problems associated with trying to live in any  particular place at any specific time. So well and accurately drawn are the  characters of this fable of the life and times of Scout Finch in &quot;To  Kill A Mockingbird&quot;, that one can only hope it continues to be widely  read and appreciated as a modern American classic.'  stories and fate are intricately and inextricably interwoven with each  other and into the fabric of a particular time and place. <br />      Thus, we  see the degree to which Atticus   relies and depends on their black  governess, and the degree to which he is concerned for her welfare as well.  On the other hand, we watch as  Bob Ewell acts despicably to mistreat  people of color. There are volumes of wisdom herein regarding the treatment  of human beings and the problems associated with trying to live in any  particular place at any specific time. So well and accurately drawn are the  characters of this fable of the life and times of Scout Finch in &quot;To  Kill A Mockingbird&quot;, that one can only hope it continues to be widely  read and appreciated as a modern American classic.	2000-05-19
2471240:US	52447634	R2FXRA8GFA8LGP	0140045295	451478495	Sometimes a Great Notion	Books	5	84	89	N	N	Ken Kesey's Underappreciated Second Novel	Like &quot;Cuckoo's Nest&quot;, this novel is as big and as expansive as the Pacific Northwest it is set in, where Kesey spins the colorful tale of a ogging family pit by circumstance against big business and the negativity  of small town America. Describhed with his usual kaliedoscopic powers of  wonderfully flowing detail and color, this is a complex and multi-layered  tale,  with more than enough ingredients for sustained exploration and  interest; passion, betrayal, the intricate inner workings of an interesting  family of individuals who love and need each other but at the same time  want and need to stretch and grow, to be more than just who they are within  the confines of that family.<br />In a sense this book is a almost a  deliberate self-parody; Kesey shows there are many more ways to be a man  than through the mere use of what are usually thought of as masculine  characteristics. Thus we have a character like Hank, the ultimate bad-ass  Stamper counterposed by Leland, the younger half-brother who is  intellectually curious, a bit rowdy and uncertain, and who is exploring wht  it means to be a &quot;Stamper&quot;. This interesting rivalry and  opposition between the brothers is used to explore a whole range of issues  about what it means to be areal man and a real grown-up, and Kesey  understands that in contemporary America the two hardly mean the same  thing.<br />Yet at heart,  this is a novel that lovingly but urgently  explores the idea of family; what it should be, what it is, and what it  should never let itself become. The Stampers beseiged are the family at  their best, fighting, working, loving, and struggling together to keep it  together and to define their own future and their very own version of the  American dream; one they define and create, and expressly not the easy and  popular one manufactured and sold politically and economically by big  business and by the local townfolk themselves. This, then, is a novel that  explores so many levels that it is undoubtedly will be continue to be read  and interpreted and reread and reinterpreted again and again over the  coming decades. May it well survive the journey, and may it well navigate  its course, just as the Stampers do, through a deep understanding, love and  appreciation for what it means to be an individual as well as a family  member in contemporary American life, learning along the way. Ken Kesey  never disappoints, but he is sometimes hard to keep up with as he chuckles  his way ahead of us into the stormy rapids of life. Enjoy!els that it is undoubtedly will be continue to be read  and interpreted and reread and reinterpreted again and again over the  coming decades. May it well survive the journey, and may it well navigate  its course, just as the Stampers do, through a deep understanding, love and  appreciation for what it means to be an individual as well as a family  member in contemporary American life, learning along the way. Ken Kesey  never disappoints, but he is sometimes hard to keep up with as he chuckles  his way ahead of us into the stormy rapids of life. Enjoy!	2000-05-19
2472389:US	52447634	R15YVK2S28WIF0	039331619X	210743552	Why the Allies Won	Books	5	50	56	N	N	Overy's Book Is a Breath of Fresh Air in Discussing WWII	Richard Overy's excellent book takes a careful and painstaking look at both how and why the Aliies won what he contends was a much more closely fought war than traditional treatments of the matter would have us believe.  He cites several issues which were crucial; the war on the seas, primarily  in the Atlantic, where the balance of terror for some time seemed to be  tipping in favor of the Axis forces, the air bombing war over the skies of  Europe, which holstered squadrons of Axis planes into a defense of the  Fatherland, and removed them from conduct of a more vigorous air campaign  against the Russians;  the miscalculation concerning the ability of the  Soviets to sustain their battle lines and to even accelerate the pace of  the war on the Eastern front. In addition Overy cites the astonishing  productive and manufacturing capability of the Americans, Canadians,  British, and even the Soviets, who outworked and outproduced the Germans  gun for gun, plane for plane, and tank for tank during the darkest and most  difficult moments of the war; the constant and confusing interference with  weapon selection and production by the upper reaches of the Nazi hierarchy.  Finally, the philosophical sense shared by the Allies of fighting for the  right, which Overy argues persuasively informed Allied forces with a sense  of moral courage that seemed to imbue them with a fighting ferocity the  Axis found difficult to rival. This is a great book by a very notable  author, and one every respectable denizen of WWII history should have on  his or her shelf.	2000-05-18
2472449:US	52447634	R24J6T9499CF96	0140271694	551695850	Russia's War: A History of the Soviet Effort: 1941-1945	Books	5	136	144	N	Y	Interesting Overview of Russia's Defeat of Nazi War Machine!	I am a confirmed fan of Overy's work, especially after reading his tome on &#34;Why the Allies Won&#34;, in which he carefully examines the real reasons the Allies succeeded in a war that was much more closely contested  than many observers appreciate. Here he concentrates on what has to be  considered the most unlikely reversal of fortune in 20th century war  history, the catastrophic yet also heroically successful defense,  repulsion, and vanquishing of the Wehrmacht along a war front that was  literally thousands of miles long. Against all odds, losing army after army  in the prosecution of the war, with millions of combatants and  non-combatants killed, woundeded, or captured from the moment of the  opening salvos in the summer and fall of 1941, the Russians' capacity for  absorbing unrelenting and murderous punishment at the hands of the brutal  assaults of a supremely confident and well-equipped Nazi army stunned the  world.<br /><br />By every account Hitler made exactly the right move at the right  time; he had just whipped the French and British armies in western Europe  without raising a sweat. Just months before the invasion the Russians had  been stopped successfully and quite unexpectedly by a much smaller and more  poorly equipped Finn army. Thus, no one expected the Russian army to be  able to stop or stem the smashing successes of the Germans some 200  divisions strong as they literally flooded through Poland into Russia in  Operation Barbarossa, destroying everything in sight.<br /><br />Yet, with  unbelievable determination and equally incomprehensible losses, the  Russians eventually began to halt the Wehrmacht advance. Finally, with  newly established and quickly trained armies raised even as the Nazis drew  near Moscow, Stalin and his armies began the long, tortuous, and  painstaking turnaround that eventually helped to save the world. That they  did so is without question an accurate summation of the situation.  Throughout 1941, 1942, and 1943 the rest of the Allies were simply in no  position to seriously challenge Hitler's stranglehold in Europe.<br /><br />It is  clear that without the Soviet prosecution of the war along the Eastern  front, an Allied invasion of Europe would have been much more difficult, if  not impossible. The war would have been extended by years. Yet the story  Overy tells here is not a simple story of unexpected Soviet courage and  success in the face of unbelievable odds; it is also a tale that details  decades of wanton brutality within Russia itself, a nation hampered by its  own trail of wave upon wave of murderous progroms and purges. The  antiquated Soviet army was so devastated by the systematic extermination of  the upper echelons of the Officer core that almost no one with any combat  experience remained in leadership positions by the time the German  blitzkreig began.<br /><br />Under such circumstances, the ability of the Russians to  stem the tide of battle and turn it to their advantage becomes a much more  interesting and complicated phenomenon to watch and understand. This is a  carefully crafted and well-documented narrative that deserves your studious  attention. For any serious student of the second world war, this book is a  must-read. Enjoy!ies were simply in no  position to seriously challenge Hitler's stranglehold in Europe.  It is  clear that without the Soviet prosecution of the war along the Eastern  front, an Allied invasion of Europe would have been much more difficult, if  not impossible. The war would have been extended by years. Yet the story  Overy tells here is not a simple story of unexpected Soviet courage and  success in the face of unbelievable odds; it is also a tale that details  decades of wanton brutality within Russia itself, a nation hampered by its  own trail of wave upon wave of murderous progroms and purges. The  antiquated Soviet army was so devastated by the systematic extermination of  the upper echelons of the Officer core that almost no one with any combat  experience remained in leadership positions by the time the German  blitzkreig began.   Under such circumstances, the ability of the Russians to  stem the tide of battle and turn it to their advantage becomes a much more  interesting and complicated phenomenon to watch and understand. This is a  carefully crafted and well-documented narrative that deserves your studious  attention. For any serious student of the second world war, this book is a  must-read. Enjoy!	2000-05-18
2474657:US	52447634	RMWJKPY0L7EG7	0521443172	428237087	A World at Arms: A Global History of World War II	Books	5	104	106	N	N	The Best Overall Book On WWII Yet Written	This is truly the most comprehensive monograph written as an overview of the war as an ongoing event in world history. Time and again Weinberg amazes us with his grasp and understanding of the connections and  influences within and among the many theaters of war. This, then, is a  massively documented and carefully researched one volume comprehensive  history of World War Two as a world war quite unlike the one that preceded  it. He traces its origins in the events and consequences flowing from the  first world war, and then demonstrates quite handily that the political  fate and will of one man, Adolph Hitler, literally forced the war into  being. He analyzes the events professionally and dispassionately, and ties  together the events in all their horror to the nature of the world  conflict. While one can certainly argue that most of what he says is not  new, it is also the case that he links the observations of others with his  own insights in a way that is much more learned, better organized,  and  comprehensive in its results. Some of the statistics tying the various  theaters of conflict together are dizzying, such as the fact that the  numbers of divisions (over two hundred) deployed by Hitler on the eastern  front, for example, both dwarf and doom the troops (just fifty  divisions)available for the defense of the western wall of Europe. He  estimates the total number of deaths due directly to the war at over sixty  million, and cites the various sources for such a catastrophic figure.  Likewise, you see how the Japanese situation of being overextended in Asia  fighting defensive struggles against the Chinese, British, Australians, etc  from India to Burma has consequences for its sumultaneous defense against  assembled naval activities and the island-by-island hopping and isolation  strategy of the Allied forces. This book is immensely readable, but is so  literally packed with details and connections, so is often difficult to  read both because of its subject matter and the details he includes. His  overview, for example, of Hitler's criuel and inhumane eugenics activities  against his own people, especially the mentally ill, defective, and the  infirm even before the war is both nauseating and revealing. Likewise, his  argument that the &quot;Final Solution&quot; of total extermination of all  European Jews was more the result of desperation, logistics, and the rush  of historical circumstance than a long-standing and well-thought out policy  decision is quite interesting to read. It was only after the massive  displacements of Polish Jews into a single sector that feeding and  maintaining this large population clearly became the chief argument for the  mass extermination of all Jews. On the other hand, the war against the  Russians was always intended to be a war of extermination, one in which the  armies and occupants of the areas conquered were to be savagely and  brutally used for slave labor and then eliminated. This is truly a  masterwork in the sense of being the single best attempt to date to write  the complete overview of the Second World War as an event in world history.  Buy it, read it slowly, and enjoy!t matter and the details he includes. His  overview, for example, of Hitler's criuel and inhumane eugenics activities  against his own people, especially the mentally ill, defective, and the  infirm even before the war is both nauseating and revealing. Likewise, his  argument that the &quot;Final Solution&quot; of total extermination of all  European Jews was more the result of desperation, logistics, and the rush  of historical circumstance than a long-standing and well-thought out policy  decision is quite interesting to read. It was only after the massive  displacements of Polish Jews into a single sector that feeding and  maintaining this large population clearly became the chief argument for the  mass extermination of all Jews. On the other hand, the war against the  Russians was always intended to be a war of extermination, one in which the  armies and occupants of the areas conquered were to be savagely and  brutally used for slave labor and then eliminated. This is truly a  masterwork in the sense of being the single best attempt to date to write  the complete overview of the Second World War as an event in world history.  Buy it, read it slowly, and enjoy!	2000-05-17
2475483:US	52447634	R1NKCO6Q1IDP2Q	0465031757	325990916	Culture Matters: How Values Shape Human Progress	Books	5	129	183	N	N	Of Course Culture Matters!	It's vexing to again read that some historian or journalist &quot;rediscovers&quot; what scholars from other academic disciplines have long taken to be commonplace. This is the case here, where the authors  &quot;discover&quot; the cogency of culture and beliefs in determining the  nature of a society and the basis of the good life. Whether exploring the  depravities of communism or fascism, the horrors of the Japanese occupation  of Nanking or the murderous impluses of Rwandan tribes, one always comes  back to the cogency of the classic observations of sociologists and  cultural anthroplogists regarding the amazing plasticity of man's nature,  and his frightening ability to chase either sweet reason or deepest  depravity with equal enthusiasm. What restrains us and orients us, then,  are our common beliefs and cultural rules. Their nature and content make us  who we are as human beings living in a society with a particular world view  and characteristic way of interpreting it. Without them the most cruel,  base, and inhumane behavior consistently seems to emerge. Yet no one today,  especially authors pandering to tastes of the vox populi, seems to be too  excited about the fact that the much-vaunted &quot;Third Wave&quot;  showering many of us with a flood of material wealth also hoses all such  cultural systems of belief and purpose from us as we watch, rendering them  irrelevant. Yet the two authors in question skate bravely over these issues  without citing the historical precedents in way of honoring recent scholars  such as Neil Postman, C. Wright Mills and G. William Domhoff, or classic  scholars like Max Weber and Emile Durkheim, who have discussed the moral  vacany and dangers of contemporary culture with such accuracy and verve.  There is nothing new here; it may be novel for these scholars, but what  they cite as breath-talking is conventional knolwedge for graduate students  properly schooled in the classical works of sociology and cultural  anthropology. The fact that they claim to have &quot;discovered&quot; it is  just more evidence of how specialized knowledge has become.<br />  Instead  of substantive beliefs and some sort of value-laden systems of meanings,  all  contemporary culture offers us is ceaseless creature comforts and  endless entertainments and amusements, as though such comforts and  amusements represent the culmination of the culture, the fruit of its  realization, instead of its actual negation and specious denial.  Consumerism has little or nothing to do with community, friends, and may in  fact represent its antithesis, yet anyone who dares to criticize the  politically correct and ultimately desireable nature of the present  situation is shouted down as a non-progressive neo-Luddite. Indeed, no one  can show in any substantive way that (aside from the benefits of medical  health and public sanitation) the way we live is preferable to that of the  Victorians. Indeed, a culture based solely on such puerile impulses as  pursuit of material wealth cannot long endure, cannot withstand the  inevitable tests of history. Increasingly, however, material concerns are  the sole driver in the economic juggernaut. Yet the Russians didn't beat  the German Army because of their material capability; they did so in spite  of their poverty, because of their cultural values and their unconquerable  will to survive.<br />We live in a society where lesbians can claim that  their unions are &quot;the same&quot; as heterosexual unions. Perhaps they  are in some fashions a rough functional equivalent, but to wave away all  the cultural baggage that makes them distinct is to make them  unintelligible. To so do also betrays the depths to which our lack of  cultural orientation has fallen, that we cannot see basic differences in  things because to acknowledge them is to be accused of some  politically-incorrect bias. They certainly are not the same. The fact that  no one points out such glaring logical differences is indicative of the  degree to which our lack of behavioral codes and cultural rules leaves us  with no basis for interpreting the world outside us, and renders us  confused and unable to see basic differences among things that previous  cultures saw quite distinctly. Unfortunately, we will likely learn to our  horror in coming decades how well the symptoms portrayed by Columbine,  environmental decay and general social chaos and confusion mirror our rapid  cultural and moral decline. Don't bother buying this book; instead, go back  and read classical sociologists like Marx, Weber, Durkheim, who 100 years  ago of the dangers implicit in increasing rational, non-traditional, and  valueless societies based exclusively on nothing but the material impulses  of its inhabitants. Greed is an insufficent basis for a sustainable  society, and until we learn that fact, and begin to adopt a more meaningful  moral code and system of beliefs we are in real, palpable cultural danger.ndicative of the  degree to which our lack of behavioral codes and cultural rules leaves us  with no basis for interpreting the world outside us, and renders us  confused and unable to see basic differences among things that previous  cultures saw quite distinctly. Unfortunately, we will likely learn to our  horror in coming decades how well the symptoms portrayed by Columbine,  environmental decay and general social chaos and confusion mirror our rapid  cultural and moral decline. Don't bother buying this book; instead, go back  and read classical sociologists like Marx, Weber, Durkheim, who 100 years  ago of the dangers implicit in increasing rational, non-traditional, and  valueless societies based exclusively on nothing but the material impulses  of its inhabitants. Greed is an insufficent basis for a sustainable  society, and until we learn that fact, and begin to adopt a more meaningful  moral code and system of beliefs we are in real, palpable cultural danger.	2000-05-16
2476134:US	52447634	R3O7C8A8KGC60A	0679456961	684412710	I Will Bear Witness: A Diary of the Nazi Years, 1933-1941	Books	5	66	67	N	Y	A Moving, Frightening View of Everyday Life in Nazi Germany	The most disarming and appealing feature of this tome is its slow and ineluctable building of suspense and empathy as World War I veteran Klemperer steadily weaves the day to day details of his life in 1930s  Germany into a portrait of a rogue state moving irresistably down the path  to tyranny and terror. The reader is sucked into the vortex of what it is  like to live under such circumstances, where an aging Jewish professor  who  has built a life of purpose and meaning based on scholarship, hard work,  and the belief in the rationalism of the state begins to understand that it  will all unravel around him. You begin to experience how difficult and  incomprehensible it must be for him, and empathize and worry for his fate  as the building storm clouds of violent fascism fill the skies of 1930s  Germany. As the days and weeks pass into months and years under the growing  tyranny of National Socialism, Klemperer, married to an Aryan woman,  increasingly finds solace and relief from the growing insanity swirling  around him by concentrating on his academic writing, which he continues  against all odds. As he faces an arbitrary enforced early retirement from  his professorial duties, he also begins to take more time to enjoy simple  pleasures with his wife, Eva, as they revel in long nature walks, the  perils and pleasures of driving a second-hand car, and in watching the  cinema. His refusal to submit to the progressively more invective growth of  lies, invectives, and accusations of the Nazi regime build into a quiet  resolve to resist in the way he knows best, by maintaining an intelligent,  insightful, and careful witness to the everyday horrors perpetrated with  malice and cunning on the Jews as the scapegoat for all of Germany's  post-WWI social and economic woes. One stands by as we watch Victor and Eva  systematically stripped of everything of meaning to them; their house, car,  telephone,  typewriter, even their beloved cat. While he understands all  too well the dangers for him and his family, he consistently resists the  increasingly strident pleas from family members for him to emigrate  primarily because he identifies himself first and foremost as a German, and  he refuses to abandon the Fatherland to the beastial likes of Hitler and  the Nazis. One's sense of horror is magnified by his careful attention to  the day to day details of living in the regime, the difficulties in finding  socks, or clothing, or a cobbler, or vegetables, coffee,  tobacco (both he  and Eva are smokers), dealing with increasingly restrictive curfews, the  ordeal and shame associated with the enforced wearing of the yellow star of  David, the progressive acts of enforced segregation from the general  populace, the occasional experiences at degradation at the hands of a  youthful crowd of Hitler Youth. Yet there is great humanity evidenced here,  both within the Jewish community and without it. The pathos of ordinary  people caught in the web of a totalitarian state is made quite clear;  unlike other academics who recently have argued in belief of a generalized  and universalized hate on the part of ordinary Germans leading to their  willing complicity in the persecution of Jews, Klemperer offers almost  daily testimony of the unending acts of kindness, generosity, and personal  risks that everyday citizens take to help and assist Jews to survivie  against the dictates of the totalitarian regime. Again and again he is  given free food, extra provisions, someone looking deliberately the other  way when they did so at personal risk. Klemperer seems to acknowledge that  life in Nazi Germany was a hell for all of the citizens, Jew and non-Jew  alike. Interestingly enough, at one point he mentions his personal  willingness to forgive and forget towards most other Germans, but reserves  enduring special scorn, animosity and bile for academics who became  fellow-travelers of the regime to save their personal position and  privilege. This is a book that should become required reading for college  students in world history. I am looking forward to continuing exploring  this rite of passage as I begin reading the second volume of the diaries.that should become required reading for college  students in world history. I am looking forward to continuing exploring  this rite of passage as I begin reading the second volume of the diaries.	2000-05-16
2482912:US	52447634	R3A98C8OYJBQV8	0140094385	539733955	Amusing Ourselves to Death: Public Discourse in the Age of Show Business	Books	5	200	208	N	Y	Postman's Thesis is Powerful, Provocative, and Important!	For anyone interested in exploring the meaning of the rapid eclipse of ordinary reality and how it is being changed and altered by the rise of the electronic media, this book is very important. From the introduction and  Postman's tongue-in-cheek comments about the novel 1984, his observations  regarding the cogency of British author Aldous Huxley's technotronic  nightmare vision in &quot;Brave New World&quot; through out the book right  up to its conclusion, Postman binds your interest by illustrating and  documenting how the rise of the elecrtonic media and its manipulation of  what you see in way of news and entertainment has inexorably changed the  meanings,purposes and ultimate uses of politics, economics, and technology.  As Huxley himslef warned, totalitarian societies need not arise through  violent overthrow of the democracies using brutality, cruelty and violence,  but can also occur whenever the citizenry is successfully deluded into  apathy by petty diversions and entertainments, as well. Postman shows how  the electronic media's presentation of facts and fcition in an entertaining  fashion diverts us,  channeling our attention, money, and energies in ways  that make us much more susceptible to social, political and economic  manipulation and eventual subjugation. The book is a bit difficult to read  at points, but well worth a sustained  effort and a little concentration.  For any citizen concerned about how the media is rapidly changing the rules  of political, social, and economic engagement, and what it portends for the  future, this book is a must read. And follow it up with Postman's book  &quot;Technopoly&quot;, which picks up where this book leaves off.	2000-05-12
2493246:US	52447634	R1RXP8GWZD9XDH	0517597772	7972787	Opposing The System	Books	5	26	28	N	N	This Book Substantiates C.Wright Mills' &quot;Power Elite&quot; Thesis	In this largely ignored follow up book to his overwhelming best seller &quot;The Greening of America&quot;, Charles Reich threads together an impressive argument that essentially validates the long-standing  &quot;power-elite&quot; thesis forwarded by sociologists such as C. Wright  Mills and G. William Domhoff. The present effort, written in compelling  terms and reading more like a thriller at points than a dry stuffy academic  tome, illustrates how the federal government, which in the times of FDR's  New Deal stood as a lone bulwark shielding average citizens from the  excesses of industrial capitalism, has since dumped the interests of the  average citizen to become the chief apologist and cheerleader for the large  multi-national corporations, which have consequently become a world power  unto themselves. With the new policies of the government acting in lockstep  with the interests of the corporations, there is no countervaling force  acting to shield private individuals from the excesses of  profit-orientation, and this leaves individual citizens at the mercy of  anonymous mulit-national forces they are now impotent to combat. Certainly  legislative actions such as the NAFTA and GATT packages were oriented to  the interests of large multinational corporations far better than those of  average citizens. Yet, almost mysteriously, little public debate were  encourgade or observed. Through a number of examples he illustrates how  fedearl and state governmental decisions rouitnely show preferencet for  anonymous corporations as though they were their constituency, instead of  us, serving their needs and protecting their interests against ours. He  cites examples in which the provisions of the Taft-Hartley antitrust  legislation are strangely but openly twisted to serve the purposes of the  corporate entities and against the efforts of individuals. This thin volume  is interesting reading and a wake-up call for individuals who think our  socioeconomic system represents a level playing field and that each of us  has an open opportunity to rise in the system based on hard work and  relative merit. Then again, as H. L. Mencken wrote, we have the best  Congress that money can buy; the problem is that we didn't buy them. the  corporations did.ents a level playing field and that each of us  has an open opportunity to rise in the system based on hard work and  relative merit. Then again, as H. L. Mencken wrote, we have the best  Congress that money can buy; the problem is that we didn't buy them. the  corporations did.	2000-05-06
2494203:US	52447634	RHVTFJG97WWK4	0807042013	648883637	The Pursuit of Loneliness, 20th Anniversary Edition	Books	5	66	71	N	N	A Prescient Chronicle of the 1960s Culture Wars	Today there is so much cultural revisionism and retooling of the facts surrounding the clash between the predominating mainstream material culture and the youthful counterculture that one often mutters in disgust at the  kind of garish, superficial nonsense being promulgated by the popular media  to the effect that the sixties generation was just about sex, drugs, and  rock and roll. Just fun and games, folks; nothing but fun and games. There  is hardly a mention of the very serious, well-thought-through criticisms of  materialism, racism, and greed that were so essential to the beginning of  the conflict in the sixties. While no one who was there will deny each of  these elements (the media's holy trinity of sex, drugs and rock & roll)  contributed to the general cultural atmosphere of openness and emotional  experimentation and intoxication, it can hardly be truthfully described so  simply or in such reductionist terms.<br /><br />The sixties generation, and the  counterculture they devised, was first and foremost an intellectual,  philosophical, and even spiritual tirade against the manifestly bankrupt  morals, ideas, and lifestyles of the dominant society. One of the  predominating characteristics of the counterculture was its sense of moral  outrage at the ethics, policies, and blatant racism in the public domain.  Slater details how and why the two cultures clashed, and what the likely  results would be. Unlike his younger admirers, Slater understood the power  of the dominant culture, and just how perilous the position of the  counterculture was growing to be. In this sense, he anticipated the kinds  of events like the shootings at Kent State and in the Deep South that began  the reaction and denouement of the counterculture.<br /><br />To read this book is to  take a step back into the maelstrom that whirled around us in the sixties,  and to see the nature of contemporary society in an even clearer light than  is possible without it. Remember, like Theodore Roszak's book 'The Making  of a Counterculture', this book was written and published even as the  struggle between the mainstream society and the rebellious college students  and activists was raging. There are few books that give one so clear and  realistic a look at the nature of the relationship and conflict that almost  tore this society apart thirty years ago; this is one of them.Making  of a Counterculture', this book was written and published even as the  struggle between the mainstream society and the rebellious college students  and activists was raging. There are few books that give one so clear and  realistic a look at the nature of the relationship and conflict that almost  tore this society apart thirty years ago; this is one of them.	2000-05-05
2531280:US	52447634	RXSPXL7EV6S7W	0805209700	745465161	The Good Life: Helen and Scott Nearing's Sixty Years of Self-Sufficient Living	Books	5	156	168	N	N	Everyman's Bible for Living Simpler, High-Quality Lifestyles	I first became aware of the Nearings (Helen and Scott) as a university student in the late 1960s, when they were considered the elder statesmen of the Sixties counterculture's back-to-the-land movement. As such, they  prefigure by decades all the current flood of authors counseling a return  to basic human values, lives of simplicity and a turning away from  lifestyles of mindless consumption. The thread of truth running through  their decades of rural adventures and struggles to live their lives with  quality, public service, and dignity is an American classic, and one the  present generation could learn much from. Simply put, this is a classic  volume that describes the Nearings' lifetime experiment at establishing and  maintaining a more meaningful alternative lifestyle, one eschewing the  waste, rampant materialism, and corporate subjugation so common in today's  mainstream society. After reading this book, one will chuckle quietly at  the pathos inherant in the sight of all these busy, self-important yuppies  driving proudly down the highway in their hard-won BMWs, doing their deals  and talking on their cellular phones while driving in traffic, going  nowhere fast with such innane but self-absorbed intensity. There is a much  more meaningful and satisfying way to approach one's life, and it is  described in detail in this book. Buy it and be prepared to be educated and  amazed. It has profoundly changed my own life and the way I approach the  future, and I recommend it to anyone who has even a mild degree of  discomfort with the rampant greed and materialism characterizing  contemporary American society. Cheers!	2000-04-15
2531888:US	52447634	R1AEG3HXP9L687	0671728687	679377355	The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich: A History of Nazi Germany	Books	5	31	37	N	Y	If You Read Just One Book About Nazi Germany....	This should be the one. William Shirer's comprehensive treatment of the curious rise and horrific fall of the Nazis in post-Weimar Germany is the benchmark volume to measure all other treatments of the era by. There are  so many monographs on Nazi Germany that one reels before the list looming  in a relevant bibliography. Save yourself the trouble; this book gives one  exactly the kind of complete immersion in and coverage of the realities of  the era that too many of the other books lack. Shirer, an American  journalist stationed in Berlin as a newspaper (and later radio)  correspondant during the rise of the National Socialists, was there, on the  ground and at the scene witnessing many of the events he describes in such  detail. He has, of course, written extensively on these experiences, both  herein and elsewhere in books like 'The Nightmare Years' and 'Berlin  Diary'. But this book has to be considered his masterpiece, and is worth  the time, trouble and price for this hefty best-selling volume. After all,  it has never been out of print in the forty years since its original  publication in the early 1960s. I promise that if you read this, you'll  never think of World War Two in the same way...	2000-04-15
2882007:US	52447634	RURRMB2R7ISP4	0679456783	404856428	Running to the Mountain: A Journey of Faith and Change	Books	4	14	25	N	N	Nervous Nebbish Takes  A Busman's Holiday Up-Country...	Mr. Katz's book is very well written, and is amusing, entertaining, and often thought-provoking, but let's be honest- a genuine journey toward discovering secular spirituality based on rural hardships, privations, and  isolation it is not.<br />  Armed with armfuls of Merton material, an IBM  powerbook, a cellular phone, 100 channels of media noise, and some old  Glenlivet, he discovers rural life lacks the luxuries,  conveniences, and  the kind of instant gratification of life he has come to expect in that  suffocating suburban stalag he's sentenced in by living in New Jersey. So  where's the nearest Starbucks, anyway, buddy?<br />  Lightning strikes a  tree near his house and a neighbor has to call him on the phone to warn him  to go inside! Wow! A strong winter wind blows and shakes the house and he  suddenly discovers the &quot;MEANING&quot; of his own spirituality. Give me  a break. Please don't misunderstand me- I liked the book for what it is.  But, while the book is eminently worth reading, it mistakes frustration  with privation, nuisance with adventure, and upper middle class financial  juggling with economic disaster.<br />  Most simply put, this is just an  urban book, written by an urban author full of what sometime seem to be  arrogant urban assumptions, someone who is just beginning his journey  toward any real country consciousness. Placing this slim volume alongside  real rural adventures like &quot;Edges of the Earth&quot;, or &quot;Living  the Good Life' makes this painfully obvious.<br />  Mr. Katz is a skilled  and talented writer, and I enjoyed his tall tale. One gets the sense there  is a warm and emotionally valuable human being writing in there. Yet one  finishes the book hoping other urbanites don't mistake this loosely  threaded-together 'adventure' as a Thoreau-like return to nature (although  both Jon and Henry David did return home whenever things got a little rough  in the woods). Rural life is much more complicated and requires a passle  more of self-reliance and endurance than is evidenced here. Most of us  living in the country cannot simply &quot;buy&quot; our way out of our  difficulties the way Mr. Katz describes.<br />  Thus, the real shortcoming  of the book stems from a shortcoming Mr. Katz cannot avoid, namely his own  urban-based consciousness. After fifteen years spent living on the cusp  between the urban and rural worlds and learning the lessons of how to live  a rural lifestyle, I understand it takes years to drown out one's need for  constant, anxious busyness and goal-orientation that one carries around as  a result of immersion in an urban environment. Mr. Katz just doen't allow  enough time to lose all the noise before whipping out his power book to  describe the life and times abroad in the wild wilderness. Natty Bumpo,  stand aside. No time to waste. Print out the manuscript and mail it off to  meet the schedule. Rural life should be so easy to understand and  capture...<br />  Buy the book, by all means. Read it. But don't mistake it  for anything like a return to nature or an effort to seriously get back to  the kind of spiritual simplicity a meaningful rural life requires. I fear a  boatload of ambitious New York writers are on their way up to grab an old  cottage to write the great American novel. Hope they don't freeze to death  because they don't know any of the survival basics, like how to start a  damned wood fire, or ordering the firewood early enough that it can dry and  become 'seasoned' enough to light and burn. Hope you continue to season in  your country skills, as well, Jon. Glad you survived your first year or so,  and good luck in your further adventures. Anyone reading your book will  agree you've got a lot of heart.quires a passle  more of self-reliance and endurance than is evidenced here. Most of us  living in the country cannot simply &quot;buy&quot; our way out of our  difficulties the way Mr. Katz describes. <br />    Thus, the real shortcoming  of the book stems from a shortcoming Mr. Katz cannot avoid, namely his own  urban-based consciousness. After fifteen years spent living on the cusp  between the urban and rural worlds and learning the lessons of how to live  a rural lifestyle, I understand it takes years to drown out one's need for  constant, anxious busyness and goal-orientation that one carries around as  a result of immersion in an urban environment. Mr. Katz just doen't allow  enough time to lose all the noise before whipping out his power book to  describe the life and times abroad in the wild wilderness. Natty Bumpo,  stand aside. No time to waste. Print out the manuscript and mail it off to  meet the schedule. Rural life should be so easy to understand and  capture...<br />    Buy the book, by all means. Read it. But don't mistake it  for anything like a return to nature or an effort to seriously get back to  the kind of spiritual simplicity a meaningful rural life requires. I fear a  boatload of ambitious New York writers are on their way up to grab an old  cottage to write the great American novel. Hope they don't freeze to death  because they don't know any of the survival basics, like how to start a  damned wood fire, or ordering the firewood early enough that it can dry and  become 'seasoned' enough to light and burn. Hope you continue to season in  your country skills, as well, Jon. Glad you survived your first year or so,  and good luck in your further adventures. Anyone reading your book will  agree you've got a lot of heart.	1999-04-19
2930562:US	52447634	R1BZENZIK15P5J	0395911567	684999249	The Natural Mind: A New Way of Looking at Drugs and the Higher Consciousness	Books	5	69	75	N	Y	The Revised  &quot;The Natural Mind&quot; Is An Unexpected Pleasure	It is one of life's unexpected pleasures to discover Doctor Weil's original trail-blazing book on consciousness now revised and re-released. This book is a genuine countercultural classic. Along with millions of  others, I have watched with interest as Doctor Weil's writing career has  progressed from his concern with drug use and consciousness into his  current writings educating the American public as to the values of  wholistic alternative medical practices. Yet, most of his new fans are  unfamiliar with this earlier work. Remedy that one fast, friend! With the  publication of this book in the 1970s Weil established himself as a  singular and original thinker not bound by the traditional and nearly  exclusively rational allopathic medical viewpoints promulgated in western  medical education. In spite of his eminent credentials as a  Harvard-educated physician, Weil debunks conventional wisdom as to drug use  and the so-called drug problem. As Weil states in the book, contemporary  society doesn't have a drug problem so much as it has a consciousness  problem, one exacerbated by the increasing use of rational thought as the  exclusively legitimate path to knowing and understanding ourselves as well  as the world around us. Instead, Weil counsels the reader as to how the act  of recognizing the role of one's attitude and personal intellectual/ mental  approach to experience can positively or negatively affect the nature of  one's perceptions, experiences, and consciousness. His viewpoints and  insights regarding the relative properties and values of inductive versus  deductive reasoning is worth the price of the book alone. Wow! I haven't  had this much fun anticipating anything since my lady friend came back from  her sabbatical in London. Now we won't have to haunt the old used books  stores in search of old copies of Doctor Weil's work. Enjoy!	1999-01-23
